Of course, you could always just ask why newspaper stories need pictures at all. I believe that newspapers 100+ years ago could tell the stories, and actually make money whilst they were doing it, with a text-only product. Which is probably a bit too whimsical a point to make on a web page that has a barely-relevant photo prominently displayed on it.You are, of course, aware that we are having this nice, cosy exchange of text-only-based knowledge and opinion between the two of us without appearing to be any poorer for the experience I suppose? Additionally, other unknown (to us) eyes may be drifting past as we chat and also be similarly uplifted - and all of this happening without the benefit of a single image.
There's also the small matter that if getting and keeping eyeballs on a page required a bombardment of images to make it work, the novel would have died at conception.I would have come to this page regardless of any imagery to partake of your genius musings Ann. You clearly underestimate yourself.A topic where "wanting A child" swirls around and intermeshes with "wanting THEIR child", much to the detriment of the debate.
As a personal opinion, I DO NOT equate the two. There may be very sound genetic reasons wrapped up in the wondrous thing that is DNA why people unable to produce a child of their own are that way - I don't know, and nor, I suspect, does anyone else at this point of the whole code-unravelling exercise. The idea that you should push back against what your code has supplied you with simply because you can is something that could do with a bit more holistic thinking than it currently receives (and yes, I do understand that if extrapolated this takes you into the whole question of many recent medical advances - I merely propose that not all genetic "defects" should necessarily be viewed through the same prism of being a purposeless corruption of code until we learn a bit more about the code itself). A simple case of the precautionary principle, but one certain to enrage - or so I strongly suspect.
Again, as a personal opinion, I don't place those wanting THEIR child anywhere near as high on my worthiness scale as those wanting A child. Others are more than welcome to hold a more equitable interpretation should they choose. To be brutally frank, in my blinkered world people wanting THEIR child when A child is already here (or on the way) unwanted and unloved can go jump. Simple as. Once the existing imbalance has been successfully dealt with we can start pandering to these people's vanities, and not before. I may be on the losing side with this one, but I guess that's life.
For the record I'm not a religious nut, anti-abortion fanatic, or even remotely interested in seeing this as a morality-based question. I simply look at a supply on one side and a deficit on the other, and see the logical and ethical way of approaching it is by re-jigging the mechanics of the imbalance in-house before rushing to outside intervention. A bit like the whole 457 visa palaver I suppose - if someone is looking for a marginally less controversial and temperature-raising analogy.On multiple levels this looks like a scenario tailor-made for Clive Palmer.
Those busy yelling at him in the press yesterday and today may have lunged out of the starting stalls in their haste a moment too soon. A successful nation always knows how to use its available resources wisely.That's actually two questions.Firstly, I'd like to support the general thrust of most of the comments to date. I'm not as impressed about Dr Burns' efforts as she clearly is herself, but that is simply the unsolicited opinion of a complete stranger and nothing anyone need concern themselves with. My comment pertains to more substantive matters.
I grew up in what would be considered a very cold household on the question of who did what in the past and where I "came from". The reasons for that can only be guessed at, and I certainly was not of the personality type to go against the flow in this regard. "Children should be seen and not heard" was much more in vogue then than it appears to be today. In basic terms it was a case of "well, that's the way it is". I accepted that, didn't have it gnawing away at me, and have concentrated on having a happy and productive life in the here-and-now rather than obsessing about ancient mysteries. Not for everyone perhaps, but it worked/works for me.
A few years back my partner (who is a more "family-friendly" individual) was doing some random genealogical digging and unearthed my mother's father's World War I service records and ancillary paperwork. I wasn't particularly interested but had a look anyway, more to keep the peace rather than out of any enthusiastic curiosity. The upshot was (something my partner hadn't noticed) that my "grandfather" couldn't possibly be my grandfather. Further partner-digging confirmed a single mother giving birth to a daughter in distressing circumstances in wartime England.
So, from this I now know one aunty and one uncle aren't that at all, as they came later and are indeed part of the official lineage. Fortunately for all concerned, they are now all dead and buried. My mother took this secret to her grave, and would have been devastated and hugely distressed if she ever knew that I knew. Fortunately, she made it through to the end with her secret safe. I don't love or respect her any less for that - that was what she wanted, and I'm happy to accept she has/had rights too. It was a different time and a different world then, and only foolish people take today's morality and norms and overlay them on distant days.
So, to Dr Burns I simply say this; You feel terribly empowered and vindicated by wandering around in the private affairs of the living. You seem to think this is a "right" all should share. I don't. I think the living should be entitled to hide away anything that they feel could cause them pain and distress regardless of how tantrum-inducing it may be to you. By all means, after they're dead feel free to rummage through their mental cupboards for any trinkets that satisfy your petulant wants. However, for God's sake give them the right to first call on what is or isn't up for discussion whilst they're alive.Try just getting over it. Worked for me.Firstly, I'd like to support the general thrust of most of the comments to date. I'm not as impressed about Dr Burns' efforts as she clearly is herself, but that is simply the unsolicited opinion of a complete stranger and nothing anyone need concern themselves with. My comment pertains to more substantive matters.
I grew up in what would be considered a very cold household on the question of who did what in the past and where I "came from". The reasons for that can only be guessed at, and I certainly was not of the personality type to go against the flow in this regard. "Children should be seen and not heard" was much more in vogue then than it appears to be today. In basic terms it was a case of "well, that's the way it is". I accepted that, didn't have it gnawing away at me, and have concentrated on having a happy and productive life in the here-and-now rather than obsessing about ancient mysteries. Not for everyone perhaps, but it worked/works for me.
A few years back my partner (who is a more "family-friendly" individual) was doing some random genealogical digging and unearthed my mother's father's World War I service records and ancillary paperwork. I wasn't particularly interested but had a look anyway, more to keep the peace rather than out of any enthusiastic curiosity. The upshot was (something my partner hadn't noticed) that my "grandfather" couldn't possibly be my grandfather. Further partner-digging confirmed a single mother giving birth to a daughter in distressing circumstances in wartime England.
So, from this I now know one aunty and one uncle aren't that at all, as they came later and are indeed part of the official lineage. Fortunately for all concerned, they are now all dead and buried. My mother took this secret to her grave, and would have been devastated and hugely distressed if she ever knew that I knew. Fortunately, she made it through to the end with her secret safe. I don't love or respect her any less for that - that was what she wanted, and I'm happy to accept she has/had rights too. It was a different time and a different world then, and only foolish people take today's morality and norms and overlay them on distant days.
So, to Dr Burns I simply say this; you feel terribly empowered and vindicated by wandering around in the private affairs of the living. You seem to think this is a "right" all should share. I don't. I think the living should be entitled to hide away anything that they feel could cause them pain and distress regardless of how tantrum-inducing it may be to you. By all means, after they're dead feel free to rummage through their mental cupboards for any trinkets that satisfy your wants. However, for God's sake give them the right to first call on what is or isn't up for discussion whilst they're alive.It's funny how the mandatory tax-paying to build the mandatory jails to accommodate all the additional mandatory detaining somehow never manages to garner the same degree of enthusiasm.
I'd almost be tempted to assume that not bothering to think this arrant nonsense through is mandatory.
Rumour has it the same sorts of people across a range of different governments are also somehow convinced this nation has severe budgetary pressures. Funny about that too.Looking at the right direction/wrong direction figures it's pleasing to see that, apart from one statistical blip last September, the number of Australians who really don't know just what exactly is going on remains one of the great societal beacons of stability in an uncertain world.
If you're a latte-sipper with intellectual pretensions you can demean stupidity all you like, but you can't ever argue that it's a stress-inducing killer. Not of anyone so afflicted at any rate.I understand that at different places of initial settlement around Australia one of the first tasks implemented was to get the convicted among them to build their own prisons. Perhaps something from the past Professor Twomey may wish to consider. After all, seeing as they've already secured the land...
It could always be sold as a case of ICAC leading to Theycack.
On the broader question though, the professor seems to have not grasped the subtleties of modern political language; the additional words are said very quickly, very softly and at a frequency which can normally only be heard by dogs, but the slogan we hear as "tough on crime" is actually "tough on other people's crime".Absolutely correct.
Unless this is an underhanded attempt to support the Australian brown paper bag manufacturing industry by requiring the purchase of even more of the said items to subsequently be stuffed with cash, then I don't know where this is going.
Even lobbyists have overheads you know. Shame on you Dr Hewson."And Hockey for one might feel some justified resentment..."
If Joe Hockey is so needy as to require gushing adoration, he should either consider applying for a job as a kitten or else change his name to Raymond, as my sources tell me everyone loves him. Clearly though, becoming a kitten called Raymond will maximise the cuddles and "Ooooh, isn't he cute"s, and would obviously be the ultimate solution if implementable.
Otherwise he should just start doing what he's being paid to do (which is the onerous, unfair burden the rest of us are saddled with in the tyranny of life), or else take a pay cut and let somebody else be hired as a sub-contractor to do his lifting for him."Judgement" I'll run with, but if the word "leadership" now sails into view on the back of nothing more than not being a scumbag (scumbrownbag?), then this nation is in way more serious difficulty than even I'm prepared to admit.
Koalas were mentioned in passing in the article. Seeing as the supposedly best and brightest humans this country can put forward don't seem to be able to operate at a level consistent with the development of opposable thumbs and foreshortening of the tailbone I'd say there's probably nothing much to be lost by throwing our governance open to talented marsupials and seeing what they're capable of. If nothing else, having celebrities who come to this country being photographed holding a human would give them a very self-satisfying revenge indeed.John Brown's quirky thoughts that marsupials are merely sporrans that haven't been caught yet would have horrified The Queen if they'd ever been voiced, and are just as inappropriate today.
We are not amused.A tantalising question Big Al. I suppose it's dependent upon whether Premier Napthine has an effective "Stop the Scrotes" policy in place or not."Science minister anyone?"
If you Google "The 43rd Parliament: traits and trends" and have a look at Figures 5 &amp; 6 and Table 2 in the report you'll see the chances of getting someone even vaguely familiar with the brief aren't what you might call encouraging.
For all we know, Clown Central might be under the impression scientists don't own cars or travel very far in them even if they have one. I'm guessing at school they probably thought that chemistry, physics and biology were the subjects dags chose. It certainly seems there's firm evidence to suggest they felt that way about maths."No doubt his fellow leaders were bewildered. His own country's press called it a whinge"
His own country's press needs to be more on top of correct English language usage than they appear. Adults whinge, infants throw tantrums."Surely nobody is silly enough to think that Time is anything but a bland seller of commercial space, filled in with copy from some agency in the USA that promulgates American interests?"
With you being a regular imbiber and commenter on these pages Professor, I'm truly surprised you haven't as yet pegged down just what levels of silliness are indeed truly possible when the good burghers of this space put their collective shoulders to the wheel.
This article, being about feminism, gender more broadly, corporate shenanigans, and selective use of "evidence" virtually guarantees a bumper crop today for you to peruse at your leisure. Enjoy.Interesting. Here we were worrying about ISIS, when it seems the real death (of a nation's ability to make its own laws for its own interests) cult is ISDS.A very useful article. As someone who once served on a jury dealing with charges that also carried this sort of definitional requirement (in that case it was receiving stolen goods - and knowing the goods were stolen at point of taking possession is an integral part of the conviction criteria) I believe this sort of thing deserves far greater scrutiny.
From what I could gather from "my" case, prosecutors who know the evidence doesn't support the charge will still try it on with juries in the hope that irrational anger and some sort of hillbilly law-and-order mentality will trump a strict and proper discharge of one's duties - and in the jury room I was in there was ample evidence this does indeed work on some people. Fortunately for the accused I/we was responsible for adjudicating on, there were enough intelligent people in the room to pull the discussion in the right direction.
There is a big question to be answered here as to why society has to foot the bill for this sort of legal adventurism - even if our jury had sent the person down I have no doubt even more money would have ended up being wasted getting a silly verdict devoid of any linkage to the available evidence overturned on appeal.
I appreciate some people see the court system as a vengeance machine - I just would be grateful if they were solely the ones paying for their "pleasures".I have absolutely no idea what your point is, or why it is attached to my post.
I mentioned "conviction criteria" - there was no mention whatsoever of "a technicality".No, not a lawyer - we have already reached our quota for that particular subspecies on these pages, and they do some stellar work I must say.
As I was there, as the Crown led no verbal or written evidence* that the accused was aware the items were stolen when they came into his possession, and as the jury fairly quickly got back on track when this lack of evidence was identified as the sticking point, I'm not sure I'm really the one who may well be ill-informed.
* The ONLY mention of this third conviction criterion (the other two are (a) that the goods be proved to have been stolen and (b) that they be proved to have been in the accused's possession by the way) that the judge advised us of in summing up was courtesy of the police walk-around video interview of the accused at the time of his arrest (which we had in the jury room for our deliberations). At one point the accused explains how he came home and found the goods in question there having been delivered by his landlord (who the accused stated was still there with the goods). It was not pursued any further in the interview, and as I said, nothing else was led as Crown evidence or questioning. Personally, that hardly suggests that the Crown ever "had a case" - in my opinion (and the final opinion of my 11 other jurors) at least.
You, not being there, may no doubt have more of a balanced and thoughtful take on events.I'm not sure Ian Verrender has pulled the right moral out of this story. Gail Kelly would indeed seem to be someone who knows how to sniff the wind - admittedly blindsided by GFC Mark 1 (she wasn't alone there - an awful lot of people carried away with their own genius and unable to spot the flaw in their (mortgaged) house of cards got caught by that one), she does appear to have subsequently learnt her lesson and has used her time since wisely to pick when to head for the exits before Mark 2 arrives.
I only mention it because an eclectic collection of supremely optimistic people have just finished a gathering where they've come to the conclusion the future is poised to deliver oodles of this wonderful "growth" thingy and buckets of sunny optimism. So much so they're betting their future on the outcome.
I know which alleged "expert" has my attention.Sounds just like the perfect person to sign a document promoting "free" trade. Being obviously so closely aligned with freedom in its myriad forms, his imprimatur should make it a rip-roaring success.Marsupials call it "pouchfronting", and no, from what I can make out both seem way more interested in getting away from there with some small part of their dignity still intact. Sleeping for 23 hours a day may provide some measure of protection from ridicule, but there'll always be that one hour when your mates are teasing you about the company you've been keeping lately.It's already delivered.
We now know more about levels of ignorance than we did yesterday.I fear you and I hold very different definitions of "balance" Ian, and I'll lay mine out in case we can arrive at some form of accommodation.
All the action and thrill-seeking on these pages comes in the comments section - the articles themselves are just the rev-up to start the juices flowing. The types of topics that you mention are wonderful goads to encourage a swathe of very excitable people who would otherwise be sitting around sulking and complaining that "no-one ever listens to me" to come and join us for a natter. Today's one for example - a piece of loaded self-interest from a boutique owner (a red rag if ever I saw one) - has been a magnet for all those who enjoy the "these inconsiderate bastards are getting in the way of my compassion" approach to life to fire up and regale us. Without Michael Bradley making the effort, and the ABC providing the space, those people would be bereft of stages upon which to shine - there's only so much satisfaction to be gained by always hanging around The Australian and typing "Yeah!" and "You tell 'em!" you know. Man does not live by agreement alone.
Balance, to my mind, is to be found when both crackpot and latte sipper (or whatever the preferred insult is) get to meet on the same playing field for a few hours of sport. Continually sitting around in log cabins in Montana or spending the entire morning shopping for tofu is not a healthy pastime - there comes a point when smelling someone else's rancid breath rather than just your own becomes more a public health initiative than a curse.
There IS nowhere else for many of the people here to go, and the revolving door of bait trailed through the water ensures there's always a good feed for those starved of rantable opportunities.
Balance is what balance does - in this case provide the inflammatory yin to the incoherent yang. To see what is published here in article form as the only point of reference for evaluation misses the best of the exercise - the space where we are now. I'd happily contend no other media space does as much, or does it as well, as The Drum when it comes to putting antagonists in touch with one another.Good questions all.
Now, if you'd like to request that your elected representatives stopped running a system so devoid of transparency and the right to meet with, and question, those with whom you (legitimately) have an issue with, then I feel we'd all be better off.
The man is no doubt guilty of doing something with which you disagree. He's certainly not guilty of withholding the details of it from you - in fact, I suspect he'd be happy to chat with you at any time or place (Hmmm) of your choosing. I suppose it comes down, in part, to who you think is most treating you as a fool - him, or the ones detaining him. I have my suspicions."What do you suggest, we take all right wing politicians out to the desert and shoot them?"
Absolutely not. They already get a travel allowance; they need to find their own way there without recourse to further dipping into the public purse. Once there I expect them to refuse to comment on operational matters, deny that deserts have anything to do with global warming, blame the fact that they're there at all on Labor/Greens incompetence, and then authorise a private contractor to shoot them without using taxpayer-subsidised bullets.
"...be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life". Revelations 2:10What an incredibly bizarre article. Supposedly a revelatory piece about Putin and Russia, somewhere between two thirds and three quarters of what's here relates to the ravings and mindset of some fringe crazy.
I presume Matthew Dal Santo would be completely at home with the idea of a Russian counter-article that goes into great depth exploring the thoughts and utterances of such pivotal Australian intellectual luminaries as Bob Katter, Alan Jones, and Prince Leonard of the Hutt River Province as a compellingly effective way of summing up Australia and its political governance in the Year of our Lord 2014?
I certainly wouldn't.
I can't wait to hear how Obama's America can be neatly encapsulated with reference to the thoughts and beliefs of a young apprentice gumbo chef from New Orleans.Who writes the rubbish questions for surveys like this?
If I were shown the first statement; "Governments having access to personal telephone and internet information is necessary to protect society from terrorist or criminal actions" I'd agree - suspect someone based on reasonable grounds, get a legally-constituted warrant, and knock yourself out.
If I were shown the second statement; "Governments are increasingly using the argument about terrorism to collect and store personal data and information, and this is a dangerous direction for society" I'd also agree - initially noting that the first statement related to ACCESS and the second to STORAGE (and so we're not discussing the same thing in an either/or format), my thoughts about storage can even relate to the ineffectiveness of the retention process and this could conceivably even fold back into the first statement in terms of criminality or terrorism gaining benefit from the action of storage. It's ridiculously easy to answer "yes" to both and remain entirely consistent - or so I'd have thought.
I'm truly at a loss to understand who believed constructing opinion gathering in this cock-eyed format was a sensible idea.My point is that when I went to school 41% plus 44% plus 15% added up to 100% - which implies (or so I'd have thought) that each respondent was only permitted to tick ONE of the three available boxes.
Assuming the authors actually can be sufficiently bothered to read the responses to their work, I'm surmising that if I'm incorrect with this THEY'LL bother to advise me - not someone like yourself who had no part in the exercise.
I hope that helps.I honestly have no idea what the point of your post is.
The matter is a very simple one to resolve - was (as I contend) the first part of this survey one where respondents could only tick ONE box? Yes/No? Simples.
If "Yes", then as Common Sense has so helpfully (and accidentally - it's tough when you set yourself to have a fight with someone and then make the mistake of validating what they said) already pointed out in support of my own contention, they "...are not dependent on each other" and this is a rubbish way to run a survey.
Which, if I'm not mistaken, was where I came in...
Nice, easy, and no need for any autobiographical information you may feel you wish to share.I see.
So, yes, it was an only-tick-one-box question; yes, this is an extremely silly way to do it; yes, it invalidates any conclusions that may be drawn from it; and yes, I was right to bring it up.
Thank you.
And as far as "taking part" goes, you're already on my radar as someone who lurks in the shadows just dying to pick a fight with me. You've tried it several times now, and the results aren't terribly impressive. When it comes to gratuitous advice about making contributions to these pages, you may wish to try your theories out on yourself first.Am I the only one who glimpsed that photo and thought for a brief second it was a scene out of Star Trek: The Next Generation just before the transporter operator sends them back to their home planets?
And as far as the topic goes, judging by the looks on the respective faces either (a) Putin has blown-off into Abbott's space, (b) Abbott has had a wee on Putin's back, or (c) in an explosion of bilateral decision-making they've done both at the same time.
Way more mature than all this silly shirtfront nonsense.I guess even an "international development expert" suffers from relevance deprivation syndrome once in a while, and feels the need to construct reams of speculative rubbish masquerading as "analysis".
For the record, I listened to Robert Fisk last night on Lateline (at least he actually goes there, talks to people, and doesn't appear to be pushing any agenda), and his take on events (admittedly Syrian-focussed) makes way more intelligent reading (cut-and-pasted from last night's transcript);
"But I think you've got to realise that much of the area that ISIS holds is desert and there's no oil underneath most of that desert. And you can't do much with sand. I suspect what will happen is that Syria will regain its major cities, including Raqqa, which is the ISIS capital inside Syria. Even the pilots of my aircraft wouldn't fly over it; they were worried about missiles, of course. But what will happen is that there will continue to be a guerrilla war in desert areas and that could go on for years. But Syria, I do not think is going to fall apart, not at all"
As far as red flags go, we could probably have done with one attached to this article. I do appreciate there's a lot to be gained by hyping this up, but perhaps that sort of thing is best left to desperate politicians.Not having ready access to a microscope, it's always pleasing when the activities in an incredibly small - but no doubt interesting pond to those few handfuls of organisms swimming around in it - are filmed and displayed up on a big screen for those of us with failing eyesight to look at.
It does, however, at the end of the day still remain a small pond. I'm extremely happy for those who enjoy wading through it finding innumerable debating points and things to get excited about - God knows we already have enough people just sitting in a vegetative state wasting their time, anything that allows time wasting to accrue health benefits is to be applauded.
Fascinating to see this article paired with another elsewhere on the expanse and majesty of the Universe. I suppose we all need to be reminded occasionally that inconsequence is either (a) an evolved trait following the Big Bang (pun sort-of intended I suppose) or else (b) a product of God's creativity, depending on where you sit on questions of theism obviously. I thank Jane Gilmore for providing some useful counterbalance to these weird notions that the Universe is all about useful things.If puritanical wowserism is now wedded to paternalistic statism as you say, just how exactly did this abomination get past the uber-vigilant, sanctity-of-personal-unions, defender-of-white-bread-values Cory Bernardi without his knowledge?
And, perhaps more to the point, has anyone been collating all the subsequent incidences of bestiality to prove he was right after all?Two brief points;
1) No pretence is involved - it really IS inconsequential.
2) Do you live so disconnected from day-to-day reality that this rubbish automatically upgrades to "...a life or death issue" for you to start waving your arms about in a sweaty panic? Really? This is ONE candidate who MAY possibly pick up a seat blathering about an issue which has NO traction outside the parallel dimensions she lives in. Even if she wins, where exactly is the groundswell of enthusiasm in the world of legislation making that says this is an issue beyond a few patrons of a Richmond tofu shop?
Perhaps you may wish to research the history of Green "success" in state lower houses. There's a very good example from over in Western Australia about the (brief) Member for Fremantle whose main achievement was to slip into bed with a man who sniffed chairs. The idea that this garbage is going to make you spill your short white in a burst of fear and trepidation is ludicrous - in case you haven't noticed, CREATING legislation is not their strongest suit.As a (platonic) lover of Brian Cox AND an owner of a read (although how well understood is another matter) copy of "A Brief History of Time" AND a believer that "Galaxy Quest" is perhaps the finest "sci-fi" movie ever made (humour, pathos, tenderness and lines which start "By Grabthar's Hammer..." - what's not to love?), I do fear Tim Dean has strayed a bit off course with this particular piece. Some of us do actually possess the power of multilingualism when matters above the troposphere are being discussed.
What is "out there" is indeed truly amazing, and if people spent a bit more time appreciating the scope of the experiment we seem to be living in they might find answers to questions like "What's the meaning of life?" a bit easier to deal with, and simultaneously reacquaint themselves with the importance of the wondrous in living it. That said, I see no conceivable way we'll ever get to touch any of it - "exploration" has morphed over time from going to places we couldn't previously see and touching them to now being able to see places far off in the distance we'll never be able to touch, and I'm not sure humanity has worked this out yet (which is a shame, because there are big consequences associated with this new paradigm).
Tim Dean appears to have trouble accepting that some sort of Hollywood fluff cuts corners and so undermines something serious. That's an argument which might cut some ice for a movie like "Titanic", where there is a "known event" and historical truth is being in some way manipulated. I doubt it applies when the ability to get to where any "known event" could ever be enacted is as much fantasy as the filmed fantasy of it that's being screened.Russia would appear to be a country badly in need of some thinking time. Geographically, it shares reasonably close proximity to Europe, China, and North America - but apparently feels sullen towards all of them. It has a population of about 150 million (2% of the world total) - which puts it just below Nigeria and Bangladesh on the league table, and just above Japan and Mexico. Sharing a certain similarity with a strain of Australian thinking, it confuses physical size with importance (made even more laughable, because at least Australia is surrounded by nothingness on three sides, and it's only when we bother to look at the map to our north (a rare event I must say) that we have any chance of regaining a grip on reality - Russia has delusions of isolation that no cropped map can support).
It may very well be the case that "Russia wants to be seen as a Great Power", but those days have been and gone - the trick now is to learn from people like the British as to how to deal with loss of past prestige and still keep your sense of humour. Having a sense of humour to begin with would, I guess, be a big help in kicking the whole process off.
The fact that the word "China" appears in this article once whilst "West" or "Western" appears almost two dozen times suggests to me Matthew Davies might just be missing where the action is in attempting to paint a big picture that conforms to his own preconceptions of what is and isn't important."The puzzle is even deeper because we have lots of evidence that suggests the return on investment from lobbying is enormous"
Really?
There's also "lots of evidence" that gambling at the racetrack is a successful pastime - you just have to look for those people jumping up and down and waving their betting slip in the air after the race has been run. What makes this "evidence" easy to spot is that these people certainly stand out in the crowd when most of those present aren't jumping up and down and waving betting slips in the air. Having read the links to this "evidence" what I saw was TWO examples, in an American system which uses "earmarks" and other such scandalous rubbish, with a massive budget (more dough for the taking, more interest in it - simple enough to comprehend) which throws money every which-way, and no counting of the other people at the racetrack who aren't doing any jumping up and down. I would humbly suggest Chris Berg review his dictionary definition of "evidence" if he has desires to be taken seriously.
That said, I didn't read this article as being about lobbyists at all - they are just the corporate ISIS dragged in front of the cameras to frighten the audience. The core of the piece seems to be found in the buried-away sentence; "The more a government does, the more opportunities are presented for rent-seeking" - it appears as if Chris Berg has decided it's time to do another spot of libertarianism spruiking.
The argument involved is a neat variation along the line of; 'If you stop having barbeques in summer, you'll stop attracting flies to yourself'. To the gullible, I suppose this is appealing logic - personally, I'd find a way to tax the flies (and these flies - unlike the ones at your barbie - come with ABNs) to pay for the fly-spray to keep them away. But that's just me I suppose.
So, I guess I'll sit back now and watch all the trained animals fall out of the woodwork to tell us how beneficial "small government" is for the health and wellbeing of all. Let the by-the-nose leading begin..."The puzzle is even deeper because we have lots of evidence that suggests the return on investment from lobbying is enormous"
Really?
There's also "lots of evidence" that gambling at the racetrack is a successful pastime - you just have to look for those people jumping up and down and waving their betting slip in the air after the race has been run. What makes this "evidence" easy to spot is that these people certainly stand out in the crowd when most of those present aren't jumping up and down and waving betting slips in the air. Having read the links to this "evidence" what I saw was TWO examples, in an American system which uses "earmarks" and other such scandalous rubbish, with a massive budget (more dough for the taking, more interest in it - simple enough to comprehend) which throws money every which-way, and no counting of the other people at the racetrack who aren't doing any jumping up and down. I would humbly suggest Chris Berg review his dictionary definition of "evidence" if he has desires to be taken seriously.
That said, I didn't read this article as being about lobbyists at all - they are just the corporate ISIS dragged in front of the cameras to frighten the audience. The core of the piece seems to be found in the buried-away sentence; "The more a government does, the more opportunities are presented for rent-seeking" - it appears as if Chris Berg has decided it's time to do another spot of libertarianism spruiking.
The argument involved is a neat variation along the line of; 'If you stop having barbeques in summer, you'll stop attracting flies to yourself'. To the gullible, I suppose this is appealing logic - personally, I'd find a way to tax the flies (and these flies - unlike the ones at your barbie - come with ABNs) to pay for the fly-spray to keep them away. But that's just me I suppose.
So, I guess I'll sit back now and watch all the trained animals fall out of the woodwork to tell us how beneficial "small government" is for the health and wellbeing of all. Let the by-the-nose leading begin...Perhaps we could break with tradition on this one at the signing, and we each keep our own folders and just swap the signatories instead - an early, positive example of the free trade that's supposed to flow from the deal I must say, although we'd probably have to throw in a set of steak knives and a K-Mart gift voucher to balance the deal up.
The bloke on the right in the photo seems worth a try, and him being Chinese should make local press conferences just that little bit easier to follow, never mind less embarrassing.
I'd normally be suggesting we went the whole hog and did the double by farming out Bill Shorten as well, but when it comes to Opposition Leaders the Chinese really don't have anything to trade.Possibly Peter. It does beg the question as to who would be obliged to supply the steak knives and K-Mart voucher should such a potential trade be organised though.I quite agree.
Thank God we were spared that sort of childish rubbish during the years 2007-13.As a truly committed right-winger I'm surprised you didn't also point out that it put an end to the evil scourge that is people smuggling - although I suppose seeing that the undocumented illegals who were risking their lives in leaky tunnels back then rather than joining the orderly queue at Checkpoint Charlie were white and nominally Christian, I guess they don't count as being part of the narrative.Your dad's name wasn't "Nikki" and he didn't live in Melbourne in the early 60s and do labouring work for the MMBW did he Caffeterria? If so, there was an old picture (now long lost) of him holding me as a baby at my childhood suburban home he and my dad built (those were the days, to be sure).
I'm in full agreement with the comment about the abrupt turn-around on the question of right-wing attitudes to communism. Now they just can't get pen to paper quick enough to get their hands on some of their cash. Thank God there are still home grown leftists here to snarl at otherwise they'd be at a total loss as to what to do with their otherwise boundless energy towards all things collective and nominally socialist."...presumably east Germans in their Skodas and Ladas, heading west - horns tooting, lights flashing, arms waving"
Whilst probably East Germans, they were more likely to be Stasi informers, border guards and other assorted apparatchiks fleeing the expected mob who were driving those particular brands. The regular East Germans would have been the ones in the Trabants parked on the side of the road with he hood up. I think Peter Ryan may just have missed a really good story by not pulling over the Skoda and Lada drivers for a chat.I'm talking about the ones who had managed to exchange a few bananas for a lift home from a Trabant owner rather than walk. The early days when the DDR functioned as the DBR.Just so I'm clear on this one; you dress up sow's ears?
I'm guessing then that you also make purses out of mutton in your spare time.
FTA on the way, and the new ideas for the value-adding onto farm produce are really starting to tumble out of the woodwork.Just so I'm clear on this one; you dress up sow's ears?
I'm guessing then that you also make purses out of mutton in your spare time.
FTA on the way, and the new ideas for the value-adding onto farm produce are really starting to tumble out of the woodwork.You may be a trifle hard on the lovers of Hobbesian language Charles.
Personally, any man who can write "...it is many times with a fraudulent design that men stick their corrupt doctrine with the cloves of other men's wit" is a man who I consider worthy of reverence and repetition.
As Laurence van der Post so eloquently put it in The Heart of the Hunter; "We do not speak of Umkulunkulu any longer. His praise names are forgotten. People now talk only of things that are useful to them."You inadvertently raise a very pertinent point. Whilst precious little real daylight exists between the major parties these days, the significant difference lies in the way they acknowledge their own.
The Liberals have a Prime Minister of 16 years standing in Robert Menzies, yet they appear too embarrassed to even introduce him into a conversation or debate today - probably because his policies on taxing, spending, and the significance he placed on having a strong and involved government makes them physically sick (now that the liberals have left and the conservatives run the show). Liberal Prime Ministers from Gough's time (Holt, Gorton, McMahon) are no-shows any time a Liberal of today wishes to spruik their party's greatness - and in the case of the last one on that list I can certainly understand why. Malcolm Fraser bested Gough, and yet in the midst of kicking Whitlam in the guts since his death the dragon-slayer's name is masked by sullen silence - he cops an even worse fate than the ones they just ignore, he is actively hated.
I remain fascinated by those who drop by here to spruik Liberal ideology and Liberal deeds - because the one thing they never do is spruik Liberal history. To them, until the ascension of John Howard (I've concentrated on their leaders who made PM - there's also the whole entire pantheon of Opposition Leaders who also now don't even figure in what should be a rich historical narrative) there was no Liberal Party - it simply doesn't exist. And this man, someone who I'd rate as a reasonably effective PM (it tails off the longer he went on) and who is the alpha and the omega of Liberal history ultimately got rolled by a former ABC journalist led by a goofy nerd who was destined to a spectacular flame-out of his own. When it comes to sticky ends, that was surely one of the most embarrassing a rock upon which mythology is built could come to.
I do think Labor mythology frequently goes over the top. However, those who disagree have something tangible to aim at. Those of the other stripe have a pathetically bare cupboard of their own with which to fight back with mythology that supports their version of events.Seeing as the organisations in question pose a clear and present danger to the security and stability of the nation, I presume their metadata is currently being collected, collated, and scrutinised.
No? How very surprising.There's something terribly refreshing about a situation where the woman is looking for some action and the man is the one with the headache.
I trust all those tiresome feminist-based writers who regularly drop by to entertain us with their overwrought tragedies at least have the good grace to acknowledge real change when next they put fingers to keyboard.
I accept here are limits to how far this can be taken - all keeping Clive barefoot and pregnantly-paused in the kitchen is going to achieve is ending up with a kitchen devoid of anything in it to cook, and the very real danger of an overweight, barefoot man sleeping on the floor and presenting a serious problem as a potential tripping hazard.I was interested enough by this article to do some quick research into the New Zealand news and information market. As well as a different set of priorities for the national broadcaster (a side topic all on its own), the newspaper industry is also structured differently (a starting point is "List of print media in New Zealand" via Wikipedia - you can link in directly from there). One sentence particularly caught my eye;
"Ownership of New Zealand newspapers is dominated by Fairfax New Zealand and APN News &amp; Media, with Fairfax having 48.6% of the daily newspaper circulation"
Experienced readers will no doubt notice the absence of a certain organisation quite familiar to Australians in this sphere. I'd venture one possible scenario that it's much, much easier to have intelligent, sensible thought processes in both the general public and their elected representatives if you limit the number of platforms for disgruntled, corrosive, agenda-driven ratbags to yell from. Just a thought.As a male (and a crusty old one at that), I'm always cheered when Clementine Ford and friends wax lyrical about the insidious, all-pervasive power of the Y-chromosome. And having been one for quite a while now, and having long come to the conclusion that most of the humans I know who are similarly bejewelled as I am are - in some way, shape, or form - mere village idiots who do a moderately convincing impersonation of a bipedal mammal when operating at their best, it is always pleasing to hear those watching from outside the sand-pit having an altogether rosier view of our collective abilities.
I appreciate the notion of a co-ordinated, male global conspiracy is a sexy idea - I'm just not sure those who hold it realise that men who at other times are berated for "not talking", "not verbalising their feelings", "always keeping things to themselves", "not even aware of how I'm feeling", "too interested in drinking with your mates", "obsessed with boy's toys", "never taking me seriously", and "just not listening" might somehow lack the necessary savvy and ruthless, devilishly sinister intent to pull it off.
Of course, if this global conspiracy of brothers is as unreal as my own research leads me to believe it is, then the only option left would be to assume women may - in some strange way - be being white-anted from within. And that would REALLY spoil the narrative I'm guessing.
I hope it doesn't turn out to be the case - there's something rather jolly about being considered a member of a ruling elite, no matter how undeserved you might feel it is.As someone who brings an alternative viewpoint to this site most days of the week, I'm pretty sure I'd already worked out what the article was thank you Dove.
Seeing as my alternative viewpoint is an alternative viewpoint to the alternative viewpoint, I trust you'll also "stick to the mainstream" and not bother to trouble yourself with further comment about what does or doesn't challenge me (unless, of course, you know more about me than I do myself)?
You may also wish to refine your thinking regarding the difference between "the brake of criticism" and "the accelerator of cynicism"."Like a Kimberley tide, it floods in and can recede just as quickly"
A delightfully apt analogy. As anyone fortunate enough to see the power, sheer speed, and majesty of Kimberley tidal movements can tell you, unlike the more flaccid examples of the phenomenon in places like Sydney and Melbourne, those ones have a fair few crocodiles floating in with all the water as well.
And, thanks to the joys of globally-warmed water temperatures (and yes, I do acknowledge that deniers will tell you it's all a worldwide conspiracy masterminded by shadowy cabals and those hell bent on enslaving humanity), more and more of those crocodiles are starting to take their holidays further south down the coast now."I find it somewhat scary that a prominent Financial journalist, ex stockbroker and financial advisor has only just discovered algorithms. What analytical methods has Alan been using all these years?"
Excellent question. I suspect he's mostly adopted the standard methods employed by the "industry" of examining the entrails of sacrificed small animals when an air of faux stability permeates the room, and switches to following any stampede either entering or exiting a door when there's any form of electricity in the air. It isn't necessary to utilise algorithms for that - simple instruction from a moderately lucid herd animal combined with a few lessons in critical thinking from any moss or lichen willing to part with its knowledge pretty much gives you the tools to do the job.
Algorithms for our so-called financial wizards are merely analogous to putting trousers on clowns - doing it makes them look smarter, and supplies them with more gravitas than their own unaided efforts would otherwise produce."There's no shortage of mature debate in this country around the significant issues that confront us socially and economically"
When this article is eventually electronically archived for posterity it may be necessary to detach the comments section immediately below it in order that it not be misinterpreted by some future "Time Team" excavators as being a satirical piece.It's been a very lean time for this nation's Gough-haters recently.
I suspect if this sort of thing keeps up, the tipping point into permanent madness may be just around the corner.
Personally, I'm hoping a bid to have Parliament House re-named the 'E.G. Whitlam Meeting Hall for Comrades' might just do the trick in that regard.
Congratulations (and thanks) to Noel Pearson for a wonderful speech."What legacy will he leave?"
Far shorter memorial services one would suspect (although, to be fair, there may need to be a spot of 'me-tooism' even about that given the two who preceded him - probably ultimately a joint bipartisan legacy like Howard's frequently unsung role in the 80s as an Opposition Leader supporting the government of the day).I'm badly torn on this one.
On the one hand, and in light of the recent gibbering on this matter by Brandis, Abbott et al, I'm happy to know there's at least one person in front of the microphones possessing a sufficient level of basic intelligence and an understanding of the topic to be able to complete an answer without coming across as a blithering imbecile. That is to be applauded, not sneered at.
On the other hand, I'm deeply troubled to learn that "I'm afraid that's an operational matter, and I won't be commenting on anything to do with operations" has sadly gone out of fashion just when it was starting to kick off as an answering strategy. I feel deeply for Scott Morrison and his team of trained performers who put a great deal of time and effort into developing the technique only to have it now trashed by lesser mortals.For an older person, this is a truly fascinating and instructive glimpse into the phenomenon which is the modern mind. I suspect I'm not alone in sitting here reading it and wondering "Why is this here?" or "Why are you telling me this?"
I knew an old woman several decades ago who had a most unusual ability to conduct a conversation (more of a monologue really) in a linear fashion as she moved into contact with successive, different people without recourse to any sort of scene-setting or re-capping for the unfortunate new "conversation partner" as to how or why we were at the point we were (it was literally a case of one person she was talking at saying "I'm sorry, I have to go over there now", leave, and she'd simply turn to whoever was closest and just carry on from that point - an astounding thing to be part of). Reading Ruby Hamad today may not have proved very useful intellectually, but I'm way more open to the idea of reincarnation than I was even 24 hours ago.
In the study and practice of self-absorbtion many strive but few truly succeed - I believe Ruby here today may have written her magnum opus thesis and be royally rewarded with her post-doc with this outstanding effort. It is a wonderful melange of people I've never heard about, things I couldn't care less about, marvellous left-field surprises that just appear out of nowhere, and all wrapped up in a spicy tortilla. I just loved it.
I feel desperately sorry for those poor people who were handed a nice, easy article on Gough and batons and legacies to ease into and drop a favourite rant or a stirring defence, and are then faced with something where their fingers hover over the keyboard but can't actually make it onto the keys because they aren't sure why this article is here and whether perhaps they're actually reading someone else's mail by mistake.
The modern mind, as it descends into ever tightening circles of irrelevance where those things of moment for it become ever more cloudy to those watching from outside the cage, has a strange allure for those trained in the old-school practices of inclusion and coherency. I'm truly thankful to be given this small chance to see the future. It makes the realisation that I'm not going to be living that long that I'll ever be a part of it a source of tremendous relief. Very well done.You show yourself to be already well schooled in the vagaries of insanity in all its myriad forms to successfully transform yourself into a worthy, well-adapted old person when your time eventually arrives Young Grasshopper.
Others may be haggling over where Gough's baton goes, but you'll be more than welcome to mine when I'm not using it anymore.The graphs are there because;
1) Some people like finding out things and showing them to others.
2) Some people like seeing what someone else has found out.
3) It saves some time and effort for people who like to say "Well, you've made that claim - show me the figures that prove it. I bet you can't".
4) Some people think having facts around is just a sort-of nice thing to have, and leads to a warm and fuzzy feeling. Part of that feeling is knowing those who struggle to communicate in terms of facts will be hating it.
5) Considering the amount of material which is pumped out without recourse to fact, it tends to make the article more noticed. In a world where getting to the top of the Google list is the name of the game, having a product that arrests attention by its novelty is no bad thing.
6) Some people who don't like how the author has extrapolated the known facts to support an argument they can't stomach will always welcome having a source of supplied information that they can interpret another way to slap them down. It's a variation on petards and hoisting I suppose.
7) Even if you don't have the faintest idea (a) what you're talking about, or (b) what the author is talking about, having graphs you can click on to change the picture gives people something to do and makes them feel there's something here even for them. In a world where some people are feeling more isolated and excluded than ever before it is one small, quite touching way to show compassion to those less fortunate than yourself.Being old enough to remember when this sort of activity was performed by two women with names like Doris or Madge, over a back fence, both with freshly blue-rinsed hair in curlers and covered by a hairnet, probably with a fag in the mouths of each, I welcome the resuscitation of 50s urban "pop culture" in a format accessible to the next generation.
I have often wondered how inconsequential people wasting their time rabbiting on about inconsequential things would find a user-friendly place in the daunting new paradigm. Now I know.
I'm sure the episode about how Mavis at number 58's youngest boy might be "...well, a bit too fond of playing with girls - if you catch my meaning..." and how many empty sherry bottles Shirley at number 27 puts in her rubbish bin each week ("she wraps them in newspaper so they don't make a noise when the garbos empty the bin into the truck you know") will be most entertaining.
I've seen the future, and it's banal.I know people who have caused deaths through dangerous driving have been sent to do community service in morgues and trauma wards so they can see for themselves what price stupidity can extract, so maybe it's time any horses who died on the day were placed at the exit gates to tracks (not just dumped on the ground, but housed in an enclosure which at least gave them some sort of dignity - if such a term is indeed the right one) and everyone there couldn't avoid having to look at them as they left - that seems to me to be a fair way to allow racegoers to decide for themselves whether their day's entertainment was worth the price of admission, and neatly circumvents the inevitable chant of "nannyism" which follows such events. That death, after all, is part of what happened because they were there to empower it to occur in the first place.If you can get backing for the project I'd suggest "Tar Wars" as a working title and a plot that runs thus;
Young, craving-for-adventure Lackey Factdenier teams up with Oh Be Buggered With Tomorrow (a wealthy recluse who, for a party trick, waves his hand in front of people's faces and says "These are not the facts you're looking for"), Smokebaccy (a harmless, lovable recreational hobby peddler who has been part of the gang for some time) and Stoop So Low (a roguish, part-pirate, part renegade, part Financial Planner who can be found drinking most afternoons in Wall Street bars using other people's cash). Using "the force" - usually wads of $100 bills in briefcases, but also an electronic version that transfers power across entire continents in seconds using nothing more than a BSB - they rescue Princess Gullibility from the Earth Science Empire's Death Star, "Reality 101", where she's been successfully constrained by a brutal regime of logic, fact, and previously effective common sense, and manage to return her to the people. In a thrilling finale we learn of a jaw-dropping secret when Oh Be, Smokey and Stoop confide to young Factdenier; "We are ALL mothers, Lackey".
Rated IO (Infants Only - not recommended for anyone over the mental age of 3 without confirmed access to a sedative)"Where is Team Australia when you really need it?"
Actually, its full and correct title is Team Australia: World Palookas, and you'll find it in an alleyway behind a bar yelling "Lisa" on most afternoons if you're really interested. Don't wear your best shoes when you go.I would have assumed any possible housing bubble would be facing extreme competition for available impetus by the upswing of the new industry of thought bubble creation in recent times.
In fact, if we could gather together all the respective bubble generators and locate them under the ocean a few hundred metres off shore we also stand the realistic chance of dealing with our shark problem as well.I like your style of thinking Mongo. Of course, if we could store the generators of both thought AND housing bubbles inside the sharks we could actually go one better.
I appreciate the sharks may not initially be overly enthused by this low worth, high tripe, overly-aerated dietary switch, but a first home bubble eater's grant will probably do the trick.It would appear to be a case of "Yes we can" being thumped into submission by "No we can't". Sounds familiar.
Much scholarly work has gone into trying to find an individual catastrophic event that led to the decline of once-great civilisations of the past. I suspect it was something way more prosaic like the populace no longer caring what trash was turning up on their ballot stones to be adjudicated upon. In fact, it wouldn't surprise me to discover that in amongst dinosaur remains we'll one day locate a speaker's chair.
It's probably also a convenient time to mention that the U.S. Capitol bears a striking resemblance to the Hindenburg in an extreme nose-up orientation. You'd have to hope it isn't full of explosive gas, wouldn't you?We live in an era of delicious irony. It would seem that very soon metadata will be kept for longer than the people who are legislating to keep it, and that budgetary "forward estimates" are being prepared by people whose own forward estimate is somewhat bleaker than the numbers they're generating.
