Until one party can actually have an economically stable budget and socially sustainable ideology there will always be hard switches and times unpopular governments are left in place.  
Labor lost because they where spending like drunken sailors and did not implement one decent idea successfully.  The current opportunist attacks without solutions does not address the matter.  It will need to be an incredibly unpopular budget come election time where much hype would have passed for the ALP to be accepted back.  As long as the ALP rallies against any cuts and fails to propose tax raises it cant even attack the Liberals for continuing to get us further into debt.Outraged, are you really outraged that there is an accurate perception that the poor drive less?
I would be worried if a politician thought the poor drove as much.  Considering the ALP supported a carbon tax on electricity and the Greens are opposed to road building and the current cheapest form of power (coal)
This is not about the poorest.  Its a political opportune move to tie ill feelings of government against the love of an individuals car.Skeleton, if you know better than Treasury analysis, please reveal your modelling.  The research shows the richest people consume the most petrol.So Jangle, you dont use the roads that the government pays for when traveling?
Or do you want others to subsidize your lifestyle?
If you are driving 3-4 times the average as its required, your property is almost certainly in a location that does not suit its usage.  
And if you are supporting offspring in Brisbane, why are they not supporting themselves?  Its what many Australians are forced to do.@Jangle
If you are going off farm for income, is your property really a farm?  Its not producing any profit.  Since you are against living in a city, could you imagine what would happen if everyone drove from their "farm" sized property?  It would be utter madness with gridlock and there would not be any accessible public transport.  Others may wish to have a bigger property but circumstances have lead them to a town or city lifestyle.  
It is your choice to support adults.  When going to university I managed to keep my head above water by working and receiving youth allowance.  There are many ways.  
So it appears my assumptions where correct, yet they where not really assumptions when revealed in what you said.  Your property is not being used appropriately which could be for multiple reasons as it is not a productive farm and your children could be supporting themselves.  
Just because you wish to spend money on your children dosnt mean you cant afford part of the cost of roads that you use.  You could easily afford a fuel excise that is consistent with inflation.  
Yank is anti-Abbott on everything.  The facts dont matter here.  
Even with GST, its only 0.44c per liter.  Its easier to pull out numbers from the air and imagine all the bad that could follow.  Just dont do it with a carbon price.When the ALP and Greens together hold zero rural seats AND only try and bring up the topic of the over focused Western Sydney electorates, I really dont think rural Australians are the oppositions concern.  
The nationals are the only party that try to represent rural Australia.Jiutso, that only works if driving around is fun.  
If it is for fun, I would want to discourage it for a number of reasons including air pollution, road congestion, noise pollution and road costs.  
The poorest drive the least because the poorest are most likely to use public transport.Steve, try a bit less sarcasm and try using fact.  I know its hard as you have no facts to back you up.  
The poorest dont drive.  If you do drive yourself, then you are rich enough to pay for the car.  Not all are in that situation.  There are always people worse of than you.  Would you have these poorer people pay for you to drive through their taxes?  Roads cost money and the pollution cars cause costs money.  Why should anyone else pay for your choice not to use the most efficient and cheapest options (public transport, walking, bikes).
And ps, the poorest may use public computers, they are unlikely to have one of their own especially with an internet connection.  I cant remember the last time I saw a beggar on an iPhone.  
pps the public transport system has been improving in almost every city.  The greater number of people has lead to a greater number of services.  If you live in any capital and dont use public transport that is because you believe you are too good for it.Olive, what numbers are you using to get that $2 a week?  Even if I round up to 50c now, it two years unless inflation has made everything four times the price, there is no chance that it would cost that.  
The problem the Liberals may be facing on this issue is mathematical incompetence by the public.If anyone is seriously doubting the poorest drive the least, they need their heads examined.  
What it really shows is the love Australians have for their cars.  There are demands for parking spaces so close, opposition to speed cameras, opposition to parking fees, opposition to road tolls, opposition to insurance and much more.  
If you are in the poorest of society and live in a city (or even close to a shop) there are a variety of cheaper ways.  I use them myself. Like most people, I dont need to drive to work.  Unlike most people, I choose not to.   
I have no problem to paying more for petrol because my cheap car ($4000) only needs to be filled one a month.  
What I hate is the idea that i should subsidize gluttonous use of the roads.  If you are rich enough to pay for a car, petrol, probably a parking space and if you are a risky driver a frequent speeding fine whilst expecting tax payers to pay for the roads everywhere.  
Then you are rich enough for a petrol tax to be kept level with inflation.Its all very well for statistics to say things are worse elsewhere.  
Its an entirely different story for someone who has applied for countless jobs and sees no end in sight.  
The concern of unemployment should be that it rises.  
Sadly this is being drowned in the actions of people who prefer to criticize the US rather than consider the issue.  If this wasnt a US hatred thing, we would be comparing ourselves with Canada, other European countries, New Zealand and more.If a disease or condition was to kill a child in a few hours, days or weeks would your opinion change?
Where do you draw the line?
How can we forbid the choice of screening when our society gives all other choices to the parents?
There is a big difference to me between screening for hair color (which is very unlikely to predetermine health or happiness) compared to genetic diseases which can very predictably lead to shorter lives, higher medical costs on the family and society as well as mental and physical stress on the parents.I personally have never been in such a situation as to have medical advice telling me that a child will have a serious medical condition.  What is scary is the number of people that believe they should control another persons choice and life without knowing all the impacts on the entire family, individual and wider society.  
I know a few happy families with a severely disabled child (one with down syndrome), I also know two parents whom have committed suicide and many adults that exhibit signs of stress.  
Its not an easy call to make and its not a decision that will just impact one life no matter what is done.  
As a male I have no real choice.  My partner on the other hand does.  The only choice I would have is whether to pay maternity or be active in the child's life if they are conceived.  The last part is very easy to decide.Question A: Not at all.  Check the laws, especially if you engage in sexual intercourse with the opposite sex.  
B: Any disabled child is known to cause longer term mental health impacts to both parents.  The financial and time requirements will have a health impact.  
C: See above.  Suicide could result
D: If a parent wishes to have the child, they could engage in the correct bodies/circles to help them prepare thus assisting the child's development and reducing B
E:  See B, C and DMagaret, I understand and agree with your point
Sadly "every child a wanted child" would need to include a government issued license for parenthood.  I doubt many Australians want anywhere near that level of government interference.If we are going back to the natural process of birth, we would outlaw surrogacy.  There is nothing natural (as in exhibited by other species) in a female and male putting their genetics inside a second female in order for the second female to expend all the reproduction energy in order to produce offspring that is not of the second females.
In the case of any artificial insemination, there is a known increase of creating offspring that are unable to reproduce themselves.  The mono-genetic stage has been greatly tampered with.  
Adoption is exhibited by some animals in situations (penguins are one example)
And such things as sexual or reproductive enhancements are also not used.  
Neither is cutting open the mothers stomach to save both mother and baby or drugs to ease the process.And what do you think would have happened to a disabled child then?  Many mammals (tigers, bears, zebras etc) will abandon the sick and feeble in order to ensure the other offspring survive.  
That is a very natural approach.  Moral is another question.Compared to the past where it was acceptable to put the disabled in cages, freak shows and hide them for life..
Our day and age is very accepting and welcoming of disabilities of all kinds.A disabled child requires more time and care.  People have a finite amount of both.Jimmoles do you include those who are pregnant with a disabled child?
I am very slow to judge a persons choices and beliefs but if you really believe that only a small group in a matter that will inevitably consume social resources (taxpayer dollars, medical staff, support groups etc) are the only people entitled to have a view, I could only agree with you if it was a decision contained only within the family circle.  
Those against genetic testing are trying to enforce time and resources from many others.  What I question is if they know the true costs from mental health and relationships for parents to reduced resources for others.  I hate the idea of anyone being judged for choosing on a very complicated matter.Do you understand what risk means?  A risk only indicates chance.  A dice may be higher than 1, 5 times out of 6.  That does not mean you cant roll five 1's or even more in a row.  The risk of getting a number other than 1 does not change no matter what a few cases may be.I wish the article had to source something before making that statement.  The word most indicates over 50%.  Where is the research and is the research detailed enough just to show down syndrome.I already have.  The lack of credible information is the problem.  There are a few cases where around a dozen mothers with a down syndrome screen where followed.  This number is not statistically significant.  
I do not know if the word "most" was used correctly.  I know the author's opinion and that many academics have bias which they try and convince others of during their work.  
"Most" would be critical of a major point not having supportive evidence.There are different sides to screening
For a tax payer, why should I be forced to pay millions for children that where known to incur a high cost?
For a women, its my choice to have a child or have an abortion.  A healthy child can be stressful enough for many.
For the unborn, I want to live
Its so easy for people to judge one another.  What is harder is to face the fact that some will not have the mentality to raise a child, let alone one that needs extra attention.  As women have the right to choose to have sex and abortions, it seems odd if we remove the right for screening.  
As for surrogacy, anyone who tries to form a contract that lasts at least nine months with a foreign person in a foreign country without seeking to know all the finer details is taking a far greater risk than I would ever accept.  
There are many bad scenarios from a person not wanting to give birth to a disabled child out of a sense of shame or changing their mind part way through and seeking an abortion
To a pregnancy causing death or permanent disability to a surrogacy mother with an abortion being objected to by either party
Or even a surrogacy parent fleeing with a child that they have grown attached to.  
And some countries may suddenly decide your family structure or religion suddenly disqualifies you from taking a child.  
Messy situations are sure to follow when you cross reproduction, cultures, jurisdictions and values especially when one country is in a period of political change and does not have the best enforced or clearest laws that are written in another language to begin with.Dr Ainsley Newson, as a lecturer in bioethics
Could you please provide a link to research that says most parents do not choose an abortion after finding their child has down syndrome.  
I find it strange that a n article with a major point does not have any support whilst there is a link to the amount of knowledge women have in a well structured study, I would hope there is similar research before such a claim is made on parental choice.  
Hopefully the DRUM staff allow an important and informative minor edit.  
Or you could just respond to this post.Two items I agree with you that you need a card.  The other would be a house.  
For your phone and internet connection, of course the private company will be keeping some data.  A huge part of that reason is to bill you properly.  Both you could live without if you choose.  You would just be consigning yourself to a past generation lifestyle.
The government is another matter.  If you dont want the government on your phone plan, try voting them out.  There was a turn away from the major parties at the election.  The desire for change on many things (including privacy) could be behind that.  
Then use cash.  Its an easy solution.To all those with problems of private companies collecting data:
There may be some that collect information without your permission.  If so try prosecuting them.  
As for fly buys and so on,
If you dont want it try a very simple method
a) Avoid all cards, especially from the store
b) use cash
If it is important enough for you to avoid a company getting data which would improve their sales, pay a tad extra per item.  Its called freedom of choice.  If you want the discount for nothing, then you are asking the freedom of choice to be removed from others.  
Its not hard to see the difference between private company and government data collection.  The difference with government approved data collection is that you can not exit out of it.  There needs to be far higher standards for government.I hope you are kidding Erebus.  Since when has China ever made a decision against their ruling elite?
America is far from perfect.  I would still take a trial there any day as opposed to China (not including Taiwan which is its own country)The budget: largely inherited.  I am sure they would have loved the surplus the ALP inherited, instead they got one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD
Unemployment: See above.  At least they beat the ALP forecasts by 0.25%.  
Punitive actions: It needs to take effect first.  There have been proposals to reduce and harden welfare payments, but they havnt passed.  How can they have delivered before delivery?Monty, fact check is not a reliable source.  
What fact check dosnt point out is the season or potential of a new government creating uncertainty for boat arrivals.  
The ABC is not a impartial source of information.  
What it could point to is over half a decade under the Liberals where no one drowned in the ocean, a year where only one person arrive, the predicted number of refugees in the world compared to arrivals by boat to Australia and the near six months without an arrival.  
The Liberals took a harder stance and results ensued.  I know the human rights lawyers and refugees in Australia activists but not foreign countries hate this, that dosnt make the facts go away.  
The Liberals have been very successful in comparison to the ALP's no offshore, recreate offshore, try people trading and once again recreate offshore approach.Indonesia: After spying and instant cattle bans by the ALP, I admit it was a rocky start when border lines where put in place once again.  Border is less of an issue now as there are far less boats
Motor industry: If I have a small private company not making a profit.  Why dont I deserve a bail out?  The motor industry is a drain on jobs by taking tax dollars to produce cars to be sold overseas.  Good riddance
hope of NDIS: Dosnt funding need to be found before a hope existed?  NDIS was never funded.  It was a fools promise where one could get whatever they needed.  Money isnt limitless.  See complaints about debt.  
Budget rejected by voters: Sure.  If I believed in promises of fairy land I would reject the budget too.  Sadly only one side of politics has any intent to lead Australia to living within its means.The difference is quite simple.  Is the new group a threat to your way of life.  
Considering ISIS is teaching people to believe all of Europe and America are infidels (I assume Australia is in that category) and calls for the death of infidels
There is a choice.  Do we wait for an army to be organized and then engage or engage before an army is organized.In the Western world we keep brain dead people alive on machines without seeking their permission.  We spend so much in hospitals to keep people alive.  
If the option is a slow death or a quick death, why shouldnt we enable a quick death?  
Euthenasia is about choice.  Some believe they know what is best for others.  I would just like to enable the legal right for the individual (or closest loved ones if unable to confirm their thoughts) the choice.  
There is nothing kind about forcing food and liquid down a persons throat for years when they dont know where they are and are in pain.  
Its a bit kinder to avoid some treatments to speed up the process.  
Its kindest to enable the death to be as quick and painless as possible.  
People put down their pets all the time out of compassion.  Yet we do not extend this compassionate choice to people.  Its a strange world we live in.Circus?  What has the Senate done that is ridiculous?  
Overlook the ABC hating Palmer and secretly wanting the Greens to hold balance of power
What has happened is a few gaffed with the most important job (that is passing legislation following debate and consideration) largely achieved.  
As the Senate has not even been in for a month, it is very early days.  To already call it a circus just reflects upon the media circus.You take one story as a view of long term agenda?
I consider the fact that election comedy teams are always missing if the ALP has been in power
I consider the fact that it was never considered a circus nor was balance of power looked at in any detail when the Greens hold it
I consider the stance that the ABC has repeatedly taken on Asylum Seekers
The ABC's staff from Drum to news to shows like Q &amp; A
At the same time there is a story about Liberal leadership speculation and prejudging Palmer before his party has been in power.  I expect all gaffes to be published, unlike Julia Gillard's gaffes and for the ABC to keep its long held left wing position.  
What I hope for is the ABC to actually state why it exists.  Inner city leftist views can be covered by commercial media.I think it just shows the lack of understanding in the Senate.  
The real question is can the minor parties bring a new view or debate topics that the government hopes to pass?
If they can, they can debate topics.  Like it or not, some women in Australia support Jackie Lambert's notion of an ideal man and others support changing, removing, altering and many other things to nearly every single piece of legislation in existence.  
A diverse and less intelligent group of people produce better results than a non-diverse, intelligent group according to Harvard.  If so, diversity in our government should be welcomed.I doubt the parties are quality for Australia when attention is given to infighting and party image over Australian interests  
A few more rogues will work well in at least raising new topics.although in this case Dove, I am not convinced on less intelligent.  It is certainly more diverse and perhaps more intelligent.  
Many of the party hacks that would be lower on the Senate tickets have not showed great intelligence.Graeme, there is no way Abbott could have passed things through the Senate.  The Greens had balance of power then.  I suspect when some independents realized this, they recognized they had no choice but to work with the ALP.  
The Greens are just the left wing of the ALP like the Nationals are the rural wing of the Liberals.Then how can they vote for people in the Senate?A very mature view.
Unfortunately, many seem to believe democracy is getting their way.  Debate is them shouting down another.  
The worst thing for democracy would be ignoring an election.I am glad politicians dont keep some promises.  I am glad Rudd did not keep fuel watch or grocery watch.  
The Liberals promised no tax raises and next to no cuts to bring the budget to surplus.  The highest importance is a balanced budget.  This is something the ALP still refuse to admit was an issue when we had one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD.An election is the best means of getting the publics will.  The problem is too many voters have no idea who they are voting in due to their own willful ignorance.  
In the end, Australia gets the politicians it deserves.Cost would be the biggest reason.So 8% of voters dont think a house that is required to agree in order for new legislation to come into effect is important.  
Another 31% think the government (fancy way of saying majority in House of Representatives) think that the government should have the majority effectively making the Senate useless for its purpose of review.  
Would it therefor be around 39% of voters that would be in favor of abolishing the Senate because they dont understand why it exists or believe it has no actual value?  They did that in Queensland.  Should be possible Federally.  
It appears they think the Senate is pointless or should just say yes anyway, so why have it?  
Then add 27% who really have no opinion about the matter.  If they dont understand what they believe the Senate should do (and disappearing is an answer) then how can they vote for people to go into the Senate?  
Considering 66% (or 2/3rd of voters) dont believe the Senate should function as it is now or really dont understand or care what balance of power means....
Is it any wonder we keep on electing corrupt politicians and have a low standard of political debate?
ps.  I would like independents and minor parties to hold the balance of power as it at least stops a dictator being in for three years and gives options to pass legislation through.  With the right people, extremist views can be ignored and contentious issues debated and new ways achieved.I have no problem with an odd bail out if it is the national interest.  I just have a few requirements
1) An apology from the board
2) Removal of all bonuses and a reduction in salary for all staff/board members to $100,000.  
If they have cash to splash for a million dollar salary, they have cash to fix up the mess.  Perhaps the potential of jail time will convince the board to live off a mere six figure salary instead of seven for a year.  
Too big to fail should be big enough to make amends.I wouldnt mind that Applaudanum.  I would just be very cautious of any government decision other than if it had shares (which seems to be what you are talking about).  
A buy out of shares could be one way of performing the bail out which dosnt require company permission.  Once a significant share is in place, I am sure pay decreases could be voted for.Overpopulated
Russia is a lowly populated nation in density terms.  
According to Wikipedia, out of the 100 most populated nations, only Kazakhstan, Canada and Australia are less dense.  
Then Russia also has very expansive energy reserves which has allowed them to do a deal with China which is the biggest country to country contract ever signed.  Europe is largely dependent on Russian energy supplies.  
Russia has been having consisted and high economic growth despite a slow decrease in population.  
Russia was a major cause of the Germans loosing WW2, is still near the top of space technologies and has close ties with both China and India.  It also has a veto power in the UN
If you ignore Russia in Geographic, Political, Economic and Strategic terms, I would agree with your statement.Dialog only works when both sides want to talk and there is some mutual ground.  
This is not always the case.  
The Germans and Japanese could have never been talked out of WW2, the North Korean regime does not wish to discuss democratic reform as it will result in their own deaths and terrorist groups cause people to believe their like will be better after their death.Taswegian, you have shown how poor your knowledge is.  
When Abbott makes homosexuality a criminal offense, controls the courts, rigs elections and hides support of a foreign uprising, you may be close.  
If you are concerned about moral leadership, perhaps you should care about the 1000+ dead that the ALP caused during the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd government with their border policies or their acts of spying against our neighbors or the flip flopping on the most important moral challenge of our life time (climate change).  
Yet, I am sure morals need not be considered if they are against your politics.when did John ever say he approved of the actions?
In war, the wrong group can accidentally be targeted.  I have heard no evidence that it was deliberate.  
It was not a case of terrorism.  It was a case of mistaken identity.It may be because Hamas was firing rockets into Israel after months of peace and non-combat by the Israeli's, Hamas is still moving weapons in civilian areas and Hamas rejected the Egyptian peace offer.  
Not much can be done when people are desperate to fight to the death.  Hamas has deliberately chosen to sacrifice its own citizens.  
No one on the flight chose to be sacrificed.So you support the indiscriminate fire of rockets into Israel?
I wonder what the Palestinian refugees asking for Israel's protection believe.  Scary stuff is going on by Palestinians attacking Palestinians to make them think the occupier of some lands is the better choice.  
Palestine has some areas of dictatorship and some areas of anarchy.  When they stop producing refugees and attacking, Israel may make another peace offer which concedes large amounts of taken land.  
At the moment, those in charge of Palestine have no care about the lives they take.  Israel can either do nothing whilst being bombed or at times act to disrupt the weapons routes.Why are you thinking of invasion GBE?  What is going through your head.  The evidence is quite strong that Russian equipment in the hands of rebels accidentally shot down a plane.  
My problem is how far we extend this.  I am sure American made guns are in the hands of ISIS at the moment.  Do we extend the blame to America for the deaths there based solely on that?  Or do we have an arbitrary moral decider of whom it is appropriate to supply what weapons to?As a sovereign nation, we can decide which foreign citizens may enter. This applies to refugees, skilled workers, diplomats and even foreign politicians.  
We may not be able to refuge Putin entry to the G20, we can however refuse him entry into Australia.  
It would most likely be a foolish move, but we have the power.Much of the unsaid power of Russian condemnation comes down to China.  If China is onside, it becomes much harder for Russia to locally play it as a Russia v West issue.  
It would be interesting to know how the Chinese foreign minister is playing the matter.  
I suspect they will object to a resolution and potentially veto if Australia points the finder directly at Russia.  
A trigger happy rebel (probably with Russian equipment) shot down the wrong plane.  As much as many will hate to admit it, it wasnt a case of terrorism.  It was a wrongly identified target in a war.  
In many ways this is closer to manslaughter as the concern over death (if it was a enemy plane ready to bomb/fire or gather intelligence) would very reasonably cause a reaction in any armed fighter.  
Every country should consider what they call it very carefully as I am sure every country has had a case of enemy confusion during combat and accidentally killed civilians.  Most of the west just didnt care until their civilians died.  
Whether people believe certain regions of Ukraine should be independent or not or part of Russia or not (I personally want a peaceful and decent referendum, not a Crimea style one), there are people fighting over this very matter and as per any war, innocent civilians will die.Agreed.  Until there is a request for help and a path of help that all sides can agree will approve things, I dont see why Australia, America or any other country should try to stop the endless cycle of hate in the Middle East.  The sad fact is that they cant.  
Those who try and kill others of a different religion, who support honor killings, who prevent females being educated, who prevent democracy and who buy arms are the ones that need to act. They need to act very differently than they are acting now.How dis-empowering.  
Surely the people with the most influence regarding Iraq
Surely the people with the most interest in Iraq
Surely the people who matter most in Iraq
Are the Iraqis.  
I know the US and West did not help with invading.  They at least tried to install a democracy afterwards.  The mass murdering Saddam Hussein (who must of caused a few problems with the odd act of genocide) probably had an influence too.  
Lets not pretend that it is all the Western leaders fault.  Last time I checked they where not advocating some Muslims to kill other Muslims, for dictators to kill anyone who slightly threatened their personal profit, honor killings, avoiding female education or settling issues with guns.  
There are many problems with (the area probably soon to be known as formerly) Iraq.  
If they divide along lines of race due to a history of racism and religious persecution, there is not much to do.  I know that keeping a mass murdering dictator in power may have been the wiser move.  It would have probably delayed this current mess by a decade or two at least.I find it difficult to respect a motorist.  So consumptive of tax dollars for the construction of roads.  At least a cyclist pays back their slight usage through their improvements to health.  
I use to ride but it became too dangerous due to idiotic motorists.  I was once abused for using a bike lane.  Apparently a car that needs to slow down a bit before crossing a bike lane is too big an ask.  
When government created cycle lanes arnt safe due to poor road behavior, its hard to go anywhere.  
Sure I have seen a few cyclists do silly or dangerous things.  Yet almost every time I sit in a car I see at least one person speeding, changing lanes without indicating or crossing a red light.  Motorists are far worse.  
I say this today as a frequent public transport user (cheapest personal way to travel), walker, occasional driver and monthly cyclist.In Canberra, the paths you are talking about are designed for pedestrians.  Part of the problem is the above posts.  Cyclists will be told they are in the wrong no matter which path they take.  Pedestrians want them off the footpath (which is breaking the law in most states assuming you are over 12 years old), cars want them off the road.  
Unless there is a nearby dual purpose or bike path, the cyclist has no choice but to use the road.  The problem is that bike paths are very few in number.If a car hits a pedestrian, death is a real possibility.  
If a bike hits a pedestrian, death is far less likely.  
Kinetic Energy = 1/2 mass x volume x volume
A bike at 20km/hr (assuming 100kg total weight) is slightly less dangerous than a car at 1000km total weight at 7km/hr
Cars will always be more dangerous for causing injury.  I think the government insurance can handle the few and far apart occasions where a cyclist hits a pedestrian.Ah, so you want to be limiting exercise by children and making them pay more to the government?If you want to splash around your money on motor vehicles, I dont really care what taxes or fees you pay on them.You realize that the poorest people often resort to using bikes dont you?  
I hope you also realize this is a form of exercise.  Cyclists actually save the government money by demanding less on the health budget after exercise.  
Do you care to get a license before you buy a football as that may be kicked on the road or used in public?  Then there are also issues for children riding to school.  How young do you want to license or would you prefer to limit transport options to education?
I personally would be happy to pay a bike license IF the state and local government portioned funding to the amount paid on licenses.  
Considering near $5 Billion was spent by NSW on roads each year, if just 5% of the fees was gained by bike lisences, $500 Million in NSW would be the start.  
Unfortunately, there is no easy to access funding for bike lanes.   I doubt anywhere near that amount was spent.Could it have something to do with a dangerous person in a car easily being able to kill others whilst a cyclist is far more likely to hospitalize themselves?
Then you may also wish to think about cycling as a form of exercise.  They dont have any car treadmills at the gym.Rattan, the treatment has limited effect.  Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Carbon will need to go somewhere.  
The amount in any ecosystem will alter what can live there.  As with any element or compound, its not the existence that is the problem.  Its the amount and location that matters.  Humans at least have the capability to decide where it should go.Science is only that when the media tries to explain things it knows nothing about.  
Many believe the word science offers them impunity although with just a few questions you can determine they have no idea where their "facts" came from in both form of report and method of gathering data/information.Last time I checked, there was only one science graduate in parliament.  They where in the liberal party and did not believe in climate change.  
People elect union officials, political staff (essentially union officials) lawyers, accountants and economists.  There are exceptionally few that do not fit into one of those categories.  
Business research has demonstrated that having a diverse group of less intelligent people produces better results than a non-diverse group of intelligent people.  I suspect that the county would improve if people turned their back on the usual applicants that keep on seeking entry into parliament.Australia is managing its own internal population growth.  What we are not managing is our migration.  Australia has a huge level of migration in terms of percentage of citizenship.  Family visas, 457 visas, student visas and refugee visas (probably in that order) account for so many people arriving in Australia every year.  This is despite the majority of Australians not wanting the population to grow. 
Business wants population growth.  It is the slack way for the existing to increase profits and they get a greater choice of unemployed people to exploit.Palmer is (or at least was) intelligent enough to make himself a fortune from his own activities with very little base.  
I doubt he believes he is going to make a fortune from politics.  He has an inflated ego after life success.  That is what lead him to politics.  
Considering the current lack of carbon price, perhaps the Greens or ALP care about the longer term but they are inept at implementing something for the longer term.The mythological jobs are a very risky gamble for those already employed in any energy producing or energy using industry.  
The problem with the removed carbon scheme was
1) The very high price by international standards
2) No consideration of foreign based producers not needing to pay the tax for imports
3) No consideration of foreign based producers not needing to pay the tax for exports.  
The fact you cant see the link to higher costs of production only in Australia and the loss of jobs in Australia is exactly why their where concerns.  
I never doubted the ability of the price to reduce Australian emissions.  They would almost certainly be exported to poorer Asian countries and perhaps create even more pollution.Costs of energy have will always change.  Normally in an upward direction.  As they will increase unequally, I am not going to enter the fools guess of what the best energy source will be.  
There are basically two choices.  
Distorting the market for environmental or ideological reasons which will force the government and/or consumer to pay more.  
OR
Letting the energy producers try and find the most efficient option.  
I trust the energy producers to try and find the best option more than I trust a government body to accurately change the market to lead them to a longer term better option.  Power stations are created on the basis that they will work for well over a decade.So The ABC's solution to increasing debt is to keep a tax and approve less business activities.  
Didnt the ALP try that, only to result in one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD?  Oh well, ideology need not pay attention to a proven failure.  
So far the Liberals have achieved higher employment that forecast under the ALP and have made savings on a range of government departments through abolishing and merging all without the sky falling in (although the removal of public servants remains a joke). 
There is much to be improved.  Some has already been approved in the change of government.  Savings on boarder protection more than cover the direct action policy and no new partly funded ideas (NDIS, not Gonski) have been floated or claimed to have been achieved.  
I dont expect that to be mentioned by the ABC anytime soon.I never said anything about tax being implemented on any social group meretith. I noted the ABC appears to be supporting what the ALP tried and its result.  Care commenting about that?
Try reading it again first.  
I focussed on expenditure.  I have worked in all levels of government.  In the federal government especially, there is plenty of waste and unneeded tasks that get done.  I suspect half the staff of most Federal departments are poorly utilized.The Liberals have not worsened one forecast that was made under the ALP.  Considering the ALP's very optimistic predictions (eg budget), this is quite an achievement.Look at the expenditure reports.  It was never $400k per person.  If it is that much for an individual, you should question why the security needs to be that high when they are in safety.  
Less arrivals have resulted in less expense.  There has also been less death and a greater ability for Australia to select refugees whom have waited longer in UN refugee camps.  
What part of this are you against?"why should borders be protected"
Well in you are in favor of open borders, that is your opinion.  The results are known.  
It is still a saving.  The Liberals are coming in UNDER budget on their asylum seeker programs when they already predicted a cut from ALP expenditure.Why dont we call a growth on house prices what it is - Inflation.  
We dont consider inflation on food, electricity, health or education a good thing.  Why do he consider inflation on housing a good thing?  It just makes the product more unaffordable.  
What is really needed is a government that claims property is not an investment.  Its an asset that needs to be worked hard to generate a profit.  Its a social necessity.  Its a limited resource.  Its many things, but an investment just makes housing suitable only for the richest.Agreed DT
I personally suspect the media is responsible for a lot of todays bad policy decisions.  There is a demand for an instant answer and instant criticism if it is changed.  
I wish politicians could tell the media to get lost until their research is complete.  Unfortunately voters have come to expect politicians know all things immediately.  If a minister has 1000 staff under him (many have more), it is ridiculous to expect they know what every staff member has been doing every minute.  There will be filtering through some form or reporting mechanism.  
The media has no tolerance for filtering and will quickly accuse the minister of incompetence if they do not know within an hour.I realize something very unique about this article.  A sense of humility.  
Instead of pretending to know exactly what teachers need to do, a report that states what a range of teachers feel and do is looked at and conclusions are not stretched from the results.   
Unusual, yet welcomed from an academic.  Pity those who dont even have a qualification in education will believe they know how teachers should teach.  I expect posts below from non-qualified people will preach the magical solution to education woes.White Collar crime could become a true and effective privatization of security.  Register individual white collar crime investigation firms with maximum contracts covering an organization for a few years before their competitor takes over.  Make sure each one can go back ten years.  
If any action is started by a company that leads to successful prosecution, give the company 10% of the ill gotten gains that the crooks got.  The government can balance the rest.  
What a change of culture you would have when there is a real drive to find systematic frauds and significant amounts stolen.  It would be amazing to see the individual technologies that would be created to discover this.  ASIC has been a wimp for far too long.  Its time ASIC lost its position as it dosnt deserve it.Michale Kirby was always a unique and well reasoned voice in the High Court.  
What I question is how a demand for justice could possibly work when what we would be facing is an armed system whos rulers want continuation.  
Our demands will likely not get through.  There are always financial sanctions which will hit the poorest and more innocent the hardest.  
Then there is military action against an armed power.  
I dont believe there is a suitable solution.  There is a big difference between high court demands or demands to an open nation like Australia.  
North Korea is not open, it has no need to listen to its people, it has no reason to allow democracy when its leaders will face violence and war crime charges.  Why exactly would the North Koreans care about the worlds demands?  They didnt on nuclear weapons.The media is to blame more than the politicians.  Demands are pressed for instant answers and instant actions.  Instead of media organizations laughing at instant ideas with questions of whether the report had been read/understood there is a demand for instant gratification.  
If we want less showmanship we need a far more patient media.You appear to be confused.  The Federal government is not in charge of state prisons.  The federal government is not in charge of state courts.  The federal government is not in charge of health care services.  
You and the author should focus on the group that has responsibility.  The state.Why is this the Federal Governments responsibility?  Isnt the state government the one that runs the prisons, the one that ran the trial and the one that is responsible for healthcare at least according to our constitution?
To me, this is a STATE responsibility.So Rabbithole, in the mean time you focus on the one that has no legal responsibility because you dont like buck passing?
If it is a private operation, there is room for so many bodies to sue the prison.  I doubt that the prison is private.  State institutions decided upon it.  This does not fall on to the Federal government.  
Somewhere between the healthcare, prison system and judiciary which for this care are all state responsibilities, something has gone wrong.  Are you suggesting Tony Abbott acts outside the Australian constitution and seizes more power?  
If you dont like the constitution, it needs a referendum to change.  Australia couldnt even get enough will to back federal funding of local government bodies.  I doubt that Australians will vote to get rid of states.Breaching the constitution has been a prove disaster for so many countries around the globe.  Just look at any dictatorship.  
Its not "hiding" behind anything.  It is stating who is responsible under the most important document Australia has.  Our Constitution.  
Imagine hte cries of outrage on the ABC if Tony Abbott tried something that was deemed unconstitutional.  This article would quickly be forgotten.And whilst the states retain the right to put people on trial for local criminal matters in the process they deem fit and have almost have unlimited choice how/when they treat or imprison someone, it is still the states that retain the power in this case.  
A treaty can not override state law just as it can not override federal law.  
I accept that exceptions to exist such as terrorism (seeking international attention), drugs trafficking (cross national and international borders), sedition (normally to support a foreign nation).  There is a common theme of being on an international or at least national level.  Petty criminal acts are not on such a stage.  
If the commonwealth passed a law and states wanted a different law in place which was deemed to be their constitutional area (includes health and local policing and prisons), then the states would win in the high court.  
s51 -Treaties that do not override Australian law or state law
s 109 - Inconsistencies dont apply when its clearly a state matter
s 96 - Funding being provided does not mean that local laws should be dictated.Its more mean spirited to accept those that are safe at the expense of those that are at risk.  Australian refugee criteria weak. There are millions seeking refuge.  Why not take the ones at greatest risk?Comrade, there is a difference between skilled workers (people who normally arrive on 457 visas) and asylum seekers (who on balance of probability may not be refugees despite the determination) who could not get in due to their work skills.  
There always seems to be confusion amongst the probably not refugee but lets call them that anyway advocates.When did Australia have a referendum to surrender to international law?
We have a choice if we wish to follow international agreements.  The refugee convention has passed its used by date.  Just as we dont keep the migration policies from the 1950's we should not be keeping an flawed convention from the 1950's"Yes. We do"  If that was in response to my question about a referendum, it is not one.  
We made an agreement during WW2 which was certainly sensible for WW2 between Australia and Germany most of the time.  Not so much Japan.  We also made many other decisions as a nation at that time.  I am glad we are not stuck with 1940's legislation.  Some of it has developed.  
Just because some countries did not uphold an agreement (mainly because they did not agree to it) does not mean Australia voted to surrender its sovereignty to the rest of the world.  
It also proves the folly in believing a western designed piece of paper will actually change the actions of the whole world.  
Australia can choose if it wishes to partake in the 1950 Refugee Convention or if it wants to implement a modern and more successful method of asylum seeker intake.Clive, if the federal executive of the day can decide to abide by a foreign agreement, the federal executive of the day can also decide to reverse a foreign agreement.  
That would make the title of this Drum article inaccurate to say the least.Marilyn, the 10% means you might want to change your statement of refugee.  Asylum seeker is accurate for all, even those that where accepted.  
There may need to be an acronym as "Probably Not A Refugee but we will call them a refugee anyway" is a bit too long.  
Try using PNAR.  If there is a greater chance of them being safe than in danger, they are not actually fleeing from danger.  
I knew for a long time Australia has weak criteria.  Yet this defence by refugee advocates of 10% is ridiculous.  I am 99% sure someone needs help when they are skin and bone.  There are far more desperate people to save than Australia's current PNAR'sJust because you cant bother to understand the other sides point of view, it dosnt make them racist.  
If the aim is to save lives, we should accept no refugees and focus on giving aid to the third world.  
If we are to take refugees for the purpose of saving lives (not through foreign aid), it would make sense to focus on those at greatest risk, not those that can make it to Australia.  The most certain risk would be people facing starvation and death by disease.  I dont see any plane or boat arrivals meeting that criteria.  
If we are to take refugees in the hope of government change to stop continuation, we would need to be focusing on accepting anti-government elements.  This would be quite easy to prove.  
Part of the problem with Australia's asylum approach is we have not decided what we are trying to do.  The ALP/Greens method of taking a word was pathetic and detrimental to every possible goal that a refugee program could have.If Australia can have a 99% chance at saving a persons life, would you choose a person with a current 10% chance of death or 50% chance of death?
Like it or not, the millions in UN refugee camps are desperate and at risk.  There are even more in their own countries that are starving to death.  Pity starvation and disease does not meet refugee criteria.Its not ridiculous as all.  People in varying degrees of danger ask for protection from Australia.  Some the level is none.  Some the level is extreme.  Considering we have a limited number of places, to take a person at lower risk would be at the expense of someone of higher risk.  
Look beyond Australia's borders and look beyond those infront of Australian news cameras whom are often coached on what to say.  
The ones most at risk would be unable to have the kind of contact with the Greens or ABC which probably help form your views.It is far easier to determine whom is of greatest risk
eg: A person who has been on TV and spoken about the military killing people, has had death threats against them and a fatwa OR
a person who was once yelled at by the military.  
If we are going to accept a limited number of people, who is at greatest risk?  Whilst very difficult to change risk into numbers, there will be people who have far stronger evidence that they may be harmed than others.  Should we not even try to process and in doing so prevent those most at risk from entering Australia?If only a 10% chance is required, then many who are not going to be harmed will get in.  If the chance is increased, we are far more certain we are saving people. 
The 40% increase would make Australia 40% more effective in saving lives so long as intake remains the same.  
Here is a question about people happy with he 10% chance ratio.  Are you happy to take someone who is more than likely to be safe at the expense of someone who is more than likely to be in danger?
As for the law, the high court rules on current legislation.  Australia can always change it.  I have never had a chance to remove a high court judge from office.The ALP speaks tough and acts soft.  I would trust the ALP to return to hundreds dying each year in our ocean.  All with tears and the cry that they are being humane.  
The Liberals had a clear policy of stopping the boats.  They have done this for half a year.  That part of their policy was well known.  
As for cuts, the commission of audit as known.  What was not known was the extent of their recommended cuts.  If the ALP details what it will slash and raise, it may get in again.  At present, they dont believe debt is of concern.Only 7 years Graham?
I would bring it back at least 20 years.  I can not recall one year in parliament where question time had answers.  Perhaps its telling of why they only use the word "question"
Still, Rant time appears the most accurate.  
I personally wonder why the opposition dosnt ask itself questions along the line of "please mention all the problems that are in the (insert program)".  "Thank you...  Sadly I only have a few minutes, not a few days"  
Technically there is no party in government.  This is just something that groups of ministers formed.  As such, who is to say the opposition cant ask their own speakers to rant about the governments current problems?
If confronted later, they could say that at least their person gave an answer on topic.So lets boil this down to its core.  The problem is that no side is solely getting their own way
SHOCK, HORROR
There is a need to compromise, discuss and convince people.  
Who ever heard of that in a democracy??Interesting those that support PUP having the balance of power.  
The Liberals are obviously most against it because it forces them to negotiate.  
The Greens are the next least happy about it.  Possibly because it diminishes their own balance of power.  
The ALP in opposition might as well be democratic, probably till they get into power.There are two main parts of honor killings being discussed
What is our interpretation to freedom of speech?  
I personally believe that as long as not advocating for breaking the law, anything should be able to be discussed.  
How are honor killings becoming a relevant topic in Australia?
Most likely this is from migrants who keep their previous cultures values.  Australia should accept that when we accept people from foreign cultures into Australia, they bring their cultures values with them.  Honor killings can easily be a part of it.  Yet we dont even try to screen such values out.The biggest reason for congestion is population growth.  
No party dares approach that topic.  Julia Gillard got closest by claiming to be in favor of a small Australia whilst migration was at an all time high.If the be all goal was jobs, the best we could do is invest in meal vouches at Australian cafes, pubs, restaurants etc
They are the most intensive labor industries in Australia, especially if it is all Australian food.Greens will act to cause problems with the Liberals.  They are effectively ALP left.  Just as Nationals are Liberal Country.  
The Greens could have negotiated about it being simply revenue or at least half funding public transport.  Instead, they prefer the non-negotiation tactic as that will cause maximum problems.I find Rebekah Brooks far more interesting.  The excuse of not knowing criminal practices where occurring despite authorizing the money is basically one of being incompetent.What is the need to have an AAA credit rating when you have no debt?
Australia had one of the fastest growing debts in the OECD, no plan to pay it off (unless you think false promises = plan), had no plan to address the growing public sector, or sections that where growing faster than inflation.  
The ALP has a problem with debt because even today it has no proposal to pay back debt at all, let alone a probable solution.Why is it important for you to spend within your means or any organization to spend within their means?
Eventually someone demands the money back.  The countries with the highest debt perform worst in an economic crisis.  I would prefer some pain now than heaps later on.  
The ALP and Greens have no respect for the budget.  They spend what they wish.  As far as the ALP got is implementing one proposal from the Henry Tax review.Yes, Australia can print more money.  It will make our dollar fall, effect our trades and not solve the  underlying problem.  
Zimbabwe was great at printing more money.  Its not a solution worth contemplating.The Green vote is not the swinging vote.  It is the ALP left vote.  The vote that places little value on money of others, wants "humane" treatment of asylum seekers and others to pay for action on climate change.  
The ALP cant even dare say now that they stuffed up their border protection policies.  They cant admit that their carbon price is one of the highest in the world nor face the fact they lacked a plan to bring the budget to surplus.  
They also lacked the courage to avoid reelecting a party leader that they say fit to dump in the first term.  
The best thing the ALP could do is admit some harsh things need to be done.  They could then pose the choice between the poorest or richest by comparing the ALP to the Liberals.Bill Shortens mother was not mentioned when she was GG.  
Tanya Plibersek is also questionable as her husband managed to get an unadvertised directorate position in the NSW Department of Education despite having a conviction that would have prevented him being a teacher.  
I suspect the ALP will need a new leadership team before they are elected.  
There are a few possible candidates.  Stephen Conroy would be my pickWhat lead the ALP to loosing office?
There was a asylum seeker policy that lead to so many deaths and forced an increase in numbers being accepted.  The ALP is delusional to think the reduction is due to its Malaysia policy.  
There was a battle over leadership.  That is something that Kevin Rudd tried to remove (although he was "the battle"
There was a carbon price which was seen as a complete electoral flip flop and probably the very highest in the world.  Then it also had flaws with its EU links (almost all of Carbon price economies reside).  No change has been proposed and the Carbon price will be removed.  Is the ALP willing to make a workchoices style promise of never again?
Then there was all the bad program management from Pinkbatts to BER to E-health to NDIS and so much more.  As the selection process of politicians is the same and poor performers keep on getting promoted, I dont see this even being addressed.  
2 Denials, 1 largely fixed, 1 fixable.  
The ALP is not winning.  They Liberals are loosing by proposing harsh budget measures with a focus outside of what the public desires.What the older generation had that they youngest dosnt
1 - Steady employment
2 - Affordable housing
3 - Free tertiary education
4 - Markets that wanted youngest people (now the older are the markets)Whitey, wages are still very low.  There are just less remedial jobs.  
Expectations in housing involve luxuies such as water and electricity.  Very important if the boss wants to be able to call you in and have you clean and presentable.  
The tertiary system being harder to get into was a good thing.  Now there are too many graduates so people waste years of their lives.  
And sacking is as easy as ever.  So many to hire, so easy to fire.There needs to be a change in the tertiary education sector.  If universities want government funds, they should be publicly releasing statistics about employment after course completion and have a portion funding subject to how many find relevant work.  
At present there is a financial incentive for universities to provide irrelevant courses as it will force people back in to university to try their luck with something else.1 - On averages, people will have equal interview skills.  The university may also wish to offer a course of interview skills if this is holding people back. If someone truly has valuable skills, the interviewer would take that into account.  
2 - If you want examples.  Forensic Science, So many arts courses, Environmental Science, few branches of engineering (aviation), education courses in QLD have had 90% failure rates to get jobs etc etc
The courses are known to have the majority unable to find relevant work after completion.  Yet they are still offered.  The universities deliberately seek to avoid finding out what happened to their graduates and if they ever do would refuse to publicly release the information.Clarke, going back that far you also overlap it with Global Cooling.  
People have always been fascinated with the weather.  In the past there where gods that made it rain.  Today there are gasses.  We should be cautious about assumptions.  Humans have certainly changed the weather.  Now days it rains more often on weekends than other days.  The issue is that any cut back will effect the poorest the most.  Carbon emissions have let an agricultural and medical revolution exist.  
Climate scientists are only a small part of the discussion that needs to be had.  People like Tim Flannery have no place when he predicts doom that has not come to fruition.   
We need a sensible debate on all areas.  I very much doubt business as usual will wipe out the human race.  There will be challenges to life whether we cut gas emissions now or not.  The difference is where, how and amount.Consensus?  We had one when Rudd and Howard where running for office.  We had both for.  
When Gillard and Abbott where running, both where against.  
When Rudd and Abbott where running, one was for and they lost (for many reasons)
What consensus are you referring to?  If it is one vote in parliament, then the Greens would have implemented the consensus against Rudds ETS when he had a mandate.Individuals will always be worse of with any change.  That is part of the point of change.  Some will benefit, some will not.  With the internet and downloads, video shops have suffered.  Even the best ideas will harm someone.  
A Carbon tax at its core aims to harm the mining industries at the benefit of renewables.  This can be the right thing to do.  It still dosnt avoid the fact that some will be harmed.Really?  A government that has made cuts to spending does not want to focus on those cuts?
The ALP, Greens and PUP have it easy.  They can block without responsibility.  Its a very sensible political choice for the opposition.Dazon, that is because the public service is hopeless.  Its not just on firing staff.  It also includes decision making.  
The public service views endless processes as work.  Businesses view getting the result they want as work.  The focus of the public service ensures that there will be countless hearings.  Right now the public service union is fighting changes to make firing possible.  There may be a first dismissal for incompetence (not theft) if the changes get through.  
I hope they do.Basil, you dont know what a team means.  A business team is not playing a game.  The location is the world stage.  The opposition does not need to exist like a team building a tower and the rules are in flux.v: do you have any concerns about the with or against us of "deniers" "progressives" "socialists party" "red necks" "Tory" etc etc
If you are concerned about language, look no further than the ABC and Fairfax which continues to divide Australia by pretending that we are swamped with racists.  If anything we are swamped with splitters.Who ever said Australians of certain heritages, religions or sexual orientations where not on team Australia.  
The outrage is far more of a political divide and objection to complying with the wills of a country.18C hasnt prevented the "opinion" piece and anti Jewish Cartoon in the Sydney newspaper, threats of death on a Jewish school bus or the latest pamphlet release of Nazi style propaganda.  
Unfortunately, 18C does not seem to apply for any of them.  Just a flawed article written by Andrew Bolt which argued for a cut of funds rather than proposing the removal/deaths of a group of people.  
Strange clause 18C is.One story does not make the case.  Australia remains a migration destination of choice.  Actions appear to speak much louder than words.  
I have no doubts some people act in a racist manner.  An Asian friend I have known for five years recently posted her first event on facebook.  Yet that does not mean her experience has been negative.  An African refugee family kept on calling Australia paradise and bought it up so quickly in conversations.  
Racism is far more evident in many other countries.  The Middle East and Africa frequently have massacres of different religious groups.  Christians in Iraq is a recent example.  So are all countries with a 99% Muslim population.  
In Asia, there is frequent racism against other Asians that would make your jaw drop from your face.  
Australia has some racists.  To pretend it is institutionalized or a majority is ridiculous.  Palmer and Lambert are focusing on a government.  
If a government with one of the highest capital punishment rates in the world, no free media, no opposition, oppressing "territories", claiming ownership of Taiwan, border disputes with all its neighbors, multiple and ongoing human rights abuses by its departments on religious and political grounds, leadership in internet censorship, rampant corruption and a history of spying against Australian companies and governments *phew*
is above criticism, then all countries are above criticism.splod1, thats an interesting belief.  Especially when refugee intake is capped.  
We recently took refugees from the ISIS war. We would have no capacity to do that under previous policies.  I am far more certain of the refugees from Iraq being in immediate and serious danger than the largely economic migrants we where taking.  
If there is a conversation about racism, why would people to supporting death of those in Iraq and many cultures at sea with their policy choice?  There where more than the 1000+ drownings that ALP/Green policies ended.A point with an understanding of Malaysian law.  Ibast I fear such knowledge will not be heard or accepted when the "Australians are racist" cry has some potentialHow do they even determine who is male and female on the internet?
For all you know I could be a grandmother in my 80's.  
Unlikely, yes.  Impossible, no.It would be a useful link for such a statement.  
Questions of how women are defined when profiles could lack gender
How it compares to users use (eg if males are 30% of posts and getting 40% of abuse is the abuse female targeted)
How abuse was defined (search for certain words or human evaluation of context or both)?
All would impact the result.  
The problem should not be that a gender receives more abuse.  It should be that there is abuse.  
So only 69% of social media users have witnessed digital cruelty.
What percentage of road users have witnessed dangerous road behavior?
What percentage of people that leave their house have witnessed physical cruelty?
How many verbal cruelty?
What does that 69% figure mean?"most have not behaved in this way"
I am not too sure how you know most have Jungle Boy.  A community with a high crime rate does not mean most in the community commit crimes.  
There is clearly a cover up and case to answer for.  Assuming most in the Catholic church are guilty is like assuming most Muslims are terrorists.  A reflection based on biases instead of reality.Complicity is the term used in NSW law
from http://www.judcom.nsw.gov.au/publications/benchbks/criminal/complicity.html#p2-720  &lt;my input&gt;
In short then, to establish that [the accused] is guilty of the offence charged on the basis that [the accused] was an aider and abettor, the Crown must prove beyond reasonable doubt each of the following:
1.     that the crime of [specify offence] was committed by [the principal offender] &lt;one who had sex with child&gt;
2.     that [the accused] intentionally assisted [the principal offender] &lt;by concealing facts of crime from government&gt;
3.     that at the time of that assistance, [the accused] was aware of all the essential facts and circumstances that give rise to the precise offence committed by the [the principal offender] &lt;evidence by coverup&gt;
4.     that [the accused] with that knowledge, intentionally assisted [the principal offender] by [specify the allegation and particularise concisely] &lt;moving the priest into a location of unacceptable risk of offending again and refusal to reveal information to police&gt;
5.     that [the accused] gave that assistance so that [the principal offender] could escape arrest, trial or punishment for the offence committed by [him/her]. &lt;thus reason for relocation&gt;
I am not a lawyer.  All I see is very strong grounds for a trial.Concealing an offense is a crime.  We have had countless inquiries and know many church officials acted to protect the church instead of hand criminal details over to authorities.  
Its time charges where laid.No farmer complains when they sell a property to a suburban developer.  
Whilst the best soil is taken by houses, I doubt the farmers want restrictions on who they can sell land to.Percents are all meaningless without numbers to back them up.  Eg
If a school has 10% of a year failing to meet reading standards and another school has 2% fail, the one with 10% could still be better.  If they had 10 students and one with a sever disability, you have the scenario.  
Considering most 2012-13 to 24-25 (how they can tell that I have no idea) is meant to be around 3%, things could still be unsustainable.  
Most of the graphs are meaningless if you do not consider population growth, inflation and revenue change.The voting public has no idea what a plan is.  When Swans book comes out, it will reveal even more short sighted thought bubbles by Rudd.  Yet he was the politician seen as holding the most vision in a generation.  
The Liberals have plans to make many more cuts, institute an overly generous maternity scheme, cut much red tape, stop free visits to the doctor and more.  
Labor had a plan to find funds for promises
The Greens promise their plans are not naive and their intent to fund their promises are not pie in the sky.The interesting part is that the public still has the most faith in the Liberal party by a decent margin in supporting business thus creating jobs.  
Forget class when you are unemployed, you are below all classes and struggling to find food and shelter.  
The Liberals are still on the strength of the budget.  Whilst things are not getting through, without alternatives that are fully funded the ALP will not be going ahead.  
All the Liberals need to do is mention the ALP's broken surplus promises and their predicted $650 Billion debt.  
Its time the ALP reconsidered its willingness to openly support a tax increase on higher income earners.A promise without funds to back it up is worthless.  
WIthout getting the finances in check, the ALP programs never had a chance.  Its the blanket cover for any ideas for the Liberals.  All they need to do is compare the economic predictions and compare goals to bring a surplus into government.  The ALP's goals for surplus states 100 times do not come to fruition.If you are consuming a substance unwittingly, take legal action at the person who did it.  
Why the Knights dont is probably because they cant.  I am sure the doctor would be an ideal person to hand out to dry for the point of winning a few more matches in a  year.Exactly.  The fact they where financially harmed and medicated without their consent both seem to be things that could lead to a seven figure pay out.  The clubs would quickly stop after that.So the best defense for athletes is in.  
"I thought it was a ........."  Nutritional supplement, legal version, different drug etc etc
If there is no evidence that they where duped (perhaps by trying to sue the person(s) that drugged them without their consent, the athletes could prove this), then the excuse is a cop out.Lol v
The ALP stuffed up the tax that they prespent the money it was meant to earn them.  They lost money on a tax.  
I personally dont mind the idea of a mining tax as the resources are limited, extracted and not created.  The idea however that the tax was well designed is ridiculous.  Much like all the ALP tried to implement, the press release was better then the policy.  
You could have summed up your whole rambling with a simple statement.  
The ALP pre-spent their botched estimates.Oaktree the ALP and Greens together hold zero rural seats.  The same number they held during the ALP's time in power.  
The instant legal changes that effect rural businesses, keenness for regulation and pandering for inner city elites all cause problems.  Anyone is welcome to run in a rural seat.  The chance of someone getting it who supports ALP style policies is even more remote.v: cant even get the figures right.  The projected debt was $650 billion for the ALP policies if they continued.  
Australia is still in a position where it needs to decide what to cut or where to raise taxes.  This is one instance where the Greens are actually ahead.  At least they are proposing tax increases.  The ALP has no idea where the funds will come from.  
The currently employment rate whilst worsening remains better than ALP forecasts.  Its sad that we have one party with cuts in the wrong areas, one party that has no backbone and another than thinks taxing and endless government spending is a solution.The current Liberal government is unable to pass most of its intended budget saving methods.  It has failed to negotiate with a party lead by a person who will probably go to jail, its opposition and a party that is even further to the left than its opposition.  
Its a tough act.  A few independents with centralist views in the house of reps where easier that two opposing parties and an eccentric unknown party.  
Debt is still increasing.  The ALP made promises that would have taken the debt well above $400 billion.  Fortunately, promises of unfounded funds where scrapped.  
We are in a situation now of the only economic plan being a plan that has too much focus on the poor whilst the opponents have no plan, just like they had no plan in office.  
The best thing for Australia may be Palmer loosing control of his party ASAP for a power shift.  It would also help if we work out the federation mess.  Australia does not need 9 Departments of Education, 9 Departments of Health, 9 Departments of Indigenous Affairs etc etcSince when was artificial reproduction a one human decision?  Especially when the individuals get entangled with foreign government and want Australia's assistance or arrive back in Australia and want the public to cover all or part of such things as education and healthcare.  
