People who are in denial ¡about¥ what¦ is, by your own words, "obvious" to anyone, deserve no special favours or presumptions of decency from me.Less than a week into this sickening tragedy and already there's a Ukrainian behind the grassy knoll.The plane was flying from west (where the supposed good guys are) to east (where the supposed bad guys are) having traversed the country's airspace observed on civilian radar.
The plane was at 33,000ft.
ëxámplê óf ñôÑ ÂSîï Çäràçþêrß
The plane wasn't §attempting © Δ to landΘΘ in, or ΛredΛuceΛ height over, the rebel-held areas.
The plane was on track to begin entering into Russian airspace when it was attacked.
There is no mystery here, and no need for "world views". Any Ukrainian action would involve them shooting at a target heading "the wrong way", and seeing as the rebels don't operate fleets of Boeing-like airliners flying around in commercial airspace and altitudes they would have to have assumed it was Russian, had appeared mysteriously over Ukrainian territory from God-knows-where, wasn't worth getting a positive identification on, and could be shot down in the completely safe knowledge that the Russians would just shrug their shoulders and say "Well, s**t happens I suppose".
Get real.
If you want to do some questioning, start with yourself and ask why these facts matter less to you than this ridiculous game of "Oooh, that looks suspicious" whispers you seem to be so keen on playing. These murdering thugs already have the Russian President covering-up for them, they really don't need your help as well.I am truly sad to see what I'm reading here. Not sad for those on Christmas Island, but for some of those sitting at home or work and typing their comments.
This nation is going through an uncovering of some vile deeds which were done (some in our name) to children and young adults in the past. We have heard ad nauseam that people complaining were ignored, sidelined, disbelieved, and hidden away from view. Over and over we have had people promising that this should never have happened, was wrong to have happened, and will never happen again.
I don't care how these people on Christmas Island got where they are, whether they should be there or not, or how righteous some individuals feel about themselves in comparison to others. That tells me everything about what happened yesterday, and absolutely nothing about what is happening today. In strict terms it justifies nothing, explains nothing, and excuses nothing. If we have not learnt from the Child Abuse Royal Commission that there can be NO CIRCUMSTANCES where you can justify ignoring and failing to fully air and investigate a complaint in circumstances where you have absolutely no idea of what is or isn't going on in that environment bar what someone with a vested interest chooses to tell you, then we have learnt nothing.
Just for a moment, forget that they're "illegal", that they're "not one of us", that they're users of people smugglers, that they're "country shoppers", or that they're whatever odious label you want to put on them. They are still people, human beings who, no matter what they've done up until today (and however bad you may view it, it certainly isn't on a par with murder or child molestation), deserve to be listened to in silence and have their claims tested independently with full disclosure.
Either that, or give up using the phrase "Never again". And maybe also that other chestnut "If you've done nothing wrong, you've got nothing to fear".It would be nice if some here today understood that the slogan supplied to people to vote on last September was "Stop the boats", not "Lose your soul".
I understand perfectly that doing the right and decent thing is hard, it costs, it's seldom acknowledged or rewarded, and it can at times be very irritating. What I don't understand is why screaming and yelling and hating is considered a better long-term option for this country. Reputations take lifetimes to build but, in the hands of people who can't see circumstances and consequences beyond their immediate excitability, take seconds to lose.The gist of your thoughts are the closest to my own on this page Rob. I am incredulous reading through what's here.
When this matter of the Prime Minister's responses came up yesterday in the Annabel Crabb article I wrote a comment explaining my position (at 11:42am if you'd like to know what I thought). Now, 24 hours later we've gone from a simple acknowledgement that the PM hit the right notes over one or two days to already having the deep thinkers and strategists out of the woodwork and getting the spinning things spinning.
I can't work out who is losing more out of this whole process, but I suspect it will turn out to be Mr Abbott. We now have people right up close and personal to him like this Terry Barnes bloke actively measuring the angles and applying the final coat of paint to the new Tony edifice (and I think we all remember how well the "new Julia" experiment went down) while Australian bodies and body parts are still lying out in a field somewhere. You have to ask yourself just how much contact men like Terry Barnes have ever had with the real world. You'd have to guess not much.
People like Terry Barnes seem to think they're helping. They're not. They really should shut up. Because this government has travelled so poorly since the election we have these people falling over themselves to hype up every moment they can. After the budget we had days of News Corporation "journalists" yelling at us explaining how we were wrong to hate the contents and we should get over it. That went down like a lead balloon. Now, and from the same pro-Abbott circus we have this sickening wave of leader-adulation that wouldn't be out of place coming from North Korea. The man had a couple of good days when he lucked (if I could use that awful word) onto a situation where his style and the circumstances came together. That's nice for him, and in the Annabel Crabb article I think I gave the appropriate level of credit to him for his fine performance. To callously move from that into this crazy world of winners and losers is, from my perspective at least, absolutely disgusting.
Here's the problem people like Terry Barnes are now dropping in the Prime Minister's lap; they are already talking about how he's gaining (rather than just shutting up about it). We're now only moments away from the Prime Minister being asked a question like "Mr Abbott, people close to you are already highlighting how recent events are going to help you politically. How much do you think you gained from your performance after the tragedy?" That is the closest thing to a red laser dot on your forehead I can think of, and to be fair to the PM it's his so-called friends and supporters who have dragged him into rifle range.It is extremely disappointing (never mind disgusting) to see so much misdirected venom. Annabel Crabb is quite correct to point out that the Prime Minister, probably more through accident than design, has successfully spoken on this issue to date virtually pitch-perfect for a majority of Australians. I won't be voting for his motley crew of liars and bunglers in 2016, but have no problems with giving effusive credit when effusive credit is due. Some of the more savage people who vote the same way I will might want to try doing the same.
"Operation Bring Them Home" was the first indication that he is starting to get a bit carried away with his unexpected, rare triumph. I have no doubt there will be others.
The Prime Minister's blowback for all this unexpected political good fortune from this heartbreaking tragedy comes in November, when he is photographed shaking hands with the baddy on Australian soil, having to sit in the same room as him, and all the while knowing that Australians who were so impressed with his performance back in July are watching him sweating with a mouth full of teeth and very little else. You can be sure when he, through necessity, has to start scaling back the honesty in the name of diplomacy Mr Shorten will find himself quite happy to take over the mantle with the advantage of not having the responsibility to be measured. Populist? Certainly. Disgusting? Definitely. Standard Politics 101? Of course. Straight out of the Abbott playbook? Sadly for him, yes.
Left-wing zealots should try and contain their obvious and unappealing frustration until then. If they are so bothered by giving the man a win when he deserves one they could always remind the Prime Minister there are other baddies only a few hundred metres away from his office in the Senate who he seems too scared to take on as forcefully as he has President Putin. Talking tough is the easy bit. Explaining why you're not talking tough when you clearly know how to do it is what sinks you.Your comment should be directed to anyone who is acknowledging the yin and ignoring the yang Artful Dodger.
I am not in that category, and unless you feel someone should write a book on the totality of the Abbott Prime Ministership taking up all the things you'd like raised rather than keeping to the topic, then I think it's wrong to bring up issues I haven't mentioned rather than stick to the one I have.
In any case, I have little doubt that should Prime Minister Abbott begin to seriously annoy President Putin the 'prison ship' fiasco currently happening, or any one of a number of other Australian diplomatic vulnerabilities that seem to be multiplying at present, will be thrown in his face to keep him quiet.
None of that detracts from a domestically successful performance done in a limited and localised time frame. My point was simply that his "win" today, supplemented by this ridiculous banner waving and boosterism his friendly media pals are laying on with a trowel, raises foolish expectations with the public which he can't deliver on later in the year when he hosts the G20. That is going to cost him big time then, although I'm not sure he's hit on that yet.
Personally, I'd rather not talk about the politics of this human disaster at all, but seeing as Annabel Crabb brought it up I felt it deserved a response. He got something right. He has struggled to get anything right so far. He will struggle for the next two years with the same problem. I'm not that shallow that I refuse to congratulate him when he does buck the trend. It's as easy as that."Maybe we should give up a bit of liberty"
Maybe.
Maybe we should first examine whether hiring a few more people to join the overstretched existing workforce operating within the existing laws wouldn't achieve the same ends.
From memory, Productivity Commission-type arguments have been all the rage recently. I'm afraid the notion that there's only one way to do this, it's "what I say it is, and nothing else", and it's a take-it-or-leave-it option simply doesn't wash. People like Tim Mayfield need to get over the idea that a goal has only one path leading to it. No-one is haggling about the goal, but only a fool would think that this automatically qualifies whatever shonky proposal is cobbled together to reach it demands a similar level of unquestioning acceptance. It doesn't.
Presumably there are options B, C, and D. Let's hear about them as well. Simple as, really. I'm sure the Productivity Commissioners would approve.I'm happy to give it a go if my metadata is stored in the same place, and under the same conditions, as all the metadata gleaned from the spooks, the defence forces, the parliament and public service, and all of the commercial-in-confidence material from major businesses. Presumably as we apparently don't know where these bad guys are hanging out (clearly the case, otherwise you wouldn't need to ensnare everyone) these entities will get the same treatment as everybody else. No doubt they won't have any objections to a bit of "lifting" like the rest of us, and obviously would have no qualms about their stuff sitting in cold storage as well with all of this alleged protection swirling around it.
If not, forget it.
Having it overseen at parliamentary level by someone who actually knows what metadata is would be nice, but I'm happy not to make it a precondition given the unlikelihood of having anyone available to do this.I assume it was the metadata that drew your interest to my comment, because the tone and content certainly appear to have been by-passed.Fortunately, a wise and far-thinking government is already on top of this, having upped the applications rate for the unemployed to 40 per minute (or whatever it is).
Companies will need to buy bigger letterboxes thereby driving the manufacturing sector, posties will need to swap motorbikes for dump trucks to deliver their loads and thus give the moribund automotive industry something new to make, and the need for front-end loaders to move all the paperwork to and from the Human Resources department should nicely take up the slack with operators and machines that might otherwise start standing idle in the Pilbara. We may very well be witnessing the early stages of the world's first postage stamp-led recovery.
Michael Janda should stop this typically left-wing biased ABC negativity of his.Team Australia: World Embarrassment wasn't anywhere near as good as Team America: World Police, and having reporters throwing up and yelling "Loser!" in the press conference room was a shameful, cheap rip-off of the famously magnificent alley scene with Gary Johnston providing the action.
One-and-a-half stars. What did you think Margaret?I note that in the fast-paced world of George Brandis unintentional comedy there was no place left in Annabel Crabb's article for yesterday's David Speers Sky News "metadata" interview. Which is a pity.
Personally, I prefer the glass-half-full approach to that one. Beyond any shadow of a doubt in my mind it's apparent that adults are indeed now running this country. No child I know could possibly be that technologically illiterate. If we could examine the famed bookcases I'm convinced a barely-thumbed copy of "The Internet for Dummies" will be found on one of the less easily accessible shelves.
Everyone has the right to be an incoherent dribbler you know, and I must confess there's something morbidly fascinating in watching someone drown under the weight of their own pomposity.I didn't see the point in supplying a comment to this article. Anyone interested in my views on the matter should simply consult the metadata that comes supplied with this post.I'm more taken by "A fool and his two-party preferred poll lead are soon parted" myself.
"Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Give a man a George Brandis quote and he'll be so busy laughing he'll forget he was ever hungry" is also quite a good one.You get bonus marks for not accusing Caffettierra Moka of "Wyongism" Benice. Well done.
As someone never having been to Wyong (to the best of my memory anyway), I'm guessing I should have the strongest, most strident, and irrational opinions on Wyong out of the three of us, but I just can't seem to find my mojo on this one. As a modern-day opinionated Australian I know I'm letting the side down here.Well, well; the return of commodity trading involving human beings.
Someone might need to dig up William Wilberforce, give what's left a bit of a dusting down, bring him up to speed with the brave new world we've created, and put him to work again. It appears his sterling efforts weren't nearly as over as he thought they were when he last took his leave of us. Not that I blame him; I doubt he ever considered just how important a part of human DNA it is to want to own things.
From memory, I seem to recall it was all about the rights and needs of plantation owners last time. Pleasing to see the market is opening up to those on the lower rungs of polite society as well now. I look forward to Alan Kohler reporting on the day's indices and showing us a few interesting graphs in the evening news."But should my opinion become the law?"
I would have thought the answer to that was self-evident; If your opinion is aligned with those of a majority of other Australians, why ever not?
AJS mentioned the "greed" and "selfishness", you've said you concur, and I'm on board as well. That makes three of us that we know of, and I'd suspect we aren't whistling this tune ourselves. Personally, I'm actually quite a soft touch when it comes to unhappiness mitigation (to the extent that I probably qualify in ranterspeak as a "luvvy" on some - certainly not all - issues), but that point of view stops dead in the water when unhappiness mitigation requires ownership of other human beings for it to work via bizarre permutations of bodily fluid transference. I don't approve of it. I don't like it. To be frank, I couldn't care less that these poor souls are having a dreadful time of it because in the lottery of life they can't conceive. In the old days "God's will" sort-of covered it, but postmodernism seems to have killed off that hitherto very successful way of dealing with disappointment. People who engage in this sort of thing sail very close to one of my definitions of mental illness. If you struggle to deal with it as a morality play there's always the option of having your opinion considered as a health initiative.If those amongst the 44% who are employers in their own right would like to publicly supply their contact details I'm sure it will be possible to get them placed on the mailing list for all of these pointless job applications they're in favour of.
Those who instead are employees could assist by supplying their employer's contact details (and their own name as proof of sponsorship of this marvellous idea) so he or she can reassign them to reading and replying to all of the applications that start coming in.
More lifters, that's what we need. A warm "thank you" to all who volunteered to help.A very silly article.
It's not my job to provide self-help advice to Jane Caro, but experience has taught me the best way to answer a child's question is to do it WISELY. Having a fetish for honesty-at-whatever-cost is the cloak of the immature. True, in many instances truth equates to an exercise of wisdom, but it isn't a 100% direct conversion every time. An intelligent person wouldn't need to have that explained to them. For those who can only simplistically see things as either/or I would just add that you don't just have the two options at your disposal if you're even half good at your job. Perhaps next time try not being prepared to accept the child's initial phrasing of the question, and re-arrange it into a form you feel more comfortable dealing with (if it takes you any length of time to do this you'd be amazed how quickly attention and urgency drops off anyway), answer the question with a question, or in the case of something like the Santa query get them appreciating that "real" has a temporal component to it (as in pointing out that Santa was very real and necessary when they were 4, and that maybe reality is a bit more flexible than it first appears). None of that in any way descends into lying.
If you can't operate as an adult at even this most basic of levels then you're probably not the right person for children to be asking questions of anyway.A side issue in this debate is how the authorities and their string-pullers have chosen poor language to prosecute their case. "Pirates" is a silly, counterproductive term to use in the 21st century. In the old days, when you were alone on the high seas and vulnerable in an unarmed, slow-moving wooden vessel, pirates were indeed a vision of terror. Thanks to Johnny Depp (building on some great work going all the way back to Errol Flynn) they're now actually quite cute and lovable. It's a bit like running a campaign on the dangers inherent in the Australian bush, and fronting it with a talking koala.
There was a small window of opportunity to keep the pirate theme applicable to contemporary Australian fears if it had been tied to something like "The Boat that Rocked" - pirates, boats, processing sounds offshore, illegal entry of undocumented radio waves stealing the audiences of locally-generated radio waves, that sort of thing. A bit clunky to be sure, but I think Scott Morrison may just have been able to pull it off. Regretfully for Messrs Turnbull and Brandis, I fear that orange lifeboat may have already sailed.I do strongly suspect whatever button is pushed it will come supplied with a comical sound like the one given to Alan Davies on every episode of QI. And like that one, it's a pretty sure bet the klaxon will go off after it's been hit.
My thoughts for the sound to be used hover around any one of the following television show themes; Air Crash Investigations, Who Do You Think You Are?, Mission Impossible, Waking the Dead, Lost Worlds, The Biggest Loser Australia, or Mythbusters. I'm open to any better ideas.The vehicle sitting in the driveway is actually a hearse. Not unlike "The Sixth Sense", there are people sitting in ministerial offices inside the house in question who don't know they're dead.Russia and China aligning? Always a possibility I suppose.
However, in light of our own strengthening alliances with regional powerhouses like Sri Lanka, Nauru, and Manus Island I'm sure we're more than globally competitive with any perceived threat looming just over the horizon. You can say many disparaging things about this country if you choose, but having bipartisan leadership that doesn't know how to prioritise strategic relationships for substantial, meaningful benefits surely isn't one of them.Interesting. Put in the position of deciding between the relative veracity and worthiness of commentary from the people and leadership of modern Germany versus the British tabloids. Tough choice. Not.
And seeing as this swirls around the whole issue of the starting of wars, it might be prudent for Australia (and the UK for that matter) to do a bit of remembering and appraisal on the small question of the war they enthusiastically kicked off a bit over eleven years ago. Placed alongside the Germans in a comparison of awareness of, and regret for, past deeds, I note this country seems to come off a very poor second.
I guess that if nothing else it would appeal to the Teutonic sense of schadenfreude to see that "Don't mention the war" now has niggling meaning even in this remote corner of hitherto untroubled, triumphant smugness.If any sensitive soul is struggling to find a way to overcome those lingering feelings of outrage, equanimity imbalance, or random moral perturbation brought on after reading about this nonsense (I'm not one of them by the way, I'm simply trying to provide a helpful community service), try saying "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo" in a Yogi Bear accent.
It sort-of puts the whole thing back in its proper perspective.
It also serves to remind us that we started dressing bears with collars, ties, and hats for our entertainment some while back as well, so maybe what has been described here is some sort of homage to Hanna-Barbera cartoons as much as it's about live-action "entertainment".
And if you'll now excuse me, I've got a picnic basket to retrieve.A poorly thought-out concept. Absolutely no attention has been given to the catastrophic increase in unemployment at programs like Today Tonight and the world of AM radio more broadly if dole bludgers are allowed to go extinct.
I appreciate the handful of dole bludgers shouldering the load and who are doing all of this TV watching, pizza eating, booze swilling, body piercing, drug taking and child neglecting cost money, but have no doubt a Productivity Commission investigation would find they're amongst the real lifters when it comes to keeping an awful lot of ancillary services and individuals in business. This is economic rationalism gone mad. My plea to the government is if you won't do it for yourselves, then at least do it for Alan Jones.I'm not going to buy into any smutty gossip about said radio personality, so I'll refrain from supplying my answer to your first query John51. What people do in their own time is none of my business.
As far as Mr Hockey goes, having almost single-handedly raised the Opposition two-party preferred vote to unseen levels this early into a new administration, I'd have thought "lifter" was self evident.The obvious way around the impasse would clearly be for Andrew Bolt to write about it.And what of the Australia which is simply sick to death of the whole childish region, what must they pick?
What of the people who simply see a never-ending brawl between two fairy stories, each as ridiculous as the other?
What of the Australia which detests being asked to consider the respective merits of one group of religious zealots who, at the slightest drop of a hat, are more than happy to descend back into 14th century ignorance and barbarity, and another group of religious zealots who lie and thieve to reclaim something a supernatural being is supposed to have allotted them for their exclusive use, and who clearly struggle to remember their recent history when the boot was well-and-truly on the other foot?
What of the people who can comprehend the fact that this region has, over many, many centuries been home to all of the ancestors of these clowns, and you may as well call it Palesrael and Isralestine on alternate days of the week?
What of the Australia that looks at these religion-driven imbeciles and thinks the best alternative would be if there was a democracy overseeing the area where neither Jew nor Arab are allowed to stand for election, and we bus in Buddhist, atheist, or Jedi candidates of all political persuasions that they can vote for and have as their representatives - representatives who might have the basic understanding that standing for election is all about delivering for your constituents and nothing about representing your sect so the other sect doesn't get a look in?
What of the people who think "the two-state solution" is the biggest piece of idiocy they've ever heard of?
And finally, what of the Australians who are tired of the spruikers and barkers who magically appear out of the woodwork every time an article of this type materialises, and who are, by default, importing this infantile fracas into a place where it isn't wanted?
It's actually very easy not to pick sides. I've got no time for any of them. My advice, for what it's worth, is just to grow up and call us when you're done.Nonsense. Legislating for what you're in favour of, and against what you're not in favour of, would seem to be the closest approximation to consistency I could think of. How many cases do you win exactly?Amazing. A government on one side of the country is feeding them, another on the other side of the country is killing them. I've had the very good fortune to swim with some of the smaller, less ferocious ones closely on several bewitching occasions, and they seemed like fairly decent and sensible individuals as best as I could tell through the mask, although a bit limited in the communication department admittedly. They certainly don't need this level of backhanded contempt and abject confusion.Just out of interest, Horatio Hornblower was sailing the fictional seas dispensing all manner of derring-do at the time when his ultimate boss was George III. A brave, adventurous man doing the bidding of someone widely suspected to have a screw or two loose and with swans roaming unchecked in the top paddock. I leave whatever parallels may exist in the tale Ms Crabb has laid out before us for each gentle reader to contemplate.Strictly speaking, them paying the piper is only a short-term strategy in lieu of meaningful reform. The ultimate goal is to get a taxpayer-funded subsidy that effectively makes piper-paying no longer an impost on the bottom line, probably coupled with deregulation and red-tape removal of the whole piping sector which could, if pipers can be lured onto individual contracts, possibly lead to the pipers themselves paying for the privilege of being allowed to pipe out a few notes in public. Which is, as anyone who knows about these matters can tell you, the right and proper order of things.They'd be better served sticking to lobbying, complaining and scapegoating, because if my varied experiences of Australian management are as widely replicated elsewhere as I suspect they are, it isn't carbon taxes, unions, exchange rates, recalcitrant people not prepared to be shuffled all over the show both physically and temporally whilst working for sixpence, unsophisticated customers, allowing people to lounge about on these damned nuisance public holidays, an inability to implement laws to allow them to stay open 26 hours a day, sunspots, or even black magic that's holding them back, it's as easy as the gene pool of talented Australians who are any good at actually running a company intelligently having dried up quite a few summers ago.
Around about the time the brave new world of privatisation, liberalisation, globalisation, and all those other wonderful 'isations' kicked-off as I seem to recall.It "is the primary means by which elected representatives reach the people to whom they are ultimately accountable" only by choice. The opportunity always exists (in multiple formats in this the 21st century) for direct communication with any electors who would wish to be so engaged. Laziness, and a distinct lack of imagination, appear to be major stumbling blocks to that approach. The fact that they end up in a symbiotic relationship with another of Earth's undesirable life forms is something which elicits no sympathy from me whatsoever.One of Mark Latham's seminal contributions to public wellbeing was the immortal phrase "Ease the squeeze".
Whilst the application is disturbingly different in this latest offering, my advice to him would be to heed his own words from days past.Good God yes!
Next thing you know the consumers of this insubstantial political diet will be having word limits applied to themselves whenever they attempt to give vent to what they think about the whole state of affairs, crammed into 24 hour time frames to do so and thus prevented from developing meaningful, fleshed-out dialogue with anybody else who may have more than simply a partisan slogan to contribute, and having the whole thing overseen by nameless and faceless arbiters who flick open and closed communication opportunities like a sorting gate in a cattle race.
Yes, it's good to see it written that "some issues demand a greater public presence than slick phrases and policy tailored to match". I hope to learn something more on this topic in the next 20 hours or so.Probably less "Charge of the Light Brigade" and more "Charge of the lightweight brigade".
Half-baked thought, half-baked thought, half-baked thought onward.I suppose this sort of thing was always going to happen when you got rid of the locally made vehicles in the Commonwealth car pool and replaced them with DeLoreans. "It's not you Marty! It's your kids!"
Seeing as we're off down this particular dead-end again it's probably a good idea if we also change the name of the allowance payment from Newstart to Oldhat.
Anecdotally, I hear people never enjoyed the sequel(s) as much as the original.So, less of a broad church and more of a multi-disciplinary asylum then?
One fears the Liberals are not alone on that particular type of score peter of mitcham, but I do admire your candour. Unfortunately true progress will continue to evade attainment until the high priests start shunning the attentions of the unstable fringe, not just their fellow parishioners. Malcolm Turnbull can't do it all on his own you know.Anyone looking for political balance to go with this piece should pull out any old Dennis Shanahan article, read both, then destroy them, admonish yourself for wasting a small, precious part of your God-given allotted time on this planet, and go and do something useful instead.
I appreciate this sort of insider, memo-from-the-top stuff might seem important to the sad people who generate it, but it would help tremendously if they could do a print version that got delivered with the Bunnings catalogue, discount coupons for pizzas delivered after 11pm, and the flyer from the man wanting to help me maintain clean gutters and drainpipes on my roof. That way I can put it all in the recycling bin at the same time instead of doing multiple trips.
The "ALP's think tank" could do with a bloody good hose out if this sort of nonsense is considered a productive use of their time.These "wider set of changes" really just draw attention to people who have run out of ideas. They also seem to strangely ignore the fact that every potential dole recipient is not an isolated individual who can be flogged mercilessly at leisure, but is someone's child, parent, friend, or acquaintance, and that these associated people also get a vote. I understand that boatpeople are a soft target, being largely friendless and anonymous, but I would have thought that kicking the bejesus out of someone who others care about wasn't really the smartest strategy in your armoury of re-election weapons. I guess the consistently disastrous opinion polls since this year's budget are assumed by those they're aimed at to be an aberration and a fraud. Blessed be the idiotic, for they shall inherit the Opposition benches.
Even in straightened times government remains an employer, albeit not necessarily a major one. It would be interesting to know just how many members of the long-term unemployed or youth with little in the way of work experience they themselves take on, or do they just assume somebody else has to do all the lifting while they do the leaning? Perhaps we can find out by having welfare recipients making it a point of applying to every government department, agency, and associated entity they can as part of this new smoke-and-mirrors fetish for wasted applications. At the very least it should drive the people behind this policy mess crazy, and probably become a nice little earner for Australia Post as well. We can then gather up all the rejection notices and dump them outside government offices to ram home the point. The fact that they'd then need to hire some extra staff to help shovel them away from the doors so they could get out to go home would presumably be a bonus.I think we'd all be fascinated to learn the identity of this school and the name of the person alleged to have said what they did.
Unless I'm mistaken, all-girls schools tend to be private institutions, and I'm sure it would be wonderful if you could supply us with details of a supposed paragon of capitalist, market-based virtue that isn't averse to spruiking the odd advantage of socialism along the way. I'm also assuming your complaint about being told this highly offensive and demeaning "information" was hushed up and buried without trace?
I look forward to your reply.Being baffled is in the eye of the beholder.
Me, I'm baffled about the "never-ending flow" remark. If there is some grand scheme of mind control under way I'm certainly not seeing it.
I've just read someone recount their personal experiences. I assume the ABC throws open the site to anyone who wants to write a poignant, from-the-heart opinion piece about how they've suffered or been deeply traumatised by people claiming asylum coming to Australia. Perhaps foolishly, I've always put their absence from these pages down to them not really having a story to tell. I'd definitely be interested in reading any article along these lines, as I'm fascinated to find out how "I'm annoyed" could be stretched out to 700 words using only the agreed principles and facilities of the English language. Not knowing anything apart from clich?s about the individuals you're annoyed with should make it a mighty achievement if it could be pulled off, and positively a literary award contender.
I'm also baffled why you probably aren't baffled about government talking heads and their spruikers (and this transcends the current administration, so please don't view it as a partisan attack) being unable to distinguish between "These people are..." and "Amongst these people are...". I'm baffled why one-sided commentary achieves acceptance as long as it comes out of a ministerial office. I'm baffled why those who do subsequently get classed as refugees by the process aren't given a voice so all of us can perhaps be a little bit more educated than we are at present.
However, I'm not at all baffled that a term like "strident refugee advocate" gets inserted into a comment. It makes it so much easier to bundle up people who may have, how shall I put it, "many sides and complexities" into a single, loaded descriptor that you can aim at. Which, if I look around, would seem to be quite a common practice these days.We currently have a Prime Minister who was born in England.
Not that long ago we had a Prime Minister who was born in Wales.
The kindest and gentlest thing you could possibly say about the ongoing experiment is that the reviews are mixed, but there really is no doubt that a pale complexion and a daggy, bully-attracting accent in the schoolyard has proved no barrier to Australians subsequently queuing up to offer these people a job and a Comcar.
In a country where boatpeople are either made Prime Minister or locked up, if as an immigrant on the same side of the razor wire as the rest of us you feel you can't cut it in your place of domicile and hanker after your old roots to make your political points, my guess is you really must be rubbish.
Or even rubbush.With The Australian's regular array of cheer squad leaders seemingly more than a little bit sheepish these days and afraid to put their noses over the parapet it's good to see the old art of a rousingly loud and spirited, tub-thumping, troop-rallying clarion call is not yet a lost art.
The note of caution about where to from here is wise however; I appreciate the team followers who have been dropping by for some years now to engage in the never-ending game of we're winning/you're losing as it ebbs and flows are unable to see past the pointless pseudo-security of the two-party preferred number, but it's worthwhile mentioning at this early stage that the most logical outcome in 2016 is another hung House of Representatives (with the same abysmal level of "talent") and a Senate just as difficult to herd as the one now. Anyone thinking being offered the crumb of getting to sit to the right of the Speaker under these circumstances constitutes a "win" needs their head read.
Longevity will probably fall to the first footy team to understand that a majority in the HoR isn't the mega prize it once was, and that success is now measured by how adept you are at working with what you've been given by the Australian people (rather than complaining about it). Based on past performance and current ineptitude I'd say that favours the Labor Party easily at this stage. At least until the Liberals wake up and get Malcolm back in the chair (and having the mumblers deal with that - for them - unpalatable outcome in private).What the two major blocs just can't seem to get into their heads is that the Australian voting public is not going to give either of them a compliant Senate with the level of dross currently infecting their ranks. Much is made about the Ricky Muirs of this world getting a seat with only 17 votes (or whatever it was), but ignore the fact that the Ricky Muirs of this world all spring from the "None of the above" pool (which, when added up, DO qualify for seating arrangements). Whichever one pops out of the lucky dip is down to black magic, but unless you want to take Ricky's nostrils, John Madigan's toenails, Bob Day's left armpit and proportionate body parts from all the other "None of the aboves" who got votes and assemble humans out of them in Canberra, then THAT is the simple reality.
In my opinion, both Bill Shorten and Malcolm Turnbull have the characteristics to be able to work with this reality from different perspectives; Shorten with the undoubted benefit that comes from union negotiating sessions, and Turnbull with the urbanity and respect he can engender by seeming not to be a lout or a chancer. The current chap has no idea. He is a dinosaur, and he's dragging a whole raft of other dinosaurs around with him. He would do well to take his leave.
The upshot is that, should a "major" party start looking like they can work with whatever's placed before them, they'll in all probability be rewarded down the track with a Senate more pleasing to deal with. A classic chicken-or-egg scenario that they can't seem to grasp - yelling and grizzling at the Australian people out of a sense of entitlement (has no one explained about the new theories around entitlements?) is only going to have more blazing tyres and barbed wire thrown on the roadblock. Whoever works this out first "wins", in my opinion.Pardon me for noticing, but I'm really struggling to detect any "happy" in your demeanour. I guess "a dispirited and embittered little debunker" doesn't roll off the tongue quite as nicely.
You also might need to re-check some of those checks.Give me a call back when it starts grating a lot. Having quickly checked your canon of four contributions (to date) on this page, I'm having difficulty - apart from the humour, obviously - telling their respective merits apart when it comes to matters of substantiality."Abbott gaining momentum? In your dreams!"
Clearly not a student of science.
Momentum is a vector quantity with magnitude expressed as the product; mass x velocity. Being a vector quantity it can be expressed in any of our regular three dimensions, and obviously that includes straight down. Terminal velocity can always be enhanced by assuming a head-down orientation as you plummet, and not bothering to jump with a parachute pack on in the first instance* can have significant streamlining benefits as you enter denser air and begin to be buffeted. Growing a bigger head on the way down and accumulating baggage along the way can both increase the instantaneous mass of the object in flight, and so feed into the equation to further increase the calculated momentum.
Gaining momentum this early into the dive is not only possible, it's almost certain given the attitude and direction of the diver.
* The potential downside from adopting this incredibly risky strategy can be off-set by chucking a chubbier, fellow free-faller out first and trying to land on them to cushion the impact. Refer to the article content for details.Equality in peril? Nonsense.
I was happy enough to buy the "worst government of all time" palaver with the last crowd (although, to be fair, way more for how they conducted themselves than the actual meat-and-potatoes that were served up), and this current collection of Mr Beans have shown themselves to be every inch their match. The fact that they've got there so fast does have me wondering at what point they're going to slow down to the trend line rather than drop the bar still lower though, so perhaps I've called the equality race too soon.
That's what we need; 226 of our finest gathered in one place showing us inspirationals that mental ability and self-conduct egalitarianism is indeed a holy grail within reach."Can the Coalition's copayment policy be repaired?" asks the headline.
"No" is the obvious answer. You only repair things that are broken. Dead things usually get buried.
I'd have thought a man who was the director of the Health Program at Grattan Institute would at least know this much about the basics in his chosen field of endeavour.'Bad news sells bad newspapers' might be a more apt statement.
And, if memory serves, newspapers (be they of whatever particular flavour) aren't doing terribly much selling just lately anyway. Mercifully, that's one suicide they aren't reporting on in graphic detail.Much can be made of the negative aspects of religion, but it can't be denied that as a means of coalescing dangerous idiots who would otherwise be randomly dispersed and potentially undetectable in a society so they can be identified and dealt with, it has no secular equivalent anywhere near as effective.
If people (and I use the term somewhat loosely) feel they are helping themselves by tearing up their past, it really isn't necessary to spend too much time and effort trying to defeat them; they should manage to achieve that all by themselves. We just need to keep the door locked and the windows closed whilst they're doing it."There must be limits in the tolerance one affords lunatics"
True. And if I was advocating tolerance of lunacy it would even have some application to what I have written. There must however also be recourse to a map at some point to determine how far the rocket-propelled grenades etc. are from your door and windows. Just as I would apply a lower level of threat alert to anyone currently sitting on the moon with a rocket-propelled grenade, so would I do here also. The alarmist tone of your post suggests the idiots and lunatics (your words) are currently parked in a Toyota ute at the end of my street. They're not. Because they're not I perhaps take a different line to the one you may wish to take involving the movement of (mostly) young men's lives around a chess board to satisfy your stay-at-home, let-somebody-else-do-my-fighting-for-me outpouring of indignation.
When it comes to "MUST", if you feel so strongly about it, you can lead the charge."Don't panic, unemployment isn't that dire" says the headline.
Interesting thesis. I suspect that, graphs or no graphs, that's going to be a mighty hard sell to anyone afflicted by the said condition."Envelopes in the internet? Who even knew"
There's also spam and cookies there, which could explain why they've made a meal of it.
Interesting to see the old person/young person divide on the approval rating. I suppose that simply comes down to (1) older generations having the unintended advantage of doing most of their stupid stuff at a time when, even if it ever got recorded for posterity, it was on a bit of paper which is (if it's still extant) sitting in an anonymous filing cabinet somewhere, (2) older generations not having much of a clue about the question they're responding to (any takers for "The Brandis Syndrome"?), or (3) members of older generations who do do a spot of terrorism dabbling on the side between bingo nights not being as concerned about the consequences of discovery leading to a life sentence nearly as much as a younger person would.Being 64 and obviously of good character, I'd assumed you were familiar with the dictionary definition of "wry" and weren't overly enamoured by the use of smiley-face symbols. I apologise for making those unwarranted assumptions.
Also, it's very pleasing to learn you don't practice terrorism in any fashion. Keep it up.Wonderful fighting words tomtoot. Perhaps next time you may wish to be certain about the age of the intended target before firing them off (hint: "wry" isn't a word too many people under the age of 50 could define without recourse to a dictionary, never mind actually bother to use). However, if you think your bellicose mumblings have in any way showcased the inherent superiority of your (our) age cohort, by all means more power to your arm. Me?, well I just think it's funny. Thanks for your input.Dr Newson's article draws attention to what I find as a most glaring blind spot in the world of "disability advocacy". To summarise the unspoken line of thinking of the people being advocated to a bit crudely it runs as "Seeing as you're here it's only right and proper that we treat you with equality and due consideration, but if the truth were to be known none of us would actually choose to have you here in the first place if we could do anything about it".
I see a great deal of effort being put into changing the ingrained and hurtful thinking of past generations towards disabled people whilst ignoring the elephant in the room - it would be a VERY exceptional person who said they would have wanted a disabled child/friend/acquaintance in the first instance if the matter of their very existence was one of choice.
The wonderful world of medical research has one of its unspoken goals the elimination of certain types of human who fall outside the definition of "normal". I suspect at some future time the aim would be to have a museum of the (what will be considered at the time) grotesque, where those future generations can come and have a look at what dreadful versions of humanity could potentially emerge without the intervention of the brave new world of effective genetic screening. I'm only guessing, but I think those future museum visitors would be mighty relieved to know those sorts of things are safely confined to the past.
Personally, I'm happy for people to spend their time advocating for things like wheelchair ramps, mentally-impaired people having an equal place in community life, and constantly telling us we need to do better, but I have this awful feeling the people they think they're making such good progress with actually have a dirty little secret they're keeping to themselves. I have to admit that discovering people are being nice to you out of sufferance because they don't yet have the technology to not have to worry about needing to be nice to you at all would hit me very hard if I were disabled, and make me wonder just what definition of "progress" is actually being used to explain my situation.
A subject too touchy for open, mature discussion perhaps?People operating in private to determine the levels of privacy others will be subjected to. Nope, I would never have spotted the inconsistency either.
It appears the prophylactic mentioned towards the end of the article needed to have been applied far earlier.Applying for a job with FedEx and developing an affinity for (a) volleyball has been known to pay off if you're not overly troubled by the possible consequences of over-water flying.
Either that, or conduct deviously secretive mind-control experiments on the dog(s) you mentioned and manipulate them to rip the throats out of their annoyingly inquisitive masters on command. Clearly the fewer King Charles Spaniels and Maltese Poodles there are in the mix, the easier this will be to implement.
Hope that is of some use.Funny old world. Last week Paula Matthewson saw (in sequence) gun-sticking, loss-cutting, and diversion-creating. I just saw three randomised, unscripted cock-ups. Comments like "self-sabotage" and "...can there be any other explanation...?" attempt to paint a picture of depth and complexity that completely passed me by.
If the fourth stage of trying to save your tail is getting someone to then parcel it all up as an example of cleverness gone wrong rather than simply stupidity gone right, then I think I've just read the article that does that. Nice try though.Amusing to note it isn't necessary to travel all the way to the Middle East to watch your very own version of the Israeli/Palestinian he-started-it-first fiasco. I suppose the difference here is we have a revolving door of opportunity for each religion to get the chance to run Israel.
I personally don't mind a Liberal complaining today about rockets being fired out of Labor-held Gaza, but perhaps it would be nice if there was some sort of acknowledgement that not too long ago Liberals were digging tunnels from the same ghetto towards Labor-held Jerusalem when they held the keys to the city.
I guess it confirms the old adage that in warfare it's the civilians who bear the brunt. "Iron Dome" might seem like a good idea in theory, but it tends to fall over when both sides have a copy of the blueprints and an equal share in building it.Actually, there are some of us who don't "...care more for being smarter than the next person with our incisive comments..." so much as enjoy the occasional acknowledgement of the incisiveness of their comments, happy that they've been able to contribute that level of incisiveness into the forum for the benefit of anyone who appreciated it, and who are just as delighted when they get to read the gift of incisiveness from someone else on the forum about something they haven't thought of (or thought of in that manner).
It's only a competition, a battle to the death, a football match without the sweat, a trampling of dissenting opinions, or an excuse for rampant egotism if you want it to be. Some of us just like having quality to give and receive in equal measure.I'd like to thank Ian Verrender for writing a sophisticated article which actually (not that you'd guess it from the majority of comments to date) isn't about Russia (or anywhere else "foreign") at all, but all about the development of a secret weapons facility under the noses of people looking elsewhere, and the quiet painting of targets on the foreheads of people who clearly don't have ready access to a mirror. Weapons of Mass Destruction would appear to be yesterday's news, and Weapons of Mass Impoverishment are well-and-truly "in". Losing your territory isn't the goal in contemporary warfare; all you need to lose is your liberty to make your own decisions. A hearty "well done" to all the mindless drones who have spent so much effort over so much time bringing this about.
I'd just like the author to know his efforts weren't completely lost in the rush, and that a few readers actually "got" it. I look forward to hopefully one day seeing a defence White Paper that shows more interest in this country's labyrinthine array of straightjackets it's signed itself into rather than the number of Chinese submarines in service. Probably way too late now anyway.Not really. It's just that there's such an embarrassment of riches to be bemused about at present, and what passes as inattention is simply a populace spoiled for choice and unable to commit. You shouldn't take it personally or feel you're in any way "odd".This article makes no logical sense whatsoever. Helen Andrews lists two alleged fallacies she says she wants to debunk, and then doesn't.
She tackles the first alleged fallacy by ignoring increased lifespans and whatever effect this can have on those having them and tells us all about Ohio 100 years ago instead. Changing the topic, at least as far as I'm concerned, seldom debunks anything.
The second alleged fallacy is likewise treated. Telling me that certain religious groupings (probably more correct to say certain groupings within certain religious groupings) have a historical record tells me nothing about what others in that grouping may or may not be doing today.
Helen Andrews obviously has a problem with Dr Nitschke. That's fair enough, and I don't think anyone would seriously wish to want her to keep quiet about that. In her apparent rush to get this point of view onto the page she unfortunately seems to have developed a corresponding problem with the basics of arguing a position logically. She also hasn't provided a very good advertisement for the mental capabilities of those operating out of the Centre for Independent Studies either.
Euthanasia may certainly not be modern as the headline indeed states, but neither is obfuscation.As any economist could tell you Michael, credit is easier to afford when interest is low.I guess the one positive is that nobody has so far suggested cleaving the children in two with a sword and giving one set of halves to the secularists and the other halves to the religiously minded. I wouldn't even begin to know how that would impact on the Gonski funding model, but I suppose technically it would double the number of students and therefore require even more cash to be found.
A case of the old ways not always being the best ways perhaps?I don't know whether that violates the dictum of "What man has cast asunder, let no god join together".
You do also realise that with you entering the debate it's now become the 'Banana Split problem' in my mind, don't you?I didn't really pay much attention to this article because I don't bond with, or give any serious attention to, plain-looking women with small breasts. Given the choice, I like my articles written by someone with soft, fleshy tits, tall, a bit butch, and with a bit of a thing for balaclavas in the bedroom. God I miss Peter Reith.
Funny thing is, up until recently I wouldn't have thought going public with this did either me or any unlucky listener any good, but seeing as Lauren Rosewarne says it's now ok to spew your innermost thoughts all over the airwaves no matter how inappropriate it might have been last week, I suppose it must be.
Strange thing is I don't feel in any way at all empowered.Mr Callaghan is incorrect, it isn't "Australia" which will be in "...an invidious position...", it will be the current Australian Prime Minister.
If Mr Abbott finds himself being forced (however reluctantly, and with whatever level of lack of warmth is diplomatically allowable) to shake hands with President Putin in November on Australian soil, his prospects at the next election are trashed.
Having already used the 'G20 is an ECONOMIC forum' line to diss global warming having any legitimate role at the table, he now is unable to beg for an exception in this case.
I think Mr Shorten may have cottoned-on to this when he specifically mentioned the G20 in his speech to parliament on the tragedy, which probably suggests he's a more savvy politician than even I give him credit for being.
The Australian Prime Minister has a very big problem waiting in his in tray with this one. The Australian public are not going to go easy on any man who lets this butcher into this country and shares a glass of bubbly with him.
And with an election due not long afterwards, I suspect Premier Newman isn't going to think it's a barrel of laughs having the Russian President swanning around his state either.A plane flying west to east across Ukraine is mistaken by the Ukrainians as an enemy, rebel-linked target?
You're going to have to do a lot better than that.
The idea that the Russians, with their long Cold War experience, would not have the capability to detect and record any missile launch even remotely near their border is ridiculous. If they had even the slightest piece of evidence that it came from the Ukraine side they'd have told the whole world by now.
Forget YouTube and the world of crazy theories. Just for a change, listen to the silence instead.Maxine Montaigne tells us "...the Australian people are just not buying it".
Why is this a surprise exactly? A clear majority of Australian people have obviously heard the message that "This reckless spending must stop", have held the product package up to the light and seen that it resembles a crisps packet with way more air than crisps, and have put it back on the shelf. That is simply responsible economic behaviour, and should be applauded as such.
If we're delving into the world of morals here, then you need to start with a manufacturer who makes turd-flavoured crisps, hides them in an opaque, air-filled packet, quotes misleading nutritional "facts", and tries to get them put in every kid's lunchbox.
No-one is denying that in our current, exhausted economic state we need to eat something, but that doesn't mean any old rubbish can be passed off as appetising. It isn't a "selling" issue; it's an "ingredients" one.I'm guessing that as an act of solidarity and good old-fashioned money-where-your-mouth-is sincerity the Department of Policing, Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism at Macquarie University will be moving their headquarters to Baghdad so they can be even more insightful than they have been in this article by closer contact with the problem. Or is this just another case of "Forward, he cried, from the rear..." as Pink Floyd once sang about?
I think ISIS might best be dealt with by resurrecting a military tradition we're celebrating the centenary of this year - having enthusiastic and highly opinionated everyday Joes downing tools at home and flocking to recruiting stations to sign up and take the fight up to the enemy after a bit of basic training and some marching practice. I can already supply the first two names, and assure the good lecturers there's a television program or two in it for them in 100 years time.Fanatic kills innocent. Fanatic posts images. Media reproduces images as story. Other media produces stories based on the original story. Everyone joins in discussing images, discussing the story, discussing stories-about-stories, discussing people discussing the images, etc, etc, etc. Fanatic just laughs himself stupid.
