I see that my wish didn't come true. I also pointed out that I see them as Labor / Greens party shills. I place zero credibility on anything that this commission comes out with. Zero.I don't know what economic figures you read, but the biggest risk in the world right now is actually deflation.It will need the kids who have skills. My first kid arrives in Sep and I will be explaining to her the need to get skills - otherwise, some guy in Thailand will do your job for a quarter of what you cost. So the lesson is clear - people need to get the skills the economy demands or get left behind.
And if you don't want to do the study to get those skills, then that your (not the guvvament's) problem and fault.OK. Abbott's responsible for the car industry demise. Hmmm, I thought it was their inefficient production processes, the unions' demands for pay rises for no extra productivity, the companies refusing to make the cars that people actually want to buy, and the chronic lack of scale due to our relatively small market. But I was wrong.
And as for imports, well I'm sorry but I'll buy the stuff I want from whoever gives me the best deal (sorry Gerry Harvey). If a company wants my $$$$, then give me a deal. Ha! It makes me laugh, this crying about imports. Gerry Harvey says that when Gerry Harvey imports stuff, adds a 400% mark-up as the middleman, and sells it you, why that's just great.
But when us consumers find ways to cut these middlemen out and import stuff direct from that overseas supplier - why that's just terrible!OK. Abbott's responsible for the car industry demise. Hmmm, I thought it was their inefficient production processes, the unions' demands for pay rises for no extra productivity, the companies refusing to make the cars that people actually want to buy, and the chronic lack of scale due to our relatively small market. But I was wrong.
And as for imports, well I'm sorry but I'll buy the stuff I want from whoever gives me the best deal (sorry Gerry Harvey). If a company wants my $$$$, then give me a deal. Ha! It makes me laugh, this crying about imports. Gerry Harvey says that when Gerry Harvey imports stuff, adds a 400% mark-up as the middleman, and sells it you, why that's just great.
But when us consumers find ways to cut these middlemen out and import stuff direct from that overseas supplier - why that's just terrible!No, we should import what others can make cheaper than us, and focus on more high-tech things that can support high-paying jobs.
Therein lies the path to economic success.Somebody has to service those robots, engineering them, sell them etc. Efficiency is good, we should welcome it.
Having 20 guys to employed to do what 10 guys could do is inefficient, just employing people so that they can have a job is the path to disaster.And regarding tarrifs, do you think that our trading partners will sit there and do nothing if we penalise their imports to us? Has it occurred to you that they will tarrif our exports into uncompetitiveness, which they would, and justifiably so.
And then you'd have our exporters losing at least as many jobs as you claim we'd gain by local firms not losing to imports. But then we here would be paying more for those products because our choice is reduced, because those imports are gone.Exactly. Those gutless car companies caved into every union demand because they knew that the guvvament would always supply the subsidies to cover the costs. Until we finally had some politicians with the guts to say "no". And now all those workers will get $0 per hour. And double-time-and-a-half of $0 on public holidays.The American minimum wage of $7.25 will actuall buy that worrker a lot more than the Australian minimum wage $16+ dollars will.
Take US$100 into Target there and $100 Aus in Target here and you'll walk out with between 2 and 3 times as much stuff there.
So when you hear the wages and think of those Americans and think "gee, how do they live on that..." many of them are better off than our minimum wage people. And they pay less tax.Yes, Spain with the 25% unemployment (50% for youth), Greece with 27%, France 10%, Euro area 11.6% (source: this week's Economist). Yep, those Europeans know how to do it. We should seek to be more like them.......notHigher wages are always good for the economy? Does there need to be more productivity? Otherwise let's raise minimum wage to $150 an hour, then we can all be high income.Not so. It's only printing money if our Reserve Bank buys them, which they didn't, they were sold to foreign and domestic investors. Those investors effectively have a claim against future taxes we (some of us) will pay.No harm in printing money? It will reduce the value of everybody's savings, have you thought of that? If there were no downside to printing money, then everybody would do it all the time (and yes, I am aware of the printed trillions these last few years).I agree. It's only a matter of time until someone says that everybody's DNA must be on file from birth (if you're not going to commit a crime, how can you possibly object?). It will be only a matter of time until every person should have a chip implanted in them to track their exact whereabouts (and how can you object, unless you've got reason to hide your whereabouts, Hmmmm?).
I agree we need strong laws but the willingness to lie down and submit to every guvvament encroachment is downright scary."Billionaire miners", "big polluters", Rudd referred to Malcolm Turnbull as "the member for Goldman Sachs", "big oil", "foreign workers", "foreign investors".Show me one lynching that ever happened in this country.Corporations should be privately owned so that they will be run efficiently, not like guvvament depts. And besides, I thought it was Laba who sold Commonwealth Bank and Qantas?The only great mess in telecommunications is that great guvvament white elephant, the NBN.Well it's the guvvament's fault for not driving a harder bargain. The contractor will charge the customer, guvvament or private sector, what they can get away with , you and I bargain for the most pay we can get away with, the supermarket charges us the maximum that they can and still get business, the guvvament takes as much tax of us as they can and feel that they can get voted in again.....that's behavioural economics.When it's run privately, provided that ther is competition, prices will, in real terms, come down. How many weeks pay did take to fly Sydney to LA 40 years ago when Qantas had a monopoly. How many weeks pay now? 
How many minutes average pay did it take 40 years ago for a guy in Sydney to call his mum in Perth, and how much now?
That's markets at work.Sorry, he was up-front about the GST at the 1998 election - we had the chance to vote against it.......unlike somebody's carbon tax.What's wrong with slogans? Or are they only bad when those mean conservatives use them, and OK when the cerebral, really, really smart Laba party uses them. I know one thing, the Laba ones can be damn expensive. Think Building Education Revolution, Home Insulation Scheme, Gonski (I still don't know what the details of that are, other than a "gimme more money" from teachers' unions), National Broadband Network. And I loved their 2013 election one "A new way". But people saw through it, and asked "well if you've been in office six years, what were you doing so wrong that now we need.....a new way?"There's a huge difference between forecasting a surplus and actually delivering one. I believe Swan said "return to surplus, three years ahead of schedule". Let's not talk about then producing the biggest (nominal) deficits in our history.
But Yes, as a conservative, I'm annoyed that our so-called conservative politicians can't cut the spending faster than they are.The auto industry was a huge drain - 30 billion in subsidies (sorry, "co-investment) in just last 15 years. Good riddance, and long overdue.So you didn't hear about the "deficit levy", I take it?Yes, that Rudd stole back from Howard because he dismantled a successful policy because he wanted to stand in the spotlight and soak up the luvvies' applause for his "compassion". Cate Blanchett must've been heartbroken when he reinstated that asylum policy, and when he offered to "terminate" the carbon tax.Sorry, but we've wasted billions and billions propping up industries that had the right connections. That car industry never once stood on it's own two feet, never, so people can't blame the relatively recent phenomenon of the persistently strong dollar for it failing. If it had to compete in a genuinely open market, no subsidies or tariff protection, it would've gone bust circa 1959....."Evidence-based" was one of Rudd's favourite phrases. He just never applied to the biggest waste in history, the NBN.Exactly. It's no surprise at all that alcohol and tobacco consume most of a welfare household's earnings. And until that figure comes down, people on welfare have no business complaining. And I don't care what study some "expert" has that says otherwise. We all know that people on welfare smoke far greater than higher income people, even though they can least afford it.
SO if they see paying for cigs is more important than eating, then that's their problem, nobody's putting a gun to their head making them smoke.Are you saying that people on welfare their whole lives pay more tax? I'm sure what your saying here.They're the author's figures, not mine, I'm just agreeing with them. And I'm thinking of how every welfare person I know smokes.See the second graph, select "alcohol and tobacco" from the dropdown box.Sorry, I should've said "a greater proportion of their incomes is spent on alcohol and tobacco than any other demographic", the graph bears that out.Wealthy people waste their own money however. It's theirs, they can do what they like.By that logic, all of us should quit our jobs, and since people being on welfare is so darn good for the economy, then the more people on welfare the better - watch the economy really take off!And how would that be administered? Most manufacturing these days is not building from scratch, but assembling things from elsewhere. Is a T-shirt made in Australia but from imported Taiwanese fabric "made in Australia?". And generally, made in Australia stuff costs more, so you would be condemning those card holders to being able to buy less stuff.
They would be better off deciding for themselves where they get the most for their buck.
And your idea might run afoul of some of our trade agreements we signed up to, those agreements that expand opportunities for our exporters and allow us to import things much cheaper.In the former Soviet Union everybody worked for the state - there was no private industry. But somehow it didn't quite work out.....Here in my little mining town we have four 457 doctors. From the time you start a medical degree to working unsupervised as a doctor is about 10 years. Our first baby is due next month - could you point me toward that big queue of Aussie doctors who are unemployed because of these 457 doctors we'll be getting rid of, and send them here?
We can't wait 10 years.What next, a startling feature on how the sun rises in the east? Show me one time in history where prices went down (for other than technological goods). It was called the great depression, and it's the only way that prices go down because demand is so down. I don't think we want that.Sounds great. But one thing, who's going to do the work whilst we're all enjoying our "leisure"?People changing their spending in response to rising prices is "chained cpi".I recently asked my parents-in-law what they think when they hear of peopl today "doing it tough" in the era of sub-3% inflation, 5% fixed interest rates and 6% unemployment. They laughed, and explained what it's like to deal with 18% interest rates, 15% inflation, 11% unemployment and the like. That sort of puts in context.Why should anyone have to pay more consumption tax? So a family of 6 gets slammed hugely - gee thanks.Why is making housing even more expensive a worthy goal? Let the market allocate the resources, dictate supply and demand.Um, negative gearing has been around for over 30 years.The "logic" is simple - supply and demand. Nothing is "overpriced" if somebody is prepared to pay, no matter how crazy that price may seem to a third party.You just reinforced my point. It seems stupid to the third parties, you and I. But if the buyer and the person extending that buyer credit wants it, then that's "logical". And for some people, they'll commute so they can live in a house so they can have a dog, or don't want their kid growing up ina an apartment.There was never the gross oversupply here that they had in Ireland, Spain and America. And the credit standards here are much stricter, certainly so post-GFCUm, why should it be raised at all, never mind by a factor of 1.5? The guvvament will always find ways to spend whatever money it gets.If a correction comes, then the people who took stupid risks will be the ones who get hurt - and what's wrong with that? People who have the guts to take a risk will buy at the "crashed" price, and life will go on.
And only those who lose their jobs will get hurt, people who can still pay the mortgage are unaffected by the present paper value of their place.House process in London have escalated even faster than Sydney.So where are people supposed to live? And those developments are paid for by private money, not guvvament money. And so what if there are lots of big blocks? We live in a society of private property rights, precisely so the benevolent guvvament and know-all polatishans cannot just conficate your asset, which seems to be what you're advocating.All this whingeing about negative gearing. It was around in the 80s when housing was much more affordable, so it can't be all negative gearing to blame for price rises. You're also forgetting that owners gain from rising prices, it's not all everyone losing.Sellers are owners, I thought.Let me tell you the secret to happiness my friend, which I discovered years ago. Get out of Sydney. Now. Don't. Look. Back.
It will be the best thing you ever did.I'm not sure that popular opinion is a good gauge for economic policy. Reduce spending (particluarly that I benefit from - never! But that other bloke's benefit - cut iT!). Raise interest rates? Never! Businesses and banks to be run like charities? Yes!An interest-only loan would be more likely to make a profit from rent because the repayments are smaller - ins't that obvious?Why should there be limits on how many houses you can own? There are no limits on how many cars you can own. No limits on how many dogs I own, bottles of whisky, barbecue sauce, TVs - why are houses so special that they deserve limits?It's not complicated. But make sure that the job you get pays well. Because if you want good pay for unskilled work, and that work can be outsourced, it will be. Just like the car workers found out.Ah yes, the all-knowing, all-wise benevolent guvvament will make it all OK. Just like they did in the former Soviet Union, which I hear was a paradise and it worked really well.Former minister Conroy, the man who attempted to bring the media under guvvament control, gifted Kerry stokes licence concessions worth hundreds of millionsThis outsourcing of guvvament functions to "experts" is the left's long-held dream. That way, the plebs, who are too stupid to vote the "correct way" (as evident from last year's election result) would not be able to mess things up by passing judgement.
And how will these "experts" be held to account? You can bet that there'd be a revival of the Gillard plan to bring the media to heel, so that the plebs could then be told the guvvament-approved "truth".Maybe I spoke to soon. Outsource all policy decisions and how guvvament is run - to talk radio hosts, as they know everything about everything and just love to demand answers as to why those polatishans don't see things their way. At least then, if nothing else, we won't have to listen to them whinge (and I mean left and right wing radio whingers).Sounds good, but don't forget the talk radio hosts, who are the only "true" voice of "real", "ordinary" or "average" Australians.Would you like to confiscate all of their assets?Ah yes, why won't those rotten polatishans do what "we want". Because what we want is unanimous, from my reading of this blog. Tell me if I have this right:
Action on climate change, as long as some other bloke wears all of the extra costs.
Increased taxes (on that other bloke, the "rich").
Gonski (whatever the hell that means)
Massive subsidies for failed manufacturers (even though we've voted with our wallets and they are failing because we won't buy what they sell).
Massive cuts to that other bloke's "tax rort", guvvament payment, and so forth. But increase mine.
A big increase in funding for schools - but don't you dare make me pay any kind of fee.
Banks to be run like charities - disregard anyone's ability to repay, disregard any risk of a debtor's business failing - just lend because you "owe" us. And if you lose money, well ha-ha-ha.
Companies to be run like charities - stay in business to supply me stuff that I like, but how dare you have the nerve to seek a profit.
Open-ended welfare for all - but I wonder why some people are unemployed, why doesn't the guvvament create a job.
Guvvament regulations to stop fat people being fat, smokers smoking, gamblers gambling, because they are too stupid to save themselves - but stop interfering in MY life.
Polatishans to serve for free, they're greedy - but I want a pay rise, can't the guvvament make them give me one?
This is just a small list, but have I got it close to right?
Thanks a lot
This is a sensible article. Anything that just increases demand without a commensurate or greater increased supply (for non-technological goods) leads to a price increase, whether we're talking houses, cars, bottles of barbecue sauce, oil, pet dogs, anything.
Rising house prices are good for me personally. but I can see how they hurt others.
The other downside will be reduced super meaning a lesser income in retirement, thus making for more dependence on pension, which undermines the whole system.
Although, I notice we couldn't resist going a whole article without criticising negative gearing.I'm with you. And I'm sick of these articles lying by omission and not including rent assistance, concession cards, public housing and so forth. A couple collecting all of that living together is not living high, granted, but is nowhere near as poor as what these articles make out.I don't know what part of what I said was assertions. The benefits of rent assistance, concession cards, public housing exists.Your pension won't be going down at all, nominal or real. What will happen is that ot will be linked to inflation, not increases in wages. And how is that "unfair"?Rupert Murdoch owns media, not torture chambers where you are forced to sign a "confession" and agree to his will. He only gets money from people who freely hand it over, because they believe in the integrity of The Australian and The Wall Street Journal (I agree that the Telegraph is a rag, but you are free to ignore it). So he and The Economist get my money because I respect their work and trust them. Unlike some media outlets who get my money.Show me one subsidy that the banks get.You could argue that that is a subsidy to the depositor. Because the depositor is shielded from risk, they don't have to shop around and verify the soundness of the banks.I'm not sure where all the jobs are, but I can tell you where they aren't. They aren't within a 15 minute commute of your place and comfort zone.
People may have to consider leaving their comfort zone and make a move.
Someone is not going to knock on your door with a high-paying job offer.I work in mining (sorry) and we have 12 apprentices at our site, and we donate a lot of money to our local little town.Contractors employ apprentices too.I have no study to back me up, but I did market research by chance on the unemployed. Some years back, in my uni days when I had to do whatever lousy job was going to pay the rent, I did labour hire work for a transport company who had the gig delivering those Chrisco hampers in my area.
For those unfamiliar, these are extremely popular with welfare-dependent households. Not because they're cheap (they cost twice what you pay in the shops) but because you pay for them over a year.
You had to take them from the truck right up and into the house, put it where the customer wanted.
It seemed that every hose was welfare-dependent, every one was housing commission.
There were many school-age children home in school hours, and the children smoked. Every single adult there smoked. Many had pay TV, and to this day I won't have that even though I'm in top 2% household income. Every single bloke refused to help with the boxes. Nearly every single house was filthy and stank, and was a mess.
Yet despite this seeming poverty, there was still a V8 ute or car, near new, in the drive.
So excuse me if I appear cynical, but I saw hundreds of these places - were they just "unlucky", bearing no responsibility for their stations in life?
I accept that sometimes people have bad luck and the economy can hurt you sometimes, and those people desrve a break, I'm not disputing that.
But as well, every single long-term welfare-dependent person I've ever seen engineers their life to do just enough to meet their job-search requirements, but never quite enough to land a job.
As I said, I don't have a study but I have real life observation. No I didn't ask every person their circumstances or their past. The sample I saw, I'm convinced, was representative.For couples, they get economies of scale where two can live much cheaper than one. This article dishonestlly left out the benefit of rent assistance and concession cards for cheap transport. Not to mention public housing for $40 or $50 a week. Add all that up, and sure it's not the high life, but it's getting by and still better than several billion people on the planet.Increasing welfare is a figment of imagination huh? How many workers per welfare recipient was there 50 years ago, versus now?Drug and alcohol affected? This is frequently used as an excuse for why people cannot make something of their lives. Only if somebody were holding a gun to their heads, ordering them to drink and drug, would that be a valid excuse.State guvvaments create police, locking them up is not the federal guvvament's patch.My first kid arrives in September. I'm working for her, not hand it over to the guvvament so that they can spend it on school halls and pink batts, giveaways to uneconomical carmakers.
People with investment income still pay tax. If they are that well off through honest means that they don't need to work, good luck to them.Well I can think of a problem - I, Aus citizen, don't want it, and I suspect many others feel the same.How is employing more apprentices the guvvament's responsibility? And look at the flip side of less apprentices - wages for trades jobs put them firmly in the upper middle class.So  do you think that we are doing foreign investors a favour by letting them finance ventures that we lack the capital to finance in this country?
If you fell that you're not getting your "fair share", buy some Rio and BHP shares and cash in......Business can pay whatever they want becuase it private money, not taxpayer money.Um, why should a company be using their profits for the benefit of "all Australians"? I don't think they ever claimed to be charities.
And I really think that you have to remember that it was the colleagues of one K.Rudd who sacked him, not the mining industry.I work in mining and we spend millions on enviro compliance. All mines also have to put up a bond, which is refundable on cleaning up after closure, same as a rental bond.Well if Swan and Gillard are that weak that they allowed themselves to be "kicked into submission", as you put it, then that is their fault for being weak and failing to sell their side to us citizens.
We are so much better off without them.You're right. Our guvvament should have took advice on making tractors and cars from the leaders of the former Soviet Union. Ever hear of Yugo? Man, what a fantastic ride......How about the guvvamnet bans that rotten "foreign investment" altogether. Then, we will all get our fair share - of zero, because we lack the capital in this country to make all of these projects happen. And then we can all feel good about keeping that rotten foreign capital out, yeah!
And how about we ban the banks seeking foreign capital to lend to us so that we can buy stuff beyond our means? Yeah, that's one way to solve our current account deficit.A lot of poor people I've seen take no interest in improving themselves, and resent those who do,.You're right. It's a pity that Labor's media control legislation didn't get passed. That way us plebs could get the skinny on jus how great they truly were......Ah, what might have been...You're free to bank elsewhere.S without shareholders, where's the capital come from to start a business?It's meant to make you want to get off it by getting a job.I say shame on all those previous guvvaments that propped up that industry using OUR money. Sure it was great if you were an unskilled person getting reasonably good money at the factory, but all taxpayers had to pay, and all car buyers were forced to pay tarrifs.
What right does anybody have to expect that taxpayers will basically guarantee their jobs? I work in mining and I assure you that nobody gives a rats' when people in our industry get laid off.Sorry, but the industry pays what it legally has to, if you don't like that rate then complain to the guvvament - do you pay more tax than you legally have to?
Sorry to disappoint you, but some sectors are doing well amongst the gloom, although plenty on here wish it weren't so.
And I agree that unskilled people in mining could get hurt in a downturn, but those of us with degrees can move on.
And we get no tarrif protection, we compete on a world market, unlike the car industry for most of its life.
Nobody every had to pay more for our product because of guvvament policies to favour unions.Correction - I meant that the industry pays the tax that it legally has to.Sorry, but every worker on 457 here is paid full rate, there are no barefoot guys using picks, if that's what you think. Please direct me to the drill and blast engineers, electrical engineers, metallurgists and so forth unemployed because these guys are here - they are open to apply for jobs out here.
I'm not aware of any grants my place gets, although we donate a lot to the community, employ apprentices and the like.I was speaking just in my industry, not in society at large. No doubt in a program that big there would be fraud, but that's not enough reason alone to stop it.And another thing re: 457 visas - the guys here, certainly in mining, need to have the relevant degrees and trades. Aussies are quite free to come and move out here, but many won't because it's the sticks. That's fine, it's a free country, live where you want, but don't complain about some foreigner with a degree or trade getting 150K because he or she was prepared to move here.
And also, any Aussie is free to go and, God forbid, under their own initiative and at their own expense, complete a degree that an employer is prepared to pay you well for and then you can count up those big bucks....You have some good points, but if a site needs a degree qualified electrical or mining engineer they need it now, not years later when a graduate becomes self-sufficient.
I hope your job search works out, you have to network, and if you have that degree that is a path to enter the industry.Cheers for the reply. I don't doubt that there's abuses. In larger employers, it seems not to happen. My wife is in HR in mining and there's huge red tape for getting a 457, in our area anyway.
I agree that the no-dole-for-6-months is too much.I agree that it stinks that Abbott gave Cadbury that money. And whether puuting cars together is skilled or unskilled is irrelevant - people don't want to buy them.
And the industry has always been propped up by a combination of tariff protection and direct subsidy. It never stood on its own two feet.
Why should workers in car industry be protected, whilst the guy at the shop gets laid off and it's wellll......report to Centrelink.You are not taking account that consumers will have more money to spend because they can buy cars cheaper, and those purchases will contribute to economic growth.Tarrifs force consumers to pay more - you have not addressed that point. I don't want to pay more for a car because the union wants unsustainable conditions.
And the union is free to make a takeover offer for those car factories, they'll be just sitting there doing nothing once closed, and pay the people that big union money......Negative gearing was around when Labor was in office too. And you're not taking into account the opportunity costs present when inefficient industries are propped up by the guvvament......we all have to pay more so a lucky relatively few can have jobs that pay relatively well for little or no skills (or at least skills that are useless outside that factory).Oh I see. The difference is I've studied economics, and don't just go by "the vibe".Well, you're an expert on mining are you? I work in it, and all operations have to put up an environmental bond so that the placeis cleaned up if the company bails. We spend millions on environmental compliance.Rising unemployment is bad, but it still beats Keating's 11% unemployment after the "recession we had to have". Although I'm sure the luvvies will find a way to spin it that it's not.
And before you answer, it was NOT Howard who changed the definition of "employed" to 1 hour per week worked, that is International Labour Organisation, a universal measure.Let's have another 20/20 summit.The debt is low relative to rest of world but Laba started with zero debt, and it was rising at the most rapid rate in the world (G20 report)Ah yes, Dick Smith who got rich off of consumer spending (and good luck to him for doing so, don't get me wrong), telling the plebs to be grateful for what they've got, and to expect their children to have it worse than them. The irony is exquisite. Hey Dick, don't forget to wave to me from your helicopter when en route to your private jet.You could also say that having it is selfish. Because that child's life quality could be severely diminished, and who will care for it when you die? How will a severely impaired 45 year old Down adult feel when his mother dies and strangers have to take him in?
Because the non-impaired understand what's happening, upsetting though it is. The severely impaired don't comprehend death.It's a tough ethical issue, but as a conservative I lean toward the personal freedom angle and that the couple has a right to choose to terminate (we had that scan a few months back and it was OK). I don't want the guvvament deciding who can't have this scan.
And if terminating a Down kid is wrong because nature wanted it that way, then IVF treatment is wrong.Define "predatory lending" in the context of a country being a borrower. If you shaft your creditors, you had better not need more borrowing for a while.I serioulsy hope Labor doesn't get back in, but when they inevitably do, I seriously hope it's not until after the carmakers have closed up completely. Otherwise, there will be huge inducements of guvvament (our money) "incentives", to "save" jobs that were never competitive without tariffs and  direct subsidies propping them up.Show me an alternative to fractional reserve lending. It seems to have served our society mostly pretty well.I'd prefer to be able to buy a car for much cheaper by importing it, and not being forced to pay inflated prices due to union demands that unskilled workers get pay rises well over inflation.Point 3 of yours is known as "financial repression", and it makes for huge distortions in the economy. It drives down the interest rate that the guvvament pays, which may sound good (at least for polatishans), but it misprices risk - and if there's one thing we should learn from the GFC, it's that guvvament bonds are anything but risk-free (Greece being the most extreme example).
Let the borrower determine how much interest it demands from any society before loaning it money. That way, societies will be forced to give serious thought to how much debt they want the guvvament to run up for "essential services".Labor guvvaments running banks? Read up on the state banks in SA and Vic that went belly-up. No thanks.Well given that they are all healthy, I'm sure it won't come to that.....How do they have more control? The richest person in our society gets one vote, same as the poorest.Sounds great, but who gets to decide what's "ethical and moral"?Years ago I was involved in building the M7 in Sydney. The entire 40 km length has dedicated bike path, including over all bridges. The cost of this was something like 50 million, with street lights every 20 metres.
And you know how many cyclists I saw using it (although I admit I left Sydney years ago). Zero. None. However, there were plenty of cyclists who insist on riding on the shoulder of the road.
There was tens of millions added to the cost of the jobs, to enable cyclists to have a path to themsleves for 40 kms - and then they don't use it, have to use the road. That really annoyed me, and I'm sure many others.
I don't see how closing lanes that thousands of drivers could use, to make a few dozen cyclists happy, equals a net good result.
And yes, I loathe the Greens.I have no love for cyclists, but can you imagine the extra bureaucracy that that would entail?
Would a 6 year-old pedalling around their quiet cul-de-sac need a license?Our 4WDs see lots of dirt up here in the bush, and have great big roo bars on them whic you'd be foolish not to have up here.
Now, if I go the city and some cyclist runs a red light and we collide, then don't blame me.Define "ordinary people". Negative gearing is hardly the preserve of the rich. I know many people whose income is middling, and do it. Not every negative gearer has a private jet.Fair enough, but a tax like that will hurt poor people much more than rich, because they spend a far geater proportion of their income on food and fuel.Exactly. But to listen to the comments one here tell it, there is no such thing as "good life choices". Or bad ones, for that matter. No, none of us have control of our lives, we are all at the mercy of events - maybe even a deity? The commenters here all believe that if you're doing well, well then, you must have ripped someone else off, you don't "deserve" it. And if you're poor, well, that's not through any stupid decisions or laziness on your part, heavens no. It's that rich guy who stepped on you - yeah, and they probably negative gear as well. How dare they use a legal tax strategy, it's unconscionable!Diamonds are expensive because people want them in excess of what the supply is. Simple really, and that logic applies to anything that can be bought or soldAnd your proof of this what exactly? I work in mining and I can assure you that we want to maximise our production at every opportunity of the commodity we produce.Your logic only works if every single developer was in collusion to prop prices up, or there were only one devloper who does not have to worry about a competitor supplying to a customer where that first developer won't. Clearly neither is the case.It is nice to see you attributing at least some blame to where it rightly belongs, to the guvvament. And don't forget how many conditions are put on the inclusions in your house that the guvvament insist on, that weren't there 40 years ago. These conditions contribute a lot to cost.I had a negatively geared place when I was 21, so it's not a bias against young people. Now I have three positively geared places.
I agree that people betting on prices only going up is dangerous, but if you intend to own the place long term it matters not what you could sell it for today.
Another week, another negative negative gearing article. The articles are boring, but contain some truth, but I find the hysterical rants in the comments section entertaining.Capewell - thanks for pointing out that I and others received no bailout, I / we pay ouyr own bills. And if it makes people feel better, those properties now positively gear and wife and I pay tax on the profits.
I'm sorry if that offends people, that the tax I now pay goes to all that great guvvament stuff such as the free heroin injecting rooms, billions for climate change rent seekers, etc.But he was right to say I and others received no bailout. The judgmentalism and assumptions on this site are really something else.Hi, but I respectfully disagree on your thesis. I have the day off today, and took my dogs to the hydrowash to clean them up - have I thus done something bad because by adding to demand, I afforded the vet the ability to charge more, and thus denied some unfortunate soul out there a dog hydrowash because that marginal price increase, when it inevitably comes, put the dog hydrowash just out of reach?
As well, whilst I was out I bought some barbecue sauce and posted a package. Same question - Does my buying the sauce and posting the package make those things more unaffordable to someone else?Because it's the same principle for anything that can be bought and sold - supply and demand. Only if there is a fixed, stagnant supply of something does one person's gain become another's loss. But more houses are being built, more bottles of sauce made, so me or you buying them does not shaft someone else out of an opportunity - they are free to bring their money along and make a purchase or an offer, nobody's stopping them.....I won't cry when negative gearing is removed, as my properties are all positively geared. In fact I'd welcome it, because if it were removed then many landlords would go broke and have to sell cheap, and those of us with capital could buy them cheap. Sounds good to me.You didn't answer my question about whether me buying the sauce means somebody else can't afford their own sauce. And how am I wrong about anybody being free to make an offer on a house, or walk away and say "I'm not paying that"?Show me one food item whose price is controlled by the guvvament - I am not aware of any price controls in this economy on food - shops charge what they want, and we accept or reject their offer.Nobody handed me a job, I never used any connections, all done on the strength of my resume. Sorry if that bothers you. And as for money, it's called saving. You know, denying yourself immediate pleasure because you care about your own future, not expect the guvvament to provide for you."People without those traits". Pardon me, but self-motivation is in all of us, it's just a question of degree and to what you're motivated to do.
