Some people only care about now, some ¦know how to say "no" to themselves because they have to get up early and work study. It's your choice.
ëxámplê óf ñôÑ ÂSîï Çäràçþêrß
Some people are prepared to move to where the jobs are, to leave their comfort zone and take a chance - some are not, that's their choice. Some people are prepared to wait until they can afford children before they have them etc.
Do you see my point? And even if you ¡ believe that you have no control over your life, what exactly is the guvvament supposed to do about that anyway?Well, like everyone else, my parents paid tax that contirbuted to my education and infrastructure in general. I paid fees for my degrees, and my wife pay more tax than 98% of the population (according to guvvament figures). My choices to study certain things got me the qualifications that got me the job, likewise my wife.
I don't think I ever asserted that I live in a vacuum or island completely apart from your society, so I don't really see your point.....or what it has to do with negative gearing - perhaps you could enlighten me?OK. I thought it was me doing all that uni work, taking whatever rotten job I could get to pay the rent, staying in whilst friends went partying, and so forth. But no it wasn't. I'm not sure who it was, but it wasn't me, so you say. Thanks for setting me straight anyway. I'm very confused now....I'll also just point out that the properties are now positively geared, hence we pay the guvvament tax. To keep this ABC website going, among other things.I agree that I was lucky, we all are lucky, who were born here. But one person's gain in our society does not make someone else worse off. By your logic, when you buy food, you have denied someone else a meal.I'm sorry but if the sharemarket makes a big move up and Gina Rinehart's paper wealth increases 2 billion in a month, we haven't all just been shafted out of 2 billion. And vice versa, if her paper wealth shrinks by 2 billion we haven't all gained 2 billion.Your logic is flawed, but even if we accept, then it's simple - stay out of the market and get rich. Where does wealth come from then, if everyone in the market is losing?For years now, I have been wondering what the difference between "speculation" and "investing" is. I have never yet seen an explanation. It seems to be all in the eye of the person damning that rotten "speculator".....Well you should be happy if it collapses, because then you will be able to buy at knock-down prices. That's how markets work.Well, negative gearing has been around for decades, and housing was much more affordable then. So how is negative gearing to blame?So is a seller supposed to reject a superior offer from a foreigner and accept a lower Australian's offer, because he "owes" his fellow citizens. Sure, that'll happen.You forgot to add "democratically elected" in you character assessment.Oh I don't know. The sellers who realise big profits gain, and they pay tax on those profits if it were an investment property.And in many countries, you get to deduct interest on your primary residence, including America. Shouldn't that cause even worse house price inflation?So what are people supposed to do? Think that prices will go up, so I WON'T buy today?In America, you get to negative gear your primary residence.Like those experts from the IPCC who told us that Himalayan glaciers will have vanished by 2035 if "warming" continues. Mmmmm hmmmm.I expect politicians to be wrong on most things, so the less we expect from the guvvament, the more we ask the guvament to stay out of our lives, the better off we'll be because the less they try to do then the less they can mess up.So if their is no profits being made, and thus no tax being paid, and thus no guvvament revenue, where is all this welfare money going to come from?Exactly. "Honest" doesn't belong in the same sentence as Clive Palmer, unless preceeded by the suffix "dis" or the words "he is not being".Politicians' personal financial affairs are supposed to be open to scrutiny, so that we can tell if they are passing legislation to benefit themselves financially.
They know that when they run for office, and if they don't want to subject themselves to that scrutiny then don't run......Not that left people ever stereotype though.....And what does wealth have to do with this article, exactly?Ah yes, the much-vaunted "experts". How dare the guvvament fail to take into account the rent-a-quote talking heads' views on any given subject!
Every axe-grinding luvvie is all too eager to get on TV and tells us plebs how it is and why us plebs are wrong. Gillian Triggs, Julian Burnside, Clive Hamilton, Tim Flannery, Cate Blanchett et al.....we are not interested in your views, if we were we would have returned Rudd and locked in another 2020 summit (remeber that, Australia's "best and brightest", crying in unison on any and every subject - why isn't the guvvament doing more about.........).
Sorry luvvies, wait until the next Labor guvvament for your "expert" opinions to be counted.Yes, it's a pity that that "Public Interest Media Advocate" (such a non-threatening title) of Mr Conroy's didn't come into being. That way us plebs could get the "truth", approved and verified as 100% accurate and fair by the all-knowing, all-wise, impartial and benevolent "independent" government-supplied regulator.If you're worried that the rest of the world is focusing on us and what we do with asylum seekers, then tut-tutting over it then you needn't worry. I was in America for six weeks a little while back, and you know how much I heard about Australia, in any context? ZERO. So don't worry about the rest of the world thinking ill of us, they have other things to worry about, I'm sure.I wouldn't worry about some tinpot "media consultants" poll. The sample is self-selecting and thus questionable as whether it is truly a representative sample. You have to go out of your way to do the online poll, it doesn't come to you like a traditional landline phone poll.No, the building industry got a huge free kick with that bogus "school halls" rip-off, charging way over the odds because it was a guvvament job. Let the building industry profit using its own abilities, not gifts from the guvvament (paid for buy us who pay tax).Agree 100%. But not understanding is never a barrier to the luvvie whingers on here shouting from the rooftops about the "unfairness" of it all.I don't want pathetic tenants either. Do you eat food? Well then you're stealing it from someone else by your logic, someone is going without because of you.The point is that she is trying to provide for her future - something that many on these blogs just cannot abide. And nobody forces tenants to rent anything, they can rent or reject any place.
And if their all paid off, then there is no negative gearing.Class war - yes, and this blog is the most hate-filled commenst I've seen. All rich people bad, all poor people are poor because they were exploited / unlucky / "left behind" etc...Define "overpriced". Something is worth whatever someone will pay. Whether that person is stupid for paying that much is that person's problem.But people can and do pay the asking price, hence to that person it is not "overpriced".Well, Labor had six years to act and did nothing. Labor wound it back in the 80s and soon reinstated it....OK, The Drum, we get it - you don't like negative gearing. You don't have to have several articles per week explaining it.The criticism of negative gearing for driving up house prices ignores the fact that housing was much more affordable in the 80s, when negative geraing already existed.
Blame state guvvaments for not releasing enough land, and for imposing that many conditions on building that you have to spend a fortune complying.
But I'm sure that the luvvies will damn me for pointing that out though........Homeowners gain as well.It's pretty simple - if you're a homeowner, your asset has gained. Not complicated.
And if I eat today, is that taking the food out of a future child's mouth?Yes, John Howard put a gun to peoples' heads and ordered them to fill their house with credit-financed stuff, buy new cars, take extravagant holidays.....Debt slave? A slave has a master, someone in charge of them. Anybody taking on debt did so voluntarily.So are you incapable of deciding what you will do, you only act when a politician tells you. That seems to be the mentality on here. Me, I take responsibility for my life.And why are rising house prices bad? They're very welcome if you own one or several. That capital gains tax concessions applies to any asset, not just real estate, and therefore leads to higher share prices. Yet higher share prices are universally considered a good thing. So why is rising house prices so bad?
And if there is a big crash and people who paid top dollar for a house at the worst time get hurt, well so what? That's life, you know the risks when you bought, and if you didn't then you should have.$150 increase? That'd not much. And poverty is not pre-ordained, we all have the same opportunity in life to study and better ourselves.Nobody is forced to have kids, stay living where there isn't education (and distance education is huge these days), "drive" is a personal quality, and if you don't have it then it's your fault. I could go on but, it'd be boring.Labor tried to subsidise "affordable housing", and it wasted huge amounts of money and the main beneficiaries ended up being foreign students.
Thanks again Labor.People, not land? So do you want me to buy a person?Policies are set by the guvvament, not the navy.Murdoch employees get one vote in our elections, same as Gina Rinehart, yourself and myself.
Your proof of Murdoch corrupting politicians is where, exactly?Sorry John Connor, but we're not accepting what you say anymore. People are sick of the climate catastrophists' constant "end of the world is nigh" proclomations.
Maybe like your namesake, send someone back through time to save your cause.....How do you mean "protect our way of life"? People pass / passed judgment on Australian-made goods every time that they buy a cheaper import, often as good or better quality. Then, it seems many people lie to survey-takers and say that they'd be all too happy to pay more to "support" Australian businesses.
Hence the disparity between the "I care about Holden / Qantas / aluminium plant / whatever declining Aus manufacturer hit the wall this week" and the ever decreasing share of sales that company achieves.
Just like the liars who boast that they'd be very happy to pay more tax, but never give anything to charity of their own free will......I'm always hearing about "sustainable", but I'm not clear what it means in this context - could you enlighten me?Exactly, good comment. You could say the same for any of Labor's complaining - why didn't you fix it?
I'll make a prediction at the reply - but we were so busy wih the financial crisis......Lighten up Gwen, it's a comment page not a court. Treat this as post-modernism - that is, if I believe it, then that makes it so.Yes, you're morally superior because of your views.I'm really sick of hearing about this subject. It must be time for another "real estate is expensive article", with hundreds of comments decrying negative gearing, it feels like such a long time since we had one.So would you have preferred it for the top tax rate to stay at 48.5% (including Medicare levy) above 50K like it was until as recently as 2003?
The guvvament takes more and more each year through bracket creep, occasionally they were adjusted.
Do you consider 50K to be so wealthy that the guvvament should confiscate half your money above that?There's a very solid reason why the private sector won't touch those projects........they don't want to waste their money.That's how innovation happens, through competition. And what about government - it constantly seeks to grow and intrude, get involved in every aspect of your life, it never stops, it never quits, and it's always coming back for more.
I think of government as being like "The Blob" - it grows to take up every available unit of space.You're also ignoring that you give money to business freely, you're free not to use them, to use their competitor. Try telling government "No thanks, I'd prefer to keep my money".Had Labor not dismantled the previous successful system, the Malaysia solution would have been unnecessary.I guess the thing about it though, that everybody seems to have missed in their "I hate Abbott" fury, is that public transit is a state, repeat STATE guvvament responsibility. So, the states are free to spend as much or as little as they want on public transit.
Response?And do the office buildings have showers for their workers when they arrive stinking from their ride?
And it could be difficult to keep your suit pressed when it's in a backpack, wouldn't it?
Bike lanes, pffffft. Inconvenience thousands to keep a few greens-voting, luvvie whingers happy.Well, I don't think I'd be the only one objecting if someone just rode 10 kilometres in 43 degree heat and couldn't shower and we had to spend the day with them at work.
And it may not be a suit you wear, but it won't be the bicycle clothes you wear that you work in, so suit or not, you still need a shower.It could be hard not to sweat on a 43 degree summer day, that's all.So report this corruption to the relevant authorities, disclose your evidence. Or is it just "the vibe"?Hi there
It's not our debt level relative to others that matters - we don't have to pay back Greece's or America's debt, they do. 
So what annoys me, and a lot of others, is our debt now relative to our own recent past. You know, how just 7 years ago we had tens of billions in the bank, and now Labor racked up a cool 300 Billion debt - that's what galls me the worst.
And as for this much-vaunted alleged "infrastructure" we're supposed to cheer about, the road from my little mining town to the nearest big town is just as potholed as it ever was. I don't see this supposed big infrastructure improvement (although I have no reason to enter school grounds, so I can't see a grossly overpriced school hall, so maybe I'm being a little unfair).
And this "but you had to have deficit spending to keep the economy growing" argument fails to take into account that the Reserve Bank started raising rates at the end of 2010. So, if that spending hadn't taken place, they would have kept rates low, which would have its own stimulatory effect - not least weakening our currency which would make exports competitive).
And by the way, I trust the Australian, the Wall St Journal and The Economist a huge amount more than any other "media" or "journalism".Well, you haven't addressed the contradiction between Labor's "stimulus" and the Reserve Bank raising rates, two forces working in opposite directions.
I'm happy to be corrected if I'm looking at it the wrong way.Thank you, but I'm aware of who they're owned by and choose to spend my money on them. Unlike the ABC, who gets my money without my consent. But the ABC is never biased though, I suppose.Exactly Big Joe. I don't feel like paying for those school halls as I have no children, or those pink batts that killed people as I could see the program was dodgy and avoided taking the "freebie".It's not the road in the town, it's the road to the next big town. We pay our taxes same as everybody else out here, and a lot more than most, and have to drive hours to get to a mall (yes I know, online shopping can help).Says quite a lot - like what?And as for the people admonishing Abbott for not being "popular", remember tha Rudd was immensely popular (at least with the public, for a while, if not with his colleagues), and look at what happened to him.
It would be easy to be popular by throwing huge amounts of borrowed money around, but very damaging.Tax cuts are not government spending. To believe that, as the green-ABC-Fairfax triumvirate do, you have to believe that every buck you earn from work / business / investing belongs first to the government, and whatever they let you keep after confiscating their share is the benevolent government doing you a favour, being generous.
That great whinger Ken Henry complains about "tax cuts" Let's remember that Howard was a great and enthusiastic abuser of bracket creep, and as recently as 2003 every buck over $50K was taxed at 48.5%. So what Mr Henry seems to be advocating is that bracket creep just grows and grows and we pay more and more tax to the government so that they can give it to us.....and act as though they're doing us some kind of personal favour.Point me to this supposedly you-beaut, ultra-necessary "infrastructure". I'm afraid I can't see it.Sorry I didn't realise that Labor invented the post office post-2007. And as for all this Gonski and NDIS, it was never funded, so you can hardly claim credit for something that you didn't actually get off the ground.Good comment. And I remember that Ms Plibersek modestly gave herself and Labor "9 out of 10 for running the country" in that same interview.
I wrote to her to question this, and thank her on behalf of my first child, who arrives in September, for running up 300 Billion in debt that somebody has to pay back.
Oddly, she never replied, so I'm a bit disappointed, but that's life.....Well, no I haven't been brainwashed by shock jocks as I don't listen to them, I form my own opinions.
I find it intriguing that anybody who fails to swallow the Labor line is "brainwashed, ignorant, deceived, a sucker", according to many here. Has it occurred to you that people have a right to see the world differently then you?I disagree that the future's bleak for parties questioning climate change, people are just not open to being terrified by the "experts'" predictions (and that's all they are, estimates) of death and destruction.You are right about Plibersek's husband. I'm sure that he's just such a supremely talented individual that the department just couldn't live without him. The fact that he was appointed to the job by a Labor state guvvament, and he's married to a senior Labor politician had nothing to with it, alright?
Same as Anna Bligh's husband was so talented that he just had to be appointed to a 200K-plus a year job, the fact that he was married to Anna Bligh was irrelevant, alright?Sir, what's it like having a special insight that the "gullible", as you call them, don't have?Fair enough. Although I don't know if your self-description (self-praise?) of "common sense" is accurate, given that most disagree with you.Check the poll. I'm not saying polls are always right, but if you claim common sense then that, by definition, means it must be at least 50% +1.And meanwhile the consumer has never had so much choice for so cheap.....that's capitalism. If a company wants to send itself broke giving me deals, then be my guest.....But, but, .....I thought that that 18C we always hear about was meant to prevent this ever happening?
You mean some people still have free thought?It was an interesting, but typically Australian self-loathing. It seeks to criticise us when this whole event is not about us.The owner was rude and bigoted, but at least he was honest in expressing his views, however misguided.You are absolutely right. Here in my little mining town in NSW, I can give you a gem of an example. We buy a lot of stuff online, as you simply can't get it here.
When I order from Macys.com, it get shipped from a warehouse in Ohio, pretty much in the middle of America.
I see from the tracking data that it takes four days to get to Sydney, by a private courier.
Auspost brings it the rest of the way from Sydney, about 8 hours drive - and it takes four days!
So if there's anyone who wants to argue that the private sector isn't more efficient than the private sector - I just showed you otherwise.I live in a rural area and I agree with him. And farmers don't send food as an act of charity, they sell it.
And post services in the country are cross-subsidise by higher prices charged to city residents.I (we) get it at the market price. If the farmer is not able to cover his costs with what the customer is prepared to pay, then there is an oversupply of that product in the market.
Farmers will then reduce output until supply and demand is balnced - that's how an economy works.I want to get everything from the cheapest source - if that means China, so be it, if we can beat their price, I'll buy the local made.
I don't make purchasing decisions emotionally, I simply seek the best price.
I live in the bush too, and nobody's putting a gun to my head to stay here.I don't see what's self-centred about wanting the best value for my money - doesn't everybody want that? I have a kid coming, I have a duty to them to be able to provide the best for them - that means getting the most for my money.
If you want to pay more than you have to for things because you fell that you "owe" certain companies, then that's up to you.Well I'm not really sure how me seeking value for money hurts a worker. It's up to business to be efficient if they want my business.
And you could argue that by demanding value for money, I thus have money left over to spend on other things, from companies that will employ more workers.
As I said, if you feel you "owe" businesses your custom without them owing you the best deal, then feel free to give them your money - I won't be.
I'd prefer to put extra money away for my retirement and my kid's future then pay Holden too much for a car I could buy cheaper imported.Define "taking control of our destiny".Every person and company, acting in their own rational self-interest within the law, will produce the most efficient economy.
Guvvament never knows best, and thus shouldn't make economic plans, except for to reduce regulations and trade barriers.I will never understand this mentality that guvvament is somehow always honest, competent and purely concerned for your / our interests. Where does it come from?
Take a look at the parade of corrupt politicians being paraded through the NSW Corruption Commission.
Take a look at the Craig Thompson and Peter Slipper scandals. Look at the massive waste in that pink batts and school hall "stimulus". How do you rate those for trustworthiness?
And the good thing about the private sector is that if you don't like what they're selling, or their service or price, you can just refuse to give them your money.
Try telling the guvvament you don't want to give them your money and see what happens.Too much of "public service" seems to mean massivley bloated bureaucracies, way too many employees, over-inflation pay rises for no extra productivity, and a level of job security that private sector personnel can only dream of.
It's a stinking deal for taxpayers. I don't really give a rats who brings my parcel that I ordedred, and if the guvvament were to step away, then a private company would step up, then a competitor would seek to outdo that first company, prices would come down due to competition, that's how the economy works.And why does it make such big profits? Because it's run efficiently, by private interests.
Think about how much pay it took to buy a QANTAS flight 30 years ago, or make a long distance phone call versus now?
There's two.Why? So they can employ loads more people than they need, and threaten to strike when they regain the monopoly to force spineless polatishans to grant over-inflation pay rises for no extra productivity?
Er, no thanks. If you feel that services would be cheaper if only the guvvament ran them, I beg to differ.
Things can only be cheaper by the guvvament supplying it is if it makes up the losses from general revenue - OUR taxes, or money that they borrowed, which OUR TAXES will have to pay back.
Er, no thanks.I can't even remember the last time I needed a bank service I couldn't do online.I'm in the bush too and at lunch time at my PO, when I have to get a parcel from my PO box, two of the staff will be nowhere to be seen, one will be handling a queue that is going out the door.
They don't seem to have thought that they should stagger their breaks to allow for us plebs coming in on our lunch break!What's wrong with profits? Would you prefer an economy full of losses? Do you seek to profit from selling an hour of your labour? It's the same thing, you want to get paid for providing something that someone wants.Don't forget that Howard was a great abuser of bracket creep for the first half of his term, a lot of those so-called tax cuts were just handing back bracket creep. Are we supposed to have those brackets stand still so you get to the point where even a minimum wage earner pays the top marginal tax rate?
And what's wrong with people getting to keep more of what they earn? Why should the guvvament have first claim on every buck generated by the economy?
I agree that his spending was too big for a supposed "conservative". Small guvvamernt wasn't in his DNA. I don't think the tax cuts were a bribe, all the family benefits were but, making single people and childless couples subsidise the welfare state.The brackets barely moved through the 80s and 90s. By 2003, the top rate kicked in at 60K, which at the time was 1.3 times the average wage. 1.3 times the average wage ain't rich!
And even if the brackets did move faster then inflation (which they didn't over the long term) - what's wrong with that?
If people were allowed to keep more of their own money, then less people would need welfare! But no, that just wouldn't do.Pfffft. My little town saw nothing of that stimulus. When people in mining here were getting laid off en masse in the GFC, there was no photo-op minister in a hardhat throwing billions around (and nor should there have been, you have to roll with the market economy, but I'm pointing out that they were selective about who gets what).
Perhaps the homeowners whose house was burned down in that pink batts scheme, for instance, might not have such a rosy view of the "stimulus".
All stimulus does is pull future consumption into the present - that's it.Fair enough, but your house loan or mine are our problems - not everybody elses, unlike the national debt.I'm not really sure how you give someone who earns 25K a $100 a week tax cut, given that then they wouldn't have even paid that much tax.Are you aware that inflation struck 27% shortly before she came to office? Should inflation have been allowed to run rampant, so that then everyone can demand big juicy pay rises? Then inflation gets worse, but everyone wants big pay rises to compensate......
Meanwhile, everyones' savings are destroyed.
Inflation hurts poor people much more than wealthy.Low debt hmmm? And silly me here was worried about 300 billion in gross debt.I work in mining (sorry, I know that's offensive to the Drum Crowd). I assure that that stimulus did nothing for our industry. But then, we aren't a big union industry, so as far as Laba is concerned we can go to hell.We get no subsidies. I mean we in mining. It was our industry that stimulated the economy, through market forces, that made the dollar strong and allows people to have more purchasing power than ever before. Do you understand that? Sure, maybe a lot of that money gets spent overseas but that's freedom isn't it? People can spend their money better than the guvvamnet can.You're right, I was fortunate to avoid layoffs but those who don't put aside are stupid. Same as how people in our country who think we can just keep spending and never have to pay the bill....Read about more people being lifted out of poverty than any time in human history, mate.Yes, it sure was great if you were one of these beloved "tradies", wasn't it?
So why do they, and failed car factory employees, get all the love?
Because they are union people.You know, it's not like he spent his OWN money. We all pay it back, with interest, for decades. And there is an opportunity cost, more interest paid today means less for hospitals, defence, and so on.Agree 100%. Anyone would think Laba spent their own money.I'm glad Swan was prepared to "back himself". It must be so nice to have hundreds of billions of OTHER peoples' money to throw around, and then stand in the spotlight and talk about how you "saved" Australia.
And what the Laba propaganda always ignores is how they over-stimulated the economy, thus causing the reserve banks to raise rates, thsu taking money out of peoples' pockets. They never explain that fiscal and monetary policies were pulling opposite directions.
You are right, rates were rising due to the strong economy, which is normal.
But my point was that rates could have fallen lower and stayed there were it not for that massive spending.
And if you think that stimulus is the answer always, how did America have a nearly trillion dollar spending binge, 0 interest rates for nearly six years now, and the weakest economic recovery post-World War 2? Family income is still lowere than pre-crisis, 5 years into there so-called recovery.I'll trust The Australian, The Wall St Journal and The Economist way more than I'll trust any other outlet, including ABC.
I happily give them my money.I agree that was a disgusting practice, but none of the publications I noted did that.You could say that about anyone in relation to anything. Guilty until proven innocent.Exactly. Remember Labor Senator Cameron fuming about the Murdoch press spreading lies about leadership tensions between Rudd and Gillard, all just "lies" we were told. And then a few days later, it was all proved true.We, the readers, scrutinize the Aus - if they don't provide quality, they won't sell. And as for having limited choice in the bush, where I also live, use the net to get whatever you want - there is no tyranny of distance in the choice of media now.I don't believe I mentioned who I vote for.Oh right, it's always nice to hear the tolerant, non-judgemental, non-stereotyping people on the drum. And I suppose that that means people like myself have no ideas except but for what shock jocks tell us, would that be right?Again, you are stereotyping, I made no mention of my politics.The Wall St Journal is not know for being a "fun", lighthearted read.Do you regularly read it? It has a paywall, so you must be paying for it to read it, which implies that you respect it enough to pay  for it.
Or, you don't read it, and are just assuming.
I find that it goes quite in depth on serious subjects. I don't think any outlet has covered the Ukraine crisis, or other recent controversies, and the world economy in general, any better.And who is a "thinking" person anyway. Only someone who see the world your way? It seems that way, given the bile that gets thrown around on this site (ironically, from left people who preach "tolerance" and "diveristy").
And the ABC will happily take my money too - the difference is though that they don't have to earn it.......7 can spend it however they want, it's their money.Who says that all poor sick and elderly consume ABC?I'm sorry but if those other newspapers were making a quality product, then they wouldn't be able to be "squeezed out", would they?Well there's this great new invention called the "internet", and it allows you to read papers from anywhere in the world, even Adelaide!If Australians are smarter, then they can't be manipulated by media, can they? They will carefully parse the news that they consume and decide for themselves. Hence, there is no master manipulator.Are you aware of how smug and superior that sounds - anybody who voted Coalition in 2013 couldn't possible have agreed with the policies, no - they are just plebs who were brainwashed.
So by your logic, if there were no Murdoch, not a single person would vote Coalition.
Well, I'm convinced, thanks for the insight.Show me one Labor scandal that the ABC focused on. It was actually The Australian that exposed the children overboard affair, the Dr Haneef business, things that embarrassed Libs. Then they embarrassed Labor re the Qld Floods.
The media adulation of Rudd and Gillard, at least at first, was cringeworthy.Hello
I tried to reply before but the moderators didn't let it through.  I like to come to this site and listen to the whingeing. I find it amusing that people here just cannot believe that the Coalition is in power, when everybody that they know votes Labor or Greens.So what are you saying, News Ltd is bad because people chhose to advertise in it?I have an answer - revive Julia Gillard's and Mr Conroy's idea to control the media.
Open up several more guvvament media outlets, so we can all hear much more about climate change and gay marriage - the two most important subjects in the world, and which, incidentally, I just never get tired of hearing about.Um, I don't think I ventured any defence of spin expenditure.....You can't judge on sales figures of papers alone, consider website paywalls. And consider what's happend to the Sydney Morning Herald, the "sophisticated" persons paper, it's in much worse shape. Evidently the luvvies are no longer prepared to shell out for it.....Even if the grievances were legit, how does people looting stores make a protest? It just seems like opportunistic criminality to me.
And why is it, that in these "protests" (looting binges more like), bookstores are never targeted? It's always electronics, booze, clothes.I'm saying that for some bad apples, it's just an excuse to loot. Get something for nothing. And many of the businesses destroyed are small businesses, belonging to people in the community.
Looting stores is not "sticking it to the man", it's just thuggish.Innocent till proven guilty - for the looters or the cop who shot?So what are you saying - unemployment is justification for looting? Why should the business owner be the focus of aggression, what did they do wrong?I fail to see how someone looting a store is a "victim". And I mentioned what they steal to highlight that it's just an opportunity to rob, for many. But yes, there are decent people peacefully protesting as well.I've spent plenty of time in America, and I assure there are just as many white / hispanic people picking food out of garbages in New Yorck CityWhat about the 40+% inflation, the shortage of basic goods, one of the highest murder rates in the world, plummeting currency, big unemployment? What about those?
And why is everybody who disagrees with you a sucker for propaganda?Privatisation is good. And it was Hawke Keating gov who privatised Qantas and Commonwealth Bank (both of which were long overdue).
And most privatised assets were state guvvament anyway.
It is highly condescending that you say anybody who votes a certain way has been duped - as if no thinking person could possibly agree with the policies.Don't like Qantas? Don't give them your money. Don't like CommBank? Bank elsewhere.
And as for Telstra - haven't you noticed how much telecommunications costs have come down in the last 15 years? How much did it cost to call long distance 15 years ago, versus now? Do you think such dramatic price drops would have happend if the guvvament still owned it? Your costs are cheaper in nominal and inflation-adjusted terms.
And if people want to see solar energy and wind farms, then they're quite free to invest in companies that provide that - nobody's stopping you.
Imagine how many Telstra employees there would be if it were still a union-run m onopoly - what 200 000?They were a union-run monopoly, of course they had loads of people hanging around waiting for something to do.
And I hardly think it's unfair that if you call someone to your house, then you're not home, that you get charged - why shouldn't you?So what are you saying - I should give some other bloke half my hours?You give someone half your hours then, I'm not.Doing it tough? Sub-3% inflation, unemployment 6.4%, home mortgage rates barely 5%.
Compare with the late 80s early 90s - 11% unemployment and 18% home mortgage rates, and double digit inflation.
If people self-report as "doing tough" with a 5% mortgage, picture the squealing at 18%.You are right on the rate, but how was it subsidised by the taxpayer?
It just goes to show that polatishans should never be allowed anywhere near interest rates. Neither of them had the guts to make the reserve bank independent when they were treasurer.And how many people lost their homes, thanks to those 18% rates?Was the economy stagnating whe Rudd got in? That's funny, my recollection is that rates were going up due to how strong the economy was growing.So let me get this straight - when the economy is growing under it's own steam when Howard was PM, with no guvvament stimulus, Howard deserves no credit.
But when Swan experiences the biggest mining boom in history, and throws hundreds of billions of borrowed money around, Swan deserves a medal.
And as for people being "bribed", people deserve to get to pay less tax - it's their earnings.
Unlike this borrowed money that people want to party with today, that the next generation will have to repay."His" success? I thought it was several hundred billion of OUR money.
My first kid arrives next month. I look forward to explaining to her that a 30 year bond that Mr Swan took out in 2009 will have to be repaid in 2039. It was critical for the school halls, you see.
I suppose that stimulus was great if you were a "tradie", who got to charge huge money because there was so much guvvament work, or a union member in a failing car plant.
I work in mining, saw a lot of people laid off, and the guvvament didn't give a hoot, I assure you.
But please, this talk the he "saved" us, it's a little bit rich.
And besides, remember when our reserve bank had to start raising rates at the end of 2010, because the economy was growing too quickly? They wouldn't have had to do that if that stimulus weren't so big. The Laba crowd never addresses that point.And sorry, but I work in mining, so that stimulus didn't benefit me at all - I saw loads of people in my industry lose their jobs, fortunately I kept mine, but there was no "Swanny" or Rudd in our town with hi-vis construction vests and hardhats to hand out hundreds of millions or billions of money.
Sheesh, anyone would think Swan reached into his own pocket and pulled out his own money - he didn't! And we ALL will be paying it for decades!No, my job was saved by the demand from overseas customers for our place's output. Nothing to with Mr Swan.The Chinese stimulus - nothing to do with Mr Swan. And I don't care about China's stimulus because I don't have to pay back their debt. And there is oodles of bad debt bubbling away under the surface in China.
