Ukraine is in a state of war.  People are not going to go through administrative procedures.  The logic of the Ukrainian was probably
1 - We dont have jets ¥
2 - That ¥ is a jet
3 - It is not ours ëxámplê óf ñôÑ ÂSîï Çäràçþêrß
4 - A jet that is not ours is our enemies
I doubt there is sufficient sleep during wartime and there is certainly going to be stress and fear.  In many ways it is predictable that he fired given the circumstances.Johnno, you are assuming all sleep deprived and stressed out rebels remember an international flight route.  Why?
Then you think rebels who do not want to be part of Ukraine would communicate with Ukrainian Air Traffic Control.  Why would rebels do that?  They do not recognize the Ukrainian government as having authority over them.  Communicating with a government they are fighting when a plane is approaching (which could be armed) is a ridiculous move.  
Civilians die during wars.  Civilian planes are not exempt.  It will be interesting to see what risk analysis was performed by airlines.  If the analysis is done by people who believe rebel groups communicate with small government departments whilst exchanging fire and not recognizing the government departments authority, there is very likely grounds for a law suit.And probably 300 drunk drivers made it home safely last night.  It is still a foolish move to drive home drunk or fly over an area of active combat.Russia has jets
Ukranian rebels do not.  Why would they assume the jet is on their side or innocent?Old Timer, how long does a bullet or missile take to reach you?
Less than a second.  
2-3 minutes is asking for an armed side to willingly kill themselves without causing any damage to the other side.  Its a ridiculous expectation for a rebel group to follow during a war.  
Plus, who in the rebels group would have this technology?  They are not part of Ukraine and would not communicate with the Ukrainian government on such a matter.  They are using hand held firearms, not well structured tanks, airplanes and government offices.  
Furthermore if any radar helps give away their positions, they furthermore wont use it.  
Knowing they do not have a plane means the plane in the sky is not theirs.  During a war, if something is not yours, it is most likely your enemies.  No need to risk dying hundreds of times just to confirm that.Im afraid you dont get it Old Timer
2-3 minutes in active combat.  You dont have 2-3 seconds.  
The idea that someone would spend that time and probably miss their target IF their target did not see them
AND willingly offer the enemy a free strike is ridiculous.  
Dont apply civilian sensibilities to an active war zone.  Any war plane 33,000ft in the air can still launch missiles or use spy equipment.  
In combat I expect many people to shoot first and ask questions later.  That is what occurred and will keep on occurring in combat zones around the world.  The only reason you hear about this one is because some Australians where killed.  If it was a Ukrainian school bus instead of a army jeep I doubt the ABC or any Australian media would have reported it.Why does no one speak of the other aspect.
Is it a smart idea to fly over a war zone?
Flying over a conflict where planes and helicopters have already been shot down is risky business.  If there is a war going on in a territory, wouldnt it be smarter and safer for aircraft to fly AROUND it?  What is the big need to enter Ukraine?
No one flies over North Korea for that reason.  In a war that has been going on for months, is it really unexpected that someone is a bit jumpy and shoots first before asking questions later?  
I am sure many Ukrainian civilians have died due to premature shooting in Ukraine.  
Malaysia Airlines may have been negligent due to its flight route decision.  I hope other airlines reconsider their flight paths.Did civilian aircraft keep trying to fly over Egypt and Libya when they where overthrowing the government?  Is anyone trying to fly over ISIS territory now?
There are armed groups in the world without planes.  I expect them to fire first and ask questions later.  They are active war zones.  
Anyplace in ongoing conflict or expressing ongoing hostility will need to be considered carefully before entering by land, sea or air.  
Fortunately all of North America, most of South America, half of Africa, most of Europe and most of Asia is safe for flying.  There are plenty of options available instead of flying overhead of groups armed with surface to air missiles, who lack planes and are fighting with their lives on the line.If other airlines also failed to consider safety, that dosnt make another airline better.  As far as I am aware, the legal excuse of "he did it too" has never worked.Yet Australia spies on its "friend" Indonesia.  
Is Israels biggest crime is fake passports, we should be far more concerned about the criminal syndicates that routinely forge them.  Its a small thing in global terms to forge passports.  
Palestine which voted in Hamas has armed training camps for various groups.  I think the possibility that Hamas is training a future Australian killer is a bit more concerning.Its worth noting that he does not wish to prohibit financial dealings with Palestine.  Just Israel.The words should be against the group that started firing missiles which lead the Israelis to fire back
It should be against the group that rejected the peace offer by Egypt.  
It should be against the group that uses human shields.  
It should be against the terrorist organization that is the government
Hamas.Israel and Palestine have been in conflict since Palestine existed.  Before that the UN created Israel and many people moved there.  
It is worth noting that no Israeli's claim to be refugees when fleeing to Palestine.  Yet there are Palestinians who claim to be refugees when fleeing to Israel.  Israel is a rare democracy in the middle east that was bombed before it told its troops to fight back in this war. 
Already Hamas (a prior listed terror organization) has rejected an Egyptian peace offer.  With some Palestinians firing from very public places, what is Israel meant to do?  
Trust the UN to sort things out?  The UN has condemned Israel more than all other nations combined.  Dictatorships, geonocide and sexism to the point of honor killings put together dont bother the UN as much as Israel.  
Israel occupying land always wrong.  Still, there is so much anti Israeli bias that Australia's refusal to call an area occupied hardly counters it.  At present only Israeli war crimes are being investigated.  I would have throught reports of missiles being launched from schools and from urban areas would have been investigated as well (if I didnt understand UN history that is).  
I completely understand why the Israeli politicians have told the UN to F off.RaysS, only due to lies from the left do some of the world believe that.  Our refugee program remains one of the highest in the world.  Now we also have decent criteria of what it takes to be a refugee so our refugee program may start to be full of actual refugees.RayS, there support is in temporary tented communities that are occasionally removed by the army.  Australia is a leader in permanent resettlement.  So about your last question.....ENH, lol
Then how come the lastest boat load went from India to SriLanka to Australia?
How come we get many from Iran which is not in war?
Australia is a top pick of countries when people choose to resettle.  The more we open our borders, the more the word will spread.If you are concerned about the amount of resources, you should be happy there is a cut back on immigration from the ALP's spending.  
The amount of resources has reduced.yank, it is illegal to lie about claiming asylum.  This is what many do.  Under the ALP we only needed to be 10% certain that they where telling the truth.  So many more than likely liars got it when people who had been waiting for a decade in UN camps didnt even get assessed.  
No one from the left is able to explain how that is humane.  At least with warped logic they can justify all the drownings their approach caused.There is no 100% in the world
Still, you are advocating filling limited positions with people that have next to no chance of being wrongly persecuted at the expense of those that are more certain if they return and have waited longer.Dave, even the ABC was publishing stories about how "bad" Morrison was to change the 10% to 50%.  I have no trust in ABC neutrality.  Still, are you claiming the ABC was lying?The arrivals in Australia where met with a 10% test and assessed first.  
Surely the arrivals by boat and plane believe they will get some advantage over UN camps.  If not they would certainly avoid paying people smugglers.  The fact that the advantage comes in the form of shorter wait times and better facilities is evident by the numbers and photos of UN refugee camps.  
I dont blame any person for trying to catch a boat to Australia under Greens or ALP because it makes sense.  What I blame is the weak and harmful approach supported by refugee advocates who ignore the near 50 Million UN refugees, the poorest refugees and the refugees that can not leave the country in which the suffer persecution.  
Simply by arriving in Australia's territory there is a demonstration of capacity that many do not have.  This should make them less worthy on an application process.  Still they will be pushed to the front of the line ahead of all the 50 Million in UN camps.lol, thats what the Greens and ALP thought.  Now that we arnt having hundreds of drownings every year and every second day arrivals are far closer to once every second month,
Its not the effect of the Liberal policy you are looking at here.The UN camps are far less resourced.  Shouldnt we try are remove people who have been there longer first?
Its strange I never hear about UN refugee camp residents performing self harm.  Why is that?  Mr Lake has come closest to the explanation with his concern that refugee advocates where encouraging self harm.BJA, try actually trying to debate instead of giving out labels.  
If you are keen to put yourself in peoples shoes try this scenario
You fled Libya and are in a UN refugee camp.  You have been there for six years without any country assessing you.  Richer people from Iran and SriLanka manage to pay criminals to jump ahead when they have not even been waiting for a year.  
There is still no education for your children, one doctor per thousand at best and you are living in a tent.  
What do you believe your impression of Australian boat arrivals would be? (understanding that you would lack TV and Internet to hear about it in the first place which we provide to boat arrivals)BJA, by accepting boat arrivals, you are effectively pushing back people in UN camps.  The fact that you believe your actions may include murder will hardly help the people in lands where they fear persecution.  They would then need to fear their fellow refugees.  
Its not making the situation better.  Supporting boat arrivals provides funds to criminal group (which may also perform murder) and believe you would kill in that situation adds a double whammy.  If this is what Australian policy ends up supporting, the policy is horrendous.  This was effectively the ALP policy as UN camps acceptance dropped to the lowest in over a decade.  
There is alot of good to be done by refusing any boat or plane arrival.MK, even if it is not absolutely stopped a few hundred lives saved per year, millions of dollars and the ability to start assessing UN refugees once again are all good things.  
Considering your staunch belief in the unrealistic, you may well believe you have that snake oil.Much like the rest of the ABC's anti border protection brigade, the fairer really means accepting more arrivals without proper checks or wait times compared to those else where in the world.Which is a lie of itself.  Let a country accept more asylum seekers on a per capita basis or even a total basis before they criticize.  
Only the US and sometimes Canada achieve that.  
The reason many overseas places hear of ill treatment is because for political reasons, the left in Australia want to make it a story.  Pity its not a story with international perspective regarding what other countries are doing and asylum seekers who have been waiting even longer.  
I would be interested to see the Australian Human Rights Commission compare this with UN Refugee camps.  If they perform better, the solution would appear to be setting up tents in a desert, cutting health staff, not proving any teachers and giving the same simple meal day after day.You mean the Americans that have the biggest refugee migration intake in the world?
You dont want Australia to accept the most in the world?  
Perhaps the Japanese are more to your liking when they accept next to none.  
Our New Zealand neighbors accept less on a per capita and total basis.  We could try copying them.  
Italy with only six days of protection and an approach that lets even more die at sea?
Which country do you believe is nicer?  I would be interested to know.The processing system for asylum seekers, like most government assessment is a joke.  
This one is even more of a joke as it has become political.  
Migration staff have been fired for giving too many negative assessments.  I have never heard of them being fired for giving too many positive assessments.Stu, how do we know an asylum seeker is who they say they are?  
Captain Ehad was declared a refugee when he was actually a people smuggler.  So was his family.  Each claimed the other was dead and they where found by the ABC living together.  Captain Ehad left on a commercial plane before a trial could begin.  His family is still declared as refugees despite a central part of their claim being a lie.  
Australia is inept at processing people without documents.I compare it to UN refugee camps.  No one in Australia calls those camps horrid.  May be time to downgrade to tents and remove running water.Astro, that claim of a lie is a lie in itself.  The UN refugee convention refers to illegal migrants.  
Even then, Australia can decide to call them illegal migrants if they breach Australian law.  
Examples of illegal migrants include Reza Barati (economic migrant) and Captain Ehad (people smuggler).  Both lied in their applications when they said they where fleeing persecution.  Both would have therefor broken Australian law which is illegal and where seeking to migrate thus making them both illegal migrants.If you want an example of the bad effects of illegal and unwanted migration to the previous inhabitants, just ask the Indigenous people of Australia.  
The current boat arrivals are largely illegal and unwanted.Fair would be assessing the ones who have waited longer in UN camps first.  What makes the boat arrivals illegal and unwanted is the fact that they are queue jumpers at best.  Many are liars and too many have gotten in when on balance they where not refugees under the 10% certainty test.  
Illegal and unwanted.  Select a person who has been waiting over half a decade in a UN camp tent any day instead of a boat arrival.Ben, only willingness to refuse to see the UN refugee convention place limitations on refugee migration and willingness to ignore the Australian migration act could lead you to still question how they are illegal.  
One of the many lies told by refugee advocates.Yet you dont trust Mr Lake (former director of centers), or Mr Morrison.  
Trust depends on lots of things.  The claims by Mr Lake be a condemnation and worthy of removing many charities if proven true.Trust depends far more  on who is confirming your beliefs.  You dont trust Morrison because his claims that many are not genuine refugees is against your belief.  His claim that it is more humane to refuse goes against a sense of instant gratification of giving.Review does not mean approve.  
It does not mean reject either.  
Review allows a choice.  The Senators where elected to consider what is the best course of action on proposed legislation.Interest of the nation in this article appears to be defined as "actions I agree with"
In the opinion of the Liberals, taking necessary steps to remove a harmful and useless tax (Carbon tax) surely would be in the national interest.  
Getting to know the parties that hold balance of power in order to pass legislation would be in the national interest.  
What is for the benefit of the nation is extremely debatable.  
I just dont know which one of her was real.  
A flipper on climate change, offshore detention, importance of budget surplus, inability to say why she removed Rudd?He already has.  Saving over a hundred lives a year and not putting the burden of debt onto children.I would have trusted Rudd to get the most mileage out of it.  His ego always shone through when traveling abroad.I believe he has some foreign posting position.  He was right to leave parliament after loosing the election and that whole Rudd Gillard Rudd thingWhen the first influx of asylum seekers arrived, the ALP should have taken action.  
When the first hundred, second hundred all the way to thousand plus died, something should have happened.  
That way an economic migrant (Reza's family admits he was looking for work) would have never put such a social and financial burden on Australia, never been in a center of others in situations like his and never been involved in a riot that ultimately lead to his death.  
Morrison and Abbott took action before this occurred to stop applicants from ever arriving in Australian detention in the first place OR drowning at sea.  In many years, perhaps those in detention will be in single digits once again.  
And please dont tell me the majority are refugees when we only need to be 10% convinced to grant them.  Its a status given when there could still be deep doubt about the status in the first place.  We have plenty in UN refugee camps to assist who have been waiting for far longer.By arriving in Australia by boat or plane, a person has demonstrated they have more financial means than many refugees.  
By arriving by boat they have shown they have financial means that many plane arrivals will not have AND  also have the ability to liaise with criminal networks.  
None of which makes them more eligible than people who have been stuck in UN camps for years.  
The Liberal party has always been against queue jumpers.  The only "safe passage" that the Greens would be happy with to Australia will effectively mean open borders.  This is something that at least the ALP never wanted.  It just didnt have the courage to make the morally necessary decisions.  
I am happy to accept genuine refugees.  The ones in the most danger are not the ones that arrive by boat or plane.  
The ones in the most danger can not afford or are physically unable to go to a place where they would receive such special treatmentFlamingGent
They are not half starved.  They have thousands of dollars to pay people smugglers.  Many looks obese.  The half staved cant travel via people smugglers to Australia as they do not have the cash.  They are not going to be assessed because boat and plane arrivals under the ALP took all the places.  
The only time I am hearing of "invasion" seems to be coming from those that want more boat arrivals.  Isnt it a lie when you put quotation marks around a word that was never said?
Who are you quoting?
The sentiment of your last two paragraphs may need reflection upon by yourself.  Just change the word right with left and "were full" to UN campsThe challenge is the left agreeing with it.  
The ABC never thought it was necessary to show pictures, names and history of all the other asylum seekers that drowned at sea.  
Over 1000 dead, not one tear about these deaths from the Greens.  The normal response from the individuals that put the causing policy in place which changed deaths from a few a year to well over a hundred is that it is a red herring and no one really cares.  
Strange how some deaths are worth caring about but others are not.You realize all the current offshore processing centers where opened by the ALP dont you?
If you find detainment distasteful there are basically two options
1) Open borders, preventing the whole detainment process and encouraging economic refugees the world over to come
2) Detering people from arriving in Australia to claim asylum by offering no benefit over the UN refugee camps.  
We are still offering many benefits.  Strangely the human rights bodies never bother assessing the UN camps, yet will look at Australia's on a routine basis.  We are closest to 2.  Much better for the current citizens than open borders.@Forrest Gardener
You find the necessity of detention centers funny?  The ALP closed all offshore centers and then was forced to reopened after tens of thousands where arriving.  
And there is anger from the left that the right dosnt care.  Hypocritical, not funny.Peter, is there any other topic where you consider the person whos decisions cause the deaths of hundreds from a certain group every year as the non racist?
Look at the numbers.  There was over half a decade where no deaths as sea occurred under Howard.  There is a statistically significant difference when the numbers jump up from zero to a thousand + over a similar time period.  
The fact that this corresponds with border policy changes would make it a huge coincidence for it to be anything else.  Changes in global refugee numbers did not increase a thousand fold.  
Already the Liberal government has almost completely prevented at sea drownings and boat arrivals.  Policies have an impact.  Ignoring the global ramifications of border policies demonstrates the lack of morals that exist by the ALP and Greens.These "gulags" which people are free to leave, include free recreation, healthcare, education and decent meals (you have no idea how offensive you have been to people who have lived in gulags) where created by the ALP out of necessity.  
They are not being treated inhumanely.  The ones being treated inhumanely are the people still stuck in UN refugee camps, whom have waited longer and have far worse facilities.  
Any sympathy for them, or do you prefer people who have shown financial capacity and ability to work with international criminals?
I am still waiting for a word on the ABC about the thousand plus that drowned at sea.  If each name could be mentioned as much as Rezo's
OR, if we could have a candle light vigil for each of the dead individually in three years time I will be focusing on the death of an economic migrant whom broke Australian law and ended up in an ALP designed facility where all of lives essentials where free and guaranteed.  
Instead you focus on a person who arrived illegally in Australia (not a refugee as looking for work), had every opportunity to leave and was part of a group that decided to riot and routinely abused staff.  My sympathy will remain with those who have far less choice and on repeated instances of death which go unaddressed.Have you seen any UN refugee camp?  The UN would be failing to meet its own requirements.  People in those camps wait far longer than they do in Australia.  Why is that group ignored?  
The UNHCR is a pointless and political organization.  Much like the UN's condemnations where the majority are focused on Israel (seriously, I thought North Korea, FGM, child marriages and dictatorships would be a bit higher), the UNHCR serves no practical point and due to political views should be ignored by Australia.  
UNHCR has no solutions, it has no respect for a countries democratic will and has no responsibility to fund the processes it wants.On the ABC, and Liberal leader would be deemed an embarrassment to Australia.  
Having secured Free Trade Agreements with some of our major trading partners, increased US investment in Australia, almost removed deaths at sea as an international issue.  There has been an error of jargon regarding Israel and inherited problems regarding spying on neighbors and international people smuggling inherited from the ALP.  
Overall there has been a significant improvement in Australia's international relations.If you are concerned about world play instead of results, I see how partisanship can build a concern.  
A UN resolution was passed in such a short time with all countries on side which was lead and drafted by Australia.  Australia must have said far more right than wrong.I hope the Dutch and Australians have better things to consider.  If not, both countries have things better than ever before.  
The words used are nothing in comparison to the sentiment which is again nothing in comparison to the actions taken by both countries.Generality, you obviously circle yourself in hate if you have only met Jets and Arabs who hate each other.  
Get out of it.  Its not healthy to you or others.The 1600 is a very low deathtoll in a war.  It shows that decisions have deliberately been made not to bomb everything that moves.  
If Hamas (which governs no Jewish people) is ruling a country that is facing situations like the Jews (and others) on trains, you are kidding yourself and showing your anti-semitism.   
A war that was sparked by the death of Three Israeli teenagers, which continued when Hamas refused an Egyptian peace offer whilst Israel accepted and continued after a cease fire broke down in Israeli territory.  
There where many options to stop the fighting.  Instead the decision to crowd civilians in streets that have specifically warned of bombing occurred.  Hamas is responsible for many of the 1600 deaths its country felt.All Israel wants is a side that does not build war tunnels into its territory, perform suicide bombings and fire blindly.  
It appears too much for Israel to ask.  Every cease fire was honored by Israel until broken by Hamas.  There is far more restraint in one of those sides.What is nasty is the prejudices held and repeated by media.  The deliberate lack of information, careful wording as to create false impressions and decisions to focus on certain areas is amazing.  
One recent example is that tunnels to Gaza worth about $100 Million and actively used by Hamas militants where built.  How in terms of materials, technology and funds?  How come this was never reported, how is it possible that the UN never raised concerns about its materials going missing?  If people claim these tunnels are for supplies, what supplies are they passing through there and how is this possibly easier then getting supplies passed through Iran?  
Then there was also never coverage in terms of timeline into why movements for peace broke down.  What firing can be confirmed, where was it and when.  
Instead the titles are quick to use the word Israel and lack any analysis.  This is what $1 Billion a year gets.  
With incomplete and biased information, how can you expect people not to form biases themselves?Iran is a supporter of Hamas and provides such things as rockets which are fired blindly.  This is admitted by no better source than the Iranian government (except the blind fire bit).  
Building an undetected tunnel into a nation whos primary military concern is your own and already has an active blockade (with Egypt) sounds a tad harder to me.So your main example of racism there is having a common language?  Many migrants from non-english speaking backgrounds have managed to adapt.  There is a big difference between accepted refugees in terms of prison rates and employment from Indigenous people.  Why?  Both have a different complexion and a different language to start of with.  Both also have experienced horrors with many refugees having witnessed the horrors themselves instead of through their parents or grandparents stories.  
The sad fact is that an individual can choose how to react.  Reacting in a way that blames racism for things that have gone wrong not only weakens an individual but also perpetuates an excuse for others rather than addressing the multitude of causes.When a racist cartoon is not stopped by editors or even reported by the ABC until apologies and firing takes place it is questionable.  
Yet the ABC was so quick to highlight the ALP's call for liberal members to resign after not seeing a sexist menu that was printed by some kitchen staff.  
There was also such a nice lack of interest when ALP lies to the tent embassy led to the PM running for safety.  
If you want an example of racism and censorship, look at the $1bn example that I am forced to contribute towards as an Australian."rightful residence"  lol
There are never any rightful residence.  There is however a group that can control who entered the land.  
Indigenous Australians fought over territory and still do with overlapping title claims.  All of Europe, Africa and Asia has a well documented history of countless invasions.  Even the less documented North and South America have quite a few invasions on record over almost every inch of land.  
The fact is that Europeans did invade the land we called Australia.  Most tribes in Australia would have also had times of being invaded and invading.  Weapons can have many purposes.  
Now in Australia the people with any amount Indigenous heritage who wish to be called Indigenous get higher welfare payments, access to grants only available to Indigenous people, more healthcare options, greater employment assistance options, far greater housing support, get greater say over development. get more legal aid and more scholarship opportunities.  
"Indigenous" (by government definition) Australians have far more rights.How strange that the ABC dosnt post a response that includes figures from ABSTUDY and Austudy (spelt exactly that way on the Human Services website with one all in caps)
Pity the myths by of the past stated by dubious' are continued to be supported.  When a person studying a Masters qualification can get nearly $500 more a week due to the wish to be classified as Indigenous, there is certainly a difference.Good point Debunker.  A cartoon clearly showing a Jewish person blowing Gaza up in a manner comparable to Nazi propaganda combined with a very biased article with a title "Israel's rank and rotten fruit is being called fascism"
If section 18 is not used, there is inconsistency to say the least.  
I would see the editor due to the combination also at risk.  The cartoonist, Mike Carlton and editor all have questions to answer.  
The cartoonist is silent
Mike Carlton insists all that are offended support the right wing alliance of Israel
The editor is creating as much distance as possible
Clearly no one out of the three is supporting accountability.  To suggest the Iron dome is effective (most missiles not intercepted and deaths of three jewish children sparked military action) and an invasion (unless land is claimed, its not an invasion, its an occupation or military action of questionable justifiability)
The speed to assume all in favor are racists and Likuds is insulting
There is a statement of prison.   if so, why is Gaza not angry about Egypt?   
Then the suggestion of indiscriminate targeting when letter drop warnings and empty missile warning have been used whilst Hamas stops people fleeing dosnt even get mentioned is very questionable.  
Likely to cause offense is the test.  
In my analysis, its very likely.  Its a difficult issue and the blatant one sided name calling and false statement of effective Iron dome with majority failure rate also mean false.  
Less false statements than Andrew Bolts article, yet false is not quantifiable in the act.There are many questions over the story.  I wouldnt rule out the surrogacy mother trying to run a scam.  There are many claims and counterclaims all being only reported as claims.  
I also wouldnt rule out the biological parents acting illegally with children when there have been so many sex convictions.  
What the story really shows is that an artificial international human reproduction system between cultures with different ethics and systems of law will run into problems.  
The matter would be a lot easier if there where Australian surrogacy parents and biological parents.  I wonder if the  artificial international human reproduction companies ever bothered of warning about the risks.Same was said about John Howard without end on leftist media.  He was constantly unlikable yet he kept on being voted back in as he was seen as more competent than the other side.  
The mere fact that you mention asylum seekers just means the Liberals need to remind people about the difference of one boat arrival and no drownings in six months compared to a boat arrival every few days and over 100 drownings every six months with much higher expenses.What we need is training programs with increasing compliance requirements as someone has been of the dole for longer combined with an unwillingness to pay people unemployment if they are unwilling to relocate.  
The application for jobs does not mean jobs will be received.  It just means the interviewer will throw more applications away without reading properly and as a result probably not choose the most suited person for the role due to a resume not being "catchy" enough.There may be many reasons not to move.  Some I would say are worthy such as needing to care for a nearby relative or having a suitable support network.  
Just because your friends are there is not a good reason.  Australia is far less mobile than the US.  It would be interesting to know why.  Moving to where your skills are most in demand is sensible for everyone.  The initial stages may be scary but what is even scarier is being stuck unemployed for longer.  
If someone has a truly good reason not to move, they will likely approach a carer or disability payment anyway.Try and explain anything too far ahead of any childs stage of development and you will just give them a headache.  
Good and bad is a simple version, yet quite understandable.Jane, why dont you try and determine for yourself what are the biggest tragedies to tell your children rather than just blindly believing the media.  
Examples include the cleansing of Christians from all ISIS territory, the major cause of death in Africa remaining to be the lack of clean water, treatment of North Korean citizens by their regime etc etc.  
The sad thing is your nasty world only seems limited to top media stories.  That is just the tale the Australian media wants to feed you?Are you saying a video tape can not be removed?
It is essentially the same thing, only slower and only possible at certain times.  The video recorder (as blu ray, dvd or vcr) is dead because of digital content.I notice the death of a plan without any business case or proper analysis.  Its time we looked at more possibilities than a program that cost $7 Billion to deliver 3% and had no cost benefit analysis.To the government especially because once enforcement is considered in forms of investigation and penalty you would need to compare this against tax benefits going back to it.  
What percentage of tax would the Australian government get from employees and profits by a foreign organization?  Even if based in Australia, you would also need to consider the role of advertizing in order to increase sales that downloads deliver.  
I suspect the Australian government would get less than 1% of every dollar "earned" by industry projections which are probably inflated in themselves.The best analogy I have seen is photocopying.  
By taking a toy, there is one less.  A computer file can be copied endless times.  If I copy a word document, that dosnt mean you cant type or view your copy.  The same applies to downloading.Considering the entertainment industry is gaining record profits
What is being stolen?  Have I stopped a show from being aired by downloading a copy that I want to watch sooner rather than in months time?  Have I stopped the idea when I mention the show to friends?  Have I stopped sales when I later purchase products because I know what I am buying prior to being asked to pay?
Downloads are no different than a video recorder.  People use to record TV shows and there was a big fuss by the entertainment industry when they went out.  
I will download because the only ones loosing are people that overcharge Australians for downloads or pay TV.So the excessively rich entertainment business wants to get another $1 Billion from Australia when we are already overcharged for delayed products.  
BEEP off, springs to mind as a response.  
Why are the laws only being tightened one way?  If Australia is to restrict users for foreign companies, why not restrict foreign companies for blocking or charging different prices for Australian users.  Even if my bank needs to convert the price to US dollars, it would be far cheaper than what they are currently demanding.  
The only potential benefactor of these proposed laws are very wealthy people.  The cost is restriction of information which can be used for many things including purchasing decisions.The ALP decision to fund fact checker to be run by the ABC (which is in bed enough with the ALP to refuse two tender assessments) which is comprised of left winged personalities and staff
Still cant get basic facts right.  For example, cuts to the ABC.  Its not a broken promise to refuse to deliver future unfunded cash to a group.  
If the money was never delivered, how is that a cut?
Much like the "cuts" to education claimed by the ALP and Greens when total funding is actually to increase above inflation (which isnt seen as a cut?), the ABC has shown inconsistency with its own fact checker.If you want to see a country that completely has the wrong approach to past wars, you need to look at Japan.  
They refuse to admit their faults, continue to honor war criminals and cant give an account of their invasions, history of their foreign policies or what they made their citizens do.  
Germany on the other hand owns up fully and continues to act in a war to honor those that risked their life for a noble cause whilst lamenting the decisions by the public that lead them to a path of war.  
War is not worth celebrating.  The individuals who fought against the evil are.  They are far more worth celebrating than the "good men" who stood by and did nothing.  Both of them are still far more worth of accepting than those that profited from the deaths of others (Switzerland!).Many on the ABC seem to think mass death is trivial.  Just a vague notion of freedom and democracy.  Thin line between that and utopia in some minds I guess.You think the notions of freedom and democracy are vague?
Have you ever tried to be as opinionated as a permanent resident of a country like China, North Korea, Russia, Iran, Libya or others?
You like in a country with some of the highest freedoms and standards of democracy in the world because people fought to make it such.  And you consider the terms vague.  I appreciate the sacrifices that where made in WW1 to try and stop foreign government interference, to counter racial hatred and to give nations true independence.  
Its a pity that peoples will could not be overturned by peaceful actions.  But a dictatorship never rises by peaceful actions.  It is ridiculous to think all dictatorships can be removed by peaceful actions.Yeah, I mean why bother fighting back when oppressors come.  Its a waste.  Accept your death/slavery/submission.  
Its easy for bleeding hearts to moan the death of innocence.  Its much harder for them to give a realistic method of stopping the deaths being necessary.  They will just be the prime benefactors having never sacrificed but getting all the gain.Excellent point.  I too can not remember such events being for glory.  There was appreciation of sacrifice, regret of the path, sympathy for the plight of all, anger at former government that took land/right, tears at loss and so much more.  
I have never heard anyone say "we need another war".  If it was glory people would be calling for another round.So what if your forefathers fought Nazi's.  Did you?  
Just because someone who sprouted you from their loins did something dosnt mean you deserve any credit or condemnation due to is.  
The fight against Germans was against many things including racism.  I hope your forefathers could fight against your beliefs.  A very worthy cause.Having been to Germany including seeing their war memorials and having met Germans in five different nations...
It obvious you are clueless about Germans.  The German people are the most aware of history out of all nations I have seen ranging from their memorials to the Jewish people, maintenance of the Berlin wall, history curriculum and openness to tourists who visit about all.  
Alfie, you are clueless about Germans.By that logic we should feel free to condemn every Muslim, Christian and Jewish, Buddhist person due to terrorists or some citizens from their country that committed murder.  
Every Australian too due to backpacker murders, David Hicks, policies on the border that caused drownings, policies of supports foreign wars, policies of cutting foreign aid etc etc etc
Well done.  With your weak logic you have damned all on this planet.Agreed.  Unfortunately much of the media is filled with historical illiterates.  Most Australians will never know especially when a tax payer funded organization barely contains its opinions more than sydney morning herald "cartoonists".Not just that.  I have heard many people try to guild trip me from dead peoples history of Indigenous people and even use their own heritage to claim they deserve a special hearing/rights.  
I have heard of many try to guilt trip the descendents of those the committed autrocities including descendents of serial killers to politicians.  
We live in a world where holding on to hate it a goal to maintain the moral high ground.  
There is no moral high ground in continuing to attack Germany for actions of their ancestors or attack any one else for the actions of theirs.The growth in real estate is largely being caused by foreign buyers.  Much like the growth in gas prices.  
Australia has limited national resources and no national approach to ensure these limited resources are used to benefit Australians.  
The only benefit with our housing and gas industries goes to foreign companies and nationals.  
We should ensure a percentage of gas is provided to Australia for free and question the public good in allow foreign individuals to buy houses in Australia when they are not used by Australia's most vulnerable nor does the majority of the profit go to Australia.After a promising start on the ABC for a neutral political subject for the first time in my life, the ABC has returned to its biased lines.  
Why is it Israels job not to give up on diplomacy when Hamas has not given or supported one peace offer?
When Hamas started this conflict by firing in Israel and killing three civilians?
And for the ABC why is there no counter opinion article?
Why is there no criticism of the Sydney Morning Heralds disgusting racial cartoon and connecting article?  Being from Murdoch, it speaks volumes when this racial attack is not commented upon by the left as it is not a racial attack of convenience.  
Why is there greater focus on Israel than ISIS which has cleansed Christians from its territories and killed about a hundred fold more?
As for the UN, why is there no condemnation of an army in civilian clothes?
Why has Israel been condemned more than everything else combined?
Why is there no condemnation of firing from civilian areas or encouraging civilians to gather around sites that have been warned of bombing?
Why is there no condemnation of using UN aid to build tunnels to another country without that countries permission?
Racism is alive and well.  Israel is continuing to be vilified far outside of its crimes and Christian deaths are not worth reporting.  There are many organizations that need to take a good hard look at themselves and for once grow a moral backbone.As long as there are increasing steps of management, I could handle any welfare program.  The start may be people saying they will get a job within two months in their field.  If that fails a back up plan of study or new area may be required.  
What is needed is individual back to work plans which are tailored to needs.  Many wont need anything more than a few hundred dollars over the next weeks or help restructuring their resume.  
Others will need help with realistic expectations due to lack of jobs in their desired area or lack of skills/experience.  
Others will need psychological help before they can work again.  At present the welfare system treats people as a number, not a person.Well Dave, you are a fine example of written Christian persecution.  Have you ever asked why the Indonesian President, Iranian, Palestinian or others hate Islam?
When many countries in the world report that less than 1% of their population is Christian, the most common reason has to do with past or current persecution of Christians.  I dont see any concern from you about that.  Its not Christian morals to care about persecution.  Its human to be concerned when any group is facing genocide.  Try showing your human side for a change.Religious groups do not place eternal punishment on each other.  
Considering you see religion as "silly", perhaps you should look more into the factors that lead someone to becoming religious.  
Im not saying this as a religious person, just someone who knows enough about religious people to know categorize their beliefs in such a way.People both religious and non-religious have done violent things.  Any leader of the past that wanted to convince a large group of people to harm others would have the ability to pretend as much as they are needed.  
The cause of problems is largely greed and pride.  I hope you are not overly proud of your beliefs (or lack of) that you would physically force them on others.  That is what ISIS is doing today.So?  Would you prefer Australia had been bombed more instead, that the Vietnemese regime that caused so much harm continued or other dictators remained?  
Or would you prefer to just give cheap shots against Christians?
Decisions by countries that are majority anything are not made lightly.b will probably occur in a peaceful society over time to an even lower percentage than present.  
As for a, refocus on what makes the individuals violent.  A culture of dictatorship, desperate situations, religious killings and extremism brings a different psychology to individuals.  
Anyone will be effected if they have to grow up in fear of their government, fear of speaking out against people who claim to have god being them, fear of finding enough food and fear of being forced into combat.  Its fear of a system.  
The effects of a lifetime of that will not be sidelined by migrating to a different place, therapy or anything else.  The best we can do is support the sections of the world that are moving away from extremism and ensure they are defended from being overtaken again.Are you actually a representative of Oaktree the organization?  I hope not for a comment as blatant wrong as that.  
I know you care more about refugees in front of you than those further away and dont see any responsibility on Australia for those drowning at sea.  
I am also aware of your political stance.  Two Oaktree aligned positions.  
I very much doubt the organization would be happy with you blaming a past conflict of the crusades and using it to justify the deaths of people being forced to flee or convert.  
Maya, when Hamas fired first and refuses to address the fact internally, what do you expect Israel to do?
Just because a little dog started a fight with a big dog, it dosnt make the little dog innocent when the big dog bites back.If you look at the UN's history, the UN cant be trusted.  Nations in the UN are mainly dictatorships.  Surrendering to a world body where dictators decide your fate is a leap away from democracy.  
For bias you only need to look at the history of UN condemnations.  Israel receives more than North Korea, China, Russia, all the countries that perform FGM or stop women from voting and all terrorist groups combined.  
Israel is nowhere near that bad.This war is not profitable.  Hamas believes in martydom and started this conflict by firing at Israel.  What exactly did you expect Israel to do?If the pro Palestinian community could show a country that does not randomly fire at its neighbors and thus starting conflicts
If they could show a democracy
If they could show removal of the terrorist group Hamas
If they could show the country stopped producing refugees
If they could show international aid was not redirected to build illegal tunnels
THEN, they would.Australia needs to avoid condemning just Israel.  Israel has received more condemnations than every other country and group combined.  The UN is hardly a place of balance.  
What amazes me about the conflict is that the Palestinian government still has not been condemned For:
Starting the latest round of combat
Using aid to build tunnels to smuggle goods
Firing from civilian locations (using human shields)
Avoiding army clothing to make sides indistinguishable
Being unable or unwilling to address a group of terrorists that run rampant in its nation.  
There is an international bias when such things go on and there is no condemnation of Palestine
Israel has rightly been condemned for occupying land and firing decisions.  But if the aim is to avoid being a cheerleader, surely the other side deserves a few condemnations as well.Good point Jay
What is the public interest of laws to stop currently illegal downloads?
It will certainly restrict information sharing.  That is not in the public interest.  
It will give money to larger companies that already have multi-million dollar budgets.  So the ones being harmed arnt the poorest.  
And yes, it may stop some new shows being aired.  Yet the multitude of shows that one can gain is greatest if freely shared.  And with new programs anyone can create something.  
So what is the purpose of the proposed laws.  As far as I can tell, it is to give more to millionaires.  
My heart weeps when a celebrity needs to downgrade from a diamond encrusted toilet to a simple gold plated one.A good alternative is downloading a false proxy.  Make the websites believe you are American.  The prices fall and more content is available.Latham is causing problems with the left because once he was removed from the party he was able to say what he was privately trying to achieve.  
There are structural problems that he mentioned.  When a PM cant go from one election to the next in the ALP, the evidence seems to prove him right.  
I am not suprised he lost the election.  He spoke with clarity on issues rather than vague and unattainable promises.  Its why I voted for him, but I never thought he would succeed.You think the socialist alliance is relevant.  There is a laugh
As for Greens, they are just the far left of the ALP.Most thesis only get cited a few times.  Relevance of the author is almost certainly going to be less than the relevance of Mark Latham today.I think the only way to stop it is by permanently firing senior managers if they can not show evidence of frank and fearless advice.  
The home insulation scheme for example has been reviewed and reviewed.  Yet there is not one piece of evidence that a public servant said "this is dangerous" to the minister.Who is responsible for creating the supportive environment of the department if not for the most senior managers?
I understand the danger, yet that should be changed by creating a counter culture of concern if proper analysis or opinion is not given.  
At present those that can say many words without saying a thing are the ones promoted.  That is not in anyone's interest.People on six figure salaries are not wage slaves.What is wrong with the name "bring them home"?
It accurately states the governments intent.  Is there a problem with the intent or does Jonathan believe there should not be a name for a complicated project or is the problem that the government is communicating with the public on this issue?
I could take almost anything a politician or person has ever said and find three words.  Almost every single project has a title of three or less words.  
The real problem appears to be some policies dont match personal views.  There will never be a government that matches all my views or anyone elses.  Even the PM needs to compromise with his party.PR are a sad part of our political life.  If you believe the ALP or Greens dosnt have an army of PR professionals, you are kidding yourself.  
Why only focus on one party?"Operation Bring them home as Soon as possible considering international opinion and war zone parameters" is a tad too long.  
Just because it is not in the title, dosnt mean it isnt considered.  
Rabbithole, pull your head in
When there are people saying they shot down an airliner, when the firing location is within rebel territory and when it is the rebel forces primarily making it difficult to gain access there is one main conclusion to make.  
The rebels have something to do with it.  The rebels use Russian equipment.  Russia has something to do with it.  
The EU believes Russia has something to do with it.  That is why they passed the latest sanctions.  Or are you claiming that the EU, Australia and the US are all lying?Le Mac, the other option is bringing weapons in.  What happens to someone with weapons who is not part of your army in a war zone?
Bringing in weapons would ensure Australia engages with weapons.  The weaponless approach allows the rebel government to demonstrate how it treats foreigners in its area.  
The rebel leaders dont want stories of unarmed foreigners going missing withing their territory or being wounded.  They want a decent start in claiming they are a peaceful and respectful new country.  
Unless Australia plans to kill with weapons in Ukraine, there is no point in weapons.Yank
Do you have a better option?  I know some want Abbott to send in armed people to secure the site.
There are basically three options
1) Retreat and do nothing (includes harsh words)
2) Send in non combatants to investigate
3) Send in armed troops to help the investigation
Tony Abbott has handled this issue quickly and well.  He managed to get a UN resolution with complete support.  This is not easy to achieve. 
The Australians in Donetsk can risk their lives more or keep trying in the relatively safe way they are.  
If Matthew was correct in his assumptions of Russian/rebel beliefs, the Australianss there would already be dead.  
Its time the ABC pulled its head in and stopped trying to be partisan on a bipartisan issue.  There are plenty of partisan issues it is already partisan about.Other industries have had to face changes in government regulation.  The special tax concessions negative gearing offers just pumps government money into an already inflated housing market.  
I would be happy if negative gearing was cancelled instantly.  It is not for the government to endlessly prop up businesses.  The sooner negative gearing is removed the better.  Same applies to first home owners grant.They had that.  The first home saver.  It is now cancelled mainly due to lack of interest.When do house prices fall below inflation?
Australia's current system of house purchases has remained roughly the same for decades.  We have one of the most unaffordable house prices in the world.  Third highest in the OECD in relation to income.  
There needs to be a change (unless you just want current home owners to benefit).  
All government has done is add more competition to the market.  At least Nick has an idea of what to do.  
Your idea of waiting for an interest rate drop when house prices constantly increase above inflation is an idea to wait until you are further out the market.What is wrong with using the value of a house?
I know it will lessen the value of a will, but that should not be an issue.  If someone lives in a million dollar property and needs government assistance, let the property give an income on the condition that ownership is passed on after death.  This way you will have private business paying what is a growing expense, retirement for those that have the capability to do so.  
The fact that government does not consider the value of a house in its welfare assessments is just plain ridiculous.  If it really is not worth considering as an asset, I will happily take an asset worth nothing of others.The problem with homes is they remain too expensive.  
What I would like to see is
a) taxes for multiple home owners IF their home is not rented to a third party for the majority of the year
b) Removal of all government grants/assistance/tax concessions to buy a home.
Having empty homes is a blight on Australia and an insult to the homeless.  Homes should primarily be for living and all attempts should be made to ensure that every home has people living in it.An acceptable armed force is easy to tell really.  
Are they fighting to overthrow a democracy?
Are they deliberately targeting different religions?
Do they gloat over deaths?
If yes to any, the person is attacking Australia's interests by joining.The biggest difference is that Israel is not calling for destruction of any part of Australian society.  
Israel accepts different religions.  ISIS &amp; Hamas and others do not
Israel supports democracy.  ISIS &amp; Hamas do not.
Israel has a register of its soldiers and clear uniform.  ISIS &amp; Hamas do not.  
I personally believe that the crime should be an Australian not receiving prior permission from the Australian government before joining a foreign armed force.  This way Australian citizens will be required to inform the government.  The option if rejection is made is either to forfeit citizenship by joining or not joining.ISIS did not start with the problem of Iraq sanctioned murder.  It started with the problem of not liking its government and not liking a different branch of Islam.  Joining an army or not will only allow ISIS "re-education" to go slower or faster.The problem is with jurisdiction.  How do you prove what someone did in a land the criminal investigators (police) can not enter?  Further, its the responsibility of the jurisdiction they committed the crime in.  
The easier target is just claiming they joined an armed group without Australia's permission.  This would automatically make new groups illegal to join simply because permission is not given.Strange when there was no concern by the ABC when the budget debt was one of the fastest growing in the OECD.
We had the ability to do so and some stimulus was required.  What was not required was migration blow outs, a NBN that cost $7 Billion for 3% and still had no business plan, the home insulation debacle, grocery watch, fuel watch, empty GP super clinics (some without buildings but still "complete"), e-health costing $200,000 per registered person, continued growth in public service, Mineral tax which was overspent before taken, UN security seat bid, ministerial merry go round and more.  
There is a reason harsh decisions need to be made.  If not offering a solution (eg higher taxes on a particular section), then stop offering problems.  I am glad the ALP was thrown out because they where incompetent managers.  The current government has not blown anything to near the same scale yet and I suspect will remain in for a while longer.  
As far as the ABC can find it lied on medicare when a type of clinic changed its name and it lied on borders when hundreds of lives and over a millions of dollars per year are being saved.  If they are the stuff ups, the government is going well.The challenge is three fold
1) Matching the right worker with the right employer
2) Ensuring that there is an appropriate working ethos by worker and employer
3) Proving skill pathways which make the employer suitable for Number 1
What too many applications will result in is applications that people have no chance of getting.  
What I would prefer is a specialized employment pathway for all who have been unemployed.  This may be made for the unemployed if their own pathway is not being achieved.
I dont mind payments being cut if someone refuses to study nursing, childcare or another skills shortage area.  The problem will be the course being designed in a way that can bring the reluctant on board.  If not, you will have a problem with Number 2Bencie, you also have the reasons most refugees stay close to their country completely wrong
a) They do not all have the cash or connectionss to pay criminals.  The more people smugglers that exist, the lower they can sell their service and the more that will know about it
b) They are relatively safe and believe being a secondary migrant will harm their application.  
c) They believe being moved by a criminal network is riskier than staying put
When "refugees" return for odd things, it is strange they do so with a passport.  If the government was truly against them, it would be government to find them.  
Booking flights under their name, using the passport at customs and knowing where relatives live are all fairly big clues of where to go.  When "refugees" return through official means, it is because they feel safe to do so.  
Tending a property for a few days is nothing if a government or militia can attend it when you are gone.  
If you are now concerned about the queue (which Oaktree suddenly accepts), then people jumping the queue are the reason the queue does not work.  The fact that Australia is third or second highest in total and per capita in accepting refugees for permanent resettlement means you should be telling other countries to pull their weight.  First world Asia, Europe and New Zealand accept next to none in comparison to Australia.  
Coogara, I would also add Captain Emads family.  They claimed he was dead only to end up living together.  
Well there goes their claim that they fled due to the husband/father being killed.  Yet they are still "refugees".  With enough one eyed sight, they probably still meet the 10% chance requirement.Flaming Gent, just because the bias that the refugee council holds, it does not make that section incorrect.  
Each boat arrival takes the place of another arrival.  The question is, who is most in danger?  Those who can not escape or those who have shown that they can?The queue is not invisible Jeremy.  
50 Million people have found it.  And that wasnt through a sixth sense.Susan, that does not make self selection only available to the rich and criminally connected right.  
If someone understands and knows the criminal networks in Afghanistan, they are most likely causing some of the growth in refugees by funding it.  
There was an attempt to install a democratic government in Afghanistan and it failed.  If there are so many refugees from one country, upskilling them to be able to implement a better government is the only possible solution to help all that live there.  
Australia does not want to accept so many Afghans that we start to implement Afghan traditions.John what interests me is that many of the past generations of refugees built towns.  
I suspect there would be health benefits if the asylum seekers where given the materials and something to do.  The fact that Australia needs to pay cleaning staff for detention centers is ridiculous.  Surely the asylum seekers if accepted will need to clean their own house.  
It would be interesting to view the dynamics of asylum seekers being required to build their own accommodation, cook for themselves and clean for themselves.  I suspect it would reveal quite a few people of poor character and it would certainly save some money.  
It may also stop the destruction of facilities when they know people in similar situations to themselves built it.  All Australia should need to pay for is materials, security and a few processing officers.  If an asylum seeker can not prove their case, Australia should not be on a goose chase to prove it for them.Susan, read again.  He said 60% due to immigration.  That would mean 40% by other causes.  Immigration remains the largest sole factor for Australia's population growth.  
And we offer the places not because so few make it to our shores.  The ALP had to increase the settlement number because TOO MANY made it to our shores.  We offer that many because we have one of the highest rates of permanent resettlement in the world.I think Susan is doing what many refugee advocates do.  Refuse to accept the difference between temporary housing (tenting more frequently) with no working rights and no interaction with other communities and what Australia does.  
I am aware that Australia does not have high numbers of people in UN refugee camps.  What we have high numbers of is permanent resettlement.  
John is right in his numbers.  Susan needs to read posts more carefully considering she cant read 60% in context or the word permanent.Tom, you should lok at history again.  
The ALP implemented offshore detention and attacked the Liberals regarding boat arrivals.  John Howard responded so well that no one died in the oceans for near half a decade and people in detention centers fell down to a handful.  In one year only one person arrived.  
John Howard did it so well that the ALP could no longer claim his method wasnt working so they went so far to go back on their own offshore detention policies.  Finally when in government they removed offshore detention, let thousands die and tens of thousands arrive and finally decided to do a half hearted response to restore their former policies.Pom, that is under the 10% liklihood test.  
This could well mean that the majority are unlikely to receive any harm.  That 10% number just requires someone to know details of persecution from a country and sound like that they are from there.  
90% pass a system when officers where fired for rejecting too many but never fired for accepting too many.  90% pass through a system where they do not even need to on balance believe the person is a refugee.  
The 90% is of approvals in a broken system, not actual refugees.Peter, you might know all that the government is thinking in secret.  
I know how government processing works in the real world.  
Government can not process much.  When it comes to people without documents and a strong political group pressuring government policy (refugee advocates), the one thing you can guarantee is that the system will be broken in a number of ways.  
The change to balance of probability is welcome.  There are people in UN camps with physical signs of torture.  We should focus on those we know are refugees, not those that are probably not.kcdl, then try and judge whether they are a secondary (economic) migrant or not (thus the risk is not great) and subtract this from character defects such as criminal association, any lies they may have told to Australian officials and reference this against current period of waiting
AND after, compare the same factors on someone who has been in a UN camp for a decade or someone who has physical signs of torture.  
By coming to Australia, there is a demonstrated capacity of avoidance that others simply do not have.kcdl, so you are happy to  have greater preference for only thoes that  have the money, connections or physical capability to come to Australia?
Most arrivals are males (sexist), need thousands of dollars just from Indonesia (elitist) and need to liaise with criminals (character test considerations)The fact that you think "economic" is a form of refugee is deeply concerning.  Almost all of Asia, Middle East, Africa and South America therefor automatically qualify.  
We should not offer any places to an economic refugee because the decision to let one seek riches will lead to the decision to send another back to torture.Amy, get rid of your racism and try debating on facts.  Are you claiming Asia, the Middle East, Africa or South America is rich?
Or are you trying to divert the topic like others by pretending this is about racism because your view lacks substance?The most fearful terms I hear are from Refugee advocates that want to silence the other side.  On media this is through false claims of racism because they cant be bothered trying to understand another point of view.  
If there is anything stopping people writing articles to the drum it is probably fear of refugee advocates taking things too far.  Its amazing how many times "peaceful" protests require masks or weapons. 
If the ABC is only getting one view, then it needs to question how to reach the rest of Australia.  This could be by hiring its first conservative commentator or opinion writer.  They have plenty of lefties on the payroll.  It could be by the editor choosing topics that more of Australia wants to hear.  
When I see people claiming "our ABC" needs to be saved, I have a rare moment of agreement.  Their ABC needs to be saved by them paying for it.  It is certainly not Australia's ABC any more.The ABC did a first by offering a counter opinion article for Hamas/Palestine with a link.  
As this is not really a breaking news opinion piece, the ABC could of attempted to find a counter article or different opinion before publishing.  Unfortunately, it will keep its line of accepting any asylum seeker arrival.Ignorance?  Can you offer an alternative that explains what will happen with the 50 million registered, those that can not afford people smugglers and those (like Reza) that try to migrate for economic reasons?
The scary thing is the lack of international perspective the Greens have.  It truly is a bubble world they live in.That is what is being suggested.  With no details given of persecution in the article and having not made any verification attempts of the authors history, both of you are making massive assumptions.I dont blindly follow a governments definition.  I know departments make known systematic errors in order to please the political head.  The decision by a department is only valid if I trusted the departments processes at the time.  
I believe the immigration procedures where better in the Vietnam eara than early 2000s.  That dosnt mean there has been evidence displayed.  It could simply have been a lot of people wanted entry and a manager was told to get them through.  You never know.At the very least you are promoting those with financial and physical means above those without them by accepting the assessment of arrivals before those already waiting in the refugee camp.  
The result will be people doing the exact same thing as they see the benefits.  If I had to tell a story to shorten an application process by years with the added benefit of better housing and my first preference pick of destination, I would tell a story.  Facts be damned.  
The problem with the form of undocumented refugee acceptance is that people will learn what the Australian governments political opinions are and through people smuggling coaching, apply directly to these opinions by telling stories that meet the prejudice.On job applications people tell "white lies" for advantage.  It would be the same for anything else.  
Just because a department has resources to assess a financially advantaged refugee (strange you think it does when budgets where repeatedly blown under the ALP), that does not mean Australia should assess them or help them ahead of the other 50 Million or so.  
I have no doubt there are true stories amongst the boat and plane arrivals.  What I doubt is that these people have more harrowing stories or are more in danger than those whom have been unable to leave or are stuck in a UN camp.So what country do you think is more humane?  Australia has one of the highest permanent resettlement rates of refugees in the world.  
I was far more ashamed at ALP/Greens policies resulting in hundreds of deaths each year and awarding limited places to those that where less deserving of them.Wow, you take a peaceful and prosperous first world country and claim people can be a refugee from there.  
Any country someone cant be a refugee from?If we where honest regarding working visas, we would send many home.  
457 visas are a joke.  There is no need for a skills shortage, just a hiring willingness.  I suspect if you charged companies just $1 an hour for any 457 worker to go to an Australian skill shortage training fund, the majority of the "skilled workers" would be replaced.I personally believe if an "Australian" dosnt live in Australia more than they live in any other country, they are not that Australian.  
Its a strange thing that I am technically British when I have been there for less than a year.  I couldnt care much about the country, I dont know what is in its best interest and i have even less concern over Britain than I do Australia's neighboring countries.  
Its strange I could actually vote.  At the very least Australia should remove compulsory voting for anyone currently overseas.  This would ensure the completely clueless dont vote.It appears Ian Verrender knows more about the mines that are being purchased than the purchasers.  
Mining isnt done for fun.  It is done for profit.  Of course some mines will not deliver a profit as per any investment.  The mining sector will also have times of increasing and decreasing growth.  
I trust the individual who has looked at the potential mines yield and operation dynamics far more on whether the mine is profitable.  I am sure mining bodies look at projected growth in demand and that is also factored in.  
A collection of mining experts may know more about a potential mines profitability than an expert journalist.Tom1, it may amaze you to know that government schools are attended by religious and non-religious people.  I am sure the number of Chaplins and others will be met by demand of their services.Oaktree, just because you would "deliver" something in a different manner dosnt make it a broken promise.  The ABC's six broken promises are mainly associated with asylum seekers where I see a significant improvement.  
There is a "cut" to the ABC which is because predicted increases in budget where not delivered (cutting another parties promise is a broken promise it seems) and on medicare one type of program was replaced with a very similar linked program.  
You may think you speak for the Aboriginal people more than Abbott does.  I hold the view that no one speaks for Aboriginal Australians as they dont have any truly representative body.Today I went to a university and saw a sign
"Unhappy birthday Chris Pyne".  Attacking the man just makes the critics look grubby.  I know the education cut backs to university students are not popular amongst university students.  Neither are taxes on people that already complain being taxed too much.  Nor is the increasing budget debt.  
