"The left wing are 'neo-comms'".... C'mon WS, shed that naphthalene smell and update yourself: The Cold War is over! Communism is dead, buried and cremated.... and Neoliberalism is heading exactly the same way.

They will soon rest together, in the cemetery of fallen ideologies.... until the end of time.Labor "imploded"?.... When?.... Federal Labor can only be criticised for not keeping their cool under relentless propaganda attack by the Murdoch and other pro-Liberal media, but their job in Government was pretty much brilliant (have you already forgotten the GFC and the EU debt debacle that Labor had to face and overcome? Not to speak of Howard's neglect of our infrastructure, etc?).
In Victoria their performance was also stellar, especially under Steve Bracks (less so under Brumby).
The current Liberal mob, both at Federal and Victoria levels, did not deserve to be where they are in the first place and it truly shows.... hence both Governments are inevitably heading for the exit after just one term!"maybe more".... Hmmm, "maybe"....I can see the first cracks appearing in the wall... good sign that realism is starting to filter through."It remains to be seen whether the armed groups controlling the crash site take any notice of the UN Resolution."... The UN will need the help of Russia to do that. Using a confrontational language against the Russians won't help a bit in that task...

Oh, btw Prof, in this case the legal procedures must be able to pass the political test too.virgil, that's the inevitable end of this conflict. The more the West denies it, the worse. We were so quick to accept the disintegration of Yugoslavia, the split of Czechoslovakia... why are we so stubborn about Ukraine (and Iraq, for that matter)?.... Are we concerned about "democracy"? Or are we just concerned about safeguarding our own interests no matter how much suffering that brings to innocent people?frangipani, there has been a vote in Crimea remember? If the vote is not being extended to the rest of Easter Ukraine is not because of "Russian imperial ambitions".
Ukraine is splitting, like it or not. Let's do it peacefully, like in Czechoslovakia.... or else, there will be another Yugoslavia.
... As you know, that's what nationalisms do to countries and peoples: force unity on the one hand or forcibly split on the other.Chaz and frangipani, those who didn't vote did so in the exercise of their choice. We in the West must one day learn that we cannot cry for more and more referenda, until we get the result that we want. It is well known that the Crimea is vastly pro-Russia. Beyond the exact result, do you really believe that the vote did not represent the will of the majority?
The rest of Eastern Ukraine also has a sizeable pro-Russia population, but it is more diverse, hence the greater level of conflict. Being one-sided in the allocation of blame will not help resolve this conflict one bit..... Putin is not Hitler, Obama is not Roosevelt.Zing, Crimea voted to split from Ukraine and join the Russian Federation. The same problem is affecting the rest of Eastern Ukraine: there is an ethnic/historic divide between East and West in that country, the divide has very important strategic consequences involving NATO on the one hand and Russia and his defence alliance on the other. If we stubbornly pretend not to see all that we will be co-responsible for a path to splitting the country through violence. Whereas if there is a vote, the split can occur peacefully and to everybody's satisfaction. 
I don't see anyone being more culpable than the other. Here we have the usual case of two conflicting sides manoeuvring to get maximum advantage out of this situation.The world is in massive flux, but we still want to force it into old-paradigm straightjackets.... Nothing good is likely to come out of that, as history tells us.This issue is obviously extremely serious, it must be tackled decisively but with a great sense of diplomacy. Please do tell Bishop and Abbott that you just don't bully the Russians into submission.... On the other hand, please also allow me to inform you that Israel military intervention in Gaza has already produced at least 500 fatal victims... and counting... Is anyone concerned about that?... No?..... Why? The international community should not allow Benjamin Netanyahu  to hide behind MH17."the Israeli's decided to invade Gaza just because of MH17"... Nowhere in my post I wrote that. What I am saying is that the two events are occurring simultaneously and yet the international attention seems to be suspiciously biased towards the MH17 victims. This produces a de facto hiding place for Netanyahu. The solution is not to ignore the MH17 victims, the solution is to take ALL innocent victims seriously.

Abbott and Bishop have shown how incompetent they are, by taking a bullying stance that they hope will pay off in terms of votes in Australia.... But as always, the cigar is likely to explode on their faces, unless they listen to the true international experts and calm down. Which I guess they will. Still, they will leave the brainless propaganda to Murdoch.... as usual.I don't understand. Are you suggesting that counter to my post: The international community should allow Benjamin Netanyahu to hide behind MH17?.... Please explain!
Moreover, what is false? Where is the international pressure on Israel to withdraw from Gaza? Any resolution of the UN Security Council on that issue that you can see?
Fastrope, it's Abbott and Bishop who should know, but in fact know nothing about international diplomacy.... and they are in the position to make a real mess if they are not careful.... Please do tell them."Ukraine &gt; Russian militants 
Iraq &gt; ISIS militants
Pakistan &gt; Taliban militants
Israel &gt; Palestinian militants"

Zing, I don't blindly follow official narratives, and neither should you, and neither should any thinking person in a democratic country. It's about time that we lift the sophistication of our thinking.... Haven't we learned anything from the Iraq debacle? How many more "Iraqs" do we need to start learning?
I fully agree that this incident should be investigated by a reliable international team of experts, and the perpetrators brought to justice.

However, I think that we need to also think about the issue that the kind of weaponry easily available around the world to those who can buy them is becoming more and more powerful, precise and sophisticated. Therefore it is essential that any regional conflict be immediately tackled diplomatically and peaceful resolutions achieved asap. Dragging such conflicts on  will only enrage the parties involved, make them more reckless and determined, and once they can get hold of powerful weapons (yes, including nuclear weapons) disasters will inevitably happen.FALSE,
The boats keep coming, in fact a group of Sri Lankan asylum seekers is currently being held in limbo at sea. Seeking asylum is NOT illegal. We have no idea whether People are dying or not.... it's an operational matter, therefore no information flows to the People of Australia from this Government of Liars.
... That to me is a very bad policy...."Which would be more effective?"... Taking us out of the Refugees Convention! It would make our crappy approach to asylum seekers more honest."uncheckable claims of people who say they have been persecuted"... Even the Abbott government has checked those claims and determined that in fact 56% are genuine refugees.

Whereas these allegations of advocates coaching asylum seekers to self harm are a total fabrication.KK, that 56% is a result of the methods and criteria used under the Abbott Government. So any statement must be qualified: according to the Abbott Government 56% are genuine refugees, 64% are not.Oh please, just stop this crap. These allegations are a total fabrication. Read this article by Nick Riemer in The Guardian (Monday 14 July 2014): "There's no evidence to prove asylum seeker advocates 'coach' how to self harm ? because we don't".

"Unsubstantiated allegations that refugee advocates 'coach' asylum seekers to self harm are a risible attempt to reinforce the warped premises of Australia's refugee debate."

.... What's next in the desperate Liberal propaganda of lies? 
 
 


No John, I have already demonstrated to you that there is nothing in the UN Refugees Convention that impedes refugees to go from Afghanistan straight to Australia to seek refuge. Whether the applicant is indeed a refugee or not is determined after appropriate processing of his/her claim. Even the Abbott Government has conceded that 56% of people coming by boat are genuine refugees.John, stop the crap. You are NOT quoting the current regulations in effect through the UN. You are quoting your deluded self and the wishes of somebody else that things should be different..... but they are not.
As I told you ad nauseam: Back to the drawing board.....JC, that section of the migration act simply means that whoever wants to enter Australia seeking asylum will be stopped at the border. That's it. It is simply a declaration that Australia has NO open borders, which is something that nobody is disputing. Therefore those asylum seekers stopped at the border should be taken into custody and their claims processed. Note that the act is dated 1958... do you remember Fraser's boat people?... That was in the 1970s!"based on the notion of safe, or first, country of asylum"... I explained to you a million times already John. This is what that "first" refers to:

"The concept of first country of asylum is defined in Article 26 of the APD: 
A country can be considered to be a first country of asylum for a particular applicant for asylum if: 
(a) s/he has been recognised in that country as a refugee and s/he can still avail him/herself of that protection; or 
(b) s/he otherwise enjoys sufficient protection in that country, including benefiting from the principle of non-refoulement; 
provided that s/he will be re-admitted to that country. 
In applying the concept of first country of asylum to the particular circumstances of an applicant for asylum Member States may take into account Article 27 (1)."

A refugee can come to Australia to seek asylum. They don't have to seek asylum in Indonesia or elsewhere!
Italy alone, just this year (so far) has received more than 40,000 boat people.... and society is not collapsing. What truly concerns me is how the issue of asylum seekers is overblown for pure political opportunism in this country. But in the process, both racism and xenophobia are encouraged in sections of our society, thus making the lives of migrants - or even the lives of Australia born people who look different - a hell.... SHAME!"Just name a few ordinary Australians for whom human rights advocates have shed tears."... Thousands upon thousands of Aboriginal Australians, for instance. Go to the Amnesty International website and inform yourself.... hankie not provided."By definition minority groups are not ordinary Australians."... What?... Please take a break and come back when you have cleared up your mind. Are you telling us that Aborigines are not an ethnic (cultural, linguistic, etc...) minority group within Australia? Do you know what the word "minority" means? You know, it involves counting: one, two, three... etc. If you divide that count of individuals in a given category by the total population and multiply by 100 you get a percentage. The percentage of Aboriginal Australians in the population is about 2.3%. A test for you:
a) 2.3% is a majority group.
b) 2.3% is a minority group.
.... your time starts... now!

.... Oh, by the way, I do consider Aborigines a very special minority group for more than obvious historical reasons that I truly hope I don't have to explain. Hence they deserve a mention in the Preamble to the Constitution, plus specific policies to address the very many issues still affecting their communities, etc., etc., etc...It is in anybody's right to seek asylum in Australia. It is in our right to accept or reject the application.... 
Forrest, there is a whole world of "rights" out there for you to explore and be amazed. Don't believe those who have always told you that there are only duties...."Still,MJ, the coalition pays better than the Labor party."... But not as much as Palmer.... Hmmm, you guys are in real troubles now, Forrest.... 
AHLD, just give it up, even the Abbott Government has found that 56% of those "illegals" are in fact genuine refugees.
So, by this Government own standards, for every 100 boat people sent back without processing, they are in fact rejecting about 56 genuine refugees, thus contradicting our adherence to the UN Convention for Refugees.AHLD,
You know that those refugees have no legal status in Indonesia (this country is not signatory to the convention), hence by sending them back to Indonesia they are indeed in danger of being deported to their country of origin and therefore being at risk of refoulement.... For some bizarre reason, after the so much publicised outrage of the Liberal Party for those asylum seekers tragically drowning at sea, there is currently a complete lack of interest in the fate of those who are now sent back.... Can't you smell the stench of hypocrisy there? I certainly can!John, asylum seekers are not allowed to enter Australia. They are stopped, but must be held in custody to process their asylum claim. How difficult is that to understand? The Migration Act simply states, to put it simply, that Australia has no open border policy. We all agree on that, John.But I already told you that 56% of those "illegal entrants" have been accepted as genuine refugees following the criteria of your own Coalition Government.... There is no escape John: the policies of the Abbott Government involve the wilful rejection of at least some genuine refugees, by their own criteria.damon, for the umpteenth time, asylum seekers are not people smugglers. You are welcome to jail people smugglers if you want to, but asylum seekers must be held in custody and duly processed. Asylum seekers are not circumventing anything. But you are circumventing the truth!Funny you don't want to mention the 153 asylum seekers held on an Australian Customs ship right now.... BTW, are you interested to know the fate of those asylum seekers who are forcibly turned back without even processing their claims? Are they still alive?You obviously were not blogging here at the time or have a faulty memory. I openly criticised in my posts the hardening of the ALP stance on refugees... I openly criticised and continue to do so, the utter insane and socially unhealthy paranoia surrounding the issue of refugees in this country. And, on top of that, I have repeatedly suggested my own little solutions to solve this issue in an effective, but humane way:
a) Reach an agreement with Indonesia to process asylum seekers there on several well known localities.
b) Double our current intake of refugees.
c) Accept refugees until our current quota for the year is filled.
d) As soon as we exceed the quota, genuine refugees are relocated elsewhere in coordination with the UNHCR.
e) Those applicants who are proven not to be refugees are sent back where they came from, their details recorded (photos, fingerprints, DNA), and told not to try again.  
Inform yourself before writing propagandistic nonsense, please."Malaysian Airlines Flight MH17 has marked a decisive turning point for his prime ministership"... Oh dear me, the Liberal stormtroopers are out in force, all focused on the "Save Private Abbott" operation.... Sorry mates, inflation has just hit the upper ceiling established by the Reserve Bank, this is due to ESSENTIAL items going up and up. Companies keep shedding personnel and the people are truly fed up with this bunch of Neoliberal Loonies in Government.... Show respect to the victims of this tragic accident and don't use them to save the political life of the Coalition... it won't happen!!Jack,
Thatcher (and the Falklands war) where around when the Neoliberal Revolution was just starting and gaining momentum.... but it's now fading away, following its proven bankruptcy.... Abbott is looking for a saviour when his bad situation is totally irreversible. He can't abandon Neoliberalism and Neoliberalism is a total failure.... draw your own conclusions.Any other PM would have done the same. Oh, by the way, the PM for the commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the Bali bombings was Julia Gillard, but you only mention Abbott who was leader of the Opposition.... Your biased post has lost all credibility!
Liberal propagandists, please refrain from wasting our time! Nothing will save the incompetent Abbott and his Neoliberal Government, sorry....Alfie, the people are waking up.... nothing can save Abbott and his Neoliberal Revolution. But you guys may perhaps "hope" for more international accidents and more deaths?... A polling path walked on the back of innocent victims?... A very expected strategy from the author of "Battlelines".... His response to this crisis was not one of a statesman demanding full disclosure of the truth, it was one of a propagandist immediately allocating blames, establishing causes and demanding surrender from Putin (the former Communist).SVJ,
I am not casting any judgment on Putin in my post (in favour or against). I am casting a judgment on Abbott, because I live in Australia and what he does directly affects the lives of millions of Australians...Dapsta, nobody in the Greens or Labor camps has ever used the expression "collateral damage" to refer to asylum seekers drowning at sea. Please stop that pathetic Liberal propaganda. "Collateral damage" was used by Bush and Howard to refer to the hundreds of thousands of people killed in Iraq.... So, to be consistent, the Liberals and Abbott in particular (who was a member of Howard's cabinet) should start talking about "collateral damage" to refer to the victims of flight MH17.... waiting!Thanks for the earlier historical background, Eric.Michael, Reza Berati was killed in our custody. Those hundreds drowned died as a result of sad accidents. Wake up!Alpha, but they actually died because the Coalition opposed a safe processing of them in a safe place... We can go on and on trying to find in which way we can allocate blame to the Party we dislike on the basis of propaganda.... The People have had enough of you propagandistic guys.... watch the polls!harry,
Reza Berati died under the final responsibility of the Government of the day, that must supervise the administration of the detention centres.  Remember that those people are in detention because of the Australian Government policies. The Government of the day was the Coalition Abbott government.... Your point?harry, just to cut your utter nonsense short. Independently on who started what, the current administration of the program is the ultimate responsibility of the Government of the day. If the Government of the day does not want to have any responsibility, then they should shut the program down. Pretty simple and straightforward.

In that $300B debt there is a carry on of about $50B from Howard. Not only that, until 2013 our gross Government debt was $257B, by 28 February 2014 it had jumped to $300B and now, according to the debt clock it seats at $315B. So, in just the initial 7 months of 2014 your Government of economic "geniuses" (Ha!) has increased our debt by 22.5%... and they are not facing any GFC or EU debt crisis like Labor did... this is sheer incompetence, that's all!... The sooner they are gone, the better.Michael, the Government is ultimately responsible for the safe running of those centres. Abbott is the head of the Government. His responsibility may or may not be judicial, but it is certainly political.... Surely you would agree with me if we were talking about PM Rudd or Gillard....APM, whoever has a false claim for asylum must be duly processed and returned to his country of origin once his application is rejected.... he should NOT be KILLED in custody!aGuy,
Seeking asylum is an entirely appropriate course of action to take for people in desperate situations.
In the process of seeking asylum accidents may happen. If that disturbs you, then tell Abbott to provide safe passage for asylum seekers to Australia.
The Liberal Party was always totally opposed to facilitating save passage to Australia for asylum seekers, are they co-responsible for those deaths? Now they are returning asylum seekers back to their countries, are they responsible for those who will be (or have been) killed? Do your so humanitarian self even wants to know?
... As it is the case for the MH17 tragedy, the Liberals are just looking for political point scoring, nothing else.... to keep their noses just above water...."Mr.Abbott has said just the right thing at the time required"... He has said the right things regarding the grief of the families and the human tragedy of this event, as Bill Shorten also has and just about everybody else. Regarding his international political approach to this situation, he has shown naivity and a cowboy stance that is totally inappropriate. We have had enough cowboys playing with the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocent victims in Iraq recently, let's learn from past mistakes."Try writing words that inspire rather than words that divide for once - its harder to do but much more effective in the long run!"... scooter, where were you when Abbott became the Leader of the Coalition? Had he followed your advice we would not be struggling at the moment to save our People from the Budget from Hell, the Neoliberal Revolution that it represents, and the endless string of lies and poisoning of our political narrative introduced by Abbott....Is this becoming a "Save Private Abbott" saga? Should our response to this tragedy be focused on the rational, the evidence, and a general sense of grief and respect for the families of the victims? Abbott spent no time adopting his cowboys and indians attitude, immediately determining causes and allocating blames to the "baddies". All evidence so far indicates that this was a tragic error that occurred in a war zone. Did Abbott mention that at all? Why not? Cowboys don't say such things, an "error" obviously "saves the baddies". Moreover, a cowboy don't start confusing the picture with example such as the killing of innocent civilians by Syrian rebels armed by the West... in this case the "baddies" are the victims (oh, sorry, they are officially referred to as "collateral damage", like the hundreds of thousands collateral damages we achieved in Iraq). 
What's going on in Western Ukraine is a war of independence, and in a war zone nasty things do happen. There is no logic in the separatists intentionally shooting down a commercial flight of Malaysian Airlines, most likely it was an error on their part, and we should ask ourselves why on earth that plane followed that obviously dangerous route.... I am sure that Tony Abbott is going to ask that question on behalf of the families of the victims and the rest of the country????Hi clete, nice to see that you keep your good Liberal stormtrooping self in good shape..... 
Indeed, you are allowed to take a break....Schadenfreuder, 
Some aspects of Abbott's response are those expected from absolutely any Australian PM. Rudd, Gillard, Howard, Keating, Hawke... would have also expressed their grief and the concern of the Nation and provided all their support to the families. Can you really imagine a PM not doing that? Indeed, even the leader of the ALP Bill Shorten has behaved entirely appropriately. 

However, Abbott must be extremely careful not to use this incident for internal political propaganda consumption. But I am afraid that on the basis of his modus operandi of the past few years, he and his propaganda team are very likely to do so (in fact the propagandistic aspects have been evident from day 1).... Hence people like me are raising the "warning" sign in places like this.AJC,
I am first in line to support a full investigation where ALL the evidence coming from ALL sides is systematically and critically evaluated. 
In cases like this the propaganda thickens very quickly and easily obfuscates any rational debate.
Very many posts in the Drum show exactly that...."This required a level of confrontation with Russia to get things moving."... and so, according to Liberal preferred narrative, the Russians are collaborating because Abbott confronted them and, presumably, they were brought to submission by our strong and decisive leader... etc. etc.
Coogera, can't you perceive the stink of propaganda?

The Ukrainian separatists collaborated with the rescue of the wreckage and the bodies because that was exactly what any responsible person would do, given that this was a civilian commercial flight. They didn't receive a message from Abbott, and like rabbits run to fulfil the desires of the strong man....
The Russians have got additional information that they will surely make available to the international team officially in charge of investigating this tragedy.

Enough of propaganda and manipulation, please! MH17 won't save the Budget from Hell, it won't save the Liberal Party in Victoria and Queensland, it won't save Abbott at the next election... The People are worried about their lives and future, not about watching a John Wayne impersonator grandstanding on TV!You should have been Bush's adviser rather than Cheney or Rumsfeld....Yes, but they started the second Punic war when Hannibal burnt to the ground the city of Saguntum in Spain (another massacre) and then  advanced on Rome, but fortunately (for the Romans) stopped after getting to a stone throw from the walls of the city.... otherwise it would have been Rome to burn rather than Carthage.... From this there is a good take home message for everybody: "If you play with fire you get burnt"......"the separatists"... Zing, I think that just about everybody in Iraq is, in the end, a separatist. Iraq is in a totally unstable equilibrium, and it has been in such state since its creation. The only one able to keep the place more or less together was a bloody dictator: Saddam."The West could achieve the same in a month, if we wished."... Zing, 
Bush, Howard, Blair et al. killed tens of thousands without the use of biological or chemical weapons... and didn't achieve anything. When the end result of Western policies is worse than that of a bloody and murderous dictator and at a higher cost (if we exclude the Iraq-Iran war, that was actually supported by the USA), I think that we have reached a pretty low point.Abbott (and Bishop) are not leaders.
They are not resolute or determined, let alone articulate.
The ethos of their Party is dictated by their masters in Big Business and right-wing think tanks.
The only credit they will receive is for destroying any chance that Neoliberalism will ever rule Australia again.... Applause from Alpo for that!I am only being.... Realist, and so should you. Oh, by the way, I am not responding to Annabel, but to WS. Yet you focus on my post and not on his.... "I suppose we have to acknowledge your consistency"....firthy, arguments are valid or otherwise not because they are old or new, but because they are truthful or not. Abbott's (and Bishop's) problem is not that they "have their moments", it's that they have no idea. Chest beating is something that gorillas do.... tell them to think, rather than chest beat for Australian internal consumption."Abbott and Bishop for real leadership"... Whatever makes you happy, Fastrope....muzzg,
You and your mates in the Liberal Party branches are most welcome to volunteer to be the "collateral damage".... Good luck to you all!Abbott did better than expected, the yank?... His test of effectiveness will be when the bodies of the Australian victims of the crash will be brought home. Until then, it's mere propaganda: "Whatever it takes to lift the Coalition in their sinking polls results"...."Vain, brutal, and infused with an unmistakable Cold War chill, the Russian president is baddie-to-the-bone."... With a comment like that, I would suggest that everybody should follow Rudd's advice: both politicians and... journalists. Abbott should go back to kindergarten and start all over again. The Russians are pursuing politics that maximise their national interests (surprise, surprise!), and won't take any moral lessons from people who spy on their own allies (the USA) or Abbott, the most undemocratic of Australian PMs (unfortunately I can't expand on this.... it's an operational matter!).Hi AJC,
I agree that this tragic event is obviously being used for political propagandistic purposes. I am not "shocked", it happens all the time, an it's imperative that the People keep an open and critical mind to prevent human suffering from being used for devious political purposes. However, I must criticise your last paragraph, simply because you do not provide the sources of your information. Please do so and I will be first to go to those websites and read. I know that both sides in the Ukraine conflict are blaming each other for shooting down MH17, but it's difficult to see the actual information and critically evaluate the evidence.Joe, please just stop these anti-Russian rants. NATO or the unilateral US, or the bilateral US-UK (usually with an Australian appendix attached to it) are not better, not less culpable of murdering thousands, not less willing to impose their own world order, not less unsupportive of democratic processes that produce results that they don't like.... It's a game of international power, and in that game, nobody can honestly cast the first stone.
Being so partisan doesn't really help your cause, whatever it is.
We need to go to the bottom of this, and it looks like that the scenario of a mistake from the part of pro-Russia separatists is starting to take shape."the more liberty one possesses, the more one exposes oneself to risk of attack"... Great, so: Full Protection = ZERO Liberty.
But hey, if we have ZERO Liberty, who protects us from such a Fascist Government?.... 

IF the Government is so concerned about potential terrorism threats, then they should provide our security services with significantly more resources, not limit our Liberties. What's more important: to protect Australia against Terrorism or returning the Budget to Surplus?

Stop sliding into Right Wing Authoritarianism on the back of an Anti-terrorist Paranoia.... Enough is enough!Hey, look at Figure 1..... It's the Unemployment Hockey('s) Stick!!! Look at the accelerating trend in the rate of unemployment since 2014.... It's all the result of the toxic Trimhouse Effect of the Budget from Hell!!... Tax those emitters of Neoliberal Nonsense, they are destroying our planet!!!gbe, it took weeks for this loony government to totally destroy the car industry! It has taken just a handful of months to present a budget that has been rejected by almost everybody. And for your information, 11 months is an eternity in today's fast moving world. Get it wrong, and you plunge the country into hell very quickly.... and this Government has got it wrong from day 1!!.... Sorry, there is nowhere they can hide!
They must revert the trend of wealth disparity by increasing taxation on the big industries and businesses, and high income individuals. Use those increased revenues to help current industries with infrastructure projects and also to establish partnerships with the private sector to kick start new industries. Stop this idiocy of lowering the barriers to imports to zero! These are not things that this Neoliberal Government will ever do.... they must go!Peter, 
It is known that Toyota was viable and Labor supported it...."By the time the Fed does move to raise rates, possibly as late as the second half of next year, there may not be much Australian industry left for a lower dollar to revive."..... Not a problem, we have got Tony Abbott, and Joe Hockey, and Julie Bishop, and George Brandis, and Christopher Pyne, and Mathias Corman... and the rest of the Gang... Don' you feel reassured? [Think it twice before answering, your post will be kept in our records for analysis]."thanks as they put it in their pocket"... Or use it to create a bubble in the economy (that usually ends up bursting, with nasty consequences for everybody else), or use it to speculate in the share market.... When a child is given an entire cake for himself, the usual consequences are: a lot of waste and a big mess."The main reason is the prohibitive cost structure facing Australian manufacturers - the highest minimum wage in the world, archaic work practices, overtime, penalty rates, excessive regulation and taxation etc., etc."... Poor Neoliberal myths. Start all over again, and now put low (to no) barriers to imports first!... Our salaries are higher than in Bangladesh because living in Australia is significantly more expensive than living in Bangladesh!... But you are welcome to be the first to volunteer working for Gina's dream (and internationally hypercompetitive) salary of $2/day... Good luck!False! We can't compete because we have dropped our pants with almost non-existent barriers to imports. Fools! Barriers are a subtle game that we must play with intelligence. Instead, we just eliminate them, and then complain that our workers who must face the high costs of living in Australia, can't compete with the miserably paid workers living in Bangladesh.... Think harder and you will see the point, I am sure.You are right there Fastrope. In fact I have publicly referred to the Hawke/Keating economic policies as Neoliberal-light here. Still, they kept tariffs above zero, the current Neoliberal Revolution (no "light" here) wants to go the full monty: a total drop of our pants.Heretic,
I agree that we are not the highest paid workers in the world. But beyond that, a very important issue is whether our salaries are higher than those of the countries we import from, thus making us "uncompetitive", which leads to job losses. For instance, among the 30 top countries we import from we have (number indicates position in the list):
(1) China
(7) Malaysia
(8) Thailand
(10) Indonesia
(13) Vietnam
(16) Papua New Guinea
(20) India
(23) Nigeria
(24) Mexico
(29) Congo

According to the Neoliberal myth, our workers, to be competitive (and avoid unemployment), should earn about as much as the workers in those countries earn.... BUT our workers have to live in Australia, a pretty expensive country! Therefore we cannot compete with those countries by lowering our workers' salaries.... it's just not possible. What we can do, however, is to play with our tariffs, for instance.That wage is not too far from the Australian minimum wage. The Germans also have one of the highest corporate tax rates in the EU, hence they can provide appropriate public services to their workers. Their secret is innovation, quality and efficiency, not exploitation.What "margin of error" Forrest? These are exact values, not estimates.But now Corporations are seriously competing with Government.... Or better still, they endanger our liberties both directly and through their control of Government.... In the new era of the all powerful Corporations, there is no escape, unless we wake up and fight back!You don't need to store the metadata of millions of people to establish an effective anti-terrorist program. What you need is a specialised, well equipped, well trained and well supported team of security officers who will target specific suspects, groups, websites, etc. Anti-terrorism strategies require focused investigation and action, not jeopardising the liberties of an entire nation. Give more financial resources to ASIO by all means, but they don't need more legal powers. The legal frame they have got should be enough!I propose to install 24hr video cameras inside your house (every room) and inside everybody else's house too. Unless you think you have something which may reach the light of day and get you arrested, this proposal is nothing to worry about.

.... Surely you will accept this resolution quietly, and move on to become a missionary, or volunteer in refugee camps, or whatever.... happy that everything is fine..... Or perhaps you disagree with my proposal, Tracy?John, you keep ignoring the fact of the GFC, that Howard left to this country as a farewell present as he was leaving the office of PM and his seat of Bennelong. The fantasy Costello surplus was accumulated on the back of neglecting our national infrastructure and therefore our productive capacity. Another issue that Labor had to urgently address. Australia takes a small number of refugees in. Mainly because its far away from conflict zones and we are an island. But hey, I told you to check those people coming in by air, didn't I? Read The Age of 7 August, great series of articles on this issue. Just a short quote from the front page: "Fears raised as fraudulent arrivals by plane exploit lax migration checks".... just as predicted.... Stop the Planes, Morrison, Stop the Planes!!!There is a leit motif in both the right-to-be-bigot and the terrorism-scaremongering issues: Authoritarian Conservatism. Abbott in particular is a Populist who has a very close affinity to Authoritarian Conservatism (of the Catholic brand in his case). Hence his old association with Bernardi and Mirabella (now officially kept at some distance, as a small price to pay for Populism). It's about time that both the Libertarians and the democratic small-l Liberals inside the Coalition stop this nonsense and help drive the Liberal Party away from Authoritarian Conservatism.... The Cold War is over, we are not fighting Communism anymore.

Finally, Joseph Wakim is right in pointing out that "To uproot the causes of home grown hatreds, we need to redress the injustices that breed this radicalisation"..... Social dissatisfaction is not a mutation found in Middle Eastern gene pools... it's a natural reaction of any human being to gratuitous negative discrimination!Very good post who, I fundamentally agree with you. It is very often the case that racism is not a deeply engrained, almost philosophical view in this country. But just a superficial feeling, a natural initial mistrust of the unknown that however can be blown up by manipulation from the media. Most of those people expressing racist views are perfectly capable of changing their mind regarding men and women of other races, as soon as they know them better and realise that they are just as hard working, honest, good fun, etc. as anybody else. The IT officer in one of the Uni Departments I worked was a former refugee from Eritrea, the person who put new tiles in part of my house an immigrant from Iraq, I get some help for the garden from an immigrant from Sri Lanka... excellent people, very professional and reliable... and I am not making this up!Neoliberalism can only be fully applied in a Dictatorship. We cannot establish an official Dictatorship in countries like Australia or the USA, hence it must be done by stealth. The overblown threat of a terrorist attack, subversion, revolution is perfect. It links fear with desire for protection, and it shows the loss of liberties as a sort of "minor cost" to pay.... everything else follows from that.

Libertarians: this is the time to show us whether you are honest, or just Trojan Horses for Neoliberalism!!APM, you are correct in suggesting that racism is not exclusive to Caucasians. Individuals from all human races can behave in a racist manner. But this does not excuse Caucasians when they behave in a racist way.

BTW. Marxism is one of the most anti-racist political philosophies available. Whereas Capitalism has thrived on the back of racism, exploitation and slavery."but it is notable that there are never ever examples of non white racism against whites in these anti-racism articles."... Have you ever thought that this is most likely because the relative frequency of such attacks is lower than that of whites against non-whites? Do you also realise that the attack of a group of youngsters of "Middle Eastern appearance" both at Cronulla and in the Sydney gang rapes led to racially motivated retaliation that had effects throughout the country, whereas the far more common rapes and attacks by whites against non whites are just reported as usual crimes, if they are reported at all? In fact, we get the specifics of the perpetrators of a crime when they are of "Middle Eastern appearance", "Indian appearance", "Aboriginal appearance", but we never hear the "Caucasian appearance" of white criminals... Don't complain too much about the ABC (that is at least trying to be fair and balanced) when you are flooded with such blatant biases in your favour in the mainstream media that help construct the narrative of most voters!!!"Only the baddies will shake in their boots".... Have you already forgotten the famous words:

"First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out -
Because I was not a Socialist.

Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out - Because I was not a Trade Unionist.

Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out -
Because I was not a Jew.

Then they came for me - and there was no one left to speak for me."

Even conservatives should be worried about the protection of our liberties from an excessively authoritarian government.


A truth doesn't stop being a truth only because you are bored of it...."The moment Abbott or the Govt say something there is an article on the Drum to criticise them."... The ABC publishes articles both in favour and against the Abbott Government. If it is only the latter that irritate you it's your problem, not the ABC's. Moreover, it is the duty of a free press to scrutinise and keep the Government to account.... well, that was what they said when Labor was in Government, remember?APM, where are the Liberal authors recently writing an article for The Drum in favour of harsh (or harsher) border protection measures?... Are you suggesting that many articles on the issue have been submitted but they have been ALL rejected?

On the other hand, I don't have the time to check the Drum archives, but I bet that you will find a bunch of articles in support of the Liberals' approach to asylum seekers and against the former Labor Government approach published in the past.... have a look, and don't trust your memory, please.Yep, a Neoliberal Revolution to be introduced under the protection of an Authoritarian Regime.... You know, just like in Chile back in the late 1970s-early 1980s... The only difference is that this time around they have to come up with a formula to pretend that we are in a Democracy.... Hmmm, which formula, which formula.... I know, abolish compulsory voting! That will do the trick.... and Rupert will do the rest!"Taxing miners? Given that returns on mining in Africa are about 500% better than Australia, I'm not sure making us more uncompetitive is going to help."... Not quite, mining in Africa is risky and full of uncertainties, especially due to political instability. That's why mining companies are more than happy to keep operating in expensive countries like Australia, and in Africa they prefer relatively more stable countries like South Africa. So no, we must trade our safety and our infrastructure for more taxes on miners. Let's stop all those silly Neoliberal myths..... 
Ah, and if the private companies throw a tantrum and threaten to withdraw; good riddance! Establish a Government Mining Corporation and let's benefit from the extraction of our non-renewable resources 100%!!!So, here is the explanation for the relentless and unanimous negative results in the polls for the Abbott Government:
a) Costs of living for employees jumped since the election.
b) See also the annual costs of living growth compared to inflation, which is increasing in 2014.
c) Even mortgage interest charges have been growing since December 2013....

Mr Abbott, this is your problem: You are NOT solving the real issues that are of concern to the People, you are making them worse!! .... No MH370, MH17, new ASIO "terrorism alarm", "dole bludgers" nonsense and "queue jumpers" scaremongering will be able to distract the People from their REAL problems.... Start packing up, it's over!"More criticism of the government but the alternative is unthinkable"... gbe, we had brilliant sets of values for the economic indices under Labor, especially when compared to the rest of the OECD countries. That's the alternative: a responsible, progressive, socially sensitive, forward looking, and above all non-ideological but science-based Government. That's the alternative, gbe.... Do you still prefer the current mob?

--------------------------------------------------

P.S. Please do not invent stuff. NOBODY, I repeat NOBODY (not even the Greens) is proposing an "open borders program". As for asylum seekers, you can only determine whether they are genuine refugees or not after processing their claims. Even this Government has accepted that about 56% of asylum seekers are genuine refugees. Therefore, each boat they turn back carries at least 56% refugees who are put in arms way!Most people don't pack and leave here, rikistyx.... You don't leave the stadium before the match is over.... why missing the fun of the final result?

Facts establish a limit to the viability of your ideology, unless you are determined to ideologically ignore those facts. I am a biologist and I know that ignoring some facts does not only have consequences on your ideas, but also on the survival of your biological self. Hence there is an ultimate distinction between ideology and empirical evidence.

Open borders is neither a policy (of any party) nor the mechanism by which some asylum seekers decided to take the chance to come to Australia by boat. To understand the kind of flow you would get with "open borders", just experimentally open such borders for 6 months, and you will see..... Nobody is supporting such open border policy where everyone is welcome, no questions asked, just come here by whatever means and become permanent resident ipso facto upon arrival.

You are free to vote for whoever you want, we still are in a Democracy. But this place remains a theatre for the expression of our own ideas, views, and evidence, whatever they are.....Alpha, for as long as you guys live in that deluded fantasy world of yours, you will be shocked, surprised and bewildered by the results of reality...."their dishonest and partisan views"... What would you know about intellectual honesty, John?.... This Neoliberal Government is tough bordering on sadism, led by their paranoia and their blind desire to satisfy (and exploit) the prejudices, fears and delusions of sections of the electorate.... But I agree with you that this Government will pay a very hefty price for their lies, deceit, manipulation.... The People of Australia do not like to be deceived and manipulated."But you keep telling us the Coalition is only implementing Labor's border control policies!! Hypocrite!"... Hypocrite?... I wrote quite a few posts here against the hardening of Labor's stance under Rudd-II with regard to the issue of asylum seekers!.... Ignorant!dr dig, that's not a "principle" or "rule" or even a "recommendation". It's just an a posteriori construct of deluded Liberal Party supporters to try to justify their policies that are only designed to attract votes from a specific section of the electorate.Unlike the supporters of the Liberal Party, I didn't blindly follow the diktats of Rudd-II with regard to asylum seekers. Moreover, this issue of seeking asylum in the first country has been repeated ad nauseam and used as an argument by Liberal politicians and supporters, not Labor politicians and supporters.... Get real, please!"While it has become a truism of Australian political life that you can never be too tough on an asylum seeker, it appears there are limits on how far you can bash a dole bludger."... Asylum seekers are "them" and they are "far away".... A person on the dole is "us" and s/he is "here"!!

----------------------------------------

P.S. To complement Peter and Jackie's article, here is the 2PP from this week's Essential poll (post-MH17): 51% ALP vs 49%.... So, Tony, what's Plan B?What many of us argued was that:

a) Away from an election it's easy for a pollster to relax and push the propagandistic side of their polling.
b) These polls usually have a 2-3% margin of error.

But I invite you to think:

1) Galaxy and Newspoll are published in Murdoch newspapers. Hence one would expect that if there was any bias it would favour the Coalition. But their latest results give the ALP as winner with 52% and 54% respectively. The result for Newspoll is beyond the margin  of error of 2-3%. 

2) ALL pollsters coincide in that the ALP is ahead. The range goes from a minimum of 1% for Essential (within the margin of error) to a maximum of 4-4.5% for Newspoll and Morgan (well beyond the margin of error).

I am more than happy if the Coalition is also happy and relaxes on  the back of these results...."It's the illegal economic migrants that raise hackles."... Forrest, you can sort the wheat from the chaff only after you have carefully checked them.... 
There is no "Labor hate campaign", Forrest, and you know it. There is just relentless and unabated incompetence from this Government of (proven) Liars. 
Essential are the most conservative pollsters of all, meaning that their percentages never change very dramatically. This is the rest of the current polls results (updated):

Galaxy: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
Newspoll: 54% ALP vs 46% L/NP
Morgan: 54.5% ALP vs 45.5% L/NP 
ReachTEL: 53% ALP vs 47% L/NP
Nielsen: 54% ALP vs 46% L/NP

.... you are most welcome to relax on the back of all that....

John, representatives in the Lower House are elected on the basis of the 2PP for each seat, not the primary vote (unless such vote is over 50%).

Please pay attention to all the posts in this thread. This is what you will find I wrote above:

"a) Away from an election it's easy for a pollster to relax and push the propagandistic side of their polling.
b) These polls usually have a 2-3% margin of error."

This remains true, but you failed to notice the unanimous trend in all pollsters that give the ALP ahead, some of them showing differences well beyond the margin of error.... You are most welcome to believe that the pattern is just due to chance.


Val, 
This gang in Government have their brains full of "lazy dole bludgers", spending their government money "on cigarettes, alcohol and fast food"... That's the person you are in their mind. I wouldn't waste my time changing their views at all.... Sending letters to the minor Parties and Independent to block their mad legislation in the Senate and then booting them out at the earliest electoral opportunity (State and Federal) is far, far easier and more effective!Bill,
When Abbott said that "Australia is open for business", what he really meant was that it's open for Big Business.... The current Liberal Party couldn't care less for their traditional constituency of small and medium business people. They are playing their games for the very Big end of Town only. If you are swallowed by their competition, bad luck, it means that you deserved it and you are now "liberated" to pursue other exciting adventures in life, according to Tony Abbott....
Those who didn't hunt fulfilled other roles.... that's how shamanism was invented.... After millennia of cultural evolution, the shamans of old have become ideologues, priests, etc.

If you want to look for real social parasites, don't waste your time looking in the ranks of the unemployed ....I appreciate your effort to try to salvage the Abbott Government from electoral Armageddon, but it's just too late. There is no way back for this Government, I am afraid. They were elected on the back of one of the most disgusting campaigns of lies and propaganda ever witnessed in this country, in order to exact a Neoliberal Revolution. Abbott's Populism was only the Trojan Horse carrying Neoliberalism well hidden inside. But the Neoliberal Revolution has been decisively rejected by the People of Australia. Now the Coalition is just left with Abbott's empty Populist Trojan Horse that is far from satisfactory even to his Masters and Financiers..... So, I am afraid, it is not a "change of direction" that is needed for Abbott &amp; Gang, what we need is a Change of Government!!"What is you answer to this "hiatus" ?"


Andie, there is no scratching of any head. The "hiatus" is just a periodical slow down in planetary surface temperature that mirrors the ups and downs of the energy irradiated by the Sun. The Sun goes through 11-year long regular cycles, for your information. The temperature anomaly record for 1998 was broken in 2010 (the "hiatus" has disappeared 4 years ago, update your rusty database!). World temperatures for May and June have hit a new record of warming.... 2014 is set to be hot!Andie, you didn't quite understand what I wrote. If you keep shaking those bells you won't be able to focus!More ignorance from you John:

a) "Snow is falling in parts of Victoria that rarely see snow"... El Nino years always start with an increased level of precipitation (to then give way to greater levels of aridity); and with global warming humidity is expected to increase too, especially in coastal areas. In winter, such precipitations can take the form of snow. But this year the skiing season started later. Wait until the end of the year to see the 2014 temperature anomaly for Australia (and indeed the world). Until now, May and June have been the months of greatest global temperature anomaly on record!

b) No need to start emitting CO2 again, there is no LIA anywhere to be seen... But you are allowed to keep on praying and burning candles to the saint patron of Denialism (whoever s/he might be).... if you stick around for a few thousand years, you may finally get it right.... Good Luck!
"carbon pricing is a criminal scam that does not change the climate one iota"... Prove it or otherwise erase the "Maybe" from "Maybe I'm ideologically blinded".No proof, so you we have to conclude that you are ideologically blinded then.... No surprise.I have the paper version of The Age for the 5th of August here and I can't see such headline. But given that warming has not halted, if such headline was ever published, it is obviously wrong. By the way, the record temperature anomaly recorded in 1998 was exceeded in 2010.... 4 years ago!... Yep, update your database, it's 4 years since the "hiatus" (= slow down in warming) has been over!" it can't demonstrate that it has reformed itself"... Reformed from what?... It's not people like you who will vote this total failure of a Government out.... it's the rest of us! Watch the opinion polls: down for the Coalition from day one, and 2PP below Labor's since December. Their major piece of "reforms" in tatters, the rest of the policies sinking... and the clock is ticking.Dave, it's not "small target strategies" we are talking about here, when the ALP is targeting both the performance and the further plans of this Government as stated in their Budget from Hell. Those are all extremely BIG targets! Beazley confronted Howard during a period of general international abundance and credit card bonanza. He did win the 2PP in 1998 btw, but it wasn't enough. Times are very different now, there is no international abundance nor bonanza, times are tough and they are being made tougher by the irresponsible application of ideological Neoliberalism by this Government..... It's over for the Abbott Government, I can't see any path to victory for them at the next Federal election.... The fate of the first-term Coalition Governments in both Victoria and Queensland will show you the initial steps of the stairwell to oblivion for Australian Neoliberalism..... The Abbott Federal Government will follow...I invite you to also analyse the WA re-run of the Senate election. Labor lost votes to the Greens (further to the left), and the combined Liberal and National Parties lost an even greater chunk of their first preferences to the PUP, a populist party.... My reading of these results is that the People are sensing that times are not good to emphasise individualism and the dismantling of the Government system of social support (the "fair go"). Hence their rejection of Neoliberalism.SVJ, the people do not vote on the basis of the feel-good reports from the business community, they vote on the basis of their very personal reality. It is that reality in the real community that is sinking and will continue to sink the fortunes of this Federal Government... The Business community may continue to sing their deluded songs, in the hope to revive this Zombie Government.... it won't happen.
.... Dream of your second term if you wish, dreaming is one of the few forms of entertainment that are still free of charge....SVJ, "business confidence" is not the same as jobs and good salaries.... I wish that People could pay their rent and groceries on the basis of "business confidence", but they don't. The Government is there to stop the country plunging into free fall, when "business" fail to do their job.... remember the GFC?SVJ, when I see the investment and the employment I will believe it.... Sorry, we scientists are tough to satisfy. We don't need dots, we need jobs, real jobs."Does it not occur to them that having the kind of leader who is happy to viciously punish people can backfire on them when they become the target...?".... The Budget from Hell is making the People realise exactly that, Ann.... The big awakening is unfolding in front of our eyes...."We have a long way to go yet....."... But if you are somebody like Abbott, make sure to walk the long road with mates like Rupert Murdoch.... that's the only way to defy the odds of your own personal deficiencies....
Tell all that to the unemployed, those who can't pay their increasing bills, the pensioners, the tertiary education students....

"Exactly where this Neoliberal Revolution of yours is I'm unsure"... You are unsure? It's clear and transparent right in the Budget from Hell. When People can't see what's in front of their eyes, it's time to leave them behind and move on, no point in wasting our time there....

"Their policies are too soft".... I call Hockey's the "Budget from Hell", I would be in real troubles trying to find an even stronger expression if you were the Treasurer...."Not only has the Budget been mis-represented and caused undue alarm".... Brian, you must be the only Australian who still can't see the endless number of deceptive aspects of this Budget from Hell, the lies it is built upon, and its nature as the harbinger of the Neoliberal Revolution nobody wanted, nobody expected, nobody needs!
.... Blessed innocence...."and it's shameful that his pet senators should allow themselves to be manipulated by him":... Do you mean like Abbott manipulates his members of Parliament into holding the official line.... and he was praised for that by Murdoch &amp; Gang because that was supposed to show "leadership"? Isn't Palmer showing leadership too? ...or that only works one way?"unlike Labor members who are NOT allowed to publicly dissent from the party line".... Short memory Bev? Dissent from individual ALP parliamentarians during both the Rudd and Gillard Governments was very public.... and Murdoch loved it, and exploited it to the full! Whereas it is only now that cracks are appearing in the Abbott Liberal dictatorship. As for holding the Party line, see Abbott's recent admission to give free vote for the issue of gay marriage, a free vote that Labor politicians enjoyed straight away when Julia Gillard was PM."in a sense you have one man dictating the political direction this country has to take"... Rupert Murdoch does the same all the time... and he is not even in Parliament.... and we cannot even replace him with a vote as he becomes more and more dictatorial and loony right-wing....

Palmer is only dangerous for this deluded bunch in the Neoliberal Coalition. That's all. As the repeat Senate election in WA has shown, Palmer is getting votes from potential Coalition voters, not ALP, not the Greens....There was no debt problem under Labor, mortan, as the debt growth was slowing down and it was kept under control. Abbott is more than welcome to delay the inevitable until the very end... The later the Federal election is, the more outraged Australians will become, the more crashing the Coalition fall will be... There is no escape for Abbott &amp; Gang.... watch the opinion polls...."Given that the alternative government still advocates a carbon tax"... NOT TRUE. The ALP is advocating an emissions trading scheme.

"a weakening of our borders"... NOT TRUE. Not even the Greens are advocating a "weakening of our borders". What the ALP and Greens are advocating is a more intelligent, humane, long-lasting and effective way of dealing with the raising international problem of refugees.

"a mining tax"... I truly hope that this is TRUE. We need a better and stronger Mining Tax, not the diluted thing we had.

"no fiscal rectitude".... FALSE, now we know that the ALP Government was miles more fiscally responsible than this bunch of Neoliberal loonies.

This Government has delivered on nothing... it's just lies upon lies and broken promise upon broken promise.... Even the hyper-cautious Facts Check agrees with that (6 lies so far from their perspective.... a very conservative assessment in my view).

custard, the Labor Party IS advocating the ETS now and will continue to do so at the next election. What on Earth are you talking about?.... They "will lose" on the basis of that you say?.... Wait and see!"this mystical alternative government that no one ever sees or hears from"... gbe, there is no worse blind person than the one who doesn't want to see, nor a worse deaf person than the one who doesn't want to listen.... Plenty of things to see and to listen to from the Labor side, mate....  Just don't look for them in the Murdoch Press. I suggest you rather look in the ABC, the Guardian, some times the Fairfax press.... Please do so, you won't be disappointed.A mate of the Liberals put in charge of criticising an ALP program has come up with strong criticisms of the ALP program..... Surprise, surprise!Hi Tator,
Judy Bee says that "there are now about 146,000 job vacancies, and unemployment is about 700,000". I agree with you that "(i)t is not like there is a fixed quanta of jobs in the economy but it is a fluctuating number", but jobs do not grow on trees. So, please do explain to both Judy Bee and myself where are the additional 554,000 jobs going to come from?.... What's the Abbott/Hockey's plan for the creation of full-time, properly remunerated jobs, Tator?They can't change the leader. Remember the hysteria when Labor did it? "Revolving doors", "lost their way", "assassinated", "backstabbed", "faceless men", "chaos".... They will get every single one of those cries if they do something to Tony Abbott, and that will just accelerate the end of the Liberal Party as we have known it since Howard became PM..... In other words, they have trapped themselves in a lose/lose situation, there is no escape.Planets also tend to not hold life, and yet ours does.... The greenhouse effect is produced by greenhouse gases and solar radiation. Greenhouse gases have many sources, but the one that explains the recent increase in atmospheric CO2 in particular is human burning of fossil fuels.....  Your point is?....Marion, thanks for that.... there is still hope for this World!"As soon as they are elected, we tear them to shreds!"... But this one TRULY deserves it!No ltfc1,
It was the alleged "mess" of the past 7 years that actually was an act of mass brain washing! The economy was stellar and our social frame and support was still working.... All that is being dismantled by this Government of Liberliars: costs of living are up, real unemployment is up, and they want to strangle our economy with their Budget from Hell. As they do all that, they are more worried inventing fictitious dangers from asylum seekers and now they want to create a "terrorism panic", so they can further restrict our liberties.... Can't you smell the stench of a frontal assault on our Democracy?ltfc1: A real mess is reflected in a poorly performing country (economy above all). This was NOT the case under Labor. You have been sucked in by the tabloid emphasis on differences of opinion between some Labor members (magnified as struggles to the death, chaos, backstabbing by faceless men... etc., you know the propaganda).... Wake up, and focus on what's important. This Liberliar Government is hoping that you fall asleep.... don't, please!"His plan is now to oppose all bills, even budget bills"... No Whitey, Labor is opposing the bills that blatantly run against the social conscience and sense of responsibility of the Labor Social Democratic priorities. It just happens that the Neoliberal toxicity of this Budget from Hell is such that there are just too many bills that will have to be opposed following Labor's principles.... Blame Abbott, Hockey, etc. for this mess, not Labor.

The "budget back to surplus" at all costs is a Neoliberal myth. The People are first, Whitey, theoretical economic models should be down in the list of priorities.... In New Zealand, Hockey has recently said that the Australian economy is not in troubles and he made no mention of the budget emergency...."One is left wondering why the Government has decided on (at best) second rate policies."... Don, those are First Rate Neoliberal policies, that's what makes them second rate to any sensible person. This Budget is not "responsible", it's ideological (ideologically stupid I would argue, following your example).The world is fast becoming multipolar and incredibly dynamic. The fast pace of change will make any strategic mistake increase its effects on any country exponentially. Although the USA are currently in troubles, they do have the capacity to lift themselves up eventually, especially if the mad generation of Republicans that followed the Reagan Neoliberal Revolution are consigned to the dustbin of history, being replaced by a new generation of moderate and intelligent conservatives.
But the ones who are at a real crossroads are the Europeans. Each country on its own won't be able to have enough strength to compete against the emerging giants (Russia, Brazil, India), and let's not even mention China, plus the classic partners/competitors such as the USA and Canada. The big different between all those countries and the European individual countries is their massive size, large populations (= big internal markets), great amounts of natural resources that render them independent on many fronts, and their accelerating technological capacity.I fully agree that we are facing a Technological Revolution that will produce broad social consequences akin to the 18th-19th centuries Industrial Revolution. But be warned that this time around the number of competitors will be much larger and therefore the effects within each country (even the high tech USA and EU) will be much stronger.... In the end, returning to my concern for the Europeans, we may see another big flow of emigrants out of Europe (it's already happening) as it happened in the 19th century. Australia should wise up and get the best emigrants early on....."and any other pariah nation who feels that the company suits them."... Like India, Brazil, South Africa, Indonesia... and so forth and so on?.... We better move on from our Cold War simplified understanding of the world or we will be left behind...
... Oh, btw, do you realise the strategic importance (and size) of Iran?Mitor, militant Islam in the West also feeds on the West's social rejection of Muslim immigrants, their offspring and often even their grand-offspring.... They love martyrdom, and we provide plenty of excuses day in and day out to practice the art..."So we are paying - as we would with The Liberal proposed PPL"... But wait a minute, you can't flip flop with the rhetoric. Government supporters are advertising Abbott PPL as being mainly paid by the employers... Or perhaps you mean that if a private employer has to pay the luxury PPL we, the consumers, will eventually foot the bill.... as it is always the case with the private sector?....Abbott's PPL never had a future. It was his personal brain fart that was opposed by many from his own side (the Neoliberal Gang in particular). So the PPL is sinking after being hit by torpedos from everywhere.... This tells a lot about the incompetence of Tony Abbott, does it?I can see this Government's Neoliberal Economic team getting more and more nervous and desperate... the tipping point will be reached when they will be photographed eating their cigar!...."These are economic refugees who want to take advantage of our system at the expense and cost of Australians.".... ECONOMIC REFUGEES, TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR SYSTEM? What an utter fabrication by, you guessed it, someone who does not need facts, BUT, needs to lie and be inventively scaremongering 24/7.
"I think its been fairly established now that most of these people are economic migrants, thats why they are returned."... FALSE! Even this government of refugees haters has admitted that 56% of those assessed in 2014 are genuine refugees. So, for each boat turned back they are rejecting at least 56% of people who are genuine refugees following their own criteria. If you don't have a clue about what's going on inform yourself first! 
Boat people are currently returned without being assessed, for pure and simple political reasons. This Government of liars are more fearful of a negative result for their propaganda than of sending genuine refugees back to face danger.
.... But the clock is ticking.... inexorably.....
So, bj, you are saying that the Abbott Government is inept?... Oh, btw, the Howard Government also found about 60% of asylum seekers being genuine refugees.... More ineptitude?.... What's wrong with Liberal Governments?....bj, I don't mind at all adding the former Labor Government too. All those Governments went through a some times pretty lengthy process to assess the status of the refugees. Calling them "inept" in that regard sounds pretty gratuitous to me. If anything we may complain about how slow the process is, and whether it could be accelerated.TGU, I expect the next ALP Government - to be sworn into office in 2016 at the latest- to adopt a stance of clarity, humanity, and cooperation. Cooperate with the Indonesians to establish well organised processing centres there. Process asylum seekers properly, accept those who are genuine, and reject those who are not. Those rejected are identified (photo, fingerprint, DNA), told not to try again, and safely returned to where they came from. Increase our intake (we can double it without any problem), those who exceed our quota but are found to be genuine refugees are relocated elsewhere in coordination with the UNHCR.... This solution is clear, firm, and also humane.  
In the meantime our foreign affairs policies should be directed towards decreasing regional conflicts that generate refugees, not increasing them.
Finally, political parties (the Liberals in particular) should stop fuelling sentiments of racism, ethnic hatred, and social resentment against minorities in order to gain a bunch of bloody votes! They are seriously damaging the social frame of this country."The more we close our minds to facts and be driven by emotion, the greater the trouble will be to bring us all back to a dialogue that can offer grounds for negotiation."... Brian, why didn't you advise Abbott and Murdoch on this issue back when Abbott won the ballot for the leader of the Coalition?... How different would have the recent history of Australian politics be?Which "international success", custard? Wake up, stop dreaming!.... His PPL is under very serious threat from his own side, it's about to be postponed to the never-never future.... Another broken promise ( = LIE)!A better parallel still are the many serious international crises we had to face since the end of WWII.... none of them have led to a world war. Why? ....The answer is obvious and easy, isn't it?But now there is the real threat of a nuclear conflagration, which puts a cap on the number and magnitude of our "errors"."The majority would just want to get on with living their lives in peace."... That's fundamentally correct, and that's why many of the civilians affected just leave the place and become refugees.... only to be treated as "queue jumping country shoppers" by some Governments....James, the word "Palestinian" was never mentioned in either my post of CJB22's post. Our posts were written on the basis of a broad concern about those who are victims of conflicts they can't control....  Oh By the way, Palestinians do come to Australia seeking refugee status, even by boat (the latest case I can remember was in 2012). In 2006 Australia also took Palestinian refugees from the al-Rweished camp in Jordan. In general it is safe to say that most refugees from Jordan are likely to be Palestinians, but the statistics are not always explicit."One hundred years ago, diplomacy failed and the world descended into war."... There weren't any nuclear weapons 100 years ago. Failure of diplomacy between two nuclear powers in the 21st century, means the annihilation of the human species.... That's why even the very serious Cuban missiles crisis of 1962 was finally resolved peacefully. Not even the Korean or Viet-Nam wars led to a final confrontation between nuclear powers.... even Soviet Communism dissolved into nothing more or less peacefully in spite of the previous violent interventions in both Hungary and Czechoslovakia.
Who wants to play a game where there is guarantee of no winners?
.... Diplomacy is still alive and kicking...."What? Has the next election been cancelled?"... There were elections in the Soviet Union too, Forrest.... Obviously, the Coalition Stormtroopers are a bit low in general knowledge.
John, people with a profoundly humanist conscience care about all human beings, including Christians. But we cannot comprehend the focus on the welfare of Christians and the disregard for everybody else.EM, it is entirely reasonable to think that she is doing something more than that. After all, she is a research fellow at the Centre for Public Christianity....Hey, wait a minute GraemeF. Christian bombs dropped over Muslim cities always have a "redemptive intent" and they should be seen in the theological context of the opportunity to spiritually and materially reconnect with your creator. I mean, I thought that this was self-evident.....Militant Christianity started officially with the Roman emperor Constantine the Great (4th century a.c.e.). The emperor Julian (4th century) tried to restore Paganism, but he was killed in battle by one of his own soldiers, presumably a Militant Christian. After the collapse of the Roman Empire, Militant Christianity recovered its imperial status with Charlemagne in the 8th century, just about when Islam was starting to set foot on continental Europe.
.... Militant Christianity has a very old history that precedes Islam.Bravo Natasha, you are defending Christian minorities against persecution..... Now write an article defending Muslim minorities against persecution and negative discrimination in Christian countries. Surely as a Christian you are deeply concerned about that too...

"It also doesn't help that our society is undergoing a rather uneven and confusing transition from a Christian to a "post-Christian" identity."... In fact, that helps a lot, because as my first paragraph shows, in a secular society everybody should be worried about human beings as human beings, not as Muslims or Christians.

The West is becoming more and more agnostic, Natasha. It's time to start creating a new form of global Humanism for the future. The ashes of the old Philosophies and Theologies can be used to grow vegetables...."It can't be done unilaterally"... I agree!
I haven't read specific studies of intergenerational transmission of religious beliefs and practice in communities of Muslims living in Western countries. But my impression is that over the generations people tend to adapt to the main flow of thinking in the culture of the country they live in. The less we discriminate against minority groups, the less incentive there is among the younger generations to seek safety in their traditional world, and the more likely it is that with time the religious orthodoxies of old start to soften first, and then become inoffensive or perhaps even disappear altogether.The blatant pro-Israel stance of the Abbott Government is not necessarily ideological, or it's not only ideological. More directly, it's a response to the lobbying of the very well cashed up community of some pro-Israel Business people. Had the pro-Palestinian community been able to match the financial influence the pro-Israel community has on this Government, their stance would be far more neutral. For a Liberal, the soul always goes to the higher bidder.... Simple and straightforward.So the Muslims are "the barbarian side in this conflict"?... If this reflects the opinion of the people currently in Government, then they are adding to the problem, not the solution.aGuy,
If the pro-Israel lobby could show a country that does not build walls and arbitrarily occupy territories that are not theirs.
If they could show a democracy that respects the rights of those under their "care" in Gaza and the West Bank.
If they could show the removal of the illegal actions of their secret services, the Mossad.
If they could show their ability to avoid the conditions that produce refugees from Palestinian areas.
If they would allow international aid in instead of blockading maritime access to Gaza....
.... Then this conflict could be resolved once and for all, and the political pressure of lobbies (of any kind) on our Government (beyond the money factor, of course) could be less."Those territories were not "arbitrarily occupied"".... Read the UNSC resolution 446, please!Milton*, it's time for your ideology to be scrapped... Neoliberalism is truly lame and bankrupt.

-----------------------------------------
*The real MF retired for good from this world and moved to Valhalla in 2006. But the gods refused him free entry and asked him to pay his way through voluntary work in Tartaros. It has been reported that he has remained there for the past 8 years, in spite of sending repeated applications to Odin's office for a placement in Valhalla.A recession? Not a problem OUB, Professor Hockey has got one ready for you.... But I agree that he won't be able to predict the exact shape and size of the final product.... let alone its effects.Each new policy is a new Waterloo for this insane government.... I don't think there are enough St Helens around to hold all of them after being trashed at the next election...Hallelujah, for as long as there are still Cool, Calm and Clear-thinking Australians around..... there is hope!!"Schools and councils are already deleting paid jobs, now they know they can get slave labour for free. Not just labourers, base IT positions. After all, they're facing budget cuts too due to this regime."..... Very many former Liberal voters are also seeing exactly what this devious trick is all about. If you have to do voluntary work for $0/day, Gina's dream salary of $2/day will look like a fantastic deal.....
... The final gasping for air of a dying Neoliberalism has a strange sense of the tragicomic....Centrelink is not solving the lives, let alone organising the future, of anyone at the moment. Get real, please! Centrelink is simply preventing a bad situation to get even worse.
As for your main points: (a), (b) and (c) they are all correct BUT you are missing:
d) Properly tax, especially the high earners, so that the government has the financial resources to...
e) ... directly invest in productive enterprises and also public infrastructure that not only help our economy but also create jobs now and the conditions for the creation of new jobs into the future.
f) Employ public servants in all areas of government duties such as education and health services, plus other productive public services (including the military).... and those, overall, ARE NOT a "drop in the ocean", wake up!

I hope that now your eyes are more open to the real reality.  
The slow ascent of Malcolm Bligh Turnbull has begun. He will meet Joseph Benedict Hockey under the midday sun for the final confrontation....
.... What about Anthony John Abbott?.... He has been lastly seen at sea frantically trying to stop the boats... to no avail. We suspect that he may be lost somewhere in the Indian Ocean, a rescue mission headed by Rtd Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston is being organised... Good luck!The BCA should spend their energy making their big associates more productive and competitive internationally.
The Government should spend their energy taxing those BCA associates and providing the infrastructure and legal framework so that they can thrive without jeopardising other areas of priority in society.
The Government should also spend the tax money helping the small and medium businesses, especially in innovative areas of production and development. With time, those small businesses will grow and become big and be relevant and productive members of the BCA.... and the cycle starts again...."The Napthine Government languishes in the polls and all Labor had to do was wait for the election - or so it seemed."... Political games do not solve People's problems.... this will be learned by Dennis Napthine at the election in November.... It's up to the People of Victoria to also send a clear message, through their vote, to the rest of the Liberals around Australia (in Qld and at the Federal level in particular): "You may like to squeeze as much propaganda as you like from any event through the media, but if the People are unhappy you won't be saved from your inevitable fate"!!.... Abbott is learning just that with the MH17 saga....Brian, I don't hate anybody. It's just that.... I love Australia. Can you see the difference?

The thinking People of Victoria will have their opportunity to cast a judgment in November.... not long to wait now.TBS, you truly seem to be desperately in denial regarding the imminent trashing of the Napthine one-term Coalition Government. As for the desalination plant, wait for this Summer to see how much more water will be needed... the atmosphere is warming up, and it took a forward looking Labor Government to prepare for it.... the Libs are always clueless and play catch up, unsuccessfully.... Goodbye Dennis... your time is over.

----------------------------
P.S. Brumby was never my cup of tea, but you are completely wrong regarding Bracks. Brumby was the main reason for that loss, had Bracks staid on we wouldn't have had this Coalition circus we have now in Victoria."farewell to the 2 major parties..."... Not quite, bill, but I agree with you that the Greens will be an interesting surprise at this year State Election. Victoria is fast becoming the most Progressive State in Australia (Labor plus Greens).... 
... But don't dream of a Green Victoria... it won't happen any time soon.The Social Democratic approach is very simple:
a) The People must be knowledgeable and fully informed, so that they can vote on the basis of a proper understanding of the issues and the consequences of specific policies.
b) Politicians in government formulate the policies that they have brought to the vote of the People, and such policies must be based on the dual knowledge coming from technically expert individuals (in the various areas) and a decision making process that selects the best solutions in both technical terms AND in ethical terms. Technicians have not necessarily a clue about the ethical consequences (e.g. equality of opportunities, social injustice leading to high biases in wealth distribution) of alternative technical solutions. A Social Democrat Government CANNOT ignore that all important issue.
c) A "triple bottom line" Social Democrat also adds the currently all important problem (and increasing in importance over time) of the long-term environmental sustainability of any proposed solution.

Don't fear the Democratic judgment of a WELL INFORMED People!The Social Democratic approach is very simple:
a) The People must be knowledgeable and fully informed, so that they can vote on the basis of a proper understanding of the issues and the consequences of specific policies.
b) Politicians in government formulate the policies that they have brought to the vote of the People, and such policies must be based on the dual knowledge coming from technically expert individuals (in the various areas) and a decision making process that selects the best solutions in both technical terms AND in ethical terms. Technicians have not necessarily a clue about the ethical consequences (e.g. equality of opportunities, social injustice leading to high biases in wealth distribution) of alternative technical solutions. A Social Democrat Government CANNOT ignore that all important issue.
c) A "triple bottom line" Social Democrat also adds the currently all important problem (and increasing in importance over time) of the long-term environmental sustainability of any proposed solution.

Don't fear the Democratic judgment of a WELL INFORMED People!
It's not Abbott per se, the yank. Forrest blindly supports anything Coalition. If George Washington was the leader of the ALP and Vlad the Impaler the leader of the Coalition, he would be hammering hard on Washington's many "inadequacies"....We have just entered phase 2 of Abbott's Operation "Help Me Out"!The exploiting of this tragedy is not paying off. The ALP is still preferred over the Coalition (2PP), and although Abbott has shown a slight improvement in his preference as PM he still lags behind Shorten.... How many more innocent Australian victims does he need to really make a difference?Gees, WS, do you want to "interrogate" shorten?... In a dark room with a bright light directed straight to his eyes?... 
"Are you William Shorten?.... Answer my question!"I fully agree, Ann: Begonia for PM!"I have Abbott winning easily with a reduced margin."... That's definitely not my prediction, gbe. Abbott and the Coalition are pushing themselves beyond the "miracle" region, that area of reality where you are going to lose even if a miracle happens. Believe me, it's extremely difficult and it requires massive "ineptitude skills" to push your Government into that situation."Where's Malcolm?"... Preparing himself to lead the Liberal Party from the Opposition benches..... and they left a Gross Public debt of about $50 Billion.... Do your research properly, John!A couple of ordinary Australians were able to safely reach the crash site to pay respects to their dead daughter. They did it without fanfare, without grandstanding and safely. Had we adopted a similar stance since day one, a team of civilian investigators would have reached the site earlier, done their job (necessarily quickly) and got out, with a mission accomplished applause..... But no, Tony the desperate PM couldn't miss an opportunity to squeeze some polling benefits out of this tragedy.... and now the cigar has exploded in his face, yet again."The OCSE observers were there within a day"... Without negotiating with anybody before? No wonder they were driven off!!!... A reality check for our dear Rambos!... You can't go "ballistic" if you don't proceed with care and diplomacy in the first instance.... 
The black boxes, and bodies, etc. were handed over because "Abbott and the Dutch PM have both have strong words with Putin"?... You are getting every day more delusional my dear Cold War warrior. I guess that with the current threats of sanctions against the Russians you may expect the raise of a white flag and full surrender?
.... I mean, this world is getting crazier and crazier.....Ha, ha, now you are becoming really funny frangipani. So, according to you the rebels have the strength to stop the OCSE observers to physically reach the site and against the will of the Russians, but immediately hand over the boxes because the "Netherlands and Australia gets angry"...
... Sorry frangipani, you don't need a "reality check", you need a "reality therapy"!!
Can we please analyse this issue with a modicum of rationality?
Like the never ending saga in the Middle East, this Ukrainian saga will only end when a "two state" solution will be finally found. Ukraine as it is has become unstable, a new stable equilibrium is required asap, before it is reached anyway but by very violent means.My dear pontificating Brian, the facts show that it's not me who lives in a "glass bubble", "speaks political junk", has no comprehension of the "real world", is approaching a situation that is "quite beyond him" with the naivity, grandstanding, confrontation that Abbott and Bishop are actually showing. You don't "waltz up to the crash site", you quietly negotiate with both rebels and Russians, in secret, to reach a quick agreement for a small contingent of investigators, aided by locals (the ones who eventually recovered both bodies and black boxes) to search the site.
Yes, common sense, the most uncommon of the senses right now in the Australian Government.
What has Abbott's Rambo attitude achieved?... Please do tell us!Criminals?.... Chances are that this was a tragic accident of target misidentification in a war zone (we shall see at the end of the investigation). Chances also are that the causal chain of culpability is likely to be rather long.Malcolm, I sincerely hope that you are not an adviser to this already pretty clueless Government. Your comment is beyond cluelessness. "Criminal element" is the usual label that a central Government reserves for separatists who raise in arms. Saddam did so with the Kurds, and in the more distant past, the English with George Washington... etc., etc. The ongoing process that will inevitably end with the split of Ukraine is not a process fuelled by "criminal elements", please do wake up!What a bunch of Liberal incompetents!

- Are they dismissing good advice from the Foreign Affairs experts? Or are they being given the wrong advice?
- Has anyone explained to Abbott and Bishop the meaning of the words "Civil war"?... No, it's not a new video game.
- Has anyone told them that you cannot approach a mission like this by starting with taking sides, as Abbott and Bishop did with regard to their early stance against Russia and Putin in particular?
- Has anyone advised them to keep their mad supporters in the Media under control, because the idiocies that our media publish are then reported overseas and will inevitably strengthen the resolve of the Eastern Ukrainian insurgents against us and our mission?
- Can anyone tell Abbott and Bishop to leave this issue in the hands of the Dutch? At this point in time I trust the Dutch more that I trust this pair of incompetents.
- Let's hope that none of our people sent to the area is hurt...
- The debris of the aircraft are scattered around such a huge area, that a mission to recover all the "evidence" is simply impossible in a war zone.
- I suggest to seek the collaboration of the locals to retrieve scattered body parts, for obvious humanitarian reasons. Provide them with appropriate containers that can preserve the tissue for future DNA identification."Western appeasement in 38/39"?... Is Putin a new Hitler, Maynard?... Why? Should the Eastern Ukrainian forced to join the EU against their will? or even follow the diktats of a Government in Kiev that they do not recognise as legitimate anymore?... But perhaps they should just shut up, whereas the rebels in Syria are perfectly entitled to topple the Government of Bashar al-Assad?.... Can you see the nonsense?Maynard, let's be rational. Has anybody noticed a military building up of the Russians under Putin similar in scale to the military build up observed in Nazi Germany up until 1939? Have the now very sophisticated secret services of the NATO countries detected any preparation for a full scale war?... Have you thought about the consequences of such "New Hitler" strategy in the nuclear era?.... Calm down Maynard, Putin is too smart to be embarking in what it would be ultimately a global suicidal Big Bang. The same Nazi-inspired scaremongering was used against China for their recent annexation of Hong Kong, Macau and the dispute with Japan over the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands, not to speak of the ongoing saga with Taiwan.... is China a new Nazi Germany according to you, Maynard?.... But you may ask both Russians and Chinese, perhaps you may be surprised if they refer to us as the "New Nazi Germany", judging from the US (and NATO more broadly) military build up since Ronald Reagan.

In the pre-nuclear era the military was the voice of politics, in the nuclear era it is politics that must be the voice of the military. Political confrontations will have to be solved politically with only (relatively "minor", compared to a WW) local military clashes using conventional weapons. See the recent case of the split of Yugoslavia.You are confusing appeasement with political maneuvering in a game that is limited by the impossibility of a full-blown conflict, lest you are happy with mutual obliteration.... Read my post again....frangipani, I have repeated ad nauseam that Abbott and Bishop are doing (broadly speaking) what any Australia Government should do: be concerned and take initiatives. The point I am repeating is that they are doing it very badly and are taking the wrong initiatives, without really understanding the complexity of the situation. The results speak for themselves, beyond my dislike of Abbott and Bishop.Rudd is a professional diplomat and Shorten is a skilled negotiator. They would have done much more below the surface, and less up in the bright light.... and achieved far more than Abbott and Bishop have. The grandstanding done for PR and the spin overload done for propaganda always damage the diplomatic effort, and in this case are not even producing the desired polls results for the Government.
"There is no reason that Senator Xenophon's scheme would have a different effect."... Indeed. First, let's learn from past mistakes. But above all, stay away from using Superannuation before retirement. Super is not there to be a source of investment and speculation into the present or near future, it is there to make sure that the whole community doesn't have to suffer the brunt of an increasing number of retirees, and also it is there to help such retirees afford a better and more secure life in retirement (long-term future).
... Hands off our Super, enough risks we are already taking with the ups and downs of the financial markets!!! 

Good article, Michael!Fair point graazt. But don't forget that you can't eat and pay your bills in retirement with your house, unless you use the equity in it. Even if investment from super into real estate does not increase the value of properties (as Michael is correctly warning us), you are still risking to become an asset rich but cash poor retiree... and that's not good.
For sure there are risks in the current freedom to invest with your superannuation money. But in most cases you are still free, by just paying a modest fee, to shift investment from shares for instance to the hyperconservative cash according to how you see the market is going. Right now I wouldn't invest in cash, but if the winds of a potential GFC-II start blowing, I will."The fact that government does not consider the value of a house in its welfare assessments is just plain ridiculous."... I remember a discussion I had here on this issue, and given the current real estate bubble and the overpriced value of such real estate, I agree that there should be an amendment of the law (perhaps to be revisited if the bubble bursts) whereby if a retiree is income poor but asset rich (e.g. living in a $2 Million house) it should be required to sell the property and live off part of the cash so generated, whilst buying a less expensive property in the same or a different area. BUT this is possible only if the real value of the house has not been eroded by the owner already eating up the equity in it."How is sitting on your backside, helping yourself to a job when one is on offer elsewhere?"... Fruit picking is not a job worth considering giving the ratio of costs over rewards. Not even local youth in regional and rural areas are really interested, hence the dependence of those entrepreneurs on imported short-term overseas visitors. These are usually European youth who come for the experience, but soon realise the exploitation and run away from the place as fast as they can.
"Such a pity then that they'll have to use up 25 hours a week doing menial tasks that provide them with little help searching for or getting that all-important job, purely because the Government prefers anecdote to facts.".... Spot on!... I still remember an earlier application of this bankrupt Neoliberal policy in the darling-country of Neoliberalism: Chile under the dictator Augusto Pinochet. Travelling to the Southern areas of that country with a friend, we could see scores of men in their "minimum employment program" organised in small gangs, with a supervisor doing nothing and the rest pretending to clean the roadsides of rubbish or weeds. In a small town many streets had been adorned with lines of stones on both sides and the stones painted with various colours.... and so forth. Neoliberals know that if you have too much time at hand you start thinking and.... you may come up with strange ideas, like booting the government out, for instance!!! But even Pinochet couldn't stop that from happening!Another NeoDarwinian approach would be to recycle the weakest to "feed" the strongest, in the form of cheap labour.... To understand what this means, everybody should read Friedrich Engels' "The Condition of the Working Class in England". What happened during the Industrial Revolution may repeat itself in this current Technological Revolution.Do you mean the investments that went down the drain with the Neoliberal GFC, Alfie?.... At this point in time those boomers may perhaps wish to speed up global warming, so that the end will come sooner than later and cut their suffering short.... Alternatively, they may vote this Government of Liberliars out and return to a more socially and environmentally sensitive Labor Government. That's exactly what they are  thinking of doing... watch the opinion polls, Alfie: 54% ALP vs 46% L/NP (latest post-MH17 Newspoll)...From a partisan political perspective, I am quite happy if the Liberals believe that they should make this Budget from Hell as hard as it looks (and perhaps even harder, through any provision that does not require a Senate vote). I am also quite happy if they totally ignore the opinion polls (showing a relentless 2PP below 50% for the Coalition since December, with all pollsters converging).... The more they ignore all that, the harder their fall and more substantial their defeat.Lexx, do you want to get "things back under control"? Good, increase Government revenues by properly taxing the big companies, including the mining companies!!"The last Government stuffed everything they touched."... Such as?... Or you are just repeating brainless Liberal propagandistic mantras?... Oh, by the way, what has this Government of Liberliars done in already almost a year?

SMALL businesses are being killed by the slavish dependence of the Liberal Party on BIG business. The Liberals help BIG business, and BIG business cannibalises SMALL business.... Do you get the idea?.... That's why unemployment is trending UP under this Government of Neoliberals.
Pop, I guess that Abbott will try to drag on until the very end. That is, the next Federal elections are likely to be in 2 years time. I tell you, by then  chances are that you will have already given up your small business... If your small business can survive the next two years of this Liberal Government you are a true genius."jobs" and "growth", damon?... I bet that what he meant was to hope to "grow" the economy by "shrinking" our salaries and pensions... and yes, you are right, that's certainly a troglodytic philosophy.TE, I agree that the Libs are and also that, broadly, the Labs were. But if you have been listening to Shorten, at least since (and including) the Budget Reply, and the rest of the Labor frontbench, you surely have noticed a shift away from their Neoliberalism-light of the 1980s-1990s. The lame duck of Neoliberalism did infect Social Democratic Parties and through them the Governments that they led all around the world, including Australia. But the tide is turning and Social Democratic parties around the world are (slowly) abandoning Neoliberalism and producing more "Keynesian"-style programs that are more socially sustainable, and that also incorporate the increasing need to make our economies environmentally sustainable.The People are waking up to the propaganda and manipulation that want to hide the Budget from Hell and focus on MH370, which presumably Abbott is not looking for anymore, as he now has the far more visible distraction/tragedy of MH17. The problem for Abbott, Hockey and the rest of the gang is that the People will judge according to their standards of living, not according to distractions. The more such standards go down, costs of living up, job opportunities down, salaries down, the People will make this Government of Liars pay big time. In fact, the majority is so outraged, that the first Newspoll after the MH17 tragedy/distraction shows a continued firm lead by the Labor Party: 54% against 46% for the Coalition.... The People are waking up indeed!!!
Shorten and Labor are doing very well: focused, strong ... and preparing the alternative Social Democratic/Keynesian Government to oppose to the current hotchpotch of Neoliberalism, backward Conservatism, sprinkled with some Libertarianism and with the added appendix of the Protectionist Nationals.... Oh dear!C'mon Pop, after Abbott and his gang have made scorched earth with our country, our society and our economy anyone, absolutely anyone will be able to do better.... and the Labor Team is far, far superior than "anyone".Hi Sidneysaid,
I agree that the People are less than satisfied with our politicians, but I invite you to open your eyes and you will see that the major Party that is listening and changing is the Labor Party. The Liberal Party still lives in its delusion that the "People don't understand what's best for them". Their failure is clearly shown in their relentless low preference trend in the opinion polls (all pollsters, not just one or two).
Gillard's gaffes? Like losing her shoes?... Surely you are not serious?.... If you want to see the suppository of all gaffes just watch Abbott!
Shorten is leading the Labor Party through a transition away from the Neoliberalism of the past. This is an extremely important transition for Australia (and indeed the World), and so far Shorten has shown the political-negotiating skills that may be useful in the process. He needs to further improve on the combative side of it, though. 
ALL governments fund their promises now with the money they have and into the future with projections from revenues. The Labor "unfunded" promises is just a piece of silly Liberal propaganda. Labor did the right thing: in order to fund those promises into the future they started to expand the revenue base (see the MRRT). This is what responsible Governments must do: Promise what's required for a more productive and sustainable Australia, and fund it now and into the future through increased revenues.

--------------------------------------------------
P.S. I am not here as a paid representative of the Labor Party. My opinions are mine and freely expressed. I have voted Labor so far, but fundamentally I am a "triple bottom line" Social Democrat, hence I am philosophically closer to the Progressive side of Australian politics: Labor and also the Greens. I don't "hate" the Liberals, indeed I have praised here some moderate Liberals (I regard John Hewson as the latest example of good wisdom within the Liberal Party). I only wish the Liberals moved away from their current extremist and disastrous path, for the sake of our Democracy.The Government debt was one of the lowest in the OECD, not even Economists from your side talked about a debt problem. They just used the weasel words of "a problem in the long-term".... The long-term? Yeah, in the long-term we are all dead!Disraeli, a stronger, more muscular MRRT alone will already help massively. The problem of our government debt is not the debt per se (which is pretty contained), but our politicians' timidity in making the big earners pay!
Oh, by the way, how is the private sector going to pay their significantly much bigger debt? Are you worried about that and the consequences on the economy and the country at large?Thanks, Maggie, for opening a clear window into the reality of an increasing number of Australians!.... Politicians, read Maggie's post!!!John, those people tragically died in maritime accidents as they were pursuing their dream for a better life, away from danger and persecution. If you are concerned about more people dying at sea, then provide safe passage to them to Australia. That's the reason why they are taking risks, like the 157 Sri Lankan asylum seekers now being transferred to our mainland.... why wasn't this done earlier, John? Simple, because Abbott and Morrison are far more concerned about "image" and propaganda, than the actual wellbeing of these people. Which, once again, demonstrates that their crocodile tears about "preventing deaths at sea" are just that."queue jumper, cheat, liar ("anything to stay in Australia"), violent ingrate troublemaker, terrorist, criminal, illegal" .... Those words should not apply to anyone unless you can prove that asylum seekers, in fact, are not genuine refugees. In order to prove or disprove that, you have to investigate their case, as we safely keep them under our custody.
.... Do you understand now, Giles?JC, for as long as we remain signatory to the Convention for Refugees we are confronted with our own contradictions. You can't hide them. Be honest and start a campaign for Australia to withdraw from the Convention.Joe, just stop that biased propaganda, please. You know, we know, everybody knows that Ukraine is ethnically and politically split between a pro-EU (NATO) Western side and a pro Moscow Eastern side. The results of the past elections clearly show that, this is no invention or machination by anybody, it's a reality on the ground. The more pro-EU people become deluded about a fantasy unity of will in Ukraine only disrupted by "Russia's grab for power" etc., etc.... the worst this conflict will become. The sooner the parties reach an agreement on the splitting of the country, the better, and the safer the world will be (both NATO and Russia are nuclear powers, in case you haven't noticed).Bishop and Abbott's major error: Focus on establishing contact with the Government in Kiev only and virtually ignoring the insurgents' side (which may require the mediation of Moscow). It will be impossible to safely access the site of the crash by only negotiating with one side. Hence, the too speedy choice of side in this tragedy by the Abbott Government is jeopardising the success of the MH17 mission. If on top of that they are thinking of allowing armed military/police personnel in, then the disaster is almost guaranteed....
.... Rambo was a successful hero only in Hollywood movies .....The dills are always those who raise $0 in taxes and then complain about the "Public Debt".... How more idiotic one can be?gbe, it's not the "government paid bureaucrats" who are calling for those who earn large sums of money to pay more taxes. It's actually the People of Australia, who understand that public services need money to be financed. They appreciate the value of such public services and also understand that there are individuals and companies that can afford to truly contribute towards financing such services. It's not difficult to understand, really.
The People also realise that if the Government is not able to provide services, then they will have to pay for every single one of their needs fully out of their own pocket. If you don't earn much (the situation for most Australians) then you are in very serious troubles.... For an example of this, study the social situation in the USA.gbe,
Whether the size of our public service is too big for our needs must be determined after a serious, rational and politically neutral study is carried out for each sector. Complaining about high costs of public services, and yet sacking hundreds of ATO employees thus making our effort to raise the revenues to pay for those services more difficult, is a nonsense of such magnitude, that can only be explained by ideology, rather than pragmatism (or even common sense).
When a service is required, we should raise our revenues. Rather than eliminating the costs in the illusion that such a service was not required or, if you need it, then you should pay for it from your own pocket. All this lays at the core of what kind of society we want. It's not just a matter of accounting, is first and above all a matter of ethics.Solution:

a) Get rid of the Abbott Government asap.

b) Re-introduce a much beefed up MRRT targeted at the high profits of the big multinationals. 

c) This will achieve two things: i) increase government revenues to finance other important infrastructure programs and for the provision of public services. ii) Decrease the competitive pressure on the small mining players, thus ensuring their survival.

d) If this is not done, then the big companies will become the monstrous companies, thus transforming themselves into "untouchables" (or even more untouchables than they are now) .... to the detriment of the People of Australia, the ultimate owners of our mineral resources.Hi Philip,
1) No overthrown of anything is needed, an election will do.
2) Believe it or not, politicians (like anybody else) learn from past experiences. But I agree that they need more guts, the will of the People may help them further grow such guts.
3) We require a differential MRRT (according to the size of the company) that does not overburden the small players. Like the tax threshold, that increases the higher your income is.
4) Well, in reality we do have those billions, and in fact some mining countries (even developing countries such as Argentina and Chile) do have at least one big government controlled company that extracts their mining resources (oil in the former case, copper in the latter). But even if Australia does not want to go in that direction (for ideological reasons, for instance) we can do what we do now, and rent the extraction of our minerals to the private sector, but make sure we get a better value and a better deal.

To be absolutely frank with you, I just can't understand why any rational Australian would go against getting better value from our non-renewable resources.hidi,
With respect your reply doesn't make any sense. Yes, resources are available in other countries, so what? Do you think that we lack the technological ability to extract our own ore and sell it, and cashing up the whole revenue for our People (rather than overseas shareholders)? Do you really think that the impediment is technical, or commercial? Would our iron ore, for instance, be magically less competitive if it is extracted by a Public Mining Corporation rather than by BHP?.... The reason we tend not to get public corporations involved is POLITICAL, my dear! 
.... But if we decide to get BHP (or Rio Tinto) do the hard work for us, at least let's get a better deal! They will kick and scream and threaten this and that, of course they will (they have done it already, actually). But, like children, they will soon calm down when they see that their screaming is to no avail."watch these mining companies invest offshore"... They already invest offshore Joseph! Those who don't like the new deal, are welcome to move their iron ore mining activity to Zimbabwe if they want to (good luck!). Others will accept the new deal and fill the vacuum in next to no time..... You just seem to be falling for those Neoliberal myths that are still floating around.Peter, 
In principle I dislike the concept of "waste" as much as any Liberal does, believe me (and I start from home and my own personal economy, actually). So the problem is not: the left "likes waste", whereas the right "hates waste". The problem is: how we define "waste". Slashing of government expenditures and associated decrease in taxes must be justified in terms of those revenues not being needed because they were being "wasted". I still have to see any rationale for the slashing of government spending in this Budget based on a precisely, openly and convincingly defined concept of "waste".
Just to cut a potentially long post short: note that it's easier to find areas of "waste", when you focus your accounting on expenditures but ignore the benefits. I find such approach to the identification of areas of "waste" unacceptable. Before deciding that spending money in this or that project or service is a "waste" you have to properly account for both the costs and also the benefits.So, Tator, it's 6 for Abbott against a pretty manipulated broken promise that was not really a broken promise for Gillard? If the ALP is going to stay in Opposition for one term due to ONE alleged broken promise, should the Coalition stay in Opposition for 6 terms?..... DEAL?So, as my post says, you want the Coalition to be in Opposition?... DEAL! Even if it's just for 4 terms.... as you can see, I am happy to negotiate mutually acceptable outcomes."you wonder why the electorate tired of Labor."... ALL, absolutely ALL pollster have been giving Labor ahead since December.... and the margin has been increasing.
.... The "electorate tired of Labor" you say?... Ha, ha! They are absolutely fed up with the Coalition of Liars, that's what they are.... and after just few months in Government: New record!John, he has NOT stopped the boats. Please do keep up with the news!

He has cancelled the carbon tax, but do you have any news about: the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (CEFC), Renewable Energy Target (RET), the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) and the Climate Change Authority (CCA), that were going to be abolished with the carbon tax?

Yes, indeed, both very, very crucial... and yet more like failures than real successes.John,
Hockey has no "remedial matters in train", his Budget from Hell has become a train wreck for him and the Coalition Government.

Do read that IMF report (which you haven't). The IMF has issued of warning of low growth for Australia under Hockey... The Recession We Didn't Have To Have is slowly taking shape.... Take cover, John!Forrest, read here:
"In its latest regional report, the IMF continues to expect the Australian economy will struggle to grow at a pace to relieve pressure on the employment rate, which stands to a decade high of just under six per cent.
Since October last year, the Washington-based institution has downgraded its Australian growth forecast to 2.6 per cent in 2014 and 2.7 per cent in 2015.
It had previously expected growth of 2.8 and 2.9 per cent, respectively"

Please Forrest, refrain from commenting on issues that you do not understand. We have enough clueless Liberal propagandists here, we don't need one more.... Thanks!


"Shorten on the other hand has offered nothing to the public debate and has spent his time complaining about Abbott"... Shorten has given quite a few speeches already since his Budget Reply, providing the foundations for his Social Democratic philosophy and alternative program of Government. That you pretend not to realise that, it's your problem, not Shorten's.And even the Abbott Government (not the best friend of asylum seekers) has found that a majority (56%) of applicants are genuine refugees!!!Julie, if that's the only line of argumentation left in the Liberal supporters' "arsenal".... I would strongly suggest to raise the white flag.... It's well and truly over!Indeed, this is NOT the Budget that the bulk of the voters wanted, or expected, or was told it was coming. This is the Neoliberal ideological Budget that was dictated to the Treasurer and the rest of the Cabinet by their financiers in Big Business. They paid Big Bucks for the election of this Government and now they want their merchandise: a Neoliberal Ideological Revolution.
.... NO, THANKS!"I note that some posters are already ascribing this attitude to the current government".... I hope you are not trying to shield this Government from scrutiny. They are the ultimate responsible party here. Remember how that worked so well during the Labor Government?.... It's just the same now.Thanks for reporting this serious incident, Steve. The Coalition politicians used to love journalists when they were in opposition, but now they obviously hate them, and one can only wonder why.... I also wonder whether the attitude of the police was in response to specific orders to dismiss the journalists or was in response to a broader culture against journalists entrenched in the AFP....? 

I would also like to comment on this:
"The initial hope that the team could also carry out some type of crime scene investigation was shelved."... Of course! When Abbott suggested that idea,  my first reaction was: What a load of nonsense, a war zone is not a street in Melbourne or Sydney where you can carry out detailed police "crime scene investigations".... 

That our Government is out of touch with reality seems to be shown in just every little bit of thing they do..... Truly amazing stuff!That list is very fit for a happy little deluded....
But hey, go around the country with that list, knocking each door and telling the occupants how wonderful, trustworthy, honest, reliable and effective the Abbott Government has been so far .... When you come back tell us about your experience.If one thing can be positively inspired by this article, is the need for Shorten and Labor (but also the Greens, as the other major Progressive Party) to spend the few remaining months from now to the next election working pretty hard on the alternative Social Democratic program of government. There is no need to turn capitalism upside down, we just need to dismantle the Neoliberal cancer of Capitalism. Strengthen the competitive aspects of Capitalism by all means, but also the role of Government as a constructive actor in the life of the country, in a mixed economy aimed at producing social fairness and environmentally sustainable progress. There is a lot of work to do, and no time whatever to waste..."Labor lost because"... the Media with Murdoch at the helm invented the fairy tale that "they where spending like drunken sailors and did not implement one decent idea successfully".... and many, including your good self, believed it.

Now you still seem to believe it, but most of the others have realised the trick and are ready to boot this bunch of incompetents out.

.... Pretty simple, really. 

"because our current definitions of poor (in Australia) are so out of whack."... Do you have any knowledge of the costs of living in this country? Do an experiment, try to live with $2 a day in Sydney, or Melbourne, or Brisbane..... or Wyandra, see how quickly you will be wiped out.... It is because we worry about the sustainability of the future that we want your big fat mates in Big Business to pay more and pollute less..... Do you understand now? 
"election deniers"... custard, the Liberal Party is denying that they don't control the Senate.... Wake up!"out of touch with average Australians".... Opinion polls: 52% of voters are against the Government...

"quite a few measures were being blocked in the senate"... Because they are a source of anticipated pain and the natural reaction of any sensible person is to eliminate the causes of pain....

If you have any additional queries, Forrest, please do not hesitate to ask.... 

No Forrest, the 52% include the relative majority of Australia... and presumably only a few of the upper percentiles of the income distribution (surely they have not suddenly become all lefties)..... So, who is more "average", Forrest, my 52% or your 48%?.... Think harder, mate, think harder...."He is trying to do something about it."... NO, Labor was trying to do something about it. What Hockey is trying to do is using the excuse of the debt and the deficit to revolutionise our society so it becomes trapped into a Neoliberal straightjacket. This is the Neoliberal Revolution that nobody asked for, nobody saw coming and that the vast majority of the People have clearly rejected. So, this is the message for Joe and above all his backers in Big Business and the shadowy underworld of Neoliberal political manipulation: Back off!.... and now that we know what you have in mind for us, ask permission through an early election! If you win, then you go for it.... Deal?"There's been class warfare going on for the last 20 years ... and my class has won.".... Buffett is obviously right,  but he forgot to add that the win was courtesy of the Neoliberal reforms introduced since the late '70s-early '80s in very many countries around the World. The great Social Democratic growth in both salaries, standards of living, social equality that characterised the post-war development of industrialised countries, and that allowed people like my father (coming from a mid-low social background) to have a rewarding career and to afford a good education to his two children, was dismantled by the Neoliberal intrusion that has now taken us (and not only in Australia) to the social brink, in an environment that is  paradoxically richer thanks to greater and better technology, transport and communication. Inequality is a very major issue, that Social Democratic parties understand perfectly well. Trying to explain that to Neoliberals is a complete waste of time, voting them out is far easier and effective.ahld,

It's over mate, it's well and truly over... There is no coming back. Well, in fact, if you check the opinion polls, the fall started immediately after the September 2013 election.... Amazing!....Pop,
The debt and deficit are spiralling out of control now (remember how this Treasurer hit the road borrowing, from day one?). Getting rid of this Government is a first step to solve that problem."Has created more than a few upset luvvies."... Indeed, about 52% of voters.... and counting.Bruce, we need to marry economics with decency!Dave,
The current mob are the reject of the Howard years. That's why without Rupert they would still be languishing in Opposition...No, in 2007 Murdoch was pretty much irrelevant (although The Australian did back Rudd, but I believe that his tabloids didn't). The 11 year-old Howard Government was senescent and terminal, there was nothing that anybody could do to save them.... In 2013 the Labor Government wasn't senescent at all, but it had become the demon of the top end of town and the government had to be destroyed at all costs. Rupert did a "magnificent" job in that regard, but now we have got the Reject of the Howard Years in charge...Coogara,
It's up to the majority of voters to help themselves by making the very high earners contribute more with true taxes. Each time a Labor Government moves in that direction (as it was the case with the MRRT) they must firmly stand behind them and vote them back into Government.... But for as long as the voters allow themselves to be manipulated by the Media scaremongering and lies.... they will continue to vote against their own interests. The 7 September 2013 Federal election will become a textbook case of this.Increasing inequality is the final nail in the coffin of Neoliberalism. In spite of the desperate attempt by Neoliberals to claim that inequality is not a problem, because it's like the big ship floating as well as the small ship when the water raises, the reality is that the load (costs of living) is increasing, and if you navigate on a small boat, an increased load may well sink you.... and this sinking feeling is what many low and medium income earners are feeling right now. 

What our Treasurer is trying to do with his Budget from Hell is just to add even more load to the small boats.... no wonder everybody is reaching for their life jackets!!I would expect that to happen too, Ted. I guess that Hockey is already receiving some unambiguous feedback from backbenchers in marginal seats.OUB, believe it or not, not all people who drive a car are rich. Between the "poorest" and the "rich" there is a wide range of fellow Australians, and many of them are struggling. In spite of the costs involved they need to use a car (most likely not a Ferrari) to find and maintain a job... Hockey is just trying really hard to make their life even worse than it already is. Please let us know whether you support this."Why inflate this when there are other more important issues?"... Because all costs included in this budget add up to each other and unfairly increase the pain on those who least can afford it. Do you have any issue more important than that at the moment? You can't be proud of policies that first eliminate the MRRT and then increase the burden of "repaying the debt" on those who least can't afford it. I cannot believe that you don't see the moral bankruptcy of such philosophy.Your case clearly shows how this Government is completely out of touch with the reality in our communities.John, that means that the GDP increased in spite of the carbon tax.... Now that the tax is over, is GDP going to continue to increase?"journalists are the big distorters of the facts".... I wish you would have written that during the Rudd/Gillard Governments...No, a bit like the Fossil Fuels Lobby and their scaremongering and lies about "no global warming", "it's all hard left propaganda".... I am waiting for the first Denialist propagandist to suggest that the "New Warmist Communist Caliphate is coming"... with that you get three birds with one stone....mike, 

Saying that there is "no global warming" is the "lie" bit I am referring to in my post. Saying that those who support global warming are just part of "hard left propaganda" is the fear mongering bit I am referring to.

I hope this clarifies the issue.One step at a time, one scare at a time, slowly but relentlessly a Democracy becomes a "Protected" Democracy first and then a full blown Dictatorship.... Unleashed Neoliberalism can only truly thrive in it's theoretical purity in a Dictatorship, and that's a historical fact!

The Abbott Government's boat is sinking under the weight of their contradictions, failed ideology, incompetence.... cut your losses short and bring and end to this farce with new elections next year, Mr Abbott. Or be remembered as the man who destroyed the Liberal Party...."Don't you think someone whose family comes from Lebanon and who goes to Turkey for 9 months without any documented reasons is a security risk?"... Gees, no Coogara, why should anybody think that a person is a risk unless you already have some suspicion about him/her? And would you be suspicious if the same person goes to France instead? If not, then terrorists will just need to meet in Paris rather than Istanbul and presto! problem solved for them... I mean, this is crazy.
I have supported the idea to give more financial resources to our intelligence services, if that's what they need to do a proper job. But their information gathering activities must be specialised and focalised, not wholesale and let's see whether we are lucky enough to catch something or somebody of interest.... and in the process trample on the liberties of all citizens.
"climate change fear"... TOJ, I suggest to replace that text with this: "climate change scientific data".We went to war in Afghanistan to destroy Al-Qaeda, that was regarded as even more radical than the Taliban, and now we have got IS that, according to you is even worse than Al-Qaeda. But many people on the right-wing side seem to support another Afghanistan-style intervention to destroy IS in Iraq... Don't you think that there is some serious food for thought there?.... Who is going to replace IS once we get involved in Iraq, yet again?Everybody in this thread: Forget it!... The next Federal election will be contested by Labor with Shorten at the helm and The Coalition with Abbott.... and the Coalition will be trashed by the combined votes of Labor and Greens with added preferences from the PUP flowing especially in Qld, NSW, and Vic....

Rather than  wasting our time with silly speculations we should start talking about what the Labor Government should do, their priorities, areas of urgent need for intervention etc.... That's time well spent as we watch the Coalition imploding and sliding into irrelevance.Brilliant stuff, Miowarra. I hope that if anybody from Labor is reading your post they take note and report back to the team.... there is no time to waste!Todd, smoke is not a necessity of life (like food, electricity, etc.) and it's truly bad for your health. The idea of taxing cigarettes is not to make the life of the poor worse, but to help them quit!... That will save them money, and will improve their health that also helps in getting back to their feet financially.The adequacy of the GST is now being challenged, with strong views from some sectors to increase it (Abbott's plan is to review all that). The $7 co-payment is also the first step to an escalating costs for the People for their medical care. The cost is bound to go up, once it is introduced, not down.

We couldn't stop the GST from ever seeing the light of day ("thanks" the Democrats!!), but we can stop this mad co-payment Neoliberal ideological thing now!!I am puzzled, Ben. What would you exclude from the concept of "social contract"?Ben, you can have a "social contract" on any issue. This doesn't mean that the concept of "social contract" is meaningless. Just take the word "social" away and just focus on the word "contract", you will see what I mean.C'mon Ben, you know that in any society there are contracts enshrined in law, others are part of the cultural baggage that, in fact, do affect politics and eventually the kind of laws that are accepted by the People. These are unwritten contracts. Do we have a written contract of the "fair go", for instance? No, we don't. Do we expect our politicians to consider the unwritten contract of the "fair go" when they legislate? Yes we do! How do I know? Just look at the popular reaction against the Budget from Hell (not just the $7 co-payment) to understand what I mean."Dead things usually get buried"... and Abbott even likes to cremate them.... after burial! (Don't ask me, I am just reporting the facts).This $7 co-payment is purely ideological, that's why the money is not used to feedback into the day-to-day expenses of the Healthcare system, but to pay for medical research (a much longer-term investment). Therefore it must go!

If there is an issue of saving in the broader medical bill for the country, target the Pharmaceutical companies first, and second do as many private health insurance companies do: provide discounts or rebates for activities that improve your health, so that you don't get sick in the first place. But above all, start a campaign to control stressful conditions in the workplace, a true killer of the health of our workers.... But hey, what am I doing, that kind of language is like Mandarin for a Neoliberal politician.ahld,

Medical research must be financed with the taxes from everybody (including Big Business companies), even if we are perfectly healthy. This increases the pool of contributors and decreases the burden on each individual. Charging all sick people $7 per visit to "help finance medical research" is purely and simply an ideological Neoliberal stance based on the concept of user-pay. Please do try to make an effort to see beyond the surface. In this case the user-pay Neoliberal concept is making a bad situation for a poor sick person even worse. Hence it is socially irresponsible, and it must be rejected."Labor has always refused to accept this reality"... Labor funds the health care system (and public education, etc.) with taxes. That's why Labor increases the number of employees at ATO, whereas the Liberals sack them (several hundreds!). If you allow high earners to evade taxes and if you allow them to use too many tax loopholes, you can't complain that you have got nothing in your coffers.... It's elemental, my dear Watson!

Did you write "lie doctrine" referring to Labor?.... Alpha, please keep a bit of grip on reality in the face of the most blatantly, and shamelessly LYING Government in the history of this country! This bunch of Neoliberals have broken all national records in the area of lying.... and not only there.We will save ourselves, Patrick.... come election time..... with our ballot paper!

BTW, that quote would be enough to cause the resignation of the Treasurer in any country...Western colonial powers have done their best to subjugate the Arab People for centuries. It happens that those western colonial powers are Christians, so it's no surprise that movements for a recovery of Arab dignity would also take inspiration from religion. In the past, religion fundamentalism was kept at bay by dictators: of the left-wing kind like Nasser, of the right-wing kind like Mubarak or Sadat, or simply the opportunistic kind like Saddam. Once those dictators were deposed, the field remained free for the religious fundamentalists to fill the gap. That's what they did in Iran originally, then in Afghanistan, and now the madness is spreading to Iraq and Syria.... What's happening is far more profound than most people in the west believe... and I don't see anybody coming up with any real understanding, let alone a solution.Maz, 

The fall of the American Empire started in Wall Street.....Could everybody please, especially the American Republicans, stop using the "intervention" language once and for all? Don't you realise that it has been the historical, continued intervention of foreign colonial powers in the Middle East (starting with Britain and France and then adding the USA later on) that is at the core of the current, and ongoing and unpredictable mess?

Unless the Middle East reaches a status of social and political equilibrium that springs from their internal forces, this region of the world will be unstable, a source of international destabilisation, and a cradle for the birth of ever more determined terrorist groups from now until the end of time. On top of that, the religious motivation of those involved  makes the probability of success of external powers even less likely.

Whether we like it or not, some geopolitical rearrangements will occur (especially in Iraq), but also in Palestine. Getting away from the use of oil may relax us with regard to the effect of those events on oil supply... If there is anything that is worth the West's intervention is the active support for the existence of Israel, provided that a stable Two-States solution for the issue of Palestinians is found as quickly as possible.To be frank, I am far more concerned about comparing Australia with herself over time. So, let's start from Figure 1. Notice the Unemployment Hockey's Stick jumping up after October 2013, that is after this Government of Liars started their mad policies, letting companies go bust, and commenced ventilating the news of their Budget from Hell.

Then Figure 2, where we can see that employment growth has been flat since March 2014.

Figure 3 shows a very worrying trend: employment to population ratio has been steadily, almost linearly, decreasing since November 2010. This may be a combination of increasing population size and decreasing jobs offers as the mining boom is slowing down. That's why the constant question asked to this Government and the absurd lack of an answer: "Where are the new jobs coming from, Mr Abbott?". Lack of jobs also explain Figure 4 showing declining participation since about the same time (November 2010).

So, this is the take-home message from this article: We need to create Jobs!! The Private Sector is NOT doing it, the Government is NOT doing it either (quite on the contrary, they are shedding government jobs)!!!

Where are you Mr Abbott?... Come back to Australia.... Stop shedding crocodile tears for the mess in Iraq that you were co-responsible of causing as Health Minister to the "deputy sheriff" John Howard since 2003. There is no distraction that you can concoct to take our mind and worries away from the current debacle.... and the opinion polls show exactly that!!!Forrest, 
Before replying, try hard to understand what the article says and what my post says, it's a good habit, you know. So, let's see your point: "Job creation? See the graph labelled Employment growth since March 2007."... Yep, this is what my post says about that:
"Then Figure 2, where we can see that employment growth has been flat since March 2014.".... But perhaps you think that the "orange" curve is Australia and the "blue" curve is the USA? Nope, it's the other way around, mate!.... Think and look harder indeed!
But you are right about your concern for the longer-term. Given the current policies, in the longer-term the trend is likely to change from flat to decreasing employment growth, making the Unemployment Hockey's Stick even steeper... Thanks for mentioning the longer-term, Forrest.

"Unemployment is neccessary. Otherwise there is no labour market to recruit from"... That's outrageously wrong. Every year there are thousands of new young (and not so young) graduates coming out of Uni and TAFE education. They are the source of new employees. No need to have a pool of unemployed waiting for months, some times years, for a spot to materialise.... Hence unemployment is not "necessary"."If full employment were achieved there would be no brake on upward movement of wages."... I believe that your post correctly reflects current economic thinking. I offer these thoughts: in the modern high-tech world workers who are ready to take advantage of a temporary situation of power may risk to be replaced by cheaper machines. If you exert too high a selective pressure against your "prey" (so to speak) you are only producing the conditions for the emergence of counter-defences.... or the extinction of the "prey". That's why well-functioning Unions are so important, as mediators between excessive demands from both sides.
Exquisite sarcasm!... Well done!So, the older the people are, the easier they are to get scared!!.... I was told that the older you get the wiser you get. Nope, it's the older you get the better you are at wetting your pants, hence you become more ready to give up your freedom.... Interesting.
.... More than the silence of the lambs, this looks like the shivering of the senescent....OUB, what really keeps us awake at the moment is the knowledge that there is a Budget from Hell running unleashed around the place...the nose and hugh, I was just referring to the graph. I fully agree with both of you that "old" people are not necessarily "mentally decrepit". In fact, one of our current challenges in society, given the trend towards an ageing population, is to create the social and material conditions for those old people to age in health, dignity and with the ability to continue flourishing as a human being and contributing to society at large..... Governments should help in that task, not interfere with it for political convenience.Intervene to do what, how, with what end, expecting what result....?"With so many ideas on what should be done, why is it that every time something is done, it fails."... Because the "solutions" always come from the outside, whereas they must come from the inside."With the straight borders so beloved of distant imperialists, the British and French divided the region with no regard to the peoples or cultures who would find themselves either split from their brethren or grouped together with unrelated peoples."... Finally, somebody is starting to think rationally. The question everybody must ask is one and one only: What's the most stable geopolitical configuration for the region that can endure over time?... Get the answer wrong, and enjoy the endless wars, violence, terrorism, tragedy.... The stability of the region is an internal property of the people, culture, history and political frame of that region, not the result of any deluded plan of old or current external powers....This is a very difficult one.

a) You are screened whilst pregnant and it is discovered that your child has Down Syndrome. What to do?

b) Let's assume that the law allows you complete freedom of choice and just focus on the practical and ethical/psychological issues. 

c) If you decide to terminate, from a practical perspective the issue ends there. Chances are that time and rationalising (it was better so, why make everybody suffer...) will finally heal the wounds. If instead you decide to carry the pregnancy on, from a practical perspective your problems start there. 

d) Once the child is born with a condition such as DS you may be able to face and overcome the practical and emotional challenges if you have sufficient family and social support and also a good financial situation. These are usually the cases that appear on TV telling everybody how wonderful and rewarding it is to have a child with DS. But if you lack such support, and the Government doesn't fill the gap, then it is not difficult to imagine the kind of nightmare both you and your child may be facing.

e) From an ethical perspective we may all agree that all lives are important, but as it is true for terminal patients too: Are all lives worth living if the conditions are unbearable?... The answer is individual and I doubt that we can generalise. The Government should legislate taking into consideration this diversity of individual opinions.

Many thanks for your voice from the world of reality...."What are you scared of? 99.9% of Australians have nothing interesting to hide from security services."... I am sure you will be happy for ASIO to have cameras directly installed in your home (every room)... If you have nothing to hide, you shouldn't fear anything, isn't it so, John?.... Of course, the footage will be kept strictly confidential and stored safely for only a fixed number of years, then destroyed. You trust your Government agencies, don't you, John?"Australia already has a powerful, robust mechanism to monitor suspects online: targeted data preservation notices on the telecommunications of suspects."... That's the point, you have got to have a SUSPECT first, and you have got to convince a judge to extend a warrant to monitor the internet activity of such suspect. Once you get that, you do it, on that suspect. That's it. No need to have all encompassing powers to keep information about every single person in this country. Information that could be leaked and used for all sorts of devious purposes, including political purposes.... Libertarians should raise in arms against this Government, if they are serious about Liberty!!"Australia already has a powerful, robust mechanism to monitor suspects online: targeted data preservation notices on the telecommunications of suspects."... That's the point, you have got to have a SUSPECT first, and you have got to convince a judge to extend a warrant to monitor the internet activity of such suspect. Once you get that, you do it, on that suspect. That's it. No need to have all encompassing powers to keep information about every single person in this country. Information that could be leaked and used for all sorts of devious purposes, including political purposes.... Libertarians should raise in arms against this Government, if they are serious about Liberty!!John, wake up! The 2PP shows more than Progressives (ALP + Greens) vs Conservatives. Just look at the combined polls results of Crickey's Poll Bludger.
Primary vote:
Coalition: 39.3%
ALP: 37.2%
Greens: 10.6%
PUP: 5.6%
Others: 7.3%

2PP:  ALP 52.1% vs Coalition 47.9%
BUT, the combined primary vote for ALP and Greens is  47.8%, therefore the ALP is receiving 4.3% of votes from others than  the Greens.....
.... Sleep well tonight..... 
------------------------------------------------------

P.S. The People of Australia will always prefer a free sausage sizzle than a hammer blow in the head.... are you surprised? Our little Treasurer seems to be....John, if you don't understand how we vote our representatives in the Lower House do say so, but do not entangle yourself in a mesh of nonsense, please.... it's just embarrassing...

The polls tell you that the Coalition is dead, buried and cremated at this point in time.... rhetoric and wishful thinking won't change that reality... accept it.... and as I showed you, that is going to happen thanks to that crucial 4.3% of non-Green voters!!.... Gain those 4.3% back.... if you can!Brian,
Your points 1, 2, 3, and 4 are obviously your views and these are my counter arguments:
1) Life is a permanent pursue of gratification. Work hard and expect an appropriate gratification out of it. Do you disagree with that?
2) You can argue intelligently on virtually any subject: from Donald Duck to Nuclear Fission. It is mainly the participants in the debate that make the debate intelligent, even more than the topic itself.
3) The media, as we have seen at the last election, are a crucial battleground where elections are currently won... or lost... and it's going to get "worse" as more and more people have better and quicker access to the internet.
4) Who are those who are seeking a state of anarchy? Can you be more specific?

.... Happy to debate this, IF at least this post of mine (out of several) is published today."As the past week closed, it could be argued that Abetz's intervention had succeeded"... Oh dear, Paula. You are truly trying hard and doing your very best to salvage something, anything from the free fall debacle of this Government of Liars. They are a living example of the Counter-Midas Effect: they have the "magic" power of transforming anything they touch into....  ?smelly organic mud?!!!

.... Only Abbott and his "team" could achieve such a feat!
Grumpi, your suspicion is not totally implausible. Reading a book, especially a big, technical book, requires time. Reading it with the serious intention of understanding it and using it for your work, requires even more time. Some people do understand the value of the knowledge acquired through reading, but they don't necessarily have the time to do the reading itself, yet they find somewhat rewarding having the books handy in a big and impressive library.... Who knows, perhaps Brandis is that kind of book lover....?... If so, I wish he could buy those books with HIS money, not OURS (as taxpayers)!Joe, we already know that you found the Russians guilty from day one. But you will excuse us if we wait for the official investigation on this matter. Until then, keep blogging."but it usually has less collateral damage".... These are two nuclear powers we are talking about, do you realise it? Do you want to know how much "collateral damage" two old fashioned, flimsy nuclear bombs can cause? Ask the Japanese..."instead paying homage to those who had the courage to stand up to tyranny"... Excuse me, who was NOT a colonial tyrannical power in WWI???... Everybody was! Please let's make an effort to understand history in all its reality and ugliness. Leave romanticism to the novelists!

As for the trade sanctions, I guess that the Russians are realising two things that make them bolder than our deluded "leaders" expected: 
a) Both the USA and the EU are in deep economic s..t, hence they are extremely weak as the instigators of sanctions. Counter-sanctions may affect them very dearly... and that's what the Russians are doing.
b) Economically Russia is part of the BRICS (a group that does not include any NATO member), hence they already have their own economic safety net in place. On the other hand, I would love to see whether the all important China joins a boycott of Russia... Without China and the BRICS any boycott is laughable.
c) The EU and USA (being allied in NATO) cannot militarily bully Russia, and the Russians of course know it. Russia is not Iraq, or Syria, or Afghanistan, or Lybia.... Russia remains a mighty nuclear power: please somebody tell this to Abbott and Bishop!!!

--------------------------------------------------

P.S. A message to Tony Abbott: Stop this Tony747 thing, come back here and stay here, your cabinet is in disarray and in free fall, and there is a total budget mess to fix. The economy is socially clogged, with unemployment (REAL unemployment) raising, costs of living raising and retailers in deep troubles because consumers (REAL consumers) are lacking in confidence.
Teaching of "supernatural faith" in the form of any religion should be out of the curriculum of public schools. The churches should attract their own followers and organise their own instances of indoctrination if they so wish. This is fine, we are in a Democracy after all. 

However, I would strongly argue for the introduction at school of the study of philosophy, existential questioning, explorations of life meaning. These are extremely important components of the human mind that are usually neglected in our school education (except through religious indoctrination) but that should not."But to voters, a tussle between the Senate and the government is just seen as part of the democratic process."... Smart voters indeed!....But Governments tend to disagree with voters on this one, hence the excessively (in my view) privileged position of the Queensland Governments and their Senate-free life. The Senate is important, it can stop Revolutions (such as the current Neoliberal Revolution) that are imposed against the will of the People. By doing so, it gives time to voters to think, and change their mind before too much damage is done to the backbone of the country.Andie, we have lost count of the lies produced by this bunch in Government in order to win the election. The Budget from Hell is politically illegitimate, it deserves to be wrecked along with the loony Neoliberal Revolution that the Coalition has in store for us. If Abbott wants a mandate, then be honest and go for a DD and new elections. If he wins now that we know his REAL program, then he will be entitled to go the full monty.... otherwise, he will be entitled to go home...Solution:
a) Limit the percentage of share of the market per company in each sector and sub-sectors. This will spread the risk by forcing the market to increase the number of players. 
b) If the crisis is local (affecting only one institution), then do not bail out.
c) If the crisis is global, affecting the whole sector (e.g. banks), then give government guarantees and be ready to bail out if required in the form of loans!
Therefore, the answer to the question: "What can we do about it?" 
is: 
"A lot!""Where does the money come from to bail out big banks"... From the usual Government debt contracted through the issuing of bonds. Now, this is a loan to the banks and therefore it must be recovered (presumably with interests), hence the impact on Government debt is, in the long-term, negligible. But the swift action can save the economy from a Great Depression-style collapse; which, I hope you may agree with me, is an even greater evil. Note, however, that I am referring to a big chunk of the banking sector being in serious troubles, as it happened during the GFC.My final comment on this thread, gbe: 
Not even Greece had to sell the Parthenon or the island of Rhodes to the Germans. In the case of Australia, the debt paranoia is mainly a vote grabbing device of Neoliberal propagandists. Change the word "debt" for the words "public investment" and presto! The "horror" is gone! You cannot just focus on the costs of something, you have to consider both costs and benefits. Under Labor public debt was neither high, nor runaway (in fact both Gillard and Swan were criticised for shifting to debt repayment somewhat prematurely)... the hysteria was just political."It is entirely appropriate that a super profits tax applies to these banks."... You get my vote for that one, Maynard."are not listed individually and neither is the effect on their families."... There are more than 350 deaths (including children) so far following the Israeli incursion into Gaza that is happening right now. Please anyone, name one, just one of those innocent victims. Tell me his favourite sport, where he went to school, what he wanted to do as a grown up, the name of his pet, the colour of the t-shirt he used when he was killed.... we have all that information and more for every victim of flight MH17. It is extremely good that we have such information, because it humanises the tragedy, and so it should be for every other innocent victim of acts of war or terrorism or violence. It is human beings who are dying here, they are not "collateral damage".Trying to isolate Russia will just result in the isolation of Australia, that is already internationally seen as a simple pawn of American interests, with some additional influences of the UK and now we should also add "Canadia". So, I suggest to the "adopted son" of the "deputy sheriff" to calm down and take the opportunity of the coming Putin's visit to Australia to get greater help from the Russians to recover all what is left of flight MH17, get Australian access to the recovered bodies for the identification of our compatriots, facilitate the work of international experts and assist in the further investigation of the causes and the people responsible for this act. Chest beating will achieve nothing and it will strengthen at least some of the members of the BRICS' resolve to further distance themselves from the Anglo-network. This issue is politically complex, it will require maximum diplomatic skills.... but with Abbott and Bishop at the helm... may the good Virgin of Guadalupe help all of us...Zing, after 1989 (the fall of Communism) and then 2008 (the sunset of Neoliberalism) the world is not the same. There is a current high state of flux in international relations. We can only hope and work towards establishing a new equilibrium following a process that does not involve a global conflagration. The process will involve changes, whether we like them or not.Are you suggesting that Putin was standing by the side of the missile launcher (or in phone contact with them) and told the soldiers in charge: "Yeah, go ahead, shoot it down, that's fine by me".... ? This is an extremely sensitive situation, I would suggest everybody to proceed with some caution."It's about how much to blame on humans, and whether any measures taken are worthwhile or a waste of time and effort better spent on something else."... There is no more debate on that issue either, AJC. Please update yourself! The world is moving on and denialists are being left behind.... Farewell!"Alpo, I'm unsure of why you persist in ignoring the climate scientists and majority of all of the other scientists as well."... It's not me who is ignoring experts' knowledge, AJC. I (and others) have been flooding this website with the latest expert knowledge on climate science for many months now. It's denialists who persist in their stubborn oil/coal-backed determination to try to fool ordinary Australians...
... It's time to move on, AJC. The USA, China, the EU, etc. are all coming on board, step by step, but relentlessly. There is no option B for us on planet Earth, if we wreck this place.... it's over!CC, adaptation to the non-human component of the causes of global warming is inevitable and I have never denied the need to do so. HOWEVER, when you know that you are partly co-responsible for the current warming trend, then it is silly, illogical and indeed irresponsible to simply adapt. It is necessary to also adopt an active stance and tackle your contribution to the problem. If you left your tap open, you don't address the problem of your flooded bathroom by "adapting to a watery environment".... you must start by bloody turning the tap off!.... Wouldn't you agree?"giving the Prime Minister a lesson in wilful obstructionism"... Abbott doesn't need any lesson in "obstructionism", he is a master of the evil art!

"is some climate action better than none at all?"... Wrong question. What we require is meaningful action, and the only plan able to providing it is Labor's Emissions Trading Scheme!

At this point of the climate change "debate" in Australia there is only one pragmatic stance to be taken:
"The debate is over, the first step to implement meaningful action is to get rid of the Abbott Government and then vote the Labor Government in to start an ETS, that will step by step help our industry transition towards a less intensive greenhouse gases-emitting economy".
.... Pretty simple and straightforward... and according to the latest Nielsen poll, 54% of voters embrace this solution!Abbott is not even leader in his own country, and he may not be a real leader even in his own Party at the moment. Talking about Abbott in the world context only speaks about the very poor mental state of old Gerard.... he is really deteriorating fast.Alfie,
Under Abbott we will raise $0 extra taxes from the mining companies, which will finance $0 extra expenditures in public services or infrastructure at 0 benefit to the country. Alternatively, the money that will not materialise will also help repay a 0% of our debt.... Do you understand now?Nope, it's not the "only" source, but it's a source. Are we in the position to dismiss any source of revenues, Alfie?burke, don't be silly. To be milked, a cow must stay alive. If you kill the cow, you can still sell the meat, but you do it only once!.... I am for the "Dairy Model of Economics", hence no 100% income tax nor 100% GST...."The govt in Norway has direct involvement in the extraction/processing of resources and as a result a healthy revenue stream which gets stored in a Sovereign Wealth Fund."... I mean, how difficult is that to understand? Well done FIRE GAME, we need more intelligent, thinking people like you in this country!!!
Let's cleanse our soul from the Neoliberalism toxin, and a wonderful new world of opportunities will open up in front of our eyes!!"Transparency is a good thing. Logic and good policy are even better."... But what's "best of all" is the astonishing ability of well coordinated and cashed-up partisan media to completely anaesthetise a relative majority of Australian voters, and get them to vote against their own interests.... Astounding "achievement", well done Don Ruperto Corleone!Brian, blind Freddy can also see the bias in your argument. Abbott has always played the scaremongering game with his use of the word "tax" (everybody in this country hate taxes..... but want more Government help...). Abbott could have helped beefing up the mining tax, but he opposed it and the tax had to be diluted due to the coordinated attack against it by the Coalition and the Mining Companies.

The take home message from all that experience is this: Introduce a solid policy to tackle our contribution to climate change without unduly stressing the economy (the ETS is a brilliant policy that will achieve exactly that); and as for the mining tax, increase it!!! And if the multinational mining companies don't like it, show them the exit door and get the Government involved in the exploitation and commercialisation of our non-renewable resources for the direct benefit of the People of Australia. If other countries can do it, it is totally incomprehensible why this country cannot.

.... Pretty simple and straightforward.Abbott's "great vision" for Australia: "Get the power and keep it no matter what. If you have to lie, not a problem, your lies are media-protected".

To which, the Big Business interests behind Abbott's "vision" reply: "Yes mate, do so, we know what to do with that power".

We are now waiting for the People of Australia to cast their own judgment on this "great vision". Victoria first, then Queensland.... then the whole country!"So in this banking instance I agree with you that the banks control Australia with no appropriate political oversight, to our detriment."..... I have recently noticed a very strange behaviour in the value of some investment funds administered by one of the 4 major banks. This happened in the period leading up to the 1st of July, that culminated in some good distributions immediately wiped out by a serious (and totally unexplained) plunge in the value of the units.... Are investors being taken for a ride?.... What's going on?You cannot have anything even remotely resembling a "sensible middle" without:
a) Full information from technically reliable sources.
b) Critical thinking to evaluate such information.
c) An ethical sense that realises that you are not a lone individual living on a deserted island, but that you have to share your life and country with others who also have their own aspirations.
d) The Democratic right/duty to participate in the decision-making process through your informed vote.

..... but we are slowly getting there....

The real problem is with our 2PP system of vote in the Lower House. As the sensible middle splits evenly between the two major sides of politics, the loony fringes become more and more important as they determine the 2PP differential that wins you seats and therefore the election. So, paradoxically, the more centrist the country becomes, the more extremists our politicians become. This problem can only be solved by asking the sensible middle not to marry themselves with a single side of politics, but keep their options open.

.... Simple really.The only monsters in town are:
a) The Government building their program on the basis of LIES.
b) The Budget from Hell that the People have clearly rejected.
c) The bankrupt education policies that they want to introduce.
d) The totally chaotic climate change nonpolicies (Direct Inaction) that have nowhere to go in the new Senate.
e) Their destruction of tertiary education (nobody seems to be aware of this, but universities around Australia are shedding personnel - both academic and administrative - like trees shed their leaves in autumn).
f).... and the boats keep coming, and their passengers are now kept at sea on a navy ship!!
ardy, 
Denialists will NEVER accept that the science is proven with their required level of certainty. They will keep on shifting the post forever, because they are not interested in evidence, they are just pushing a political agenda..... How hard is this to understand? 
In the real world you never wait for 100% certainty (precision, accuracy) before taking action. But somehow, such level of certainty is expected from the study of a very complex system such as the planet's climate.... can you see how ridiculous is all that? Hence the conclusion that denialism is purely politically motivated."So GDP rose by $50B 2011 to 2012, but only by $37B in 2012-2013."... and this, according to you is due to carbon pricing? Have you ever heard about the Chinese economy slowdown? No? Now you have...
... and you expect the readers to take you seriously?... Oh please!"I don't know anyone who denies that CO2 is greenhouse gas, but there is overwhelming evidence that human emissions of CO2 are thirty times LESS than that released by Natural Sources.".... That's a misleading statement, because the issue is not the sources of TOTAL CO2 but the sources of the recent INCREASE in CO2; and the sources that explain the INCREASE are industrial! It is the INCREASE in CO2 that are associated with the further INCREASE in temperatures.
Why is that such a simple matter of fact is always twisted by denialists?... Do I perceive any attempt at hiding the truth for propagandistic purposes?
AJC, if you have no understanding whatever about the "natural" CO2 cycle you may as well move on to another topic. Inform yourself, the NATURAL sources of CO2 DO NOT, I repeat DO NOT explain the observed and measured increase in CO2 atmospheric concentration in the past few decades (that have now gone beyond the 400 ppm). What explains such INCREASE is the emission of CO2 into the atmosphere by human industrial activities. Stop denying this FACT, please! But if you want to deny it, you are free to do so, just be honest and say: "I just deny the truth because I am free to do so".... you are free to be wrong in a democracy (your USSR reference was truly hilarious, btw).Scientific consensus is not faith or religion. If you don't understand what scientists mean with the concept of "reaching a consensus", then study science please!

There is scientific consensus that smoke can cause strokes and lung cancer, such consensus has nothing to do with faith or religion. There you go, lecture 1 in the scientific method. For lecture 2 contact my secretary because you will be charged a fee.Pollution is whatever we regard as having a negative effect on our wellbeing. Hence CO2 is pollution through its negative effects on global warming.
There you go, this one was free of charge."human life is a pollutant".... many extinct species would agree with such a definition, actually. That's why policies have been put in place to save the remaining endangered species from the effects of "human pollutants".

If by producing greenhouse gases through activities that have been beneficial to our species so far we start a process whereby our species is negatively affected into the future (a near future, by the way) then such greenhouse gases become a pollutant.

But you ask a very interesting question: Are humans a pollutant?.... Well, those who, like me, are in favour of doing something to slow down the growth first and then stabilise the global human population, then humans can indeed be seen as a pollutant. The more of us there are, the more we will be in troubles. The issue is, however, what kind of approach should we adopt to tackle the problem of "humans as pollutants". The approach, of course, must be Democratic and respectful of Human Rights: hence education, social justice, science-informed decisions, new technologies, etc...AJC, one datapoint a trend does not makes... will you one day learn?
Show me the global temperature anomaly for 2014, then we can talk.There is no massaging in the data from NASA and UK MetOffice either and they show relentless warming with periodical slow downs associated with the minima in solar radiation (a recurrent phenomenon that results from the solar physics). You obviously don't understand much about the working of the greenhouse effect. The effect requires BOTH greenhouse gases (CO2, methane, even water, etc.) AND solar radiation. If solar radiation goes down (as it does periodically) then warming due to the greenhouse effect also slows down.... pretty simple and straightforward.EVAN, although I haven't looked for the "raw data", you do realise that the anomaly is calculated as raw datum minus a constant? The constant being the temperature for the reference year? I believe that the reference year is well known for all the datasets published by all agencies, so you can calculate the "raw data" by yourself. In any event, it may help you to know that by adding a constant you are not changing the shape of a curve... But you did know this already, did you?Get the data from ALL the major climatological agencies since the denialist much admired year 1998, and you will see consistent positive trends in the correlation between year and temperature anomaly. The "hiatus" was just a slow down in warming and such slow down is now over. In fact the high record temperature for 1998 was exceeded in 2010. The planet is getting relentlessly warmer, there is no Little Ice Age anywhere to be seen....Cost to the economy? What cost to the economy: we save in imports of oil and slowly replace energy production with renewables and other more sustainable sources of energy. This transitional phase may even accelerate research on nuclear fusion that will eventually make energy easily available, abundant and in fact virtually unlimited. Calculate the benefits of all that and then subtract your costs....Lisa, 
John, AJC and the other Liberal stormtroopers don't care a bit to be debunked once, twice, one thousand or a million times.... they will keep repeating their crap again and again no matter what.... it's part of their job description!

Expecting them to answer sensible questions is also futile.... they haven't the slightest clue about science, they just cut and paste from American denialist websites, that's all.My dear handjive, haven't you heard that the carbon(sic) tax was always a three-year temporary arrangement to be replaced (in the very correct Labor plan) for the permanent emissions trading scheme (ETS), which is a market-based (Neoliberals, rejoice!) mechanism?
What are your problems with the ETS again?
The carbon(sic) tax repeal is currently being delayed by Palmer's PUP, and Palmer is a former member and financial supporter of the LNP in Queensland (sic)....It's obvious that Palmer is still riding a very steep learning curve.... but he does have the capacity to learn, I am sure.Tropicacat, I think that what you see is the Liberal Party in hot pursue of the "forces of the law" telling them to run in hot pursue of Clive Palmer... That's a very different scenario if you think about it."Clive is anything but Big End of Town Liberal"... The next State election in Queensland will answer your question. If Newman is gone and Labor wins because the PUP preferences Labor over the LNP in most seats, then we will all have a lot of food for thought....I agree, although let's not forget that the good Hewson we see now is likely not the same Hewson we would have had as PM; in the same way as the current Malcolm Fraser is not the same as PM Malcolm Fraser.... Time tends to make some people wiser...."obsessed to merely win the 24-hour media game by playing short-term, opportunistic, increasingly personal, mostly negative, point-scoring politics."... Sorry John , but that's the description of the Liberal Party under Abbott, not of the Labor Party. If anything, Labor may be criticised for having been too slow under Rudd and Gillard to counteract the media game of the Abbottite/Murdochite Liberals. 

I agree with you that the WA Senate election sent a clear message to BOTH major Parties and that the People are fed up with rhetorical games and want their problems solved, hence your correct predictions for Vic, Qld and perhaps also NSW. But I don't see the PUP as a long-term political alternative. My impression is that the PUP will have an anti-One Nation effect on the Liberal Party, by dragging the current loony extremist combination of old fashioned and discredited Neoliberalism and Conservatism towards the more moderate and enlightened classic Liberalism. My hope is that Palmer will activate people like you, Turnbull and the like to save the Liberal Party from itself. Once Palmer has done that, he will become redundant, and I am sure that he will happily retire from politics to take care of his businesses and perhaps establish some charities.... as his mission will be accomplished.

So, this is my suggestion: Pauline Hanson indirectly dragged the Liberal party to the Right, Palmer will indirectly drag the Liberal Party more towards the Centre. If the Liberal Party doesn't respond.... they will be in very, very big troubles!Yep, the PUP is spreading and currently commanding around 6.3% of the primary vote in the opinion polls. They are a danger to both the Liberal and National Parties (check the results in the recent re-run of the WA Senate election). Their true power will be measured next at the State election in Queensland next year. If the PUP preferences Labour over the LNP in most seats, the Newman Government is GONE!.... Abbott will be next...."As mentioned nothing will change as the road to improvement is long and would require such drastic change in policy (given their drastic situation) that the country wouldn't have the appetite (given special interest groups) to do it."... Harry, given your experience I am curious to know your list of preferred "drastic" alternative policies and your views on whether they will work or not. In the past European Australians have used quite a few drastic policies such as the forced removal of children from their families.... did they work?Big Nana, I guess that your analysis is a bit superficial. As many conservative people tend to do, by focusing on the successful tip of the iceberg you forget all the rest, such as the costs paid by all those who failed. To understand the true success of a program you have to consider both the winners and the full pains of the losers. To your surprise, you will find that it is often the case that the difference between the two is a NET PAIN."Every dollar that needs to be paid back reduces the standard of living of future tax payers."... harry, is that what people have in mind each time they borrow in order to make an investment (in buying their house, or upgrading their business....)? They borrow, invest in the expectation that their standards of living will be reduced?... Of course not, well the same with Government investments into our future...
If the Liberals were more Liberal they would understand!"The chance of Shorten ever saying anything sensible is zero."... and this is a statement made by a supporter of Tony Abbott???... Ha, ha, hilarious!Alpha, are you telling us that the boats have stopped?.... Really? The boats keep coming, but they are being intercepted and turned back. Bill Shorten was referring to the decrease in number of boats intercepted, such decrease indeed started after Rudd introduced his more draconian policies, including the PNG solution. I invite you to lift the sophistication of your argumentation, I know you can.
In any event, to be frank with you I am not happy with such draconian policies, whether they come from Labor or from the Coalition. This issue of asylum seekers is poisoning the soul of this country, it's about time that we stop exploiting it for mere electoral advantage."How lucky is Bill Shorten?"... Shorten's luck started on the 7th of September 2013.... anyone who then became leader of the ALP would be able to defeat Tony Abbott at the next Federal Election.

"Shorten has struggled...." Shorten's struggles were mainly for the heart and minds of left-wing Labor supporters who saw him as too moderate and started to look with greater interest in the direction of The Greens.... all that changed with his Budget Reply, and since then his leadership has consolidated.  

Labor has a "reputation" of poor economic managers only in the deluded mind of the Murdoch mob. The majority (54% according to the latest Newspoll) see them as more reliable than the Coalition.

What Shorten is doing is to simply contrast the mad Neoliberal ideology of this Coalition Government of Liars with the Social Democratic principles of Labor. This is clearly seen in Labor's opposition of the very many disgraceful aspects of the Budget from Hell.

The field has become very clear now that we know what the Abbott Government has TRULY in mind... an early election will allow Labor, Greens and PUP to save our Democracy from the current Neoliberal debacle.
Just a reminder WS, I predicted a hung Parliament.... and I got close to that as soon as Rudd made his come back and the opinion polls went to 50%/50% (do you remember how you guys went into shock as a result?)..... Anyway, enjoy the hot European summer, stay cool and drink plenty of water.You may be right Chris, still we should address this issue beyond the specific case of Ian Thorpe, as many homosexuals do face similar dilemmas especially when they are public figures, and even if they are not.It's about time that this society grows up and starts accepting the reality of homosexuality as a normal part of our natural diversity of sexual orientations (heterosexuality, homosexuality, bisexuality, transsexuality and let's not forget the plea of the intersex people as well). It's easy to see Thorpe's dilemma at the top of his sporting career: tell everything and perhaps risk a social backlash, or shut up and pretend to be who you are not. That such a dilemma did eventually affect his mental wellbeing is no surprise, it does regularly to so many homosexuals around the world. It just takes the rest of society to open our eyes and our mind to solve this eminently solvable issue."the extent of a catastrophe".... Weasel words to hide manipulative ignorance.... What a boring and useless debater.... You and Abbott and the Australian Neoliberal gang are running in circles chasing your tail, whilst the rest is moving on and taking action.This government of Neoliberal ideologues is led by a Populist point-scoring Leader, Tony Abbott, who lives in the total delusion that everything is going perfectly well for the Coalition, no worries....

The ALP, the Greens, the PUP, Xenophon and the rest must continue to be true to their own electorates and principles, which is the easiest and most straightforward way to sink this Government of Liars....

Today's Newspoll: 54% ALP vs 46% L/NP.... and counting!The current debate about inequality is not so much about meritocracy, as it is about the role of Government in the running of a country.

Those who want to get rid of Government, know pretty well that it will cause inequality, hence they are trying to convince everybody that inequality is fine, if not plainly good and desirable.

Those who see Government as an important actor also see inequality as an undesirable but inevitable result of an unregulated society. the Government is needed to restore balance and fairness.

Hillary Clinton corrupt?.... Alpha, do you know anything that the American Judiciary doesn't?Bop,
When it comes to national security, unfortunately not even the Nobel Peace Prize-winning Obama can low the guard.The (official) unemployment rate has started to slowly fall since last year in the USA and I guess that what bothers the Americans at the moment is their standards of living. Who knows, with some luck they may finally get their priorities right. Clinton is far from being a softy but, contrary to Rubio, she may be seen as the better candidate to lift the standards of living of the bulk of Americans, not just the top fat cats.John, 
People are overflowing in the camps because nobody takes them. Not even us have been able to fill our current quota for years, by taking asylum seekers from the camps. No wonder asylum seekers get fed up and try their luck in a very perilous journey..... Wouldn't you do the same?.... I would!Horrocks, 
If third countries were willing to take those refugees from the camps (waiting in the "queue"), they would know where they are and how many they are, and would take them. But we don't take them, and the refugees stay there, piling up and rotting away. Can you see the nonsense in your argument? If you were in their situation, what would you do?.... Wait in the queue? Or use ALL the resources you can manage to get away from that hell?

We have a duty towards those who are genuine refugees. Whether they are waiting in camps or knocking at our door, is totally irrelevant!!!Horrocks,
Please stop spinning around that silly envy of money approach or, even worse, "economic tourists" line of propaganda. If we want to regard refugees seriously, we process asylum seekers and if they are genuine we decide what to do: whether we take them or send them elsewhere through the UNHCR.... How difficult is that to understand?... What we should NOT do is to send their boats back without knowing who they are, because we may be sending them to their death!mike,
No need for "luxury liners", just our military vessels to safely transport genuine and already processed refugees from Indonesia to Australia.

No need for "many millions" nonsensical scaremongering, just fill our quota, perhaps after increasing it, and the rest will be relocated elsewhere.

You see, it's simple, humanitarian and Democratic, rather than the current undemocratic and inhumane Operation Sovereign Borders!FF,
Once we reach our quota we relocate the additional, and genuine refugees to third countries in coordination with the UNHCR. Those who don't have any justification for their claim for refugee status are returned where they came from after processing. We record their personal details (including fingerprints, DNA, photos etc.) and tell them not to try again.
What's "illogical" about that?
Those reaching Indonesia will not get "preferential treatment", they will get treatment, which they might have not got had they remained in the camps rotting away. If our ability to quickly process and relocate them as they wait in the camps their native or a neighbouring country is improved, the boats would stop straight away (who wants to spend money and risk their life, if you can come here safely and free of charge?). 

But until supporters of the current draconian and inhumane policies don't understand the plea of the refugees, you will never get it.... and the boats, to your great surprise, will keep coming.... as they are.

Alpha, if you could just inform yourself, your post may start making some sense. You obviously have no idea that between 2006 and 2009 we weren't even able to fill our regular quota of 13,750 refugees.... Nice queue, isn't it?.... One that doesn't move! 
So from your post I guess that you prefer the undemocratic and (let's hear the High Court) perhaps illegal methods of your Government of Liars? How workable is that, if you could just start thinking? The boats have obviously not stopped, what's next in this mad and paranoid escalation, Alpha?... Are the navy vessels armed and the torpedos ready?.... That's truly going to work, don't you think?"we should allow accept anyone that people smuggling criminals bring to our shores is rather bizarre"... I agree that the idea is truly bizarre. In fact I have never seen it supported by anyone from left, right or centre. Are you on a strawman chasing mission?
We must process people's claims before deciding what to do with them.There is no "open border" policy in the program of any political party in this country, and I am confident that there will never be.First: The boats keep coming, hence the policy is not the "resounding" success that the deluded Liberal propagandists would like everybody to believe it is. In fact, by their own standards ("Stop the Boats") it's pretty much a failure.

Second: The People of Australia are feeling the pinch of the Neoliberal policies and incompetence of this Government in their wallets, jobs, future, and life in general... and they don't like it, hence the plunge of the Government in the 2PP in ALL the opinion polls (including Essential). 

Third: Look at the second graph and see how the "Too tough" percentage has been relentlessly increasing since October 2010.

Fourth: Even in this most crucial of their propagandistic policies the "Total good" option only attracts 41% of preferences, against 35% of "Total poor".

.... Bye, bye, Tony!"Rather than concentrating on these economic migrants"... You can only know who they really are after you have taken them into custody and processed their claim. If you ignore them and turn them back, and as a result of that they are killed, the Government will be co-responsible for their death.... That's the "little bit" that is missing in the discussion of this issue.

I couldn't care less about "people smugglers" and their "business". Without asylum seekers.... there is NO "business"!Suzy, no Government or political party has ever suggested that ALL asylum seekers must be taken as refugees without processing. The point is to take them into our custody for processing, accept those who are genuine (until we fill our quota, then allocate the rest to other countries through the UNHCR) and send back those who are not genuine. But this Government of Liars is assuming that NOBODY is a genuine refugee and therefore are turning them back without even asking. However, they have processed those who were already in custody and found that 56% of them are genuine refugees. Therefore, even under their own criteria, their current policy of turning the boats back is wilfully denying asylum to at least 56% of genuine refugees coming by boat!Suzy, I am not aware of any initiative taken by this Government whereby the asylum seekers returned to Indonesia are taken to the nearest office for processing (or even told where the nearest office is!). What this Government is doing is to simply send them back and wash their hands, they couldn't care a bit about the fate and wellbeing of those asylum seekers....
"which have already been rejected by the majority of Australians"... Richard, did you even bother to read the article? It is a very good habit to do so before writing a post, you know?

What the authors of the article are telling you is that 35% of their sample say that the performance of the Federal Liberal/National Government in handling the issue of asylum seekers arriving by boat is poor, whereas 18% thinks that it's neither good nor poor, and there is even a 7% who doesn't know.... So, please do tell me where is your "majority" of Australians that reject asylum seekers, etc."Not one boat has arrived in Australia, or it's territorial waters, since Morrison took charge. FACT!!".... WRONG! You believe your master-liars in government at your peril. Additional asylum seekers were added to at least one boat that was returned to Indonesia. Those asylum seekers were in our custody. The same with those that have arrived recently from Sri Lanka (plus one boat that arrived from Indonesia).... The boats have NOT STOPPED, just accept it, this Government FAILED even in this most crucial of their propagandistic policies. 
The importance of the Senate (with it's proportional system) is clearly seen in this case where a group of Independents and minor Parties may help the country defend itself against the potential disaster of the Neoliberal Revolution that the MAJORITY DIDN'T VOTE FOR, because it was dishonestly kept hidden from view, until after the election. 

If it wasn't for the Senate, a political Party such as the Greens that command around 9-10% of the primary vote, would have only 1 (one) representative out of 150; this is 0.6%.... How "democratic" is that???"very"?.... Philip, you do realise that with our 2PP majority takes all system in the House of Reps you could potentially have 100% control (yep, control of every single seat in the land) with just a country-wide difference in the 2PP of 0.1% (50.1% vs 49.9%).... or even less?... This means that 49.9% of the electorate would have NO representation whatever!!.... I repeat: How democratic is that?"So things aren't so bad."..... But they could be far better, firthy. Let's not misunderestimate our ability to improve this Democracy.Grover, an unrepresentative democracy with such a level of bias is frankly undemocratic, simply because it doesn't truly reflect the will of the People.... BTW, we did hear similar arguments from the Libs when they lost the recent State election in South Australia.

A functioning Democracy requires continuous adjustments.Exactly, Tim. So, between Greens and PUP we have 14.2% of the electorate and only 2 seats, whereas the Nationals have 9 seats with 4.3% of votes. This means that keeping the Nats proportionality in terms of seats per primary vote, both PUP and Greens should have together a total of about 30 seats. Therefore, compared to the Nats, both Greens and PUP combined are 1500% under-represented.... How "democratic" is that?firthy, you don't need to explain to me how we get the electoral results that we get, I already know. The issue is: if Parliamentary Democracy is the representation of the will of the People through our elected representatives, is our electoral system delivering a true representation of such will, especially in the Lower House?.... Yes or no.Tator, 
Please stop trying to evade the main issue with trivialities. If the Nationals do not contest every seat it's just their problem, not the problem of the democratic system. I am calculating the seats won by the Nationals as such compared to the percentage of votes obtained by the Nationals. Such comparison is perfectly valid irrespective of the issue of the merged LNP in Queensland. I don't have any problem at all to extend my criticism to situations that somehow favour the Progressive side of politics (including the result of the recent State election in SA that we have debated in the past). I am talking about the best way to make our electoral system deliver a Democratic result, not the best way to deliver a permanent ALP win.....Smith, 
In fact you didn't need to explain what I already know. But you seem to fail to understand the issue about Democracy I am referring to.
"when I bother read on this forum it is obvious that the script never changes"... For as long as reality doesn't change, the script won't either.... Do you get it now?"if you think reality never changes"... Reality NEVER changes?... Please, Ann, do point to the word "never" in my post, I just can't find it!Damage, wake up! The PUP is not after Labor or The Greens.... they are after the Libs and Nats!.... Check the recent Senate vote in WA again, and you will understand....Fastrope, the "real world" always included a fixed-term, 3 year-only carbon tax. So, the carbon tax is just dying a natural death. Now, is the real world going to include "Direct Action" policies?... It doesn't look like, does it?"The Neoliberal Revolution? Oh dear, statements like that"... are truly Realistic, given the Reality of this Government (check the Budget from Hell, for instance)!muzzg, check the Liberal/Nationals result in the WA Senate election.... check the current opinion polls.... This Coalition Government of Liars truly deserve to be booted out after just one term. But don't worry, they won't be alone, they will be in the company of the one-term Coalition Victorian Government, and most likely, with the help of the PUP, the one-term LNP State Government of Queensland too..... Big "team of losers"....  

Hi JAL,
Yes I am aware of the historical background to the role of the Senate. But as you noted, times change and so it should the organisation of our legislative organs.
BTW, I truly disagree with your idea of scrapping the Senate, just look what happens in Queensland. Unfortunately, these days you can cause quite a significant damage in just three years (or four) if you have full and unopposed control of power (this is valid irrespective of who is in power). Although confronting the need to negotiate some pieces of legislation may be frustrating to the Government, it can be far better for the People (see the Democrats toning-down Howard GST).The Asian defence axis of USA-Australia-Japan does make strategic sense, but it is essential that it must also be seen by China as exactly that: a DEFENSIVE, rather than an offensive alliance. This will be underpinned by the development of good commercial relationships among all those countries with China.

... On the commercial side of Abe's visit, we will have to monitor quite closely who is going to ultimately benefit from a FTA with Japan. FTAs must NOT be signed as an expression of a Neoliberal stance, advanced purely on the basis of ideology, but as an expression of pragmatism."destroyed the car industry"... That kind of final Damage was done by the Abbott Government.... have you been asleep since the 7th of September 2013? What Labor introduced with Keating were Neoliberal-light policies. What this Coalition Government of incompetents are trying to do is to introduce Neoliberalism on Steroids!.... Can you see the difference?The "sensible middle ground" was lost since Tony Abbott became the leader of the Coalition and not through the use of the new media (internet, for instance) but through the use of the old media (newspapers, radio, TV). It is the new Media such as the internet that are upsetting the status quo whereby the usual Big Business interests are confronted by movements of the People through the free flow of information and debate. This is being demonstrated right now in the form of negative opinion polls for the Neoliberal Government all across the board in spite of a continued, hysterical campaign of the MSM (Murdoch in particular) against Labor..... The turning point is approaching.... Freedom and Democracy are near, at last!salvarsan, the Democratic system only gets into real troubles when the country is split roughly 50/50% along irreconcilable sides that adopt a confrontational style against each other.... This is the kind of situation that Abbott introduced when he became the leader of the Coalition. It is essential to demonstrate, democratically, that such a strategy is WRONG!... After Abbot and his bunch are gone, I do hope that the Liberal Party goes through a process of true soul searching.... The Labor Party has already started and are way ahead (election of the Leader, rejuvenation of Social Democracy.....)."Why would they do that after 4 terms of government?"....EVAN, yours is not optimism.... but delusion... or perhaps it's simply a joke?Great little microessay on the meaning of Democracy, Flap... Good post!"The Abbott/Hockey LNP government must get some points on the board on more than the boats issue.".... and why should they get "some point on the board" on the "boats issue"?... The boats keep coming, they haven't stopped as promised.... FAILURE!It's more than "two boats" burke.... and you know it....
Forget Rudd and Gillard, if they "failed", they have paid for their alleged "failure" with an electoral loss.... Given that Abbott has failed (on far more fronts than Gillard and Rudd combined), then you already know the inevitable consequence...."How far will Abbott bend to salvage the budget?"... Brilliant question, Paula. Abbott is exactly trapped between the Neoliberal Revolution contained in this Budget from Hell (a revolution that very many extremists within the Liberal Party support and that is also supported by the Big Business financiers of the Party), and a considerably diluted version of the Budget that will wreck the "revolution". Given Abbott's Populism, I don't see any problem for him to press ahead with a wrecked budget, after all his main objective is simply to stay in power. But his backers are unlikely to be happy at all with a second or third rate product.
Labor, Greens, the PUP and some others must be true to their principles and electorate. This will seriously damage the Budget.... after that, Abbott will be confronted with the decision of his life.... his options are limited, and whatever he does he is likely to lose.... these are not good times to be a Liberal.I have just written a comment in The Guardian online about that. The problem with this man is that it seems that his brain neurons are all working independently, each one trying to undo whatever sense the other makes.... One day some good journalist will have to write a book entitled: "The Strange Case of Mr Abbott and His Self-defeating Brain"...."What I'm saying is, you may be born one thing, but if you desire so, can become whatever one chooses."..... LE, but don't forget that you were the beneficiary of those social policies that now the Neoliberal Government wants to destroy. If they achieve that, your optimistic "but if you desire so, can become whatever one chooses" will become a near impossibility for a big chunk of Australians.Brilliant analysis Saintasman, and so truthful!.... I am sure that we prefer the same type of person."A special piece of alleged bogan lore is the practice of keeping thongs going, once the toe-strap has pulled out of the sole, by using plastic closures from packets of bread from the supermarket".... Take people with such natural inventiveness, give them an education, expose them to the diversity of the world so that they don't fear those who look different, tell them that thinking and using your brain is okay, so that they cannot be easily manipulated by smart arses (of the political or the commercial brand).... and presto! Here you potentially have the greatest People on Earth.... It just takes time, perseverance and the help of a smart Government."The majority of Australians"... You are not a majority APM, and you do not speak for the majority. I could complain about many of my posts not being published too!

There has been no article against "open borders" because there is no "open borders" policy anywhere. You can't write an article about a right-wing deluded fantasy!!Any legal challenge notwithstanding, the fact that the Australian People are NOT informed about these events is a fundamental attack on our Democratic system. Moreover, it is essential that somebody follows the fate of these refugees, and record what happens to them once they are returned to the country they originally fled in fear to their life.... Where is the free press when you need them?"the pink batts deaths where totally preventable"... Yes, had the bosses of those young workers been more responsible and less greedy... but they were not!

The inquiry into Unions corruption is showing simply that there are some bad apples within the Unions who work in collusion with the bad apples in the Business community. However, the inquiry into the HSU is revealing that some Union bosses such as Kathy Jackson (the former "whistle blower") are now under investigation for stealing workers' money. Remember how Jackson has been the darling and protegee of the Liberal Party. 

The ICAC in NSW is also pulling more Liberal politicians out of the investigation, than rabbits a magician pulls out of his hat.I agree, Marko. Presumably jocks trap suspected that the shares will take a slump after this debacle and so he has maximised his profit. He may now wait for the full effect to unfold and then buy again at a lower price knowing all too well that the bank shares will eventually bounce back.... Ah, capitalism: making money out of the misfortunes of others...."why super funds pay so little".... WRONG, industry superfunds pay pretty well compared with Bank-managed superfunds for instance. Are you just switched on the usual "Union bashing" routine, Michael or what?.... Oh, btw, do you also want to investigate Liberal Governments' (both Federal and State) advisers who are paid $90,000 or more for a couple of days work, or your curiosity is just limited to Unionists?.... Please do tell us."Make no mistake, there are thousands of nervous bank executives throughout the country sweating"... No, they aren't. There is a Neoliberal Government in charge, they know that they have nothing to fear. They will get out of this easily, with minimum impact to their business and things will continue to go on as usual.... "just be more careful next time, pleeeease", will be the humble, subdued, and respectful plea from the Neoliberal Government."50,000,000 boatpeople when Asia descends into chaos is possible".. and therefore we urgently need to address the root causes of such movements of boat people around the world. However, we must be aware that even in the best possible scenario, migratory (rather than refugee) movements are bound to increase with an increasing world population. The question is: How to best take advantage of such movements to advance our social and economic prosperity. My advice: Get the best migrants - including refugees, actually - before other countries pinch them!Doctors from third world countries move to developed countries not only because they are trying to get the best out of life, but also because those developed countries need them. Most doctors from third world countries are deployed in areas of developed countries that are shunned by the local doctors.You are absolutely spot on, Richard. Multiculturalism has greatly enriched this country, as it has enriched other traditional immigration countries such as the USA, Canada and New Zealand. The problem with Australia, especially since the Hanson debacle during the Howard Government, is that our 2-Party Preferred vote is continuously hovering around the 50/50% ratio plus minus only a minute number of percentage points. Hence, any strategy that can swing even a small number of votes to your side will be blindly pursued by the major parties. Once Howard was able to attract his so called "battlers" buy a cunning manipulation of the nationalist sentiment and foreigners-scaremongering, there was no more turning back, Labor had to recover those votes if they wanted to win Government. Therefore the asylum seekers issue has been escalating for the worse. My hope is that a substantial loss for the Liberal Party at the next election may produce an internal revolution and a serious reconsideration of their current stance on many issues, including that of asylum seekers. That will be the right moment for a convergence of opinions between Labor and the Coalition on this problem, in view of taking a more constructive, by-partisan and humane approach. The Greens are likely to come on board, provided that they stop being extreme; and I believe that Palmer has already suggested that he has nothing against immigrants.
A better way is possible....gbe,
I agree with the general concern about a sustainable population. But I disagree with the use of the concept for pure political convenience: some immigrants seem to be less of a threat to our "sustainable population" than others.

Immigrants are not after accessing a good "welfare system", the vast majority of them are after a good "opportunity in life" (that was my motivation when I moved to Australia in 1988). They know what they can achieve with a good job and good opportunities, which is far, far more than what our welfare system can give them through unemployment benefits, etc.

Finally, I am not aware of any political Party suggesting a policy of "open immigration" (understood as "open borders": just come and stay, whoever and how many you are). I regard that as a completely idiotic policy and, I guess, that's the same reason why nobody, including you, is supporting it."Everyone else suffers."... remember this each time you have to deal with an Australian-born employee working in a business owned by an immigrant ....Lloyd, 
The best way to destroy the people smugglers' "business model" is to take their customers away. Just establish various processing centres in Indonesia, in coordination with the Indonesian authorities. Increase our annual quota (we can easily double it), and make sure that we fill it with refugees in coordination with the UNHCR in Indonesia and elsewhere. Those who exceed the annual quota but are deemed to be genuine refugees should be relocated in a safe third country, those who do not qualify as refugees are registered in our files with all their data, told not to try again and returned to their country of origin. 
I mean, isn't this eminently sensible and pragmatic?Good point Jay,
The state of war has now become a continuous, relatively low-level situation of regional conflicts that is however accumulating very many refugees over time in various areas around the world.... Climate change can only increase the intensity of such regional conflicts. 
The number of refugees won't go down even if we never experience a dramatic shock such as a WWIII.... The point is: What are we going to do about it?"The Labor/Greens open boarder policy was a disaster"... There has NEVER EVER been a Labor/Greens "open border policy", John, what are you talking about? The method of arrival is dictated by the level of desperation and frustration. Your fabled "UN camps" have been systematically incapable, in spite of tens of thousands of refugees being available there, to fill our normal annual quota of refugees.... No wonder some of them just get on a leaky boat and knock directly at our (and other countries') door, rather than waiting forever in the camps.... I would do exactly the same!Is the current high unemployment (and increasing) due to real lack of jobs, or is it due to mad Neoliberal government decisions (such as withdrawing help for industries, killing jobs in the public sector) plus the never ending race of entrepreneurs to maximise their profits? There are currently tens of thousands of people working here on 457 visas...."I would not approve of immigrants who did not respect our laws, religions and language".... Nobody approves that. All immigrants must respect our laws (like everybody else), they have to respect those who believe in other religions and those who are atheists as well (as we have to respect their own religion), and they will have to learn our language if they want to prosper, but are more than welcome to teach their native language to their children so that those children become bilingual. If you didn't teach Hungarian to your children that's your choice, my daughter was born here and she is bilingual, that's my choice."under the Greens policy, everybody that gets here, and wants to stay here, gets to stay here."... Not true. The Greens are just supporting our adherence to the UNHCR Convention for Refugees. You did realise that they do not mention the concept of "open border", but you don't seem to be keen to accept it and so have to invent it somehow... pretty sad really."You appear to suggest we just open the borders and let everyone in."... NOBODY is suggesting that, that's only the usual scaremongering fantasy used by Liberal extremists to desperately get votes from the bogan population.... even at the expense of increasing racism and social tension in this country. Shame!Have you ever heard of 457 visas? There are currently more than 80,000 people on those visas working here. They are here because employers ask for them, they don't come "uninvited". If you feel that there is a problem, start solving it from the major causes.Thanks Grumba, reality hurts but it must be told. I welcome you telling your story.

All countries in the world are destined to become multicultural, multiethnic, multiracial. People are moving more easily around and this will continue. It is imperative that we start putting together the social, legal and ethical frame that will successfully sustain and grow multicultural societies."the Abbott government seems to be on track"... for an early exit in 2016. Yes, absolutely correct!It is true than many use Italy just as a stepping stone to move elsewhere (not just the UK). But it is also true that many stay there. The economy of Southern Italy, agriculture in particular, would collapse without the exploitative use of such migrants as cheap labour. The same for agricultural activities in the southern states of the USA regarding Mexican migrants."It is a sad reflection of the climate of opinion in this country"... I fully agree. We urgently need a Climate Change of opinion!! More social consciousness, less selfish navel gazing... Starting from the Government.Zing, you can reject a candidate on the basis of sheer discrimination but make it look as a "purely objective decision based on the factual, relative capabilities of the different applicants with regard to the specific needs of the company"... etc, etc, blah, blah, blah...
You just need to be careful about the exact procedures, produce records of the process, etc... and you are safe!EMH, and that's exactly the reason why the Government must always take an active role in society. In a Democracy we cannot force any private employer to employ you (or me if I was looking for work, at 56), but we can force a Government to set up programs to productively employ those who suffer discrimination (because of age, disability or any other reason) through our vote.... 

In a scary article published by Grace Jennings-Edquist in the website Mamamia early this year she writes: "In fact, 60-year-old mining heiress Rinehart earned $67,000 during the time most of us spent sitting on the toilet today"

Calculate how many $67,000 p.a. salaries she could finance for hundreds of thousands of unemployed young and old who, for whatever reason, are systematically discriminated against, but could productively work.... if Government could just tax her properly!
GJA, I believe that the legal protection already exists, and there are ways to access cheap legal advice and representation. In fact, my understanding is that the Liberals consider that such level of legal protection is excessive. The problem is that enforcing the laws and regulations in this area is not easy and straightforward. There are loopholes, things that are difficult to prove, costs of legal action if you want to hire your own lawyer.... etc. That's why I am reluctant to just sit back and enjoy the view of a "compassionate" and "fair" Private Sector that will do the right thing, etc. etc. They won't! They are in business because they want to get a profit out of it, they are not charities. Hence an active role of Government through specific programs is simply inevitable, if we want to have a buffer that ensures social stability and fairness for everybody.... If you have an obvious disability, what are you going to do if you apply for one hundred jobs but nobody hires you?... Take 100 companies to court? 
You are perfectly right, Stella: people with disabilities, of whatever kind, are discriminated against. Not only that, even physically and mentally perfectly able persons but who have the wrong skin colour, or accent, or gender can be discriminated against (usually in subtle but effective ways). 

Discrimination is common and widespread, but tragically, it is also extremely difficult to eradicate. I explain. In the private sector the objective is one and one only: maximise profit. Anything that factually or potentially, immediately or over time, stands in the way of maximising profit will be avoided like the plague by any boss. 

Therefore it is essential that Government takes an active role in this area, rather than leaving the solutions in the hands of the private sector. In my view, the best and most effective way for the Government to intervene is through giving priority to people with disabilities for some jobs in the public service, and also the provision of proper pensions and services, especially for those who just cannot sustain any work responsibilities.

But the Neoliberal Revolution that the Abbott Government wants to impose on the Australian People (without asking) is deaf to all that: Government should get out of the way, the Private sector is all that matter, and you, People with disabilities are just dole bludgers!"Unfortunately vilification seems to be the primary communication technique..."... Regrettably, that's perfectly correct, Edward. The emotions of "hatred", "resentment", "envy" are very easily elicited in very many people when exposed to the right propaganda. And this can be used for political purposes to great effect.... but to the detriment of the stability of our society as a whole. The classic example is the politics of  "scapegoats". If the majority is unhappy because you are introducing policies that they don't like, divert their rage from you (the true cause of their problems) to somebody else: asylum seekers, dole bludgers, "false" disabled ones...The most despised "jackmen" at the moment are those who are part of this Government of Liberliars and the parasites that they have appointed everywhere to further their Neoliberal ideology. This bunch of irresponsible asocial egotists are only interested in policies that work to the detriment of the majority of Australians, including former soldiers in need of support like yourself, but favour a tiny 10% minority of top earners.
The atmosphere has NOT stopped warming John, would you mind stopping that nonsense?harry, where the wind is blowing hard over a flat and dry surface, you don't sit and say that renewables are crap because with your flat and dry surface you can't generate hydroelectric power....EVAN, the scenario actually described by the IPCC is far more significant than what you are trying to convey.
This is what the IPCC report actually says:
" Greenhouse gases contributed a global mean surface warming likely to be between 0.5?C and 1.3?C over the period between 1951 and 2010, with the contributions from other anthropogenic forcings likely to be between ?0.6?C and 0.1?C and from natural forcings likely to be between ?0.1?C and 0.1?C. Together these assessed contributions are consistent with the observed warming of approximately 0.6?C over this period".
Note that the above period also includes the 12 years of the "hiatus" that you denialists love so much. Note also that the maximum recorded global temperature of 1998 was overcome in 2010.... The "hiatus" is over!EVAN, I didn't pick 1951 at all, that was a quote from the IPCC 5 report. However, what it is well known from graphs of atmospheric temperatures dating back to much earlier than 1951, is that the 1950s are a breaking point (the Hockey Stick) where the rate of warming increased compared to the previous several hundred years.
Moreover, you do notice that you are admitting that during the famous "hiatus", the atmospheric temperatures have been increasing all along (you quote 0.05 deg. C). The difference between the recent and the longer-term past is simply that the time interval of the "hiatus" coincides with a prolonged solar low. 
 
In addition, let me tell you that the denialist-cherished 1998 El Nino maximum temperature record (very conveniently taken as a starting point to maximise the "hiatus" effect) has been overcome in 2010!! (12 years between the two temperature peaks, which is just a bit longer than a full solar cycle). Solar irradiance is in fact on its way up now. 

So, the Sun emits energy in cycles, with the last one being a bit longer than recent previous ones, but at the end of each cycle the Earth temperature is increasing more and more.... That's the greenhouse effect showing its nastiness.There is no busting of the 97% argument at all!!
The vast majority of professional scientists who understand what they are talking about do support not only the evidence for global warming, but also a significant effect of human greenhouse gases emissions that have been affecting such global warming since at least the 1950s.EVAN, Look at any hockey stick graph, and there are very many of them, and you will see that the break point is around 1950. This is a fact, I am not inventing or cherry-picking anything. Just look at the graphs.
There are no inconvenient truths anywhere. The atmospheric temperature of the planet has been warming since about 1600 (most likely for purely natural reasons), but such warming is not a straight line, there are ups and downs that are determined by various factors, especially the solar cycles that I have mentioned so many times in my posts. Around 1950 is approximately the breaking point where something happened, the rate of warming suddenly increased, and all indicates that such increase was the observable effect of the greenhouse effect caused mainly by our industrial activity and the burning of fossil fuels. That's the scientific consensus.EVAN, denialists are forecasting the imminent beginning of a Little Ice Age.... are you going to apologise each year that the forecast will not eventuate?"What of those who claim there's a "consensus" regardless of how frequently that claim is soundly refuted?"... Yet again, AJC, the consensus is based on the convergence of opinions from highly qualified specialists in the field. They have the data and have analysed those data, and they have reached their consensus about global warming and the human contribution to it on that basis..... Nobody has refuted that yet.
It's time to move on and start doing something about it. 
Read here AJC:

There is indeed over 90% consensus among the qualified scientists regarding a human contribution to climate change. The majority of those who disagree are either technically incompetent or have specific reasons to do so that have nothing to do with science (Anderegg et al. 2010 Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 107: 12107-12109 and this work has not been debunked at all!!). Bray (2010 Environmental Science and Policy 13: 340-350) has reviewed works in this area and concluded that 80-90+% of scientists qualified to give an opinion on this issue agree on AGW, but the frequency varies according to exactly what they are asked to agree on.
Denialists love to criticise some of the works reviewed in Anderegg et al.?s and Bray?s works. But such criticisms have been debunked by Murray Goot from Macquarie University. For instance, Goot reviewed Doran and Zimmerman's (2009), that was also mentioned by Bray (see above), in his 2011 article:   
"The ?Scientific Consensus on Climate Change?: Doran and Zimmerman Revisited" and Goot concludes that:  
"According to a 2008 survey of members of the American Geological Institute human activity contributes significantly to changes in mean global temperatures. A review suggests that the findings derived from the survey are unlikely to be an artefact of the sampling. Nor is it likely that the results would have been substantially different if the question had referred explicitly to global warming or asked not just about whether human activity contributed significantly but also accounted for most of the rise in mean global temperatures."

Goot (2011) also carried out a broader review of consensus studies in "Anthropogenic Climate Change: Expert Credibility and the Scientific Consensus"  to conclude that:
  
"?. while the critics [of studies showing consensus on AGW] raise some important points none of the criticisms damage in any very substantial way the findings these papers report. The majority of those working on climate science accept the proposition that anthropogenic climate change (ACC) explains most of the recent rise in global temperatures; even sceptics accept that the scientific consensus is against them."... and he concludes his article with this: "If the dangers inherent in the language of consensus are clear the dangers of rejecting the term out of hand should be equally clear. To claim, as some sceptics have done (e.g. Plimer 2009, 449-50), but not all (cf. Monckton 2007), that the language of consensus is the language of politics not science ? 'authoritarian' or 'collectivist' politics at that - is misleading. The principal reason interested bystanders ? from parliamentarians to the general public ? have for believing that certain things are very likely to be true is precisely that very few in the relevant field doubt them."

Will you keep ignoring all this?.... For how lo"Alpo, all you did was cite the same papers that were already refuted."... You or anybody else have NOT REFUTED anything.

You may repeat that in as many comments as you like, I will repeat the truth in exactly as many comments. Until you realise that the strength of the consensus is far greater than your imagination (or bias) is ready to admit. Don't worry, I am patient and I have a copy of my post.

Keep repeating your lies... it won't make them true. One day you will understand it, and at that point, I will stop showing you the truth... you will have learned.

Please everybody, take notice.harry,
Directly from NASA to you:

"Water Vapor Confirmed as Major Player in Climate: 

Water vapor is known to be Earth?s most abundant greenhouse gas, but the extent of its contribution to global warming has been debated. Using recent NASA satellite data, researchers have estimated more precisely than ever the heat-trapping effect of water in the air, validating the role of the gas as a critical component of climate change"

Not only that: more industrial CO2 emissions, more greenhouse effect, more heat, more evaporation, more water vapour, more greenhouse effect, more heat.... Can you see the problem now?harry, have you ever seen a cloud?.... Look up!
Moreover, moisture in the atmosphere is not always visible as a cloud.... but it can be measured, you know, so we know that it's there.
Yep, keep trying indeed.... one day you will understand (I hope)!Oh just another point: the atmosphere is far from being homogeneously at 100% humidity all around the planet.... there is still room for more water.harry, the picture is of water vapour (a greenhouse gas) AND CO2 (another greenhouse gas) that is there, amongst the water vapour. So, the picture is one of greenhouse gases.I mean harry, you are dragging this silly thing on for far too long. We know what those plants are emitting, we can measure it, whether it is visible to our eyes or not. Do you deny this too? We can see the visible bits, but we know what that cloud contains, because we can measure its chemical composition.... Now please, just give it up!Forrest, before the advent of our modern system of peer review, "scientists" (this word was actually coined in the 19th century) such as Galileo and others did show the manuscripts of their books to trusted friends for feedback. So, scientific publishing as a social effort has a very long history.But the cunning plan is that the changes in tertiary education will decrease the number of young Australians studying, thus freeing a large workforce to work for a pittance wherever they can... or else starve. The changes to Government support will be just the kick that sends you down the drain.... Gina's $2/hr Neoliberal Nirvana is approaching....

This Government, as any other Government in the history of Australia, has a basic and fundamental duty to create the conditions for higher employment such that the workers earn enough to have a decent life given the high costs of living in a developed country like Australia. The Private Sector is welcome to do their bit, but Government must actively intervene with public programs to fill the gaps.

John Maynard Keynes rightly advocated the idea that it's the duty of a Government to ensure that everybody has a proper job.... because everything else follows from there.Hey Ben, tell Ann Coulter about the men in the USA national football team, that will scare the hell out of her. This is one of the most ethnically diverse teams in the world cup. There are players of European descent, African Americans, Hispanics, and for the first time they have a Native (North)American, Chris Wodolowski, who is a Oklahoma Kiowa from his mother side.... Forget Communism, this team is living proof that multiethnicity works.... How "scary" is that! 

I wish them all the best against Belgium tomorrow.
Wow, I didn't know that. Is he a person known in Samoa as a fa'afafine? The Samoans have integrated sexual minorities into their culture and society for ages. Great stuff.Tropical, when you command more than 10% of the vote in the opinion polls as the Greens do, you are not "the party of irrelevance" anymore.... Accept it, they are still there.... even if you "don't miss" them.

But now, good luck to Abbott with his negotiations with so many and diverse individuals... How many holes can the Budget Boat be able to have... without sinking?Gees burke, I can see from this thread that you have switched to "desperation mode".... Are you ready with the usual "we have been robbed" when you lose in 2013 (or earlier), just as you guys did in 2010?What negotiation? The Greens had already suggested the removal of the debt ceiling, Abbott took the idea on board, and the Greens agreed. Both Abbott and the Greens can be criticised that the initiative is wrong, but there was no negotiation whatever, just a full convergence of views.I think that you may be asking a bit too much from Abbott and his Coalition mates, Trevor.Zing, if Abbott compromises too much he will lose credibility in the eyes of his financial backers and the Neoliberal ideological mob. But I agree with you regarding the Greens, and I would also like to see them being more flexible, realistic and pragmatic.gbe, the majority (50.1%) also wanted a Gillard Government.... and yet, what did the despicable Abbott-led Opposition and their backers in the media do?
... A lesson for all the Liberals to learn: Live by the sword, die by the sword!!
Kevin Rudd?... He is history, burke. Abbott is the present, and he truly damaging this country.Oh dear, the Budget from Hell will be left with so many holes after it's incursion into the new Senate, that the financial backers of the Coalition will refuse to accept that it is the product they paid for. Even Day and Leyonhjelm, who in theory should be 2 votes in the bag for Abbott, are going to oppose some of the levies and new taxes introduced in the Budget. Let alone what the others such as Xenophon and Madigan are going to reject. And what about the PUP+Muir conglomerate? Well, Palmer is just hyper-excited at the prospect of seizing this opportunity to sink Abbott, and positioning his Party as a serious contender for major player on the right-wing side of politics (with added ad libitum doses of Populism). The PUP is going to be a serious spanner in the works of the Coalition in Qld, and a threat elsewhere.... The one-two-three of the Coalition demise is this: Napthine-Newman-Abbott.... a tragedy in three acts.Thanks Trent, in that sense I am more than happy to be proven wrong."16 years with no warming and continuing"... For the nth time: That's FALSE! There is no such "no warming", there is only a decreased level of warming. Global temperatures have continued to increase since the denialists' favourite year: 1998, as compared with previous decades. Not only that, the high global temperatures recorded in 1998 have been exceeded in 2010, therefore your "and continuing" is also FALSE!.... Please do update your database.... How many months it will take you to accept this reality?.... The "hiatus" is over!Greg, catastrophist language will NOT help the cause of a transition from a fossil fuels based economy to one that is largely independent from the burning of coal and oil. This is an economically massive change, a change that will affect all countries in the world and, above all, a change that is going to happen, in the majority of cases, under a Democratic system. Changes in Democracy are always slower, the important thing is that the movement towards change, although slow, must be relentless. So, let's aim for constant movement towards change, more than: "I want it all, and I want it now!". The pace of change will speed up and more people will come on board, the more climate change will start to bite.I fully agree that the population issue is a very major problem that needs addressing. Even though the rate of population growth has been slowing down in recent years, we are still growing.... that's totally unsustainable."We knew what the Lib/Nats were going to do, they told us often enough"... What? Just go back to your Neoliberal cave. This Coalition of Liberliars have introduced a Budget from Hell that has VERY LITTLE, I repeat, VERY LITTLE to do with their promises before the election. With regard to the environment, this is a little sampler of the Liberliar LIES, from the SMH (14 May 2014):

"?'ARENA will have over $2.5 billion in funds to manage.' (Industry Minister Ian Macfarlane, November 2013)

The ARENA (the Australian Renewable Energy Agency) has been axed.

"The Coalition will promote the use of solar energy by Australian families and households. It will ensure at least one million additional solar homes or community centres by 2020." (Greg Hunt, December 2011)

Tuesday's budget scrapped the government's Direct Action policy to fund rebates for the installation of solar panels and deliver 1 million solar roofs." 


MACK1, there is no Ice Age coming, there is just relentless and unabated Global Warming. Stopping the burning of fossil fuels now is a true insurance for the ice age that will come in thousands of years time. This, as usual, requires long-term vision that the Neoliberal/Conservatives seem to systematically lack, even when such long-term vision may favour their interests.Careful PW, camouflage is what predators use to catch their preys unawares...."There is also the possibility of creating a staff of obedient yes-men and women"... Or worse still: creating a staff of relatives, acquaintances, fellow political mates, etc.... Surely that such a "team" could only "increase" the standards in the school....??"a general reading of the research seems to show that greater levels of autonomy for schools would also improve learning outcomes".... So, cherry picking from the report to justify this: "Given the move in Australia towards more autonomy for schools"... Which is the fundamental Neoliberal ideological stance of the Abbott Government.

More "autonomy" for public schools means less government funding, means more financial burden on parents, means fewer students completing school.... What's the place in your Neoliberal Society for those young, poorly educated Australians?.... Oh, I know: work for the Ginas of this country for $2/hr. There you go, the "Cunning Plan" unmasked!"With a bit of luck, Victorian Labor will be back in power in November"... Chris, judging from the trends in the polls for the past several months now, it looks like a virtual done deal.James, from your post you seem to be talking about our current status in the Tertiary education sector. I have been involved in tertiary education since 1988 and what I can say is that there is a sizeable number of students who do get a "pass" in their exams and can go on obtaining their degree, but unless something clicks in their brain, I wouldn't put them very high in the "employability list". In today's Universities, classes are larger, staff are over-worked, under-resourced, and appallingly overwhelmed by an endless number of duties ranging from their teaching, to an increasing administrative load and let's not forget the research, without which, there is usually no promotion. All that is a result of decreased Government funding for universities and it does affect the quality of education that can be delivered to ALL students. The good students, even in Universities outside the Group of 8, tend to be reliable, and they are not worse now than they were 20 years ago. But there is a worryingly increasing number of graduates who are not top and who require more training.
To link with the issue of secondary education, taking government funds away from Universities and charging the students even more to fill the gap (a stance that fits the Neoliberal ideology of this government), will make the situation far worse.The Greens have a very important role to play in Australian politics. But it's absolutely essential that they replace ideology with pragmatism. They must understand that they have a fundamental role in progressing Social Democracy by complementing the natural area of interests of Labor (economic progress in social justice), with that of environmental sustainability, that the Greens have been developing around the world for a few decades now.
This Neoliberal Government of Liars is providing a golden opportunity for Progressive thinking from all sides to coalesce into a common purpose in Australia..... We miss this opportunity at our peril!Yours, is an extremely important point, Edward, and I urge all Greens politicians to read your post and think about it.... for the sake of their own future in Australian politics."left us with a Labor/Green mess.".... john1, in the past 6 years there was no real mess, just look at all economic indices, but in the deluded and propagandist imagination of the Neoliberal Media.... The mess truly started on the 7th of September 2013, very clearly and in spite of the Neoliberal Media's desperate attempt to hide the truth.... they can't even hide the boats anymore, that keep coming! Imagine whether they will be able to hide the real unemployment, the real costs of living, the real lack of opportunities, the real loss of support for those in need, that are sending first-term Coalition Governments to the dogs all over Australia, at both State and Federal levels....
Frank, it's poorly informed and biased comments like yours that make me think that the Liberal Party is at a crossroads: they either go through an internal revolution of rationality and better information, or they are destined to be obliterated from the political landscape of Australia..... The opinion polls fully support this view.AJC, for the nth time: Virtually ALL the INCREASE in atmospheric CO2 concentration in the last decades is due to human industrial activity. The INCREASE!!!
It is totally FALSE that the new addition of CO2 explaining the INCREASE, is "natural".The consensus is much stronger than you believe, harry. I am sure you are familiar with this by now, just try to include it in your future posts: There is over 90% consensus among the qualified scientists regarding a human contribution to climate change. The majority of those who disagree are either technically incompetent or have specific reasons to do so that have nothing to do with science (Anderegg et al. 2010 Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 107: 12107-12109). Bray (2010 Environmental Science and Policy 13: 340-350) has reviewed works in this area and concluded that 80-90+% of scientists qualified to give an opinion on this issue agree on AGW, but the frequency varies according to exactly what they are asked to agree on.Hi Realist1, just a little clarification. You are right in saying that science is not about consensus. BUT, high quality research carried out with the best technology available by the best qualified teams of scientists working independently and leading to the same results and conclusions .... produces consensus. That's the kind of current consensus about a human contribution to the observed Global Warming. Those who have alternative views must produce alternative evidence that can stand the scrutiny of everybody else. Such alternative evidence has not been produced yet."Thank you for agreeing that someone claiming a 97% consensus on catastrophic climate change is lying"... harry, "catastrophic" is just a weasel word that denialists seem to like far more than warmists. It is very useful for the purpose of constructing a strawman argument. What is "catastrophic"? 
Is it that "By tomorrow at 12:30 we will all be roasted"?... Certainly nobody is claiming that. Please let's move away from empty rhetoric and word games and into the real science.WRONG, AJC. Cherry-picking is what denialists do to support their claims, usually listing among their backers people (such as economists) that have no knowledge whatever about climatology. All the works reviewed by Bray (2010) support a consensus among specialists. You also seem to be just downloading your information from denialist websites. For instance, Doran and Zimmerman's (2009) work was reviewed by Murray Goot from Macquarie University in the article:   
"The ?Scientific Consensus on Climate Change?: Doran and Zimmerman Revisited" and he concludes that:  
"According to a 2008 survey of members of the American Geological Institute human activity contributes significantly to changes in mean global temperatures. A review suggests that the findings derived from the survey are unlikely to be an artefact of the sampling. Nor is it likely that the results would have been substantially different if the question had referred explicitly to global warming or asked not just about whether human activity contributed significantly but also accounted for most of the rise in mean global temperatures."

Goot also carried out a broader review of consensus studies in "Anthropogenic Climate Change: Expert Credibility and the Scientific Consensus" to conclude that:
  
"Any attempt to offer an overview of the climate science literature is bound to be controversial; the best known attempts are no exception.  Here, we outline the methods and findings of the most important papers, examine the various criticisms levelled against them, and argue that while the critics raise some important points none of the criticisms damage in any very substantial way the findings these papers report. The majority of those working on climate science accept the proposition that anthropogenic climate change (ACC) explains most of the recent rise in global temperatures; even sceptics accept that the scientific consensus is against them."... and he concludes his article with this: "If the dangers inherent in the language of consensus are clear the dangers of rejecting the term out of hand should be equally clear. To claim, as some sceptics have done (e.g. Plimer 2009, 449-50), but not all (cf. Monckton 2007), that the language of consensus is the language of politics not science ? 'authoritarian' or 'collectivist' politics at that - is misleading. The principal reason interested bystanders ? from parliamentarians to the general public ? have for believing that certain things are very likely to be true is precisely that very few in the relevant field doubt them."



"The evidence for AGW hasn't increased, it's decreased, which is why the IPCC has repeatedly lowered their estimates for the evidence for cataclysmic warming in the predictive models"... Not at all, the evidence for AGW has increased, not decreased, and the latest IPCC report supports such role of greenhouse gases emissions on continued trends in inter-decadal warming. All the denialist hopes are hanging on the fabled "hiatus', which in reality is just a slow down in warming (explained by solar cycles). But the stronger trend to increased warming has resumed since at least 2010, when the denilaists' favourite maximum of 1998 was overcome.... Check for the global temperatures in 2014, there are more surprises in store.The evidence for AGW has increased, not decreased. Please do read the proper science!AJC, you are using a weasel word: "cataclysmic". What is "cataclysmic"? That the earth temperature will suddenly raise by 10 degrees C in a couple of years?... Of course nobody is arguing that. Please don't construct strawmen in your argumentation, it won't make denialism correct.

Dr Who is right in claiming victory for the scientific evidence for global warming, because that's what science tells us.Hi dman,
Many of us citing scientific works are in fact scientists. Our duty is to, in simple words and in short posts, be able to condensate a large amount of knowledge about a topic (such as anthropogenic global warming) and in the process we often give some references for those who want to dig dipper. Believe me, it's a bloody difficult task.... but someone has got to do it!dman, I fully agree with your criticism of "unreferenced arguments". In fact, many of us - from all sides of the argument, actually - do provide appropriate scientific references. I can recall many cases where somebody sceptical of AGW mentioned an article to support his argument and provided the reference. I always read the article if I haven't read it yet, and reply with my views on that. Although The Drum is open to all kinds of people and surely it is visited by a very diverse group of readers, I do welcome debate that is supported by professional evidence. Our challenge is just to convey the (sometimes highly technical) information in a form that is accessible to any adult reader.... and if we can add a bit of humour and wit... the better."no scientific group can agree on whether it's anthropogenic or not"... The overwhelming scientific consensus, based on hard data, not ideology, is that there are two major causes of the current global warming: one is not anthropogenic, to which we have to add an anthropogenic (greenhouse gases) effect that has become noticeable at the very least since the 1950s (the Hockey Stick!). In other words, industrial greenhouse gases emissions are making a bad thing worse. Smart denialists argue for the natural causes of warming to be part of a cycle that "will soon" start a cooling phase, thus lowering the global temperatures.... we are still waiting for that to happen. The reality is that the much hoped-for "cooling phase" is thousands of years away, which is not good enough. If we don't do something to tackle the anthropogenic effects of global warming now, in thousands of years time we won't be around to tell the tale."It would really mean changing crops, that's about it."... That's a naive comment, Todd. Increased floods in some areas, increased drought in others, increased coastal storms, increased high intensity cyclones in tropical areas, that affect the distribution of diseases and the industrial and agricultural activities of 7 billion people, are not solved by "changing crops"..... Please do wake up.
All those environmental changes due to global warming are going to seriously affect the economic and social stability of the human population. This is not alarmism at all, it's realism, to be contrasted with the denialists' delusion that nothing is happening or, if something is happening, surely it's all nice and good. 
If you are worried about "illegal boat people" now, just think what's going to happen as global warming gets worse, thus affecting regional conflicts.This is the third time I try to submit this post, I hope you get it Eric.

1) It is true that the maximum in solar irradiance has been decreasing since at least the 1980s. It is also true that the last minimum has been especially protracted in time (which explains the observed "hiatus" in global warming). BUT, a) solar irradiance is up since at least 2010 (check the NASA website) and b) global warming has been increasing in the past 30 years in spite of the trend in solar maximum. This warming trend can be explained by the added greenhouse effect.

2) There are a few models predicting an imminent fall in temperatures, see also Figure 3 in Liu et al. 2011 56: 2986-2994..... But we are still waiting for such "imminent cooling". Please give us a yell when it's about to happen. In the meantime, El Nino years are getting hotter and hotter, and this 2014 El Nino is already competing for top position in the race for warmest year on record.

... Enjoy. 
The journal where Liu et al.'s work was published is Chinese Science Bulletin. Apologies for the omission."Green groups struggle to turn anger to action"... What? Paula, please, do come back to reality. The primary vote for the Greens at the last Federal election was 8.65%, the current combined opinion polls results (as given by Crickey's Poll Bludger) is 11.1% for the Greens.... They are "struggling" indeed, the "poor" Greens!!!... Especially in Western Australia, are they?
Oh, by the way, to the coming defeat of the Coalition Napthine Government in Victoria, we now have to add some very good news from Queensland: Newspoll is telling us that Labor leads there over the LNP by a 51% vs 49%....
The Federal Budget from Hell is about to be sent exactly there, along with the bankrupt Neoliberal Revolution that nobody asked for.I agree that the electoral influence of the Greens in the Lower House is hampered by the two-party system. But their vote there will help the other Progressive Party (Labor) in their task. Having said that, don't forget that the situation is different with the proportional system in the Senate. Hence the Greens retain a real potential for direct power through the Senate. This is the reason why it is so essential that the Greens become less ideological and more realistic-pragmatic." It is however worth asking yourself why the Greens hit a low in September 2013"... IanM, both the Greens AND the ALP hit a low at the last Federal election. The reason is very simple and crystal clear:
a) Both the Labor Government and the Greens were the subject of the most despicable campaign of media propaganda and public opinion manipulation we have seen since Whitlam. I guess that Murdoch issued the same diktat: "Kill Labor and the Greens", as he did with Whitlam.
b) Having said that, I have always admitted that Labor's fault was that of not keeping their cool. They simply went on naively with their business of government without truly putting together some kind of counter-strategy. That naivity plunged them in the polls, and such fall triggered internal instability and the double change at the helm.... which (of course!!!) just fuelled the "Labor is a mess" propaganda line.

But I agree with this: "In the end, the Greens are only as influential as the Senate voting rules allow them to be."... It is in the Senate where the Greens can exert their power, hence the need (which I am glad to see expressed by others in this comments) for the Greens to move from ideology to pragmatism. Unlike the Democrats, their pragmatism will not lead to a plunge into oblivion. The Democrats had no real political or philosophical platform apart of the silly mantra: "keeping the bastards honest". The Greens do have a very clear political platform (environmental sustainability) that in fact enriches Labor's traditional Social Democratic stance (economic progress in social fairness). The complementarity between Labor and the Greens is expressed in the triple bottom line. To transform such complementarity into a constructive relationship between these two components of the Progressive side of politics, MATURITY (I must emphasise this word) is urgently needed!"The global warming agenda is part of the problem of corrupt corporate greed"... No Richo, that's what denialism is all about: Greed and corruption of the fossil fuels multinationals to keep making outrageous profit at the expense of our wellbeing and future. And they are ready to pay large amounts of money to bias the democratic process through their media lies and propaganda.
The power of the "multinationals of wind farming" is ZERO compared with the power of the Multinationals of Oil and Coal.
"You can have a vibrant economy or renewable energy you can't have both."... False dichotomy! The transition away from a fossil fuels based economy will not happen suddenly (e.g. within the next 5 years for instance), there is no need for it either. But it must happen, the need for it to happen is real. The transition will take years, and over this time the economy will evolve without undergoing any catastrophic collapse. Moreover, just to cheer yourself up, if we keep our fossil fuels reserves untouched, our descendants will be able to use them (if the species is still around) to diminish the effects of the next ice age."Likewise, Labor is being increasingly sidelined as the voice of opposition."... Ha, ha... Not at all!... As expected, Labor is UP in the electorate's preferences as are the Greens (just check the opinion polls since at least December 2013). The Greens are attracting Labor (or potential Labor) voters who want Labor to shift much further to the left (something that Labor won't do). But Labor is attracting disaffected, moderate voters who voted for the Coalition at the September election but now have realised the Great Betrayal and the Great Con they have been the victims of. Palmer is just further bleeding the Coalition of those voters who will never vote for Labor or the Greens in their first preference but who are outraged by the disastrous policies of the Coalition. Palmer has, in fact, the keys to destroy the Coalition at the next Federal election by, for instance, diverting second preferences from the Coalition to Labor in Queensland and perhaps NSW, even when preferencing the Coalition elsewhere in the country."And partly because politicians have, in the past five years, all but abandoned moderate language and gone for shock and awe at every opportunity."... This was Tony Abbott, not "politicians" in general. The People are now realising the manipulative scaremongering used by the Coalition in the past 6 years to: a) hide the disaster of Neoliberalism represented by the GFC and by the massive tax evasion and tax minimisation that are the true root causes of both the EU debt crisis and our deficit. b) Try to introduce a draconian and ideological Neoliberal model of society that nobody wanted but that some Liberal ideologues and their masters in Big Business are determined to force on the People of Australia."These events point to a perverse outcome of the growing credibility crisis."... You are referring to a USA example, but in that country the only Party facing a serious credibility crisis is the Republican Party, not the Democratic Party. The same is about to happen to the Liberal Party of Australia as their Neoliberal Revolution will be rejected by the People of Australia (starting at the State election in Victoria) and continuing with the incoming debacle at the Federal level.... After the Neoliberal Revolution has been rejected, it'll be back to scratch for the Liberal Party. At that point they will have three options: a) a take over by the Libertarians, pushing Neoliberalism through other means; b) a takeover by the Conservatives, trying to revive some adapted version of the 1950s Australia; c) a takeover of the moderate, intelligent, modern small-l Liberals.graazt, what Labor introduced here with Hawke/Keating was a light version of Neoliberalism. Abbott/Hockey's Budget from Hell goes well beyond what even Howard/Costello did and it's far closer to the real deal in terms of Neoliberal ideology. What's amazing and totally anachronistic, is that this desperate attempt is happening now that Neoliberalism has been proven bankrupt. To me, it looks like a completely lost rear guard battle, the last spasm of a dying body....
Shorten and the current version of the Labor Party are not expected to fight Neoliberalism by denying the basic pillars of capitalism such as private property, or the important role of private investment, or even the concept of "competition". Those are good and positive aspects of capitalism (broad sense) that, however, must be "domesticated" in a modern Social Democracy so that, in conjunction with the role of Government (in charge of taxation, public investments, and of running public services), the additional important issues of cooperation, sustainability, opportunities for all, can be also emphasised and together help in producing a more just and successful society."aren't you underestimating the power of the media to sway opinion?"... Hi ayjay, I am usually accused of "overestimating the power of the media", so I am fully with you in pointing the accusatory finger straight at those who can control the mainstream media..... Hopefully, in the near future, the free internet may become an antidote against such toxin."Five PUP Senators without their leader: What could that mean for a government and its ability to deliver change?"... No, it's not "without their leader", it's "without their leader in the Lower House". Palmer is totally irrelevant in the Lower house and could be able even to direct the policies of his alliance from the outside, but there is no evidence that he could lose his Lower House seat, given than in Qld the LNP is definitely on its way down."The upper atmospheric temperatures have been dropping for around two decades, the lower atmosphere temperatures stopped rising in the mid to late 1990s. The only current evidence of "warming" is 2000 metres down in the deep oceans, closer to seismic heat sources.".... FALSE! Stop that ignorant crap, AJC, your propaganda is truly getting nowhere. Inform yourself here. Go to the NOAA's website and get the global temperature anomalies since 1880. They provide real data, not your denialist fantasy, for both Oceans and Air. You will see that both curves follow a parallel trend with negative temperature anomalies in the first part of the time interval and positive temperature anomalies in the second (more recent) part. However, the ocean temperatures curve is more symmetrical than that for air temperatures: the former (ocean) showing a low in the early 1900s of -0.5 degrees C and a high (so far) of +0.5 degrees C in the 2000s. But atmospheric temperatures show a low of -0.5 degrees C in the late 1880s similar to the situation in the ocean but a much higher +1 degree C in the 2000s!.... Here is the greenhouse effect for you, mate, accelerated since the second half of the 20th century and continuing unabated until right now!! The historical temperature anomaly record was broken in 2010 (when, according to the denialist delusion we have been "cooling") and 2014 is already lining up as a pretty warm year. The El Nino events have been getting hotter and hotter, with no slowdown whatsoever in the rate of their warming."Temperatures haven't"... The surface temperatures of the planet are on the rise, they have always been since about 1600 now, with an acceleration since about the 1950s. The "lull" was just a slow down in the rate of warming, there is no stasis, let alone cooling. This year is going to be pretty warm, as already recorded. In fact the El Nino events are getting warmer with time.... I am always happy to fill ignorant minds with knowledge, Forrest.Reinhard, the real "killer" (for the Coalition) in Palmer's plan is the assurance (to be enshrined in law) of lower costs of living upon scrapping the carbon tax. Palmer knows that it won't happen, and as soon as costs of living will actually raise (as industry is already warning) Palmer can use that as a propaganda platform to further discredit the Government in the eyes of the Conservative electorate (in the eyes of the Progressive electorate this Government is already terminal, of course). This is a "bomb" that Palmer has planted under the feet of the Government, and it will detonate in the next few months.... Take cover everybody!"Why should the public support reforms they don't understand, to address problems that they haven't been convinced need urgent, drastic action?"... You are totally out of step with reality. Please do update yourself!

A Lowy Institute Poll taken in 2014 indicate that:
"This year, 45% of Australian adults now say that ?global warming is a serious and pressing problem. We should begin taking steps now even if this involves significant costs?. Concern is up 5 points since 2013 and 9 points since 2012.

?After successive polls revealed declining concern about climate change between 2006 and 2012, this year?s Poll shows that the trend-line has turned, and that Australians? concern about climate change is now on the rise?, said Alex Oliver, Director of the Poll.

When asked about international policy on global warming and carbon emissions, 63% of Australians say the government should be taking a leadership role on reducing carbon emissions. Only 28% say it should wait for an international consensus, and a fraction (7%) say the government should do nothing."

POLITICIANS TAKE NOTICE!!!
Troy, it would help you if you could read my post again. In fact, you seem to be proud of this: "and a fraction (7%) say the government should do nothing".... Happy membership of the 7%!!!... May I call them the Talibanesque deluded ones?

You may also like to be reminded of the fact that the ETS is a Neoliberal-friendly solution to AGW. But if you wish, we may all agree to a draconian supertax to speed up the decline in CO2 emissions instead.... Doing nothing is not an option, I am afraid.

Oh, by the way, the fact that "45% of Australian adults now say that global warming is a serious and pressing problem" doesn't mean that 55% think that "global warming is crap"... don't make your own fantasy world, please.With Abbott opening Australia "for business" it's far more likely that we risk becoming like a West Vagina...."he hasn't a care in the world for another two years".... unless Abbott is a masochist who carelessly enjoys watching how the Coalition sinks into oblivion... that's what the opinion polls have been telling for months now. The more he waits, the worse for the Coalition.... I am happy with that, btw."assume that a lot of them ar not"... Don't assume, just inform yourself and you will see how wrong you are. From the ABC (20 June 2014): ?Over the past few weeks, the updates have also included information on the processing of asylum claims on Manus Island and Nauru.
Fifty-two initial assessments have been handed down on Manus Island ? 24 positive and 28 negative. 
On Nauru, 64 refugee status determinations have been provided to asylum seekers ? 41 positive and 23 negative.?
Therefore even this Government of Asylum Seeker Haters did find that out of 116 ?illegal country shoppers? 56% were genuine refugees and therefore were not ?illegal country shoppers? at all!

"Unlike some who post here multiple times a day and so seem tied to their computer"... How do you know that unless you are tied to your computer and check the comments regularly throughout the day?

"In other words are we really to blame for the standard of political leadership we get today?"... To an extent, yes. To improve, start by not reading the Murdoch Press, this is the first necessary step to de-trollify Australia."Actually taking actions that will bear long-term"... disaster by sinking our economy and risking plunging us into the Recession We Didn't Have to Have. Real unemployment is raising, Real costs of living are rising.... hence this Government of Liars is plunging in the opinion polls. The equation never fails.Oh please do stop that crap, the States budgeted the $80b, because they needed them, and that's the reason why they are fuming! Had that been "no-real-money" there would have been "no-real-problem" for the States.... but they do have such problem, and both Napthine and Newman are facing their electorates soon."Who ever heard of that in a democracy??".... For Abbott, those three concepts: "compromise, discuss and convince people" are completely alien. Whoever thought about electing Abbott as leader of the Coalition? You will squander Rupert's gift in just one term!"Abbott and co are there for years to come"... The same was said about Ted Baillieu and then Dennis Napthine... Look at the current polls for the Victorian election: Nielsen 56% Labor vs 44% Coalition; Newspoll 54% Labor vs 46% Coalition.... and wait for the November decision by the People. First one-term Coalition Government to fall... and there are more to come, including the Abbott Government in 2016 (at the latest)."no government will go to an early election they think they will lose"... But they should go as soon as they realise that a delay will mean an even more catastrophic loss. The only problem for the Coalition is Abbott who, as a good Christian, will keep delaying the inevitable in the hope for a miracle. On the other hand, the Coalition won't like to replace Abbott for fear of making the situation even worse.... Oh dear, these are truly bad times to be a Liberal.Harry, surely you are not serious.... What a load of mindless crap. How can anybody with a BSc Mon. (Chem) DipEd show such a primitive ability to think critically..... I will focus on just one thing to keep my comment short: "Its sad that the under-studied still want to think climate change is abnormal and are blind to the factual evidence of no link between CO2 emissions and temperature change.".... Nobody is saying that "climate change is abnormal", you are just creating a fantasy straw man. The links between  CO2 emissions and temperature change are countless.... and you studied Chemistry?.... Dear me!Just one post to debunk every silly point you have made above AJC. Read here and inform yourself once and for all:
1) Atmospheric CO2 from "natural" sources has remained roughly steady for the past 12,000 years (Shankun et al. 2012 Nature 484: 49-54).
2) Before the industrial revolution CO2 was lower (280ppm) than it is now (381ppm, as recorded in 2006) (Canadell et al. 2007 PNAS 104: 18866-18870).
3) Half-life of CO2 in the atmosphere ranges between 19 and 92 years (Moore and Braswell 1994 Global Biogeochemical Cycles 8: 23-39). Hence industrial CO2 emissions can rapidly accumulate.
4) Current levels of CO2 are higher than 14,000 years ago (due to "natural" sources PLUS human industrial activity), and back all the way to 90,000 years ago. (Ahn and Brook 2008 Science 322: 83-85).
5) Canadell et al. (2007, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., USA 104: 18866-18870) estimate that about 35% of the increase in atmospheric CO2 growth rate between the years 1970?1999 and 2000?2006 was caused by a decrease in efficiency of land and ocean sinks in removing anthropogenic CO2 (about 18%) and by an increase in the carbon intensity of the global economy (about 17%). The other 65% was due to the increase in the global economic activity. 
6) As for the association of CO2 from ice cores with temperatures, read here: "The covariation of carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration and temperature in Antarctic ice-core records suggests a close link between CO2 and climate during the Pleistocene ice ages." (Shakun et al. 2012 Nature 484: 49-54).
..... HAPPY LEARNING!

Abbott will be finally sunk in the opinion of the majority of the People of Australia, when the fabled 7-8% (or so) decrease in the energy bills after the repeal of the "carbon tax" will fail to eventuate. Not only that, the energy bills are actually very likely to increase. 
This is what the Energy Supply Association of Australia (ESAA) is saying:
"The carbon is in the order of cents per day so 20, 30, 50 cents a day is carbon in an electricity bill so that's the kind of numbers you'll see come out the other side.".... Does anyone really expect to see such "savings" in their bills?.... Ha!... Increasing costs will swamp any such miserable savings in matter of days after the repeal. Palmer knows it, he will blame Abbott for it.... and reap juicy electoral benefits.... Checkmate!The Italian team fully deserved to be sent packing. Their first match was okay, but they simply liquefied in the second and third matches.... Still, this is no excuse for anthropophagic practices....The problem with Suarez is not just the biting, but that he did it under the supervision of the Mexican referee Marco Rodr?guez, also known as Count Dracula.... I mean, FIFA is in the midst of a true horror story here...."After all there are far worse things that could happen in a game"... True, but you would hope that after centuries of so-called "civilisation" we might have improved on the techniques of the past, even in sports such as football that are a sort of ritualised battle. The Roman historian Livy provides this little anecdote from the actual battle of Cannae that the Romans lost to the Carthaginian Hannibal: "what most drew the attention of all beholders was a Numidian who was dragged out alive from under a dead Roman, but with mutilated nose and ear; for the Roman, unable to hold a weapon in his hands, had expired in a frenzy of rage, while rending the other with his teeth."Palmer and his PUP alliance have one historical political mission and one mission alone: Wreck the Abbott's Liberliar train before the train wrecks the whole country.

Achieving such a simple and straightforward, yet very important objective is what Palmer MUST!

So far, so good. He is right on target....The PUP is not invading the centre-left territory (just see where their votes at the WA Senate election came from). The PUP is blatantly invading the right-wing of the political spectrum. So he is a greater danger for the Libs and Nats than for Labor." "Bust the Budget" campaign, which is focused on blocking the budget"... A totally worthwhile campaign fully justified by the fact that we are a Democracy, but also by the fact that this Budget from Hell is a total betrayal of the trust of the People. The Liberliars in Government knew that had they gone to the last election with this Budget, they would have lost. Therefore they deceptively told one thing before the election and now are trying to do the exact opposite.... and more. The only Democratically fair thing to do is to:
a) Apologise to the People of Australia for the betrayal.
b) Go to a DD and fresh elections (at the end of the year or early next year).
c) And let the People decide about your true Neoliberal Revolution.

Disregard the People's outrage, soldier on hoping that all will be forgiven and forgotten, and face annihilation in 2016 after becoming a Zombie Government.... 

It's the Liberals' choice..."exactly, that the Greens stand for?"... rob, the Greens opposed Labor's ETS because it didn't go far enough and they are well known to be in favour of more public transport and less cars in the streets/roads.The Neoliberal Manifesto:

a) Inequality is good for business.

b) Inequality followed by competition improves the social "gene pool".

c) If increased inequality is followed by crime, just give more money to the Police.

d) If inequality continues to increase and it is now followed by revolutionary movements, just give more money to the Army and tell them to intervene if needed.

e) Neoliberalism works best in a dictatorship anyway!   
"As is clearly seen in the USA, when governments have in place measures which actively encourage inequality, that rise is turbocharged"... Perfectly spot on. The opposite is exactly the role of Government: to dampen the effects of runaway processes that plague the laissez faire mechanisms of the Neoliberal free market. Without a regulatory system through Government control, competitive processes get rid of most little battlers and only allow the survival of a few big ones. Hence the greater asymmetry in the wealth distribution, and the greater influence of large multinational companies in such free market systems.... This is not rocket science, anyone can work it out... if you think hard enough!!"He left behind a gross debt of $59B but a net surplus due to putting $70B into the future fund."... A big chunk of which went down the drain with the GFC... Whereas ports and railways would have not disappeared with the GFC. Quite on the contrary, they would have further contributed to the productive effort!!!.... Do you see the bankruptcy of the Neoliberal policies now, harry?AE, please do look at your child with some compassion and empathy (beyond the natural motherly love), because if this bunch of Liberliars in Government survive beyond 2016 and transform our society into a Neoliberal Hell, that child and most other Australian children will suffer pains well beyond those suffered by people of your generation or any generation before for the past 60 years.More propaganda from AJC:
1) AGW is supported by the vast majority of expert scientists in the world and their scientific organisations. This means researchers and organisations that actually have the capacity to carry out research in this field. You are welcome to get in your list of denialists some economist from Botswana or an electronic engineer from Montenegro.... good luck with that.
2) You are asking for "unanimity"? Unanimity on what? There is near unanimity on the role of anthropogenic greenhouse gases emissions on global warming. If you dig further, there are differences of opinions on the exact magnitude, the additional effects of other factors, etc.... That's science. 
3) Your last lengthy and totally wrong paragraph can be easily debunked by directing you and any other reader interested in this topic to the appropriate scientific literature. There is over 90% consensus among the qualified scientists regarding a human contribution to climate change. But many of those who disagree are either technically incompetent or have specific reasons to do so that have nothing to do with science (Anderegg et al. 2010 Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 107: 12107-12109). Bray (2010 Environmental Science and Policy 13: 340-350) has reviewed works in this area and concluded that 80-90+% of scientists qualified to give an opinion on this issue agree on AGW, but the frequency varies according to exactly what they are asked to agree on.

Please copy this, read it a few times and store it in your files.
AJC, the only ignorant propaganda and cherry picking is that of the Denialists, you included apparently. Please do read the references that I gave you properly, and you will see how wrong you are. But in any event my aim is for other readers to read those references, they are freely available from Google Scholar. Please everybody do so and work out by yourself the propagandistic and biased stance of people like AJC...
Sure you don't fear rational thinking AJC, do you?
The major industrial nations of the world are increasing their move towards greenhouse gases emissions control. You and your fellow denialists are welcome to keep on fighting a rear guard battle... after all, some Japanese soldiers kept on fighting WWII years after it had ended... it's part of our imperfect human nature, I guess."Shorten's biggest weakness is not standing out on anything."... That's just Liberal propaganda. If you listen to Shorten's speeches and read what he writes you will see very easily where he stands: A Social Democratic view for the present and future of Australia!... as an alternative to the current Neoliberal view of the Abbott Government. Hockey's Budget from Hell is a perfect example of Neoliberal ideology in action. If you like it in full, you can define yourself as a Neoliberal. If you are a Social Democrat, you should reject most of it on the basis of the Budget total irresponsibility and failure to propose a model of economic development that is socially fair and environmentally sustainable ..... Pretty simple.spud, please do stop that clowning! Do you really want me to list (yet again!) the endless number of LIES from Abbott?... I mean, there are entire websites now devoted to collecting them. Do a Google search....APM, you don't understand the reality of the asylum seekers issue. Politically it's becoming a poison to our country... you enjoy injecting it in higher concentrations at your peril. This issue requires a massive rethinking from BOTH major parties... But hey, with the current Liberal political-dwarfs in charge no rational solution can be achieved. They are just after scaremongering first and then reaping a few votes out of a cow-boy stance, with lots of military men displayed on their battle-boats and with guns (the good guys) ready to repel the "bad guys".Never mind Shorten.... Abbott is the only target of a crossfire at the moment, and he is leaking from the holes peppered all over his decaying political body...."The ALP is delusional to think the reduction is due to its Malaysia policy."... No, the reduction started immediately after Rudd introduced the PNG solution that the Abbott Government has continued. Therefore, Abbott is just basking in Rudd's "glory". The turning back the boats is failing, the last boat that we know of was intercepted just over a month ago and turned back with three additional passengers: where did those extra passengers come from? This Government of Liars is obviously hiding information from the People!... How many more boats have been intercepted that we don't know? How many asylum seekers (= "illegal country shoppers") are coming by air? How many of those who are turned back are still alive? If they are killed upon returning to their country of origin is their blood in the hands of Morrison and Abbott? Do you want to know or do you prefer to ignore that and only focus on those drowning when Labor was in Government?  
Wrong, the tax and the ETS that would follow under a Labor Government are essential to reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. If you still don't understand anthropogenic CO2 emissions and the policies put in place by the EU, the USA, China, Australia (under Labor) and an increasing number of countries, then at least you will understand that reducing our dependency on imported oil does make a lot of sense.Yeah, keep crossing your fingers Chris, that in the end "everything will be alright" for Abbott and his gang of Liberliars. Polls mean nothing now, don't they? But they meant everything to the Liberals when Gillard was PM, didn't they? Stay the course and you will see the rough seas come and go... and as Peter Reith used to say: Howard was always behind in the polls until election day when he kept on winning (well, until he lost in 2007...).... Happy dreaming!

What you Liberals/Libertarians don't understand from the disadvantage point of the IPA bunker, is that the People are fed up with this Government already, they are extremely worried about their life, job and the declining living standards for them and their children. This Government has totally betrayed the trust of the People of Australia... and there is no way back from that, sorry.
Shorten is doing a very good job, Labor has already shown that they can lead this country in a way that ALL Australians benefit, not just the top 10% of the income distribution. And in any event, by the time a Federal election  is called.... even if Labor is led by the Monster from the Black Lagoon they will be able to win against Abbott and his Neoliberal Gang.
It's over, start packing!"he can blame labor and the greens"... Nope, that only worked until the 7th of September 2013.... not anymore!... It's well and truly over for Abbott and the Coalition. Their Budget from Hell is going to be left with so many holes that the little substance trapped inside will pour out and be lost forever....Nope again, Swan saved our economy from the Neoliberal GFC that Howard and Costello left us as a reminder of their incompetence and short-sightedness. As a Treasurer, Hockey is opening the coffers and letting the Barons of Big Business steal the Treasure of the People, and yet we are asked to understand that our "age of entitlements is over" and that we must keep on working hard to fill the Treasure coffers.... so that more can be stolen by Big Business.... Does the word fraud ring any bell to you?Ukraine opted to choose the EU and NATO over an alliance with Russia, this triggered the events. The Russians do have a point regarding the ethnic composition of Eastern Ukraine and the right of the Eastern Ukrainians to self-determination, but there is also an important geopolitical issue that impacts on the national security of Russia. Being surprised that Russia is trying to create a defensive buffer between them and what it is the inevitable joining of Western Ukraine with the EU and NATO is naive and foolish to the max. When the Russians wanted to create a missiles base in Cuba (an INDEPENDENT country!), the Americans threatened nuclear retaliation, and they really meant it! The USA response can be easily explained as an act of self-preservation, which was perfectly understandable. This is exactly what the Russians are doing now.... it's no different! 
So stop the nonsense, accept the new geopolitical landscape, negotiate a peaceful split of the country.... and move on!It's not "my division of the country", frangipani. There must be a referendum where the People do indeed have a say. The result of the referendum must be accepted, though."Why "must" there be a referendum, Alpo?"... In case you haven't noticed, the current alternative is civil war... The referendum is a matter for the region concerned, like the case of the coming Scottish referendum.Zing, 
Russia started to annex Ukraine in the 17th century, it was the Tsars who did so, not the Communist Party.... and as for annexing other countries, you may ask the Mexicans how did New Mexico, California and Texas end up becoming states of the USA (the events occurred in the 19th century).... Let he who is without sin, cast the first stone!
The specific communist expansion into Eastern Europe under Stalin is over, and it has been over for a couple of decades now."They intend to make the war un-winnable for Poroshenko, forcing him to come to some kind of sensible accommodation."... I agree, Peter. That makes sense."Most of us ask, why do anything at all, since CO2 clearly has bugger all effect on temperature."... This is a false statement that inevitably leads to false conclusions....
.... Nothing to see here, move on.

But for your information, and this time please do take notice:
a) The greenhouse effect requires BOTH CO2 (greenhouse gases more generally) AND solar radiation. If CO2 goes UP but solar radiation goes DOWN (as it does regularly following 11-year long solar cycles) then  you can have periods of relative warming slow down or even cooling. BUT it's the long-term trend that matters, and the long-term trend is towards warming... relentless warming.

b) "We've reached that point and everyone agrees"... Everyone who?

c) "We've adapted"... Really? I didn't know... When?

d)  "will Environmental Economists benefit?"... Virtually nothing compared with those living out of the sales of oil and coal! There is where the BIG bucks are, and that's why well cashed-up denialism infects the internet and the media!!

e) "Will I? No, no one is paying me to be sceptical"... I didn't know that "scepticism" was a profession.... but it's certainly your right. One piece of advice though: learn to distinguish between "scepticism" and "delusion". 


tonyM, 

What you should understand is that the temperatures recorded in concomitance to increased levels of atmospheric CO2 are higher than those recorded since at least the year 200 a.c.e.

As for evidence of forcing, I strongly recommend that you read the latest IPCC report, section:  Radiative Forcing from Greenhouse Gases.

As for ENSO, the El Nino phase has been getting hotter since the 1950s. The hottest El Nino on record was in 2010! So, ENSO is also following the global trend to warming as a result of the warming of the oceans' surface. CO2 does not produce ENSO, CO2 increases the ocean surface temperature through the greenhouse effect and that affects the magnitude of the El Nino phase of ENSO.

I remember the Hockey Stick... it's still there, why? It bent a little bit, but it never stopped going up, and even the extraordinary temperature anomaly recorded in 1998 was exceeded in 2010!... 

Everything is going according to a relentless process of global warming, to the frustration of denialists still waiting for the incoming Little Ice Age that is nowhere to be seen.... They may as well hope for the coming of a new Age of Aquarius..."The ALP stand for nothing."... Cus, you are about the only one who still believe this....
Neoliberalism is dying a painful death... the renovation of Social Democracy is in the making!.... Exciting times ahead!!The battle of Budget (= the wellbeing of the People) vs Security (= threats and fear) is already lost by Abbott and his Gang. The more the People feel threatened in their day to day living, as they experience it first hand through increased costs of goods and services, harder work conditions and lower remunerations, the more they will be distancing themselves from this Government that has betrayed the trust of the People with their Budget from Hell, and a number of Lies that I have lost count of. Their counter-strategy is, as it is typical of Conservative Governments, play the Security card. BUT they have some very big problems there:
a) The Security strategy is NOT paying off. In spite of using it for months now, the combined 2PP across all pollsters remains 52.3% in favour of the ALP.
b) If they escalate the Security strategy in the hope to make a breakthrough, they will reach a point where even their closest admirers will start hating and rejecting the mounting threat to our Liberties and Democracy. That will mark a movement of votes from the moderate, democratic and sensible Liberals to the ALP.
c) Palmer is also using the same strategy, and his Populism will combine the rejection of many aspects of the Budget from Hell with the reassurance that they are also tough on Security (see their recent rants against China). This will bleed conservative votes away from the LNP in Queensland especially, a crucial State that the Coalition is losing at the speed of light.
... In other words, the cigar has exploded on the Liberals' face.... Yet again!.... What's Plan B?Abetz and the rest of the Neoliberal Gang that are running this place at the moment do not base their views on facts, they base them on pure and simple ideology. You don't grow an economy by decreasing wages, how many times do we have to repeat this to this bunch of incompetents? You grow an economy by INVESTING!!!.... If the bloody private sector is too cowardly to invest, we need the Government to do so, and get the People to reap the benefits of the investment.... Dark financial clouds are approaching... a very big test of character for this Government is looming..."overheating the US stock market as a result."... I based my statement precisely on that. Just looking at a long-term graph of the Dow Jones index it sends you a chilling sensation down your spine..."you don't grow an economy by spending more than you have"... Damage, this is what capitalism does all the time. It's called: INVESTMENT! Allow me to explain: You have a good project, you borrow money to finance that project, you spend the money and make the project a reality, the reality of your enterprise starts producing outcomes, that will raise your income beyond the cost of your investment. The difference is called: Profit.
That's what good Governments do when they borrow and invest in infrastructure for instance. Such infrastructure is then used to boost the economy that produces good and services and exports, the Government gets the value of the investment back through taxes over the long-term...
Don't thank me, I am here to serve....The outrageously fat bonuses given to incompetent CEOs are the truly anti-business, anti-shareholders activities.... When Capitalism rewards Incompetence and Failure (as it routinely happens under its Neoliberal shape) then it's time to take the rotten building down and start all over again.... Verrender has been quite mild and polite....Socialism?... Where is Socialism?.... Oh, you have read that in the history books.... Neoliberalism is still everywhere at the moment... but not for long, not for long."factories and businesses closing"... Thank the Neoliberal Federal Government for that Filz. Look, may I ask you something: Why do you think that the Weatherill government has been returned? Why do you think that the independent Geoff Brock sided with Labor?.... and the cherry on the cake: Why do you think that even the former Liberal leader Martin Hamilton-Smith became an independent and sided with Labor?.... Is Hamilton-Smith a "socialist"?
Neoliberalism is still with us, but in a terminal stage... The renewal of Social Democracy (not "socialism" as it was understood during the Cold War) is occurring right now...
We need efficiency and competitiveness, BUT we also need fairness.... and sustainability.So AE, are you saying that you like capitalism because it sends companies broke by giving you cheaper and cheaper deals?... Are you writing in sarcasm?... If not, then spot the nonsense.gbe, 
Where did you spot the word "socialism" in my post? I guess that by "socialism" you want to imply a state-controlled centralised economy? If so, I do not subscribe to that ideology. I am a Social Democrat who thinks that a mixed-model economy is better than the raw Capitalism of old, and a million times better than today's Neoliberalism. I love the Private Sector when they do good thinks, I don't love them when they do bad things; the same for the Government. Government and Private sector working together for the benefit of ALL, not just a few, can do fantastic things....Murder is also normal and natural.... what's your point John?... Leave Social Darwinism alone. If you don't know a beast, don't stand beside it!!It's easy to be racist, it's less easy not to be racist, but it can be achieved. Just mix up with everyone, talk to them, interact, open your mind... befriend, fall in love, marry... and step by step, racism becomes more limited in society... it takes time, but it can be done....John, don't try to evade the topic: Are you denying that Reinhard's quote is from Abbott? If not, then admit that he is right. Full stop!Don't try to escape with your usual nonsense. What Abbott was doing was scaremongering, using his own words... and he got it wrong, as he always does. Now, face the reality at least once.... if you can. This is what you accused Reinhard of: "and nobody knows more about falsehoods than you". Those were Abbott's words and you deny it, hence you are lying.... as always.... Pathetic!
No Forrest, it was the imaginative propaganda of Rupert Murdoch and the gang in the media that created that "Labor incompetence and dishonesty" myth of yours (funny that you still use the word "dishonesty" to refer to Labor after what Abbott and his Government have done, ha!). Abbott was just a pawn back then and he is still a pawn right now of interests far more important than his little self. I thought that by now you were aware of all that!The biggest problem in today's Parliament is the Neoliberal Revolution that this Government of incompetents is trying to impose by force against the will of the People. This Government is losing control of the economy, doubling the deficit, incapable of running the country, incapable of understanding where the international economy is going and exposing this country to a recession next year. The sooner they are gone the better. Hopefully, a good trashing of the Coalition in Victoria and Queensland will finally confront the deluded Abbott with the crude reality....Here, John, the latest opinion polls results:

Galaxy: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
Newspoll: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP
Morgan: 55.5% ALP vs 44.5% L/NP 
Essential: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
ReachTEL: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP

Average 2PP: 52.3% ALP

Sleep well tonight......John, stop deluding yourself once and for all and learn how the system of voting Parliamentarians in the Lower House works. It's the 2PP man, understand it! Your boss is gone, there is total unanimity in the pollsters, the 2PP is below 50% across the board for the Coalition, didn't you read my post or perhaps the truth hurts too much?.... The Coalition have been below the 50% in the 2PP since at least December last year.... more than 8 months and nothing is happening... The deluded Abbott has tried all sorts of tricks, but nothing is working... What's Plan B John... quick, tell Abbott to come up with a Plan B... or he is going the way of Dennis Napthine (latest Newspoll result for the Vic State election 2PP: 55% Labor).... The 2PP, John... the 2PP....The crime of appointing Abbott as Leader of the Opposition!.... and now the whole country understands what a horrible crime that was, and the People are ready to restore order!.... Keep stormtrooping, Forrest, that's all that is left to do....Forrest, I gather that you look for "debate between world views" in the Murdoch press.... How's that soliloquial "debate" going?.... It would be sooo "nice" if Rupert bought the ABC, wouldn't it, Forrest?..... Naah, it's not going to happen, mate!"Why wouldn't the Abbott victory of 2013 become a model for oppositions to come"... Good point, but here I recall my "Pandora's Box" metaphor: Abbott opened a disgraceful Pandora's Box as leader of the Opposition and now the mad fairies are indeed out and about. The only way to close the Pandora's Box and store the mad fairies away is for the Abbott Government to be trashed at the next Federal Election. A big loss after just one term (along with the loss of the first term Coalition governments in Victoria and Queensland) will be a hard lesson very difficult to forget for the Coalition (the Liberals in particular). This may trigger the long awaited revision of Liberal philosophy back to their old tradition of an intelligent concept of "freedom" and away from Neoliberalism, which has enslaved also Libertarian thought.Of course that the answer is to get the Labor Party back: a strong Social Democratic Party that knows how to run the economy, especially under pressure, and it also knows how to take care of ALL Australians, rather than just the Liberal mates in the top 5% of the income distribution.... That's the correct logic!"Labor even took that a self-destructive step further".... Labor self-destruction is a bit of a myth, actually. As in every myth there is a bit of truth: they in fact were guilty not to keep their cool, whereas some individuals such as Rudd-mark I did lose their cool in a mastodontic way. But it was the coordinated, relentless and widespread media campaign against Labor that produced the real damage. Labor was just unable to counteract that, simply because they just lacked the tools. The lesson has been learned, and now Labor is in the position to counteract Murdoch and his Media Gang to a good extent.... mainly thanks to the internet.Hi Steve,
I don't think that Labor is distancing itself from the Union Movement at all. But of course I wouldn't expect them to endorse specific individuals within the Union Movement who have or may have (pending current judicial investigation) behaved illegally. Would you be supportive of Kathy Jackson (the unionist darling of the Liberal Party), for instance?

But you are right, I am hopeful indeed. Just check the individuals in the Labor front bench and analyse them beyond the Murdoch and Liberal propaganda. You will see a pretty interesting number of talents, and they are smart enough to continue improving. What this country requires from them now is a strong program and big political muscles to implement it in agreement with the People (not against the People as the current Neoliberals are doing).

But my ultimate dream is the creation of a strong, dynamic, but positively constructive Progressive front of politics in Australia based on the ALP and The Greens. Those two parties MUST talk a lot more to each other. Be sure that the Liberals will do all they can to drive a wedge between them, they know that a strong Progressive movement in Australia is a real trouble for Neoliberal/Conservatives.... and their fears are perfectly justified!"This, Kelly argues, was not so for the great reforming combination of Hawke and Keating"... Hawke and Keating introduced a Neoliberal-light agenda and therefore had the broader support of the Media (Murdoch in particular). When Keating as PM decided that the major Neoliberal-light reforms had been completed and it was time to move the social agenda forward, he lost Murdoch's support and, along with the "it's time factor", he was gone. The new reform agenda that is waiting for Labor to take on is one that goes beyond Neoliberalism. I am sure that the Labor team is working hard on this one in preparation for the next Federal election.I was just wondering, if the total disaster of the current Budget continues until next year.... What would the next budget be? If you are so incompetent that you can't pass your first budget, what are you going to offer the second time around?.... Me smells an early election in 2015....Well, the Vic election is in November, the Qld election will be in the first semester next year. A loss for the Coalition in both states is growing in probability (well, in Vic is a virtual certainty). What would Abbott's Plan B be with some major Budget initiatives blocked, and support for the Coalition crumbling at the State level?... The opinion polls are all against them too... I am truly curious to see how far Abbott's religious hope for a miracle will take him....Block everything, APM? Not at all, block the disastrous Neoliberal policies that this Government has introduced like a cowardly dagger in the back of the Australian People. That's what the ALP, the Greens and many minor Parties are blocking in the Senate. They are defending the wellbeing of ordinary Australians, because they were elected to do exactly that!

Labor wasn't "given" any space, they earned it by skilfully negotiating with the independents and the Greens. That's what Abbott, Hockey and his Neoliberal Ideological Budget are incapable of doing. They can threaten though, oh yes, they are doing that, but negotiating.... Nope!

It is the Liberals who are in denial and are not accepting that the Democratic will of the People was not to give them control of the House of Review, the Senate. Tell Abbott to wake up to this reality.... or call a DD and new elections, see whether this time around he can win full control of both Houses.

Thanks heaven that there is people like me (and we are growing in number, currently 52.3% according to the combined results of all opinion polls), we are the true defenders of Democracy and the People's interest.

This bunch of loonies do not intend to govern, they are fully determined to trap Australia within a Neoliberal straightjacket that nobody wants.... Tell that to Tony and Joe, perhaps they will listen to you." It is because of the condition of the planet that the society of this planet and its religious systems will be destroyed in the not too distant future by Christ himself".... Can you be more explicit, Phil?... Can you give us the year perhaps? If you have the month and day as well, it would be truly great.... Many thanks."not knowing the difference between a slogan and a name assigned to a group"... That's what Liberal Stormtroopers do all the time.... don't you Forrest?Forrest, the Liberal Stormtroopers still don't understand that such a "long term" problem (IF the assumptions are met all the way into the future!!) should not be an excuse to introduce a Neoliberal Revolution that nobody wanted and nobody saw coming... No enthusiastic stormtrooping in the world will be able to convince the buyers that the parrot is alive..."The Co-Payment sell job is typical of an Australia willing to spend their hard earned cash on all manner of delights, but their Health has to be free."... Brian, please try to make an effort not to write nonsense. Somebody who is in the middle to lower end of the income distribution can determine whether to rent, buy (in this or the other suburb), or even share accommodation with family and so forth. The more money they have, the more freedom of choice they have, but the number of alternatives available is relatively large. If you are diagnosed with a life threatening disease, you either pay.... or die!.... Do you understand now?... I invite you to go beyond the Neoliberal idiotic stereotypes and think about life as it really is. Access to Health Services is not a privilege, it is a fundamental right of all citizens. Contribution must be through taxation, where the higher earners contribute more than the less well off.I recall that Abbott loved to disrupt the work of the Labor Government as much as he could (with not great success, however). So, don't complain now if the minor Parties and Independent are cooking the Abbott Government slowly....Brilliant post gorlassar, and all that is under current threat by the Neoliberal Revolution that nobody wanted, nobody asked for, nobody saw coming.... But the majority of voters are now opening their eyes and abandoning this government: current average 2PP across the 5 major pollsters is 52.3% in Labor's favour!"You may have noticed that the job losses occurring in Australia are largely from older industries , in particular manufacturing.".... The car industry and the food production-processing (just two mention two recent examples) are "older industries"?.... Really?.... Just let me know when they will pass away around the world, I am truly curious.
It is the Neoliberal Ideology of this Government that it's really old, obsolete and should be thrown away... and that will happen sooner than Abbott and Hockey believe.

But I truly loved your words: "next wave of job creation". They sound truly nice. But please do tell me, dean, the list of specific initiatives and areas that are producing such new wave of jobs under this government. Last time I checked unemployment was up...!I guess that those are the 72% who don't have family connections in the Middle East.... What about the rest? Are they all terrorists by default and it's up to them to prove that they are not?Damage, polls always matter.... if you understand what they mean!.... Do you get it now?.... Do you understand what the poll result I was referring to in my post mean?... Leave snakes alone and start thinking, please.Sidneysaid,
Let's not confuse the issue of specific people (and organisations) who are under watch by agencies such as ASIO and who therefore can be a reasonable target for surveillance, with a wholesale attack to People's rights... and yes, that quarter of citizens have the same rights as everybody else. But if you are truly falling for this Government-concocted paranoia then let me tell you this: Terrorists are broadening their localities of operation, there are various cells that are active across western Europe.... hence, apply those restrictions to all people travelling to London or Paris!!!.... See how it goes.Ha, I knew it, a foreigner just pretending to be your usual ozzie Barry bloke. I heard you the other day singing Good Old Collingwood Forever as it was our national anthem.... it is not Barrie boy, it is not!... You foreigners see the world in black and white, but you are wrong, it's all green and gold.... expect a visit from one of our secret agents.... :)"While the Team is the PM's latest tool to unite the nation in the face of external threats"... Hmmm, the Team Oztraya crap is yet another propagandistic brain fart produced in the hope of lifting the sinking fortunes of this government, that's all.... With no success whatever, by the way! All pollsters are unanimous in giving Labor ahead in the 2PP.

In any event, perceptions and prejudice are one thing, the reality of how the People feel in everyday life may be quite different, and I can assure you, when it comes to voting, the People will be weighting their own reality against the fantasy of the Liberal Party propaganda.... Abbott is strongly advised to take good care of the economy, jobs, public services and costs of living. If he fails in those areas, he is gone!Chris is not dispelling anything, and the tag "poor commentator" to refer to him is now even more appropriate.... The "revelation"?... What "revelation"?
Thank Labor for saving this country.... and move on, please!The Australian?... Henry Ergas?
... You have just lost all credibility, muzzg... Sorry.

Come back with reputable sources and we can start talking.OUB, we were NOT debt free when Howard left. Do make an effort not to write nonsense, please. Cheerleading is a very bad habit, you know?

Stiglitz did not have a position of power in the American Government at the time the GFC unfolded. Again, what the heck are you talking about?

Stiglitz, in his public performances here recently, just told the truth as it is: the issue of wealth/income inequality in economically developed countries is reaching crisis point and this is the direct result of the Neoliberal revolution that started in the late 1970s early 1980s. The Neoliberal revolution is imploding all around the world. Are you sure you were awake when Stiglitz was speaking, OUB?

You are right that we didn't have a recession thanks to the good Labor management.... but we may have one soon under this new management....Ravensclaw, I gather that you haven't been following the economic developments around the world since 2007-8. Just compare the response of the Australian Government with that of most Governments in Europe and also in the US, see the difference in terms of unemployment rate for instance. After you have done that, compare the level of Government debt in those countries with that of the Australian Government (up until the 6th of September 2013)... then you will understand.  
Yeah, cheers indeed....AE, with all the subsidies, discounts and tax breaks the mining industry gets, what else do they want?... A "stimulus package as well"?... The mining industry didn't need the Government, they already had the China economic boom.... BUT we would have appreciated a better contribution from the mining sector during those years through less whingeing when the MRRT was introduced for instance."People would have learned some very valuable lessons if they had been forced to settle up on their losses in 2008."... Yep, they would have learned that Capitalism is rotten to the core and we would have a Marxist Government by now.... Thank Labor for saving Australia from Communism!There is another GFC coming soon, Alpha. Tell the bunch of incompetents in government to follow the Neoliberal script word by word.... Ten months later, the Bolsheviks supported by the outraged People will take over in Canberra.... but this time, Labor won't be able to save the country...
You obviously don't understand what Neoliberalism can do in a major economic contraction.... read about the 1929 Great Depression, mate, use your time more efficiently!"So why did the Rudd government push so hard for stimulus?".... You still don't understand do you, Chris? Allow me to remind you of Ken Henry's famous words: "Go early, go hard and go households". Do you know why those words were so important and why it was so crucial for our response to the GFC that the good Labor Government followed the advice? Because the GFC's major threat to our economy was the plunge in confidence. When confidence plunges you need an economic stimulus that puts real money into the economy, and you also guarantee savings, as Swan did, to prevent everybody rushing to the bank and withdraw their capital. Playing with the cash rate does very little, because that's just lowering the cost of the money you have to borrow, but if confidence is low nobody borrows to invest, and therefore decreasing the cash rate is pretty useless in a crisis such as the GFC. That's why the Americans after decreasing the cash rate to naught had to start printing money, the famous Quantitative Easing, because the economy was still not responding.
Learn Keynes' economics.... and you will understand.Mr chow, 
I don't think that you have studied the GFC in much detail. I strongly recommend that you read this book for instance: Dumenil, G. and Levy, D. 2011. "The Crisis of Neoliberalism". This is a very detailed economic analysis of the Global Financial Crisis (also known as the Great Contraction). I strongly recommend it.
You say that "Maybe the answer would have been to wait longer read deeper into the problem", but that's exactly what it was done in the face of the 1929 crisis, and you obviously are aware of the consequences. The response of the Australian Government to the GFC was highly marked by the lessons learned in the experience of the Great Depression.A bit of "fine tuning" AJS? Just as a little piece of evidence, do you realise that the All Ordinaries plunged from a maximum of 6779 in October 2007 to a minimum of 3296 in February 2009? That's a loss of 51.3% of the value of the index in 16 months!... and we still haven't recovered the level we reached in 2007. How many people saw their life savings disappear in a cloud of financial smoke?

Thanks heavens Labor and Kevin were in charge. But hey, financial clouds are building up right now and something interesting may happen next year... but now YOU guys will be in charge .... are you ready? How much do you trust to be in Abbott's and Hockey's hands?"Additional revenues resulting from the terms of trade boom have been managed prudently"... But Tator, those revenues weren't returned to the broader economy (in order to improve our much neglected infrastructure, for instance!) because Costello was obsessed with keeping inflation as low as possible. So he put the money away into the Future Fund. But guess what, a big chunk of that money went down the gurgle with the GFC. In fact, between 2006 and 2013 the Fund produced a return of just 5.4% p.a., a lousy performance which is below the mandated long-term investment target of 4.5-5.5% above inflation. That IMF report that you quote is from 2007, just when the GFC was about to strike!Yes, Treasury advises and the Treasurer (Costello in this case) takes final responsibility for any decision, of course. That's why Swan was crucified endlessly by the Coalition opposition for following Treasury advice.
As for infrastructure, you surely are aware that major infrastructure projects are usually done in co-partnership between State and Federal governments."This reflexive opposition to the undefined actions foreshadowed in Abbott's statement"... Reflexive? As Health Minister he was in the bloody cabinet that started the disastrous and illegal Iraq War, that is at the very core of the current disaster in that country!! He has been talking the militaristic interventionist language since he has become PM no matter what the issue was (Operation This or Operation That!). The opposition to him is not reflexive at all, it is totally justified!!

"The Middle East's problems arise from the gradual breakdown of a sclerotic order, manifest in the assertion of particularistic ethno-religious identities and, paradoxically, a Pan-Islamic identity purportedly represented by the Islamic State."... The Middle East problems arise from the artificial reorganisation of the area left by former colonialist powers such as the UK and France, with further, more recent interventions by the USA, a more modern colonialist power. Until the region reaches its own stable equilibrium dictated by its own internal forces, it will keep on revolving in an endless whirlwind of blood and violence.

In other words, my advice to the Abbott Government is just to stay away from this place, that they simply don't understand. This is not the land of the "baddies" vs. "baddies", this is the ancient homeland of the Arab, Jew and other People, and they need to find their way. The more we move away from our dependence on oil, the less we will be obsessed with interfering in the affairs of this region of the world, and therefore we will be less likely to transform a complex situation into a complete nightmare!vkgavg,
Europe rearranged borders not only by the sword but also by the cannon, bomb, tank and machine gun for centuries too. Do you prefer their current stability leading up to the creation of the EU that was born out of a natural internal process, or would have you preferred the imposition of an artificial organisation determined by the intervention of foreign powers?... This was tried during the Cold War, but the system collapsed in 1989. Or perhaps you believe that the Arabs are intrinsically hopeless and unruly so that they will always require a foreign power to reach a state of greater geopolitical stability?

How would the West react at the prospect of a PanArab Union (akin to the EU; or even two great Unions split along the Shiite-Sunni divide)? Would they support it? Or would they do all they can to disrupt it? How would Israel react?"that the third world was better off under the benign administration of European powers"... So, the "third world" got rid of the European colonial powers out of sheer masochism... Hmmm, a very hilarious theory....APM, the USA is still a long way from self-sufficiency in terms of oil. In 2013, roughly 33% of the oil that was consumed by the US was imported.Paula, the Government is hardening their position under pressure from their ideological and business backers (the Neoliberal faceless men). They are telling Abbott, Hockey and the rest of the gang that they didn't spend millions to get them elected only to have a flimsy, wimpy Government who is negotiating like a loser. They want strong, masculine, hard action and a quick silencing of all dissenting voices around the country. This is exactly what this government has been trying to do with (surprise, surprise!!) no success whatever! 

Labor will negotiate anything (as they always do, for the sake of the country) that does NOT compromise Labor's core values and Social Democratic principles. The same with the Greens. The problem with this Budget from Hell is that it represents a Neoliberal Revolution that wants to totally destroy the Social Democratic frame that keeps this society from disintegrating. This Social Democratic frame has been built over many decades (even by past Coalition Governments who may have not been directly inspired by Social Democracy, but they did accept our culturally entrenched sense of the "fair go"). 

In short, the Government must throw this Budget away, and start from scratch to have any hope of successfully negotiating with Labor and Greens. If they refuse to do that, we have something called a double dissolution and a general election....Gees Damage,
That was a pretty deluded post. The ALP has been in front in the polls since December and both the ALP led by Shorten and Palmer's PUP, along with the Greens have the Abbott Government cornered and in their pockets... But please, do go ahead, there is some merit in creating fantasy worlds.... it's fun to watch.John, an update to you with the latest polls results:

Galaxy: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
Newspoll: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP
Morgan: 55.5% ALP vs 44.5% L/NP 
Essential: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
ReachTEL: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP

.... Complete unanimity: Labor ahead by a minimum of 1% and a maximum of 5.5%, average: 52.3%.

Now twist and turn that one if you can....Silent,
I am looking forward to read your "glowing account" of this Government and a comparison with the previous Labor Government....
.... Oh, but I gather from your post that you are based in Canberra. How's the view of real Australia from there, SilentCastaway?Oh, so it was Gillard's voice, Forrest. I was under the impression that it was the colour of her air that the Liberals were so worried about... Oh well, you guys never stop surprising me."That inordinate influence comes from running a business that people want to pay cold hard to support"... Rupert's newspapers are LOSING money! He keeps the unsuccessful business running only because he hopes to swing elections. But you are right that he is starting to lose that power too, thanks to the internet and also the alternative media. To compound all that, however, the problem with Rupert is that this time around he has a very lousy product to sell: The disgraceful and incompetent Abbott Government.... that nobody wants to buy.

Rupert has just scored an incredible own goal: he has alienated the Progressives for good (there is no come back there!) and he is supporting a totally lousy Conservative side...."or will we see a change?"... There is only one way that News Corp may regain some level of initial trust from Labor (to be tested in the reality of facts straight away): That Rupert steps down  and Lachlan takes over. That will at least provide a formal situation of "new beginning".... But as I said, if that happens, the new philosophy (IF there is a new philosophy) must be tested by Labor in deeds: a more balanced, moderate and objective reporting and analysis of the news, will be obviously at the centre of this. For that to happen, some managerial "heads" will have to "roll", of course.Oh dear scupundi, care to show us the statistics to back up your deluded claims?... That somebody with the real power of Rupert Murdoch is losing his ability to control Australian politics as he was used to do for decades, tells you a lot about the quality of the "product" (the Government) he wants to "sell" (support) this time around.... Australians are smarter than what you and Rup think.... Surprise, surprise!Australians are getting smarter indeed AE... How do I know? Simple, look at the continued and increasingly hysterical anti-Labor and pro-Liberal campaign in the Murdoch Media and yet the 2PP has been below 50% for the Coalition since December. What's going wrong for the master manipulator this time around? Simple, not only the Government is an objective failure and embarrassment, but the real economy as it is felt by the real People is going down (high costs of living, fewer job opportunities, deteriorating work conditions), hence the propaganda is becoming less effective at the moment. But Rup is still at it, and working hard, as he did after he surprisingly lost at the 2010 Federal election but then scored a win in 2013. The 2013 victory was a pure and simple Rupert achievement, the master manipulator.
"if there were no Murdoch, not a single person would vote Coalition"... No, that's not my inference. There is an undeniable solid 20-30% conservative base in this country (Liberal and Nationals voters). So, even without Murdoch (or with a more balanced Murdoch) those voters will continue to exist and vote for the Coalition. The manipulative battle of the Media is to try to swing a crucial and relatively small percentage of voters that could be made to change their mind and that can finally decide the fate of the election. That's Murdoch's business, this is what he sells to his preferred Government, and what he gets in return are policies that are convenient to his business interests.... Not difficult to understand, really.So, you want to cut the ABC in half at least but don't expect the ABC to be under funding pressure?... Really?
I suggest to leave the ABC's budget untouched and cut salaries and entitlements for all Liberal politicians by half..... surely they won't be under funding pressure, scupundi?The Australian or any other broadsheet newspaper (or tabloid) will stop publishing when there won't be enough readers anymore. For as long as such newspapers can access and influence at least 5-10% of voters (the swinging ones, plus keep the morale of the about 20% Liberal diehards up), then the enterprise will be worthwhile. BUT you can play this game only if you are wealthy enough to subsidise the financially losing newspapers with other parts of your business. When such more profitable parts of your business crucially rely on a friendly political environment, then your newspapers that can swing the vote of that all important 5-10% really become an investment.

This is Rupert Murdoch's game. His problem is that he is quickly losing the ability of swinging the 5-10% of voters required to make the business model work. This inability is clearly shown in the stubborn two-party preferred vote for the Coalition in the opinion polls that is consistently below 50%, and it has been so since about December last year, no matter how much Murdoch has tried to reverse the fortunes of Abbott and Gang.

So, the answer to your question: "Is the age of the press baron over?"... Is that it's probably not over yet, but what is becoming increasingly certain is that it's over for Rupert Murdoch in Australia.sdrawkcaB, what you are describing is very likely a trend that will increase over time... and I frankly welcome it.frangipani,
The media are changing of course, but you are missing something important in your analysis. If the product is bad, the readers won't buy it (in whatever format it is). Do you remember how last year Fairfax was dead, buried and cremated?... This is their situation in 2014: "?While the Metropolitan Media division recorded an underlying revenue decline of 6.3%, digital subscriptions for The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age and The Australian Financial Review are making an increasingly significant contribution, generating total revenue of $24 million during the financial year, $19.2 million higher than a year ago,? Mr Hywood said.".... Surely this is not just due to Domain and real estate ads.... 

Don't you think that offering a more balanced reporting and analysis of the news (politics in particular) helps?frangipani,
Whether the paper format will survive or not we shall see. But my original point is that subsidising newspapers with other, more successful, sections of your enterprise is what Murdoch does, and he does so simply because he knows that there is still a sufficient number of newspaper readers that can sustain a vote base and, even more importantly, provide the all crucial fraction of swingers that can decide elections in favour of his preferred side of politics (usually Liberal, occasionally Labor when they embrace right-wing policies). Do you deny that?"a very incompetent, inward looking Labor government".... clete, understand once and for all, the ABC has no obligation to follow the Liberal stormtroopers delusions and paranoia...

The The Drum polls are indeed left-wing biased, simply because more left-wing people answer them. To truly understand the results of such polls I suggest that you start from a 2/3 left-wing (about 66%) vs 1/3 right-wing (about 33%). This means that your example of 80% is above the expectation of bias and therefore is significant. You must understand that the 1/3 right-wing is composed of both moderates and stormtroopers. In my past experience it's about fifty/fifty. So, when you have results such as 80% favourable to the more "progressive" alternative it simply means that such alternative has been able to attract the moderate Liberals as well.... Use these criteria to improve your understanding of those polls.... and keep that anti-ABC paranoia under control, it's truly unhealthy!"In fact, if the ABC was even considered by all to be balanced, you wouldn't be supporting them either."... The ABC is way the most balanced media in this country, that's why I support it. What are you talking about, clete?.... If you still keep dreaming of a fully conservative ABC (the only version of the ABC that you seem to consider acceptable) keep on dreaming... it won't happen! 
Just out of curiosity, if you were in the position to determine the limit of what could be considered the "acceptable left", were would you stop?
a) Malcolm Turnbull
b) Bill Shorten
c) Christine Milne
d) Lee RhiannonForrest, it's about time that you understand that the ABC offers a public service to All Australians. News Corp and Fairfax are perfectly designed to offer a private service to their owners and shareholders: a very minute proportion of the whole country population. Do you see the difference now? In the immortal words of a true genius: We should not compare pears and apples....Forrest,
The People of Australia have the right to a balanced, diverse, and objective source of information and commentary. The ABC is the only one to fit the description, thanks to your and my tax contributions.... Try to focus on what really matters, Forrest.
The ABC is not under funding pressure by this Government?.... You cannot be serious!"The USA has so much oil available that it is becoming an embarrassment."... Which of course is clearly reflected in the price of oil in the USA, isn't it John?.... Hmmm, but I am afraid that the litre of gasoline in the USA is $0.90.... not exactly a free for all commodity, eh?I fully agree that the terrorists are trying to enrage the West in order to get us more involved in both Iraq and Syria, where Islamist "freedom fighters in the name of Allah" are waiting and hoping to transform the Middle East in the cauldron that will eventually explode into a new caliphate... etc., etc.

But Abbott's behaviour is also clear. Yes, there is a psychological component of "great warrior" delusion that is part of Abbott's subconscious ("Battlelines" anyone?). But first and above all Abbott is looking for distractions that can canalise the attention and the will of the People around him and his Government ("Team Oztraya" anyone?), thus silencing the voices of criticism (both internal and external to the Coalition) against his endless blunders, his incompetence, and the total bankruptcy of his Government and his program, starting from the Budget from Hell, but also issues such as "illegal immigrants" (boats keep coming and airplane illegal arrivals are at a crisis point, according to a recent front page article by The Age). The real economy as perceived by the People is not going well: unemployment, costs of living, and the People see this Government as a problem rather than the solution.

In spite of the hysterical desire to revert their polling fortunes, all what these initiatives (MH370, MH17, Ukraine/Russia, Syria, Iraq) have done is to keep the 2PP vote for the Coalition below fifty percent... a mastodontic failure.....

.... Ah the "good old times" when they were in opposition, and each piece of propagandistic crap had maximum damaging effect against the Labor Government.... All that is gone... and it won't come back for this Neoliberal Government.Hi mike,
I wrote this expression in quotes: "freedom fighters in the name of Allah" to reflect what I presume is their OWN understanding of their position. It's always the case that our own perspective of what we do is supportive of our acts and fully justifies them in one way or another.In response to hidi in this thread:
I don't know the statistics of Liberal voters among Muslim communities. If you have any source of serious data, please let me know. But even if it is true that the majority vote for Progressive parties, it is you and the Liberals who have to ask why? Perhaps they look for Parties who are more open-minded, more Democratic, more respectful of cultural diversity, more concerned about underdogs, new immigrants, opportunities to integrate and make the best of life in freedom and democracy?.... Perhaps it is the Liberal Party that has lost its way?
So, according to your own admission it's 12 attacks in 21 years around the world = 0.57attacks per year....
.... Surely driving on any highway is far more dangerous, is it?
So, Barrie is right, these attacks are perfectly designed to increase "hysteria and invite overreaction".... never misundersestimate the manipulative intelligence of terrorists...ZULU, a NATO (plus Australia) military attack on Russia is a strategic impossibility.... Can you imagine why?

An attack on Iran doesn't make any sense, where did you get that from? Iran is being asked by the US to cooperate in stabilising Iraq at the moment.

An attack on Syria is also impossible for as long as they are allied to Russia. Only if Russia dumps them then it becomes a theoretical possibility. But the further de-stabilisation of that region after the Iraq total debacle is complete madness.... Such de-stabilisation is exactly what groups such as IS are waiting for, of course. They will keep beheading US soldiers until they drag them into the nightmare trap.Tory Boy,

a) Please don't be so naive to try to dissociate the anti-Islamic paranoia in the west from racism. Even the blond-blue-eyed Nazi have more support in the west than the dark-skinned-brown-eyed-hook-nosed image of North African, Middle Eastern and Afghanistan/Pakistan Muslims.

b) Europe "infiltrated" by Islam? Really?... and you are using this fantasy to suggest what exactly?... Transform Australia into the last Glorious bastion of Christianity perhaps?.... I have a big shield, a helmet and a long sword to sell you, I think that you will enjoy wearing them at work.

Our collective soul is darkening, Tory Boy.... we have got to stop that, before it's too late.The obvious plan is even more sinister than  that, Jeff. The idea is to encourage Western retaliation, especially at the popular level, but also at the Government level, against Muslim citizens and residents. This, they calculate, will increase the level of felt injustice and the number of victims of racism, a perfect recruiting environment for future Jihadists. Not only that, they know that Abbott-like authoritarian military-loving leaders will seize the opportunity to harden their social control on the country and weaken Democracy, which will bring the "added benefit" of shielding their Neoliberal Revolution, that most people reject, from criticism. But authoritarianism will inevitably increase social tensions, and therefore will harden the social pressure on scapegoats, such as the Muslim communities (aka "the cradle of home grown terrorism").... 

The terrorists know perfectly well how to use others to do the dirty work for them....

Wake up Australia!!!"24 per cent of Australians think that in some circumstances a non-democratic government can be preferable.".... Hmmm, interesting, that's roughly equivalent to the support of the pro-Liberal/Conservative alternative to the Drum polls in this website..... So, I can only wonder whether the sample of Liberal/Conservative posters here is just the core extreme stormtrooper division of the right-wing side of the spectrum.... Hmmmm....

But your right, the social conditions are not happy at the moment in Australia, and they are bound to get worse under the current Neoliberal management. The danger is that the authoritarian nature of this Government is trying to exploit such dissatisfaction in order to decrease our Liberties and damage our Democracy. This rings an extremely loud ALARM BELL!!!Coogara,
Cultural practices that are illegal/unconstitutional cannot be accepted (unless the law/constitution is changed). Homosexual marriage is currently illegal, but the law can be changed.

With regard to specific practices associated with Islam, I would also suggest that you go through some Christian practices and see whether they should be regarded as illegal. Surely we may agree that the Catholic Code of Canon Law is unacceptable, as we cannot have a parallel legal system affecting some of our citizens.

The point here is that we have to be careful not to treat some groups differently, out of whatever paranoia we may have, as our negative discrimination is likely to make things far, far worse."It is about affirming what being an Australian is. It is an inclusive concept not exclusive.".... I fully agree Coogara, provided that we understand such a concept in a culturally dynamic way. What it meant to be Australian in 1940 is certainly different to what it means in 2014 and it will be likely different again in 2040. Those changes are some times more quickly reflected in the culture of the place and then in the law. I repeat the case of same-sex marriage as a very clear, real, and concrete example. In 1940 homosexuality was still a crime in Australia!! Only in 1972 South Australia became the first jurisdiction in this country to decriminalise at least some homosexual acts.Coogara, you don't tell people that they have to be part of Team Australia.... You simply build a multicultural Team Australia together, with the contribution of everybody, in Freedom and Democracy. Team Australia, seen in this dynamic way, will be bound to change and eventually diverge from the 1950s stereotype that Tony Abbott and his gang have in mind.....

Incidentally, this has always happened in the history of humankind around the world, and it will always happen.... Culture is dynamic.Coogara,

You can decrease cultural dynamism by using those and other examples as scaremongering ploys and then work hard to have a rigid authoritarian and anti-democratic system in place for fear of such "caricature of dynamism".... Is that what you want?.... Is that what "most Australians" want?.... What's the agenda here?It will be impossible to address the humanitarian disaster unfolding in North Korea without the full participation, if not leadership of China. The Chinese are also directly suffering from the situation in North Korea, as many people cross the border into China seeking to escape the North Korean Hell on Earth, becoming refugees. 

But to get China on board, we have to adopt a more diplomatic and conciliatory stance. We won't be able to bully China into putting pressure against the North Koreans... that's just not possible."the worst political system this world has seen".... I think that Communism is in the company of other systems for the "privilege" of being the worst: Nazism springs ready to mind, but also Absolutist Monarchies expanding into Colonialist Empires... let not rabid anti-communism obfuscate your mind, please.

Oh, by the way, did you know that the American bombing over Cambodia during the Vietnam War produced more deaths than the Pol Pot regime?... Shocking, isn't it?C'mon Tator.... we all know that those are rubbery figures. Just be objective and accept that Totalitarian regimes, whether they are right-wing or left-wing are despicable.So, let me see.
Tator writes: "80 million between them"
Zing replies: "But socialists can kill a hundred million people"

I am waiting for the next right-wing blogger to increase the bid before I end the auction.

a hundred million one....
a hundred million two....But APM, how coherent was Abbott as a leader of the opposition (indeed, how coherent is he as a PM)? What's the true ideology of the Liberal Party (or the Coalition)? Are they Conservatives? or Neoliberals? or Libertarians? Do they want freedom or do they want control? How bullish was Abbott's behaviour as a leader of the opposition? No toxic personal issues ever affected Abbott's judgment? Isn't Abbott "the most pointless and poisonous influence seen in parliament - far worse than Hanson"?.... Some food for thought there...." in the hope that overseas issues will be his saviour."... 
Tom1, 
But of course, we all know that he's dreaming....John, please, words of an "Abbott hate campaign" coming from the instigators of the most disgusting hate campaign (against Rudd, Gillard, Labor in general, and the Greens too) ever witness in the history of this country are truly laughable.

As I said a million times, we desperately need to return all the "mad fairies" to the Pandora's Box of politics and close it for good. This will start happening with the demise of the Napthine and Newman's governments and the job will be finally completed as soon as the Abbott Government will be out of the way. At that point, I urgently invite the moderate and intelligent Liberals to take over their Party, cleanse it of the loony extremists, and start from scratch.... The future of our Democracy is at stake here!John, 
You rest your case on whatever you wish. That's your prerogative. Just try not to "rest" too much... we need everybody to be awake in this country, for the sake of Democracy.I am not sure where all those "revelations" come from, but if the strategy of the Abbott supporters is to try to create some sort of scenario referring to the old Labor Government, let me tell you that the tactic is completely self-defeating. The People of Australia are worried about what is happening to them and their livelihood now. No "Team Oztraya" nonsense will make the People divert their attention from their major concerns. We know that the Government "Team" is cracking down under the weight of both their internal contradictions and the disaster of their policies. Propaganda won't help them in Government as it clearly helped them in Opposition..... Sorry."is no reason for people who changed to the Coalition to change back"... They are already changing back... and they have been doing so since day one, with the crossing over of the 2PP occurring in December last year.... and it hasn't changed since then.... That's the reality. What's your spin?"Left/media"... Left media? Where? Which left/media? Not even The Guardian online is as left-wing as The Australian (paper and online) is right-wing. Plenty of articles critical of Labor in The Guardian (and Fairfax, and also the ABC), not much stuff critical of the Liberal Party in most mainstream media.... although things may start changing soon as even Rupert will realise the bunch of incompetents he helped raise to power....

Go through Mungo's articles here during the Labor Government. You will discover that quite a few of them are pretty critical. Oh, and by the way, Operation Sovereign Borders is a disaster! The Boats haven't stopped, but the number of people fraudulently arriving by plane and then staying here has increased!!! 

... and so your rant goes on and on. Look, you are perfectly entitled to stand firm in the trenches defending the Coalition Government, nothing wrong with that. But when Abbott and his gang will be trashed at the next Federal election, don't start complaining. We warned you that they fully deserve it.john1,

The real world out there is telling this Government that the People are pretty annoyed and they are turning their back on Abbott and Gang in droves. As for what Glenn Stevens said in his ?Opening Statement to House of Representatives Standing Committee on Economics? delivered in Brisbane today 20 August, this is what he actually said about debt: 

?Yields on sovereign debt of the major countries are also very low, the lowest on record in some cases.?
?Australian governments have continued to borrow at or around the lowest rates since Federation.?

As for the rest of the economy he didn't seem to be panicking, but he warned about unemployment and inflation. Although he hoped that things will be alright (good luck with that).

So, what the heck are you fantasising about... the more you guys delude yourselves, the more hurtful the fall will be."The Coalition leads the ALP in the current polls.".... Ha, ha!... Not the polls that are published in real life, perhaps the polls that you imagine in your restless nights.... but those don't count, you know.
ALL Pollsters, I repeat: ALL pollsters give 2PP values that favour Labor.... That's the reality, what's your fantasy?"is the only factor giving the ALP a win and that the Green vote is something around 12%, you must be feeling the very cold winds blowing down your neck"..... No cold wind blowing at all. Quite on the contrary, I am absolutely delighted that the Progressives: ALP and Greens continue trashing the Coalition in the 2PP, even according to the latest Newspoll (and all the other pollsters agree). So the pollster Newspoll that you love so much, agrees with me and with all the other pollsters as well.... You seemed to like pollsters so much, as the pollsters always got it right when they produced their pollster results during the last Government... isn't it so, John?.... Happy "pollstering"....That's Newspoll only and if correctly reported it's obviously the primary vote. What's the two-party preferred vote John?..... C'mon, don't hide it, tell us.....
How are the Greens going, John?.... and what about the PUP?.... Where are the preferences flowing, John?
..... Sleep well tonight.ALP ahead in the 2PP.... Let's welcome a Federal election, then on the basis of those results, John."I could go on, but I am sure that this is all self-evident - except to the government, apparently.".... It's self-evident to more than 52% of voters at the moment."At what point does foreign 'investment' become COLONISATION?"... Fair question. But according to Neoliberal ideology the answer is: NEVER. 
In a mixed economy, on the other hand, free market must be regulated and tariffs used and modulated, with the benefits of the People at heart, not the benefits of an ideology.
APM, now the real battlers are unemployed and have to buy expensive cars to help the Japanese have a great life.... This is what Neoliberal nonsense produces in the end. But if you are an entrepreneur in the import business, surely you are laughing all your way to the bank and are ready to vote Liberal at the next election... Are there enough of those to really get Tony through the line, you reckon?Peter, anti-Union rants are just brainless knee-jerk reactions of the usual Liberal voters each time they try to find a culprit for whatever malaise (real or imaginary). There is nothing to answer there, and it's about time that you start realising it.

Government subsidies are co-investments, and we gain from such co-investments in terms of revenues from exports and overall increased economic activity. This bunch of Neoliberal incompetents are destroying economic activity and replacing it with.... nothing! Hence the real battlers are suffering higher unemployment. Given that you have no idea, I will inform you: OFFICIAL unemployment rate in September 2013 = 5.8%; OFFICIAL unemployment rate in August 2014 (updated to Wed 20th) = 6.4%.... No spike? Really?.... Don't make me laugh! .... But that's the official unemployment rate: What's the current REAL unemployment?.... Check the next votes in Victoria and Queensland to have a clue.SVJ, Japan is just an example, my post wasn't aimed at listing ALL the countries that export vehicles to Australia.Paula, 
Palmer is doing a Pauline-Hanson to Abbott, the man who was unleashed by John  Howard to destroy One Nation... it's the "revenge of the bogans", if you will. Now Abbott will have to taste a bit of his own medicine... a bitter taste, may I say.

"Mathias Cormann, has stepped in to stress the budget is not dead, but just resting."... Yep, like Monty Python's parrot....

I would be really enjoying this circus.... if it wasn't so serious...
"Unfortunately, some clever system manipulators got in to the back of the senate selection process and managed to pull off what was a very undemocratic result. see - PUP.".... Undemocratic? The flow of preferences is undemocratic? Is it undemocratic also when they favour the Liberal Party? Or in that case they become democratic?

Did the People vote for this Budget from Hell? Really? No surprises?  No LIES?... Accept it, the Government is totally stuffed and incapable to move in any direction. A DD sooner than later will ensure a contained loss.... drag on in the hope for a miracle... and be obliterated!!.... Pretty simple, really."Send Cormann on a very long holiday."... The tragedy for this Government is that the entire cabinet should be sent to an extended holiday.... into Opposition!More than "we love cars" we actually need cars: long distances plus poor public transport. Increase the reach and efficiency (and decrease costs) of public transport and we are likely to decrease our love/dependency on cars.

But above all, it is true that this is a nonsensical Government more than anything else: more roads for more cars that, however, must be imported because the Abbott Government has killed the Australian automotive industry for good.... How many live cows and sheep do we have to export to import a single car?Forrest, if the outcome is an early election the cross-benchers will be applauded and Labor will form the new Government. If the outcome is the scrapping of the Budget from Hell, to be replaced with a mini-Budget, they will be also applauded and Labor will mark a win in defence of the common People, hence they will increase their support in the opinion polls.... All that looks quite fine to me, what do you think?Albo,
That would be the propaganda that gained the Coalition Government at the last election, and a majority of voters for the Lower House believed them.... If they ask exactly the same questions (even framed in the obviously biased way you have done here)... they are history. You can fool some people some time, but you can't fool most people all the time.... The People are currently living a period of increasingly difficult life since the election, that will make them reconsider the times of the previous Labor Government as the Paradise Lost.... and I don't even want to think what's going to happen if next year there is a major financial crisis in the USA, as it looks likely that there will be..."Bi-partisanship or crossing the floor will be exercises of the past..."... I share your feeling, but this situation is not due to Labor. Rather, it's due to Tony Abbott and the gang of extremists currently controlling the Liberal Party. A generational change is needed there to return Australian politics to a more rational, evidence-based, competitive in some areas but bi-partisan in others, and constructive dynamic."So what is Labor's excuse?".... "Excuse", Forrest?.... The GFC is no excuse, the EU debt crisis is no excuse... They are all realities, and the fact that our economy performed so well under those circumstances is due.... is due.... c'mon Forrest.... It's due to Labor's Keynesian approach and good economic management...."When asked why their 6 years in power did not result in the Land of Milk &amp; Honey".... "Did not"?....But it was the Land of Milk &amp; Honey, compared with the USA, Europe.... and Australia as we know it under Tony Abbott's Team Oztraya management."most unpredictable senate the country has ever seen"... Seeing the load of crap in a Budget full of it is not being "unpredictable".

"The LNP will always be there to clean up the mess.".... What mess?"You know it.".... Hey Damage, are you trying to hypnotize the readers?... Look at me and repeat: Labor Bad, Liberal Good... fix your sight on this swinging watch and repeat.... Labor Bad, Liberal Good.... again.... Now, you are asleep.... and can go to cast your vote.....

.... Hmmm, I suggest that you perfect your technique, it's a bit rough at the moment...It is possible that they may have been thinking in terms of the rate of increase per unit of time, but the wording was poor and it left the flank open for criticism. Your point is fair, btw.All the propagandistic ploys have failed so far. Currently, there is not a single one of the 5 major pollsters that gives the ALP a 2PP vote of less than 52%, with Morgan offering a juicy 54%... So there is unanimity that defies the margin of sampling error...

My dear Tony and Team Oztraya... what's Plan B?Reading your post, being written by a member of the team that told us that polls were everything is a bit laughable, isn't it Damage?... Who is the hypocrite here?
The bit of my post that says: "there is unanimity that defies the margin of sampling error" hurts, does it not?The dilemma for the Government is whether delaying an election will improve their chances or make them even worse.

Their major problem is their leader. Abbott will always trust higher powers to come to his rescue, thus transforming a current bad situation into a stellar victory. He will remind his detractors of the loss in 2010 followed by the win in 2013.

The lack of a real alternative at the helm will protect Abbott's position... which will lead to a delay in the poll.... which will lead to a worsening of their electoral situation.... which will lead to a serious loss.

These are not good times to be a Liberal...GS,
To be frank, I don't see Julie Bishop as a contender. First there is the issue of why having a Liberal leader coming from the traditionally pro-Liberal WA, that's a waste for them, and it may even weaken their relative position in the all too important NSW. Then there is the issue of the "backstabbing", "faceless men", "a PM has been 'assassinated'", "they have lost their way", "chaos"... you know the rhetoric used when Gillard took over the top job. Finally, what skills will Bishop bring to save the current debacle and how many supporters does she really have within caucus?You call the GFC a "chook raffle".... You will need to work a bit harder if you want to gain any level of credibility....You believe that allowing the "market forces to solve the problem on their own accord until a new equilibrium is reached" (the Neoliberal stance) would have been better?.... That's what the Americans did as the 1929 Great Depression was unfolding... and I trust that you are aware of the results!

When ideology takes primacy over reality you get a disaster... like the current Budget from Hell that is going nowhere.

.... as for the fairies, at this stage not even them will be able to help Abbott, Hockey and the rest of the Gang.One characteristic of Essential that I have noticed is that their percentages (in  the 2PP for instance) never change by too many percentage points. In that sense, their polling seems to be rather "conservative" (in the general, not the political meaning of the word).High Michael,
You are quite right. The Coalition at the moment is a mix salad of ideologies, some more prominent than others, some attracting more financial support from their backers than others. I have gone through this excercise before already, but I offer this classification of internal Coalition ideologies to help readers work their way through their various internal contradictions that are becoming apparent day after day:
a) In my view the currently strongest movement within the Coalition are the Neoliberals (see Hockey, Cormann, etc.). They are the free-marketeers and have strong support from prominent pro-Liberal members of the Business Community. The current Budget is a model example of ideological Neoliberalism.
b) Closely associated (but not equal) to the Neoliberals  are the Libertarians (they are both free-marketeers). Their major think tank is IPA. They populate The Drum, and the Media at large.
c) Then there is a group of classic Conservatives, some more extreme than others. At the loony extreme of conservativism you will find characters such as Abbott, Bernardi, Morrison, Mirabella. Many of their views look, smell, and taste like Neofascism, they also love everything military and authoritarian (now that I think about it, there may even be a common Catholic link there... Hmmmm).
d) At the more moderate end of classic Conservatism you find the economically protectionist Nationals. 
e) Finally, you have a group that remains somewhat silent at the moment but that I suspect it will start to make themselves heard as time passes: the moderate small-l Liberals. They love freedom, they also like the free-market, but are more moderate than the Neoliberals and Libertarians and are more likely to reach agreement with Labor Social Democrats or even the left Greens on basic core issues that are of broad national concern. I would classify Malcolm Turnbull in this category.Howard, Costello and their Neoliberal ideology left us with the GFC crap.... Thanks heavens we had Labor and Swan in charge to clean the crap that could have suffocated the Australian economy.... Well done, Wayne!

All the other initiatives are nation building for the long-term.... Oh, but why am I wasting my time with this, what would you guys know about "nation building", "long-term vision".... when useless Hockey is incapable even to pass his first budget through the Senate..... FAIL!The BER.... Great success, which is even greater if we remember Howard's "brilliant" contribution to schools infrastructure: Flagpoles!!!

Home insulation scheme.... Great and useful initiative, spoiled by the criminal behaviour of a bunch of greedy entrepreneurs.

... and all that and more kept the economy running during the GFC whilst much of the rest of the world was sinking, with unemployment raising and bankruptcies spreading in those countries....

Bravo indeed!AE,
It is because Germany and Norway have policies and mixed economies that decrease unemployment... that they running surpluses, not the other way around. A surplus per se doesn't guarantee anything.Calling Swan "Poor old Wayne" whilst at the same time supporting Joe Hockey as Treasurer is an award winning joke in itself...

Criticising Rudd and Gillard  and supporting Abbott is well beyond joke...

Hawke's and Keating's legacy was trashed by Howard/Costello... it took them 11 years (not 13!), but they did put a lot of effort into it, culminating in the GFC that they didn't see coming.AE, 
The "judgment" was passed.... and the voters repented straight away after they saw what Government they got as a result!.... 
But the most amazing thing is that this significant change of heart regarding first-term Coalition Governments is occurring at both State (Vic &amp; Qld at least) and Federal levels.... Murdoch is losing the power of his propaganda punch.... Good News!John, I fundamentally agree that the issue of taxation (= increased government revenues) is at the very core of our current troubles. But the fundamental shift you are referring to must occur first and above all in philosophy. It is time that we start talking the language of fairness, it is time that we start using the right words that Neoliberalism has banned from our vocabulary: Tax the Rich properly, tax the Super-rich even more! And here I include both individuals and especially corporations.

The People are going through some difficult times. Just take the cost of real estate. The large numbers of small and middle income earners are those who must live in those houses and apartments, and they rightly aspire to own them, not to rent for life. But more and more of them are being squeezed out of the market. Why? Because the current system benefits the investment and speculative strategies of those who already not only own a house but see investing in the real estate market as a very juicy option to earn even more money.... and Neoliberal thinking tells us that we have to "help" the latter in order for some trickle down to benefit the former?... It's time to stop this total nonsense. Full steam ahead with Taxation Reform, but do it right!!Fairness is to do more and better than we are doing now in terms of making high earners pay for the privilege of living in a stable, peaceful, productive and well organised society. How much exactly? .... Well, that's politics and it will be determined by the support of the People. A pretty flimsy MRRT, for instance, was fought with teeth and claws by the mining companies. Had the People supported the Government more strongly we would have a better income stream from taxation through the MRRT.... I can only hope that the voters of Australia have learned the "lesson".Hi Maynard,
I used the MRRT as an example, but I agree with you that the banks are a prime target for a better social redistribution of a chunk of the profits (that have been colossal in the financial sector since at least the 1980s, in spite of the periodical crises)."But I've got no high and mighty ideas that it's "fair" to take more money off someone who's earned it, to give to someone who hasn't."... That's the usual conservative ploy to argue against taxation. The Taxation system is not an institutional Robin Hood. The money from taxes is not given away to the people from vans in the city squares of Australia. The money is used to produce jobs, services, infrastructure, co-investment in productive activity, research that will help us materially, help those who are in true need (unemployed, people with handicaps or chronic health problems) etc.... you are surely aware of the full list. So, taxation is a fundamental aspect of progress for any society."reducing benefits or services received by others"... Hockey has already tried that Neoliberal strategy.... Haven't you noticed that he has dramatically failed? You don't seek revenues from people who least can afford to pay more, you seek revenues from those who have wealth well in excess of what they could spend in 10 lifetimes. Notice that when you have wealth in excess you stop regarding money as important and you don't have any restraint in throwing away big chunks of such money in risky businesses, fanciful schemes, and crappy financial instruments. That, in a nutshell, is the failure of Neoliberalism. This budget is a prime example of pure Neoliberal ideology, I hope that this post explains to you why I consider it a failure."Our stable, peaceful, productive and well organised society is a result of high earners."... Misleading statement. Do you want me to list how many high earners (including millionaires and billionaires) live in pretty unsafe countries (usually in the third world)?.... In those countries high earners pay for their own little army of security personnel that defend their fortified castles against the masses of the poor and unemployed. In more decent countries such as Australia our redistributive system keeps everybody relatively more happy and content, and society at large more stable.... I don't recommend making an experiment of transforming Australia into a third-world -style country, with little or no redistribution of wealth.... 
Help everybody produce wealth by all means! But do so in a socially (and dare I say also environmentally) sustainable manner. That's what the system of redistribution does (taxes, salaries, work conditions, etc.).No Zing, high earners are not sufficient, you need a system that ensures a fair redistribution (taxes, salaries, etc.). Read about the social conditions in third world countries, and also learn about the various millionaires and billionaires living in such countries.... then you will understand.There is only one Liberal who can truly take that Party to a new dimension and that's M. Turnbull. But too many inside the Party hate him and the moderate Liberal position he represents.... This bunch need a long time in Opposition for this failed generation to slowly disappear and hopefully be replaced by a more intelligent mob.Alfie,
Yes, if Turnbull is yesterday's news, then the Liberal Party is left with no news at all.... The renewal is going to take a pretty long time, I am afraid."Number One Rudd fan Alpo"... C'mon Alpha, do at least make a little effort to pretend to be balanced. This has always been my stance regarding Rudd:
a) A good Social Democrat, very intelligent and knowledgeable who clearly failed in the managerial skills required for team work and he also made some strategic mistakes (e.g. regarding his stance on climate change policies). His (and Swan's) response to the GFC was stellar, however, and internationally acknowledged!
b) He was replaced by Gillard, one of our best and most productive PMs, who displayed unparalleled negotiating skills (Oh, how much anyone in the current "Team Australia" would love to have even half of Gillard's abilities!!)... and she survived for an incredible amount of time given the hung Parliament and the totally disgusting campaign of LIES of both Abbott and the Coalition, and above all the press, with Murdoch at the helm.
c) Now Labor is led by Bill Shorten, yet anther master of negotiation (yep, that's a skill you learn as a Union leader, mate!!). But above all, since the Budget reply, Shorten has lifted the force of his statements and the message from the Labor alternative Government. A change that I strongly approve. The rest of the Labor team is also performing excellently, and their opposition to the disgraceful Budget from Hell is showing to the entire country the benefits of a Social Democratic approach against the madness of the Neoliberal philosophy of the current Treasurer.  

All good news.... and the clock keep ticking.... relentlessly!"Sounds like your team should be running the country..."... I agree. In fact they should, and everything indicates that they will...."the troops within the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, long used to a succession of bullying and narcissistic ministers"... Stephen Smith a "bullying and narcissistic" minister?... Most media people these days are truly trying hard to find something positive in this Government.... they are trying too hard, I am afraid. Julie Bishop has been a pretty ordinary Minister, that she has performed better than the rest only tells how pathetic the rest are! 

"Whether being first with the condemnation is a good thing everyone can decide for themselves"... When you have no evidence yet, you don't point your fingers to anybody, let alone to a country like Russia. Do you see why I wrote above that Bishop is just a pretty ordinary Minister?

This Government is showing again and again that they are profoundly unprepared for the job. Their raise to power was too easy, resting on the deluded confidence that whatever they did, they had the financial support of the Business Community, whatever they said it would be spun positively by the pro-Liberal Media... But no, the reality is different, because when the People suffer they do feel it.... and let you know!

clete,
The ALP promotes and supports competent women in politics. You guys always talk about putting competence first, rather than gender, don't you? What happens, aren't you interested in competence anymore?.... Bishop is just plainly and simply incompetent."Constant harassment does not improve perception by the mob nor performance by the performer."... Please do email this simultaneously to Liberal politicians and Rupert Murdoch, with this added note:
"... and I trust that you will take this advice seriously when the Labor Party will be back in Government in 2016 at the latest. Thank you.""but with more than 40% of the nation still supporting them"... More than 40% of the nation also supported the ALP at the last Federal election (46.51% to be more precise)... I am not quite sure what's your point here.The mess was created by Abbott as he failed to respond swiftly and professionally to the initial Indonesians concerns!... Don't hide behind silly statements about the Rudd/Gillard years. Are you telling us that there was no spying on Indonesia during the Howard Government? Howard invaded East Timor without first gathering intelligence information about the Indonesians?.... Please don't make me laugh!!!What a pathetic understanding of the real facts. The mess was created by Abbott as he failed to respond swiftly and professionally to the initial Indonesians concerns!... Don't hide behind silly statements about the Rudd/Gillard years. Are you telling us that there was no spying on Indonesia during the Howard Government? Howard invaded East Timor without first gathering intelligence information from the Indonesians?....and the Indonesians did not become aware of that at some stage? Stop the clowning, please!!!How bad is the situation in the NSW Liberal Party that a honest member of the "team" is such an exception that she becomes the news!I agree, Coogara. In the end this is a problem that strikes deep into the moral and ethical (not to speak of legal) aspects of politics. All political parties and movements should stop, think and take action. Corruption is not only bad for Democracy, it kills it!"I love the way people who blog here exclude..."... No Whitey, it's just the Progressive bloggers here who criticise Murdoch and the rest of the Conservative propaganda gang. Bloggers on your side of politics defend and praise them and relentlessly attack the ABC.
The reality is that Abbott and his rabble are failing abysmally. The last Government left a stellar economy in spite of the Neoliberal debacle of the GFC and in just one year this bunch of incompetents are sinking it. The boats keep coming, but are turned back, thus exposing the genuine refugees on them (more than 50% of applicants following this government's own criteria) to danger, torture and even death (where is the sense of humanity of Liberal supporters when it's needed? They were sooo worried about the safety of these refugees at sea... hypocrites!). The spying furore and the debacle with Indonesia was all of Abbott's making, he just showed his incompetence in the diplomatic field; whereas the issue of the cattle treatment in Indonesia's abattoirs was a national cry of outrage. The ALP schemes were all funded, but we are now losing revenues due to this incompetent government that destroyed the MRRT, and also destroyed productive industries. Why do you think that unemployment is raising uncontrollably under this government, eh? 
.... It's over Whitey, watch what Victorians think of your Government!... and add my name too, John. Now, who is responsible for the attack? The Dutch investigators are not blaming anyone in particular, they have only said that: "The initial results of the investigation point towards an external cause of the MH17 crash. More research will be necessary to determine the cause with greater precision. The safety board believes that additional evidence will become available for investigation in the period ahead."Nice to see intelligent Liberal supporters starting to finally acknowledge the reality. Abbott, Hockey and the rest of the Gang have cornered themselves into a cul de sac, and at this stage I frankly can't see any way out. They rushed to the end of the cul de sac at maximum speed and pumped up energy, simply to find themselves at the end of the road just over one year from the 2013 Federal election..... Amazing stuff, but perfectly explicable. 

What we are witnessing is the total failure of an economic and social experiment, which we may call: "The Last Roar of Neoliberalism".... Neoliberalism has been roaring on the international stage for more than 40 years now. But the "LION" of old, that roamed the economic savannahs of the world at the times of Reagan and Thatcher, has been shrunk into the size and relevance of just a little mouse... Not even Rupert Murdoch and Gina Rinehart will have enough cheese to keep it alive....I am certainly praising Paula.... as for the rest, read my post with more attention.Hey, Agrahama, for that level of fantasy and delusion you have got the Murdoch press. The ABC is bound to be as objective as possible and as fair as possible. Murdoch is in the business of propaganda and they will shower you with so many wonderful stories about the incredible efficiency and capacity of this government as compared to the total "mess, debacle...etc." of the past Labor Government.

Now, I only have one question for you: If the Murdoch press is right and the ABC is wrong, why on earth has the 2PP in the opinion polls been less than 50% for the Coalition since December 2013?... Who is lying and who is telling the truth?I agree that commercial flights are a very important aspect of modern life. But new generations of aeroplane fuels will be needed. C'mon chemical engineers, start working on that. You have about 20 years to come up with alternatives to fossil fuels for aircrafts.Phil, what "grown ups" are you talking about? This bunch of incompetents haven't even been able to pass their first budget, so bad it was. Just 14 months into their first and only term and they are already a totally spent force, incapable of addressing any of the important problems we face, no clue, no idea what to do next.... The electoral baseball bats are ready, Tony should just give us an opportunity to use them!John, are you saying that Putin is Abbott's superior officer?..... Not even I understood it like that, but many thanks for the information.What a load of total John-style crap! I have told you endless times John, start learning please. Total Arctic ice is relentlessly decreasing (both in Greenland, land; and in the Arctic, sea). In the Antarctic, the ice caps on land are decreasing relentlessly, they are also decreasing in summer on water, they only tend to increase on water in winter. Why? I have already told you a thousand times: the land freshwater ice melting in summer decreases salinity around the coast thus increasing the freezing point of water.... Would you be able to learn one day?
I have endless references and websites to back this up, you already know them as I showed you before, just stop boring us.John, read this:
Newspoll current 2PP 54% ALP for the Federal election. Therefore you will agree with me that Abbott is on his way out.

Moreover, latest Newspoll for the Victoria State election: 54% for the ALP in the 2PP. Therefore you will agree that Napthine is on his way out.

Note that both results are way beyond the sampling error!!!
The Abbott Government was never going to work. There was no reason whatever why they should have won the last Federal election, but for the relentless campaign of LIES and misinformation headed by the Murdoch Press. The People are waking up to this total disaster, so much so that even the Murdoch Press is losing its power of manipulation, as the internet becomes more and more important. 

Australians are mainly pragmatic and down to Earth People. You may talk as much rubbish as you like to them, but if they perceive that life is becoming harder, opportunities fewer, costs of living higher, job security far more unstable, public services more expensive.... you are politically gone!

Napthine is the first to GO... Abbott's turn will come, make no mistake.Well, following from that logic then the current disaster must end at the next election for sure..... Fine, I am happy with that.

BTW, I did criticise the past Labor Government (Kevin Rudd in particular) for losing their cool under pressure. But in spite of that the achievements were remarkable. But I am sure that the lesson has been learned and I can see that Shorten has adopted a very different modus operandi as a leader.... So far so good.The Abbott Government isn't working, as you obviously should be realising. 

I said that there would be a hung Parliament and I almost got it right when Rudd returned and you guys suffered a panic attack with the polls giving a 50%/50% 2PP. But Rupert was able to recover and got his man in (I wonder whether he is happy with the results now??).

Oh no, no, I am not obsessed with polls, you guys were totally obsessed with the polls (and Centrebet) during the last Labor Government. I feel it's my duty to help you keep up with your habit. You should thank me, actually, it's a service to the community.... and it comes free of charge via everybody's ABC!He lacks Wisdom, Intelligence, Knowledge, ... and so much more. His win in 2013 will come down to history as the most serious dysfunction of our Democratic system on record.... It is essential to learn from this gross mistake and do all what we can to avoid repeating it!

The message from the People can work if voters send most of the first-term Coalition Governments back to Opposition: in Vic, Qld and the Federal Government....

... NSW is in an even greater mess and both major Parties should be ashamed. predicting what's going to happen at the next State election there is next to impossible."As a taxpayer I object to this anti Australian behaviour"... Were you ashamed about your, the ABC and most other Media behaviour during the past Labor Government?... If not, then just move on and stop wasting our time!!NO! This Coalition Government have been spending and borrowing irresponsibly in a far worse manner than the last Labor Government did. They are destroying their capacity to raise money too. And as far as the international situation is concerned, you guys didn't care about that when Labor was in government, and therefore you should now be consistent and just shut up and show what can this Government do, no whingeing or excuses are accepted!

You guys loved sarcasm and negative humour on TV against the former Labor Government (against Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard in particular).... Again, now just shut up and accept the counter-attack... Abbott and his gang of irresponsible politicians opened a Pandora's Box, the fairies are against them now, start packing.... we have had well and truly enough of this Government of Neoliberal Lunatics!!My reference to Labor was just a repetition, in other words, of Elizabeth's statement: "They also have a big bill from borrowed Labor money"..... In other words, if SHE criticises Labor on economic grounds, the criticism against the Coalition should be mighty.

Good try anyway, Forrest. 
Elizabeth,
a) Howard left a gross government debt of more than 50 billion.
b) He also left us with the GFC and an infrastructure deficit.
c) It was in order to solve the Liberal debacle in (b) that Labor had to incur additional debt.
d) However, internationally, our debt/GDP was extremely contained under Labor.
e) This Government of incompetents has hit the road running with borrowing and increasing debt with nothing, absolutely nothing, to show for it....!
f) The Senate has demolished the Neoliberal Budget from Hell simply because that budget is a total disgrace, packed with LIES (= broken promises) and cuts to expenditures that are purely ideological, whereas money is poured into the pockets of those who don't need it (see Abbott's Rolls Royce PPL). All intelligent economists have concluded that the cuts in the Budget from Hell are going to affect the less well off far more than the better off. Not only that, this bunch of incompetents cry that the budget is in deficit and then destroy sources of revenues such as the MRRT and also sack thousands of ATO employees thus making the job of tracking down tax evaders far more difficult.

This is the reality that the majority of Australians are seeing... watch the results of the Victoria State election to get a glimpse of it.... it may help you wake up from your delusion.Okay WS, start learning Russian and the proper aspects of the Russian culture. Brace for the possibility to be taken from your family and allocated to a Russian family for a more speedy integration. Forget about your former way of life, that will be regarded as just too primitive and useless.... and remember, Australian history will start on the 15th of December 2014, before that there was nothing and the land was just Terra Nullius..... Try not to plunge into depression and alcoholism, you don't want to give the obvious impression of pertaining to an inferior ethnicity!Hey Tony, send Morrison to tow back these boats, mate!

Oh, by the way: "the illegitimacy of its actions in Crimea has led the world"... What a load of crap, Crimea had a referendum and their overwhelmingly Russian population decided to show the middle finger up to Kiev. You didn't like it?.... Bad luck, my friend.

"Just last month Russia's finance minister had to declare that the country "couldn't afford" its proposed defence build-up"... The only country that can afford a defence build up these days is China (and perhaps India), everybody else is scraping the bottom of the barrel.... now even Australia, under this incompetent Neoliberal "leadership".gbe, if you read my post carefully, nowhere I mention MH17. My post was about the "boats", Crimea and defence..... But if you want to talk about MH17, let's say that nobody has officially accused the Russians of anything on the basis of evidence. If the Americans have unequivocal evidence, such evidence should be provided to an appropriate international tribunal. The Russians will presumably provide their counter-evidence and so on.
Of course I am aware that on MH17 Government and Labor Opposition are broadly on a "unity ticket", much to the irritation of Tony Abbott who expected Labor not to follow him on that, thus depriving him of a propaganda line regarding "Labor is weak on security and un-Australian.... blah, blah".

Oh, BTW, with Tony everything is "funny", or, more precisely, tragicomic!"zero incentive for anyone to work hard when the money tap will never get turned off."... Have you ever heard that you can move your money from one SuperFund to another? Why isn't that an incentive for each SuperFund to work hard?
What would voluntary superannuation achieve? Increase consumption now, leading to inflation that erodes your income, and then cry for 20+ years after retirement because you don't have any money?
Compulsory Superannuation is a very necessary insurance against stupidity.... a kind of insurance that, unfortunately, remains necessary.Gerard,
For Morrison and those who support him it's just a matter of: out of sight, out of mind. They couldn't care less about those refugees, they are just scrapping the bottom of the barrel for one or two more votes. If that means increasing ethnic tensions within Australia, so be it!Australia has never had an "open border policy". There is no political party in this country that has an "open border policy". Nobody has ever been accepted as a refugee in this country without proper processing of their claim. Stop lying and parroting Liberal propaganda.
If anyone commits a crime in the camps (including the killing of innocent refugees such as Reza Barati), the issue must be investigated and both the direct culprits be prosecuted whilst those politically responsible made to pay politically!
"I suppose you will excuses the rapist as well and want them loose in Australia"... in the same way as you will excuse murder?.... We can throw gratuitous personal mud at each other if you wish, but I prefer a rational argumentation. Can you do it?who,
Has Abbott increased our intake of refugees? No! Do you know how many refugees there are in the camps according to the UNHCR? 10.4 million! How many do we take annually? About 20,000, that's 0.2%. Do you find surprising that the pressure is mounting on neighbouring countries to the sources of refugees first and above all, and then on other countries farther away that are capable of giving such refugees a better chance in life, such as Australia, the USA, Canada, the EU... etc.?
The problem is there, it cannot be ignored, it won't go away, and trying to pretend that we can shut down the gates is simply a delusion. Refugees continue to come by boat and by air!
We can only guide this process, but we can't stop it, let alone pretend that it doesn't exist....No, we are not generous at all, Andy. Even under the former Labor Government, with 40,000 refugees p.a. we were 13th in the intake per capita, now we have halved that intake. And this is without taking into account countries that are flooded with refugees who don't go through a normal UNHCR process (Iran, for instance), such refugees just escape danger and end up in the closest neighbouring country.The mess in Iraq was not caused by the UN, but by the USA and their allies, including the Howard Australian Government. Saddam was supported by the US for as long as he was useful against Iran. The idiotic warmongering policies of the USA, UK and their allies across the Middle East continue to increase the mess and the number of refugees..... But posters like Frank wouldn't have a clue, their Neoliberal/Conservative delusion is blinding their judgment....
"In fact what we have is China announcing that it will be business as usual for the next 15 years (at least)"... NO! What they are doing is to gradually decrease the rate of growth of fossil fuels usage until such rate of growth reaches zero in 2030. So, your statement of "business as usual for the next 15 years (at least)" is nonsense. At the same time they are increasing the percentage of energy coming from renewable sources.
This process is gradual, it cannot happen overnight, but it will happen. The laggards who delude themselves that the process is not happening will be woken up with a very cold shower in due course."we need solutions which work for this nation, not for foreign entities"... Many of us have explained this to you so many times, Peter, but you still refuse to understand. So, here we go, yet again. First, focusing on our relative contribution of CO2 emissions is totally irrelevant, we are all expected to respond to this challenge, not just the bigger polluters. Second, if we pretend that it's not our problem, other will move ahead of us and dictate the conditions for international change, which will involve trade sanctions towards those who refuse to listen. On top of that, the sooner we transform our economy so that it becomes less dependent on fossil fuels, the better will be for our future prosperity and competitiveness. Moreover, the more we create our own renewable technologies, the more we will be able to export them now and into the future as the market will continue to expand.
Do you understand now?"more like a ' Coal loving Asbestos loving Monarchy'."... In other words: A dirty-looking, sick, old-fashioned country....Quite true, Malcolm... and all that under the "leadership" of Tony Abbott: our own Erich Honecker!... But we are in a commemorative spirit, and the People are getting ready to tear the Canberra Neoliberal Wall down....To Labor if you are at fault you get to be blamed for it. To the Liberals, you are expected to be congratulated.... Spot the paradox, Forrest, if you can....."where we can largely choose to ignore the problems of other societies.".... Coogara, in the 21st century that's a myth. Today nobody can hide anywhere. Things happen fast and spread all over: social turmoil, economic shocks, environmental changes, diseases, information, etc... We are either passive victims or active participants.... It's our choice.Nationalism is a cancer to society. After the fall of Communism, with its push for internationalism, we have seen a political return to narrow-minded Nationalism and cultural chauvinism. Paradoxically, this cultural Nationalism is thriving in a Neoliberal financial environment that actually favours internationalism and free movement of goods, services and capital (but people are not encouraged to move).

Nationalism is putting the integrity of the great EU project in peril of collapsing. Nationalism is increasing tensions in various areas around the world (Ukraine is the latest case).

What's the way forward?

There is only one way forward: to develop a more sophisticated concept of COOPERATION, to subordinate COMPETITION to the production of novel solutions for the common good, to associate the pride of birthplace with the contribution of such birthplace to the common good: scientific advances, technological innovation, ideas, arts, political solutions to urgent problems (such as unemployment)....

As for the eternal paranoia of the nationalists with regard to loss of identity, especially under the pressure of immigration, I would say fear not, change is the norm in human cultures, and it's nothing to fear. Just make sure that change, when it occurs, is constructive and freely accepted by all within a Democratic system. Here the role of the major industrialised countries who have been traditional recipients of immigrants is pivotal..... Once again, Australia may find herself in the spotlight! 

"In the meantime, Russia will take another slice of Ukraine"... That's called self-determination, Zing.
"Or possibly the Baltics"... I haven't heard anything about that, Zing. Do you have any evidence?
I am sure that the Russians would like to extend their influence and some Russians may even like to imagine that what they are doing is to recreate their old "empire", the same for the Chinese... AND the same for the Japanese, the Americans, the Germans, even the Brazilians had their own empire in the past... oh, and of course, our good old Brits. Criticise one, criticise ALL!There was a referendum in Crimea! Ukraine is like the old Yugoslavia: an unstable and unnatural entity that the Government in Kiev (like the Government in Belgrade for the former Yugoslavia) wants to keep together in order to control it, but a big chunk of the country just disagrees.... Democratic self-determination must be always accepted, not just when it fits your geopolitical objectives. The Scots had their referendum, the Catalunyans want their referendum... the Eastern Ukrainians should also have theirs. In the absence of willingness from the part of the Government in Kiev, the response has been an armed upraising.... it's always like this, I am afraid."Maybe the theory was internationalist, but the practice was entirely Russian (and Chinese) imperialist."... That's historically wrong, frangipani. But I think I understand your inability to see the true international character of Communism. Until recently, communism had a very real presence in the political party structure of the vast majority of the countries around the world (hence its international character). BUT the Anglo-Saxon countries were certainly an exception. There, Communism virtually disappeared decades before anywhere else. So, I suggest that you revisit that quote above on the basis of this input: Autochthonous Communist Parties were widespread across the Americas (South of the border), Western Europe (South of the Channel), Africa and Asia. Soviet Imperialism was nothing compared with the effects of American Imperialism in those countries (especially the Americas and Western Europe).Amber, observations of global temperature anomaly are within the margin of error of computer models! 
You can't have crops when your place is in a drought or being flooded, inform yourself. Not only that, even if the area where you are planting is protected from extremes of weather caused by climate change, there is a diminishing return trend in the yield vs atmospheric CO2 concentration curve. Soon other compounds become limiting. 
Measurements indeed show an increase in temperature in the oceans that roughly parallels the increase in air temperature around the planet.
... If you never never know, please never never talk!A nomenclature clarification for Esteban:

Climate change: a phenomenon referring to the dynamics of this planet's climate. 

Global warming: Climate some times changes systematically in one direction, in this case towards higher temperatures.

Greenhouse effect: Reasons for such directional global warming are multiple, one of which being the greenhouse effect caused by greenhouse gases, such as CO2.

Anthropogenic Global Warming (AGW): this is the specific contribution to global warming caused by the industrial emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere that warm the surface of the planet through the greenhouse effect.

Do you get it now, Esteban?The temperature hasn't stopped increasing, the warming continues relentlessly. BUT IF it stops increasing, it can do so in two different ways:
a) By remaining constant.
b) By decreasing.
If (a), then the term "climate change" cannot be applied. If (b) then the term climate change can be applied with the specification that the trend is towards cooling. Cooling is what denialists are predicting, as part of their expected onset of a Little Ice Age.... any updated news about that, Esteban? How cool is at the moment, wherever you are?Gees, why didn't you tell us that you were on holidays in Antarctica.... now I understand!.... Any more denialists there with you?... Stay there please, or the magic of the Little Ice Age will suddenly vanish....IanM, there is no "hiatus", just a slow down in the rate of warming that is coincident with a low in solar radiated energy, part of the normal 11 year long solar cycle. The maximum temperature anomaly recorded in 1998 was exceeded in 2010, 12 years later!

So, if you replace "hiatus" with a slow down in warming you would be right, if you interpret "hiatus" as no warming or cooling you would be wrong. I have shown the positive trends in the correlation coefficient for the temperature anomaly of the three major climate research agencies many times. From 1998 to 2013 the trend is POSITIVE, not negative. 

Look at the datasets for surface air temperatures from the MetOffice, NASA and NOAA. Argo measures water temperatures and it is known that water temperatures have been increasing at a slower rate than air temperatures.Fission has got its own problems, The Citizen.... but research on fusion should be speeded up! I certainly agree with that."further erode food security"... Oh, no, no Greg, CO2 is just food for plants, mate!.... Volunteers will be required to harvest huge bananas as a category 5 tropical cyclone rages on.... don't bother bringing your umbrella!gbe,
The Coalition remains down in the polls. The latest Essential (available today) gives them 48% of the 2PP.... Do you blame the ABC and their 10% media market share for that?"it is Labor who still don't want to pay the bill!".... Hey, ahld, tell Abbott to go to the next Federal election with this slogan: "It's All Labor's Fault"..... I will be enjoying watching the Liberal political corpses floating down the major electoral rivers of this country....
"The Australian Prime Minister talked a big game by promising to shirtfront Putin, as his poll numbers sat in the doldrums.".... and they are still sitting in the doldrums! Latest Essential just fresh from the Press, 2PP: 52% ALP....."Pinochet was a facist (nationalist, protectionist) not into allowing his "free market" to be freely exposed to global market."... WRONG! Since the late 1970s the Fascist Pinochet regime became fully economically Neoliberalised under the direction of a group of economist who obtained their PhD from the Chicago University School of Economics (at the time the home of Milton Friedman, the leading figure of American Neoliberalism). The economy was opened to imports and, just like in Australia, the textile industry, for instance, went bust and official unemployment reached a staggering 30% at its peak. Pinochet could introduce this most purist of Neoliberal experiments simply because he presided over a dictatorship. Neoliberal Revolutions have been also introduced in Democracy, but even there they require a degree of authoritarianism usually supported by a well cashed up Media propaganda (see Reagan in the USA and Thatcher in the UK for instance).gbe, although it's true that corruption comes from lobbying, not all lobbying is necessarily corrupt. 

You are right in saying that lobbying is inevitable, but its illegal and murky side can be avoided or minimised through proper scrutiny.I agree, de-regulation is a dangerous beast. It is sold as the purveyor of "freedom", but it usually only brings chaos and the rule of the mightier.... Neoliberals just don't understand these things, I am afraid.Rent seeking? Look at ALL companies, including mining, various multinationals, oil, and so on and so forth across the whole spectrum. The question is: which subsidies to specific companies are actual investments, which ones are just highway robbery to the government's purse. Subsidies to the renewable energy industry is an investment!AE, for a Government investment means: paying now to build something and then receive the benefits over the long-term through taxation as the infrastructure built or services provided help the economy.

That's why Governments should not build toll roads. With this approach, you can have investments in important initiatives that can produce substantial benefits to the country, but over the long-term.

The Private sector is only interested in investment that means maximising profits from day one (or after a very short period of initial losses, usually one or two years). They don't care whether the thing they build has other uses and purposes, they only require customers willing to pay. If any proposal does not fulfil these conditions they are not interested.

That's why the ideal is a mixed economy where the Government also takes an active role, and doesn't just stand by as the private sector players do only the things that benefit them. The private sector will not build a "public school" on their own initiative, where the fees are low so that all kids from a poor background will have access to a good education, and therefore the immediate financial profits will be low or even nil over a very long period of time. That kind of activity can only be done by Government. That public school is an investment of no interest whatever to the private sector, but it is of great interest to the Country.


But Peter, then I guess you prefer a Government program to pay the flies to please, please do not come and bother us as we are preparing our BBQ. Or perhaps we may convince ourselves that flies are odourless hence cannot possibly cause us any harm.... and in any event, flies are good for the environment, they help in pollination!I am not really scared about lobbying per se. Presenting your case to a Government is lobbying but it's also a perfectly acceptable Democratic practice. It is how the Government responds that really concerns me. The Government should respond to lobbying strictly on the basis of having the long-term wellbeing of ALL Australians at heart. If the lobbying is a way of selling crap to the Government, the lobbyists should be sent packing. If a Government gets it wrong, we send them packing at the following election.
As for financial contributions to political Parties, just limit the amount per company and per individual, and also expect full disclosure.Hi Ann,
I agree that such direct sweeteners used by some lobbyists should be banned. I also agree that once they retire, politicians should be banned from joining the board of directors of a company that won a public contract under the responsibility of such politicians when they were in power. But the problem about banning lobbying altogether is that any group approaching a politician to present their case could be prevented from doing so, lest they are accused of engaging in a banned activity. Now, that doesn't quite sound very open and democratic to me. If I can't argue my case with a politician, how am I supposed to influence the legislative process, which is the fundamental property of representative Democracy ("demos" (people) and "kratos" (rule).... through an elected politician)?Unless there is any evidence that Chris is the lost son of Gina Rinehart then no, there is no reason why us lefties should attack him on those grounds.Great radiography of capitalism, R.N.! 
Neoliberals worshipping Competition always pretend to forget the issue of cheating!Hi Heretic,
I haven't read the article, but the conclusion sounds plausible. The problem is the power of the Media. Rich Lobbyists (such as Multinationals) come to the negotiating table with a very powerful weapon: Their ability to pay for very damaging anti-government propaganda through the Media. See the example of the Mining Companies and the MRRT in Australia. For as long as the People are easily swayed by such propaganda (often even against their own interests!!!!), then Governments will be more interests in what such powerful players have to say than in what the People really have to say. 
To put it simply: Governments listen to Big Companies, Big Companies make sure to take the Voters with them through Propaganda.
If we can break the Big Company-Propaganda-Voters link, then we can help free the Governments from such anti-democratic shackles....No Peter, the laws that are passed by Labor favour ALL WORKERS. Hence the Union members are paying their fees in order for other workers to also reap the advantages of their negotiations with an ALP Government. Those non-unionised workers should think about that and be more respectful of Unions.The RC into Unions is a pure and simple political witch hunt concocted by the Liberal Party for electoral advantage, and also to assuage their Neoliberal masters in the Business community. They dream of the day when Unions will be no more.... but Unions know that they only have to wait until 2016 for the Liberal Party to be no more.... in government!mortan,
The Union movement has been under attack for many decades now. If you are employed and it is known that you are a Union member you are at risk of being first to receive the sack under any excuse. This is a very common tactic to limit the power of the Unions and to send a message to those workers who are thinking about joining. In spite of all that, Union membership has stopped its decline and has been hovering between 18% and 20% of the workforce since 2007: that's 7 years of real "hiatus"!!.... But this Federal Neoliberal Government of loonies, with their systematic attacks on organised labour, are unintentionally becoming the best "friends" of the Union Movement. Workers are under real pressure to organise.... or perish!Esteban, I promise to wait six months to see how this deal works out.... before I start being negative...."Stop whingeing, get on with it and prove them all wrong,".... Julie, for some reason the Liberal spin-masters have decided that you are their best chance to lift the sinking fortunes of your Government in the polls. So, just think about it: 
a) Liberal women are worthwhile considering only as a desperate solution to an impossible situation.
b) If you do not succeed (most likely) you will be discarded as a used tissue.... next one please.
c) If you are successful, Abbott and the boys will reap the benefits and expect to be praised. The mantra would be: "Under the steady hand and leadership of our Prime Minister Tony Abbott, blah, blah".
d) You have got two problems: first you are a woman in a very backward and conservative Government and second you are from Western Australia, there is no point for the Liberal Party to waste their leadership in somebody from a traditional stronghold of the Party.

.... Anyway, have fun with your photo-ops for women's magazines.... Wasn't Julia Gillard crucified for doing exactly that by the conservative press?"The current feminist movement is an aggressive leftists political organisation"... That's a pretty aggressive and deluded right-wing comment. Julie Bishop, Mikaelia Cash, Concetta Fierravanti-Wells, Fiona Nash, Bronwyn Bishop, Kelly O'Dwyer, are pretty aggressive women who are members of a right wing political organisation.....
Genuine feminist movements fight for the right of all citizens irrespective of gender, hence they uphold the rights of women (at work, at home, in education, etc.) when such rights are trampled."Cooperation rather than competition"... That's a great potential contribution of women in politics. But politics, being a traditional male business, shows too much the marks of competition and aggressiveness. Hence it is aggressive women who tend to be selected in politics more than cooperative ones. Too many women in politics tend to be masculinised, and especially in the conservative side of politics, many women politicians tend to be even hyper-masculinised."but Bishop has proven that women have to be twice as good as the blokes"... Not very difficult with the current cohort of Liberal bloke politicians...."Sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me"... Never heard of "defamation"?... In some circumstances it can even be a crime!.... Names can hurt more than a baseball bat in the 21st century........ and before that it was "JuLiar Bob Brown's bitch", and then she was supposed to be thrown at sea in a chaff bag, and her father died of shame, and what about the innuendos about her partner's sexuality.... and the list goes on and on....
Yep, she just imagined all that and in any event she should have toughened up, not complained about misogyny in Parliament.... who does she thinks she is.... a Feminist?"This way of separating people is stupid and childish and I wish people would cut it out."... I fully agree, as soon as the Abbott Government is out of the way in 2016 (at the latest) we should indeed cut it out and return to a more balanced way of doing political criticism. The Liberals fully agree now... but I bet that they will disagree in 2016.... That's life, I guess...."You seem to subscibe to the Leftist theory that repeating subjects (lies) often enough makes gives them substance"... Leftist? That's exactly what your Neoliberal Government of Liars has been doing since day one. Oh, by the way, in case you don't know, the ABC FactCheck has already recorded 12 LIES by the Abbott Government.... So, at one term per LIE (given the standards applied to Julia Gillard) that's 12 terms in opposition!!.... Enjoy.C'mon John, Dove is right. Under the current policy those refugees fleeing Vietnam in their boats would be intercepted at sea and sent back. Back in the 1970s they were intercepted, taken on Australian ships and their case processed. Those found to be genuine refugees were allowed in and staid in. This is exactly the policy that very many of us are advocating.
These days we just need to add the necessary collaboration with Indonesia. 

Oh btw, coming here on a boat provided by a "people smuggler" or built from scratch by yourself makes no legal difference whatever! The only thing that matters is the basis for your claim of asylum. That's all.mike and frangipani, don't try to divert the issue to something irrelevant. I am talking about those who indeed arrived here by boat!.... Stay on topic please. For your information, 2059 Vietnamese arrived by boat! You obviously had no idea, now you know.AJS,
Please list the Prime Ministers who, in your view, "united" the country.Gordon, do you have a list of the Prime Ministers who united the country in the other meaning of "united"?You have nailed it Mungo, like never before. These are two of the most important issues:
a) "principles and ideals are all very well in their way, but must inevitably be subordinated to the realpolitik of the main game"... In other words, it's Principles and Pragmatism: an ethical vision and a realistic, pragmatic program to achieving it.
And that contrasts with:
b) "Elections were irrelevant, ideological purity was all"... a great mistake that many Parties are making at the moment, including the Neoliberals in the Coalition but also the idealistic Socialists found among the Greens. 
Neoliberalism is the commercialisation of society in general and also Government in particular. That's what Hockey advocates, that's NOT what I advocate.... and that's not what the majority of Australians advocate at the moment.Forrest, in the Neoliberal world losers must not be protected! This works for both individuals and banks. Do you like it?We need a Financial Crisis Insurance Scheme whereby, BY LAW, ALL banks must deposit a certain percentage of their annual earnings into a Government-held account, administered by a special authority, perhaps in coordination with the Central Bank. Those funds will then be used for any help banks may require into the future in the face of an international crisis and in order to stabilise our economy. Every 10 years the amount available in the Scheme will be evaluated with regard to its capacity to withstand a crisis and if more money is needed, more will be asked, but if less money is really needed then some of that money will be returned to the banks.The vast majority of ADF members earn between 24,000 and 100,000 and this Government is determined to impose an effective salary decrease. A Federal backbencher base salary is $195,000, and they got a real pay increase last year. Lambie knows that acting members of the ADF are traditionally not supposed to make a public fuss about these things, so good on her for speaking out!
As for you, now that you have all the information available, what's your position as a Liberal supporter?Ben, you don't need any of that information, stop trying to delude yourself. You need only one information, and it is available: The increase is below the inflation rate, hence it's a pay cut. What other soldiers earn overseas is totally irrelevant!
Do you understand now?So Paula, the main topic is Palmer vs Lambie and not the Abbott Government vs the ADF on the issue of pay and entitlements?
.... Interesting drifting off topic, isn't it?
I am sure that the Liberals fear Palmer and the PUP like nobody else: their current 3.7% (but much higher in Qld) primary vote in the opinion polls is the difference between losing and being annihilated for the Coalition.Ah, authoritarianism, don't the weak people love authoritarianism?.... Create fear, offer protection, establish authoritarianism without opposition, and then do with the country whatever you want: the Right-wing Recipe for Government. But we are in the 21st century, it's time to move on. Send authoritarianism to hell, raise the Libertarians, raise the small-l Liberals, raise the Social Democrats, raise the Greens to rid this country of any residual authoritarianism, especially the authoritarianism of corporations and their current puppets in Government.frangipani, please do inform yourself rather than trying to desperately defend this pathetic conservative government:
The German government increased their contribution to fighting the Ebola outbreak to ?102 million (Wall Street Journal, 16 October 2014)!!... Shame indeed.... but to Abbott!The ABC site didn't like the icon for Euro. So it's 102 million Euro = Aus$ 146 million.Aaron, what the hell has population size to do with our contribution! Look at the relative financial capacity to contribute, that's truly relevant:
Germany is contributing 0.00297% of their GDP
Australia is contributing 0.00126% of our GDP.
Therefore Germany is making a relative effort that is DOUBLE that of Australia in terms of GDP!!!
Do inform yourself before writing crap, please!Another failed attempt by frangipani. Inform yourself: before the recently announced increase of 102 million Euros (= Aus$ 146 million) in contribution to the fight against Ebola, Germany had already contributed Aus$24.5 million. Hence the total contribution by Germany so far is Aus$ 170.5 million!!! 
Comparative population size has nothing to do with this, talk about capacity to contribute by using the respective GDPs, as already mentioned in my previous post.
So, here we have just sophisms and meaningless diatribe by the usual Liberal supporters. Abbott tried to hide on the issue of Ebola, but he finally had to admit his mistake, still his response is pretty lukewarm and unimpressive: from "bad" he only upgraded to "not very good"."We occupy a desirable continent"... More than "desirable", our continent is BIG, don't forget that it's over 70% arid.
"have an enviable social welfare scheme"... That is currently under extremely serious attack by this Government of Neoliberal lunatics.
"good weather"... But changing for the worse under the effects of international industrial CO2 emissions which, incidentally, are partly produced by the coal we export.
"peaceful and safe quality of life"... So far, but Abbott is doing all what he can to transform our country into Hell on Earth (you may notice the Catholic inspiration of the concept). In fact his backers are now saying that everybody should accept salary increases below the inflation rate; and to set the example, they started with the ADF!!!... our soldiers are always first to be sent to the slaughter!Two issues:
1) I am not sure whether Key has any greater clue about what's really going on in the Middle East (Iraq and Syria in particular) than anybody else, let alone how to address the issues in that region. We only know that Western intervention is escalating the situation with time.
2) However, I agree with you Barrie that Key has certainly shown an ability to take the People of New Zealand with him. In that regard we may ask whether this is because Key has a more low-key (pardon the pun) manner of doing politics or is it because New Zelanders are easier to manipulate?

As far as Abbott and the Neoliberal Revolution that his gang and financiers want to introduce in Australia against the will of the People, everything started very badly since the publication of Abbott's "master plan". When you see a political book entitled "Battlelines", you already know that the man has got it completely wrong from the very start!
Today's Australia requires a Government that will entitle their book: "Cooperation". With a plan for action that will foster co-operation, that is the operation of all players in society (without excluding anyone) for the mutual advantage of all,  and also our natural environment. The book could also have a couple of chapters on "competition", emphasising the creative powers of competition (as in the quest to find a cure for a disease) which, however, must be put to the service of the People (the cure must then be made accessible to anyone irrespective of their income).

So yes, there is a different way of doing politics, and in spite of the criticisms he has received from both right-wing and some left-wing people, Shorten may be the man for the times.....Hi Fred,
Careful, you seem to be falling into Abbott's trap.... don't worry about Shorten, worry about the ALP program!Forrest, what the Liberal Party Stormtroopers still don't understand is that the problem is their Neoliberal ideology: the time for ideologies is over, Forrest. The People want solutions and this Neoliberal Government of yours is not providing them.... and time is running out."he forgot to account for common sense."... Which is the most uncommon of all senses and in the hands of politicians it can become completely nonsensical. There is too much "trust me, everything will be alright" in this law, Zing...
Had it been introduced by Labor, I can already imagine the screams against it from your side of politics... So, the Liberals' silence on this matter is truly deafening!Good points Chris, in fact the main thrust of these laws is not defence against actual terrorism: there is no international increase in the terrorist threat. But create a general sense of uncertainty if not panic (like the threat of the boat people, for instance), so that the People seek refuge in the Government and refrain from criticising it, especially when it's introducing the Budget from Hell (the Neoliberal Trojan Horse).... The ploy is just not working, not working at all!!Who wrote that law? Clearly it wasn't Brandis. Who is behind this and what's his background?
This authoritarian Government is truly becoming rogue!Algorithms and the information technology that follows, and also mechanisation are making some of the human work less relevant?..... Great!.... Tax those earning money from such advances, to the tune of 90% or more of their REAL income and give the money to the rest, so that the poet can write poetry, the musician concerts, the architect build new buildings, the scientist investigate exactly what s/he wants to investigate, the philosopher think, the sportspeople play, the dancer dance....
It's easy, and it's possible!Terry, the Neoliberals have got a fantastic solution: Invent your convenient reality through the Media, then produce your Neoliberal Policies that fit that reality, and claim that you are proposing realistic solutions!.... What a strike of "geniality", eh?
Forrest, it's not just me who doesn't like Neoliberalism, it's the People. It's all of it that's bankrupt, as we can see from this authoritarian Government trying to implement Neoliberal policies.... Just like Hayek, who was so thrilled with the Neoliberal experiment of the Fascist dictator Augusto Pinochet.
Neoliberalism is the rule of competition where the market finally ends up not being free, but controlled by selected powerful players (the winners of the competitive scramble), and the Government is just a mirror image of the competitive world of business.  In theory the Government is weak in a Neoliberal society, but it happens that true Neoliberal societies cannot survive unless the People are controlled. The Media serve that purpose, but then  there is also the police.... and the security services peeping into your usage of the internet.
Of the very many things that I don't like about Neoliberalism is that the word "cooperation" is missing!
There you go, yet another mini-course in Politics via everybody's ABC!

"Draconian restrictions"? ... Do you mean protecting the individual citizens against the power of well cashed up Media entrepreneurs? ... So, what's that you prefer, allow such Media entrepreneurs to exert their power over individual citizens unchecked?.... perhaps with the aid of some illegal listening devices?Hi dubious, 
Neoliberalism doesn't require a "strong government" necessarily (although the most draconian Neoliberal Revolutions can only be imposed with the aid of authoritarian (Pinochet) or authoritarian-style (Thatcher) governments. Abbott is trying to use such a trick by mixing up the issues of asylum seekers and terrorism, which are expected to justify a climate of authoritarianism, that protects the introduction of draconian Neoliberal reforms with the Budget from Hell). But Neoliberalism just requires a government that behaves like a private enterprise and that, as you correctly point out, serves the interests of financial/commercial players. Under Neoliberalism, however, the number of players whose interests must be protected narrows down with time following the effects of competition. Hence the fundamentally oligarchic character of Neoliberalism and the ever increasing levels of inequality that follows."So maybe you do like authoritarian governments but only if they oversee the market economy in exactly the way you prefer."... This is a non sequitur from my post and a delusion out of your own brain, Forrest. You are free to do so, of course, but try to be more honest next time!

"So we end up with your expressed preference being a market economy overseen by strong government"... Yet another non sequitur from my post that simply tries to reinforce your wrong initial statement. Try not to entangle your tongue too much, Forrest.... it may fall over! 

In short, in spite of my great efforts to inform you, you persistently demonstrate your incapacity to learn... Oh well, that's life.... I hope that my posts may be useful to others.We should retain the ability of the Party in Government to replace the PM, but we should eliminate the ability of unelected officers such as the GG to sack the elected PM. In that respect Tony Abbott has set the worst possible precedent: Had he had the numbers during the Gillard Government he would have gone the full Monty to cut the ALP Government's term short, but now that he is the PM he is desperately using all the tricks in the book to prevent being sacked by his own side, in spite of the continuing Government debacle..... It should be the other way around!Sorry Alpha, let me rephrase to come down to your abilities of comprehension:
That the PM is removed and replaced by his/her own Party is okay, the elected Government keeps going, just with a different leader. Nobody else should be able to remove the PM and also bring down the Government. 
As far as Abbott is concerned, he is desperately trying to prevent being sacked by his own Party, but had he had the political power to do so, he would have brought the Gillard Government down prematurely.  
Hence my satirical comment.
Do you understand now?Darius, my posts are proof that Labor has always acted within the Constitution!.... Do you understand what that means?
The incompetent Abbott won't be removed by his Party in spite of leading them to electoral disaster, not because thy don't want to or because it's "unconstitutional" (which is NOT), but simply because after the idiotic brouhaha they orchestrated with the help of the Media upon Gillard replacing Rudd, they now can't do the same (as they did in Victoria and the NT, by the way!!) and face not Federal electoral disaster, but electoral oblivion.... Do you understand now?"Whitlam was the worst Prime Minister the country has ever had. Mind you, Rudd and Gillard came pretty close"... Still living in denial about Abbott especially, but also Howard: the flagpoles-GFC PM!
With time, Gillard will be remembered as a transformative PM, in much the same way as Whitlam is remembered. Progressives always move the country forward, as Conservatives sit and watch....Don, I guess that he would have asked about the social costs of doing nothing. Upon being told by experts that such costs are huge, he would have acted. What action? He might have asked: What's the best way of getting the results with minimum social cost? The experts would have replied: an ETS... Hence, in my opinion Gough would have gone for an ETS.... Whitlam would have never "blindly  followed" anyone!Graham, the ETS is NOT an "extra tax"!.... Your question would be nonsensical and therefore the answers uninformative...
Please don't get into the business of polling, it's not for you.Graham, my point is: why ask about an "extra tax" in a survey if nobody is proposing any extra taxes as a climate change policy?
You can't expect an answer to a meaningless question.
If I say "no" to a tax would you conclude that I am against the ALP's ETS or against the Liberals' Direct Action?
"There is the implicit assumption that there are "extreme" events"... Had you read the IPCC report you would know that extreme climate events are on the increase at a speed and a magnitude that have nothing to do with the recent trends for millennia. That the climate was perhaps harsher at the time of the dinosaurs, it was because there was more CO2 in  the atmosphere. This is what it's also causing anthropogenic global warming today: more CO2. Today it's CO2 emitted into the atmosphere by the burning of fossil fuels. We can do something to decrease that specific effect, and we have got to do something.... unless, indeed, we want to go the way of the dinosaurs!Greig,
I have read the report and there are significant increases in droughts and floods in specific regions. Moreover, there is a significant increase in large magnitude hurricanes, the ones that have more energy, clearly expected from global warming.
Read or Re-read the report, please."Most experts believe that warming of less than 2 degrees Celsius from preindustrial levels will result in no net economic and ecological damage. Therefore, the new report is effectively saying (based on the middle of the range of the IPCC's emissions scenarios) that there is a better than 50-50 chance that by 2083, the benefits of climate change will outweigh the harm.".... This is a TOTAL NON SEQUITUR from your quotes of the IPCC report. So, the new tactic from Liberal Central seems to be: quote the report and then conclude with your propaganda, see whether any fool bites.... Nope, John, back to the drawing board!.... another FAIL.reaver,
I still have to see a denialist accepting a survey that does not support their views and criticising a survey that does....
How long do I have to wait to see one?Waiting for a honest denialist?.... How long do I have to wait, John?
I am associated with the search for the truth, and I invite you to follow on the same path.reaver,
I am more than happy to criticise surveys on technical grounds. But let's do it across the board, not selectively, please!For your information:
a) Large bushfires have been on the increase.
b) Floods and droughts have been on the increase regionally. It obviously doesn't make any sense at all to predict floods across the planet and at the same time droughts across the planet.
c) High magnitude cyclones have been on the increase. 
See indeed the IPCC AR5: observations, not theory or models.
d) Urgent decrease of emissions is indeed an issue for scientists to tell, it's up to politicians and technical specialists, as you obviously realise, to devise the best means of achieving it with less social disruption.
e) Whether it is direct action or an ETS that will be the best strategy is again for relevant technical specialists to tell, politicians to decide what to adopt, and for voters to choose between the strategies offered by this or that politician. It's not a matter of picking your team, it's a matter of informed vote. The vote at the last Federal Election was rather uninformed, in my view. But my bet is that it will be better informed in 2016... Make sure that you compare the outcome of those two elections. 
"Still, less spiked than the '99% of all scientists' meme repeated ad-nauseam"... I suggest that you see Figure 1 in Bray 2010 Environmental Science &amp; Policy 13: 340-350. Most studies of AGW consensus give values of 80% plus!
Denialist memes repeated ad nauseam do not help rational argumentation.Of course you are not helping, you are cherry-picking one value and ignoring that the trend is indeed of very high convergence of opinions amongst the experts. Accept that there is such a very high convergence and we will have a point of agreement!
The meme you are talking about is a denialist meme, which you guys would be criticising even if the agreement among scientists was 95% flat across studies, after all 95% is smaller than 99%, isn't it?The People in regional and rural Australia should pressure the Nationals to see some action, real action coming to their aid from this Government of Denialists.... But I guess that Truss and Joyce will probably reply to them: "climate change is crap and in any event the age of entitlements is over, YOU have to live within YOUR means: you don't want to be a bloody leaner, do you?"...
My dear rural and regional Australians, calm down, don't despair.... and VOTE!!!From Qld, Feb 2014: "Maranoa MP Bruce Scott, who represents one of the largest electorates in the country, said his biggest concerns were the mental health of farming families, support to send remote students to school, and the definitions in the current drought policy. 
He said the situation in western Queensland was "very, very bleak" with some cattle producers struggling for more than 18 months with falling cattle prices, rising feed and freight costs and a lack of rain."...

From SA, July 2014: "?Prolonged dry seasonal conditions in the far north of South Australia are generating hardship for pastoral businesses, small remote communities and land and water resources of the region,? Minister Joyce said."

etc., etc., etc....

So, what is that you wrote again: "I live in rural Australia Alpo and can definitely endorse the fact that the current state of climate science is crap."

Look mate, IF you live in rural Australia learn that to understand what's going on with the climate you have to get off your couch and work in the fields!!!

The majority of those respondents probably voted for the Coalition at the last Federal election. Were they qualified back then? Or they just didn't have a clue when they voted for Direct Action?... What's the point of Direct Action anyway, Forrest? You obviously voted for it, you surely can tell us the basis for your informed vote?"My ballot papers did not show an option of Direct Action."....
... Yet another Theatre-of-the-Absurd-style answer, Forrest?
So, you vote for the Liberals (or Nationals) without knowing what you are voting for?.... Interesting.
Thanks for your contribution, Evan.
I really want to see how the usual suspects disqualify you... but perhaps they won't have the guts to do so.
We know what the scientists say about global warming, perhaps we need more people like you and farmers, and emergency personnel, and fishermen.... to tell their stories of decades working in their activity.... and so, this is how a once great nation slowly rode to its sunset.... never to return again....

What a pathetic spectacle for the richest Democracy on Earth... brace for more crimes, more crazy lone shooters killing people at will, more chaos, more poverty... bets are open to predict the date of the Second American Civil War... 

If the American political environment is totally crazy with Obama at the helm and the GOP obsessed with getting him into jail (hmmm it reminds me of the Liberal party's tactics, is this an international right-wing conspiracy??), can you imagine what the GOP will do if Hillary Clinton becomes the POTUS?... A Democrat, a Woman... and a Clinton!!!!"Right Wingers don't have conspiracies"... More than a point of order, I call that a little delusion, WS.
Proof: "look at facts and trends"? Like the "facts and trends" that lead your dear leader to conclude that "climate change is crap", and right-wing denialists to also conclude that climate change is just a conspiracy of the left to destroy capitalism and take over the world?.... and that's just one little example of, in this case, a fossil-fuel backed right-wing conspiracy. I have got more if you want to see them....Alpha, that's not an "insane conspiracy", it's just a "conspiracy". The "Kill Whitlam" man is addicted to conspiracies as you already know, it's just that the People are noticing it more now and speaking out about it.... In any event, I must admit that it's not "all Murdoch's fault". I certainly wouldn't bother phoning him to ask where the hell is my lost hammer...."Or am I missing something, and it's really just those mean, nasty, conservatives' fault".... Obama had the Democrats against him when he gave money to the banks upon gaining office with the Neoliberal GFC raging on. Then he started introducing truly Progressive policies (e.g. Obamacare) but by then the Republicans were against him, and they also started playing chicken over the fiscal cliff and just about everything else Obama has tried to do.
-----------------------------------
Oh, by the way, as Abbott would say: We have a mandate, get out of the way!... But of course, like Obama, Abbott can't do anything and it's all "just those mean, nasty, progressives' fault"....
Darius, 
Abbott hasn't stopped, fixed or restored anything!
The only thing he has done for sure is to plunge the Coalition in the polls and in the opinion of the Australian People, thus ensuring to lead this Government to defeat after just one term... Are you happy with that?That's certainly a good point: vested financial interests do indeed run most of the show in the USA. But I must also say that not all politicians are just passive puppets of such interests. For instance, I always had the impression that Dick Cheney wasn't just a puppet, he was proactive and pretty much under control (especially of GW Bush)....Oops!... Yes.scupundi:
a) The boats keep coming, and the aeroplanes keep bringing "illegals" too.
b) The ETS is Labor long-term policy, you have become addicted to the "carbon tax" it seems, get some rehabilitation treatment. Direct Inaction is just a gift of hard-earned taxpayer money from the Neoliberal Government to their mates in Big Business (the polluters).
c) Our fiscal trajectory under this Neoliberal Government is: NOSE DIVE! Whereas under the previous Labor Government was: responsible both financially AND socially!
d) In Abbott's parlance "reinvigorate the federation" just means: "I want to increase the GST but I don't have the guts to do it, so let's con the States into doing it themselves. If I increase the GST, those bloody Laborites will pay for the government expenditures and I can save money to my mates in the big end of town.... he, he... genius!""I am amazed that the Coalition is still leading NSW polls"....
Hi Reinhard, 
Newspoll is currently giving a 55% 2PP to the Coalition in NSW but using this model: a) the 2PP for Labor is just the primary vote for Labor plus that for the Greens; b) There is about a 12% of primary votes for "others" and Newspoll is giving 100% of those votes to the Coalition in the 2PP (presumably based on preferences from the last State election). Is (b) a reasonable assumption after the ICAC Liberal debacle?... I frankly don't think so. I suspect that the race is far closer in NSW than what Newspoll wants us to believe....
As for Qld, it's all in the hands of Clive Palmer. If he directs the PUP preferences to Labor, the ones to be gone will be both Newman and his Government..."will Clive run out of members to allow re-registration or employees to bankroll as MP's".... Unlikely, SVJ, Palmer is rather creative, as you may have already realised, and the PUP voters don't seem to care much. 
In any event, I have absolutely no idea how the PUP works internally and who they will pre-select to run. What I know is that they are small in numbers and therefore are unlikely to wield power except in the Senate and only under specific circumstances. BUT, they do have the very real capacity to sink the Newman's Government in Qld and to help sink the Abbott Government federally.... If they do so, that's "mission accomplished" as far as I am concerned."three in Melbourne and a staggering eight in rural and regional Victoria".... Exactly!
Don't worry about Labor's primary vote in the polls too much (let alone the silly "best Premier" beauty contest). Victoria is the strongest State for the Greens (relatively speaking) and therefore what really matters is the 2PP vote. That's what is shown in the polls, and there is an urban effect there. What's truly essential is that Labor wins further seats in regional Victoria, where the Greens have no chance whatever. This will become in fact a Labor-Greens pincer movement to oust the first one-term Coalition Government in the series.... more will follow next year using the same strategy!"The pro-totalitarian left have shown quite a high tolerance for the slaughter of the innocents over the last century or so"... The pro-totalitarian right (both of the brute Nazi-Fascist and the more sophisticated Capitalist kind) has been a worthy competitor.
"by those who would see the West as occupiers"... The West ARE occupiers, OUB. That's why many Arabs also see us as enemies.ISIL is flourishing where al Qaeda flourished and before that Saddam flourished.... are we moving forward or backward in your opinion?"knee-jerk anti-Americanism masquerading as anti-imperialism"... Hey, Matthew, do you have any clue what the French, Brits and Americans have done in the Middle East since at least Napoleonic times? At various times the West has either colonised (Algeria, Tunisia, Egypt, Palestine....)  or arbitrarily rearranged borders (see Iraq) or cunningly supported totalitarian regimes (see Saudi Arabia) at their will and for their own strategic purposes. The current turmoil in the Middle East is in part a rejection of those imperialistic influences, and Iraq as a major battleground is not a surprise. Iraq is an unstable political entity in search for a stable equilibrium. The way we have militarily interfered is just making the process more lengthy and painful.
Worried about ISIL?.... To paraphrase Groucho Marx: if you don't like them, don't worry, the Middle East as got others!Hi Rose, yes I know that the article is framed around the issue of Orwell and Hemmingway vs jihadis, but I find the topic a bit light and I prefer to focus on a small aspect of his article (as per quote) that I think is far more relevant. Hence my comment.From a pure legalistic perspective, if we define group A as an enemy, and citizen B goes overseas and fights alongside group A, that citizen has surely committed a crime: collaborating with the enemy, treason.
The Parliament should be in the position to introduce the laws that determine whether group A should be considered an enemy so that any citizen collaborating with it could be charged of treason by the judiciary. Unless the citizen has not broken any Australian law s/he is free of doing what s/he wants.
But my concern is that we have got a very serious problem in the Middle East, that the world can't solve simply by legalistic means.Howard could get away with introducing the GST because it was done during a period of mass personal indebtedness and a spendathon that never seemed to end, as credit cards built up debt upon debt. The GFC has changed all that, and the Abbott Government is making things worse for the majority of Australians. Hence if he introduces such a regressive and socially disastrous tax as an increase in the GST at this point in time, he will be made political mince meat.... Oh well, not that I would discourage him, of course!!!Whitey, it is regressive because the more you earn the less you pay as a percentage of your income. Those in the lower percentiles of the income distribution spend far more of their income in GST-taxed goods and services and have a smaller saving capacity, in absolute terms and relative to their income, than those in the upper percentiles. This is not a "slogan from the left", this is a fact!
"I know some people on very high incomes who spend all they earn".... Yeah, and I know a two-headed person.... Exceptions confirm the rule, and in any event, those earning a lot and spending everything do so because they CAN, those spending everything in the lower percentiles of the income distribution do so because they MUST: you don't further increase the tax burden on them!
Sorry Whitey, taxation is an important issue, but the GST path is the easy but wrong way to go.Zing, the rich invest a big chunk of what they earn... the less well off can't invest, they mainly consume.... and pay GST! That's why a flat rate tax on consumption affects relatively more the less well off than the better off.
Exactly, whogoesthere. Imagine increasing the GST rate and also expanding it to include food and other items currently exempt. These are some of the items in the list as per ATO website:
most basic food
some education courses, course materials and related excursions or field trips
some medical, health and care services
some medical aids and appliances
some medicines
some childcare services
some religious services and charitable activities
supplies of accommodation and meals to residents of retirement villages by certain operators
cars for disabled people to use, as long as certain requirements are met
water, sewerage and drainage

"Howard introduced the tax successfully because most Australians considered it the best way forward. I still do, and I can't see any viable alternative"... I do hope that Tony Abbott agrees with you and goes to the next election with a plan to increase the GST. According to you he will win, because most Australians will consider it to be the best way forward....
My hypothesis is that he will lose, because the times are far harder for most families now than they were when Howard introduced the GST...
I hope that we may have the chance of testing those hypotheses in 2016....Hey, ahld, even the ABC FactsCheck's Promise Tracker gives 8 (EIGHT) Abbott' LIES (euphemistically referred to as "broken promises").... Julia Gillard is starting to look more and more like a saint, isn't she?Yes, the Liberals are producing that work of fiction and have tried desperately to recruit both of them for the cast.... to no avail!C'mon gbe, you know that nobody is going anywhere: Tony Abbott or Bill Shorten.... They will face each other in 2016 and the voters will simply vote for the guy who is not Liberal....Disraeli, 
Abbott doesn't want a review really, he just wants an excuse to introduce an increase in the GST, but blame others for it.... Nope, it won't happen. He should stand up, take a big breath .... and courageously walk the plank! His mates in big business will be behind him with their swords, making sure that he doesn't stop.... as the People of Australia are waiting below, circling in the water, with our jaws open....Giving taxpayer money to polluters is a form of subsidy.... Where are the Neoliberals crying against subsidies and in favour of the unleashed forces of the free market? Not only that, this is a total waste of taxpayer money as there won't be any guarantee that the targets will be reached, will be meaningful and they will be properly monitored. So, this is taxpayer money thrown to the dogs.... Weren't we in a serious debt crisis and desperate to get out of the deficit?... 

If anyone is looking for a textbook case of crap, self-contradiction, policy mess mixed with opinion poll desperation and all blended with a Neoliberal ideology that is still addict to mindless Populism.... just study this Coalition Government of incompetents!.... Have fun!

P.S. First Ipsos-Fairfax poll (to replace Nielsen from now on) 2PP: 51% ALP.... the Long March to Canberra is unstoppable....Ah, thanks Edward, I was expecting that. It is true that these polls have a margin of error of 2-3%, hence each poll, taken in isolation must be seen in that perspective. HOWEVER, ALL the six major pollsters are giving exactly the same result: a win for Labor.

Galaxy: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP
Newspoll: 53% ALP vs 47% L/NP
Morgan: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP 
Essential: 53% ALP vs 47% L/NP
ReachTEL: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
Ipsos: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP

You can actually test for the statistical significance of this trend, and indeed it's statistically significant (Sign Test): P = 0.01. Therefore your argument is not valid. To become valid, you have to wait until some of the pollsters give a greater value of the 2PP for the Coalition compared to the ALP.... Happy waiting.... as we keep on marching! 
"The constant stream of alarmist prognostications have all been proved to be hoaxes".... John, frankly, don't you get tired of repeating the same crap and falsehoods again and again in spite of having been debunked ad nauseam?.... I mean, is it in your contract or are you seriously that thick? Read this, from the latest IPCC WG1AR5 report, Summary for Policymakers:
"Climate models have improved since the AR4. Models reproduce observed continental- scale surface temperature patterns and trends over many decades, including the more rapid warming since the mid-20th century and the cooling immediately following large volcanic eruptions (very high confidence)".
You can read the full report over the summer break.... keep cool, though..."Direct Action is a farce"... Hi Reinhard, Direct Action was never intended to be serious. What I truly can't understand is why the Coalition lack the courage to openly defend their denialist convictions. Why is that they have to sneakily hide inside an empty shell of false "action"?....
Hide the boats
Hide denialism
Hide the soaring debt
Hide the increasing unemployment
Hide the truth..... but they won't be able to hide from the Voters!.... and giving away hard-earned taxpayer money to the Big Polluting industries is in the interest of who?I am not truly familiar with Brand's thoughts and views, but they look like just another brand (pun not intended) of anarchism; which, with it's focus on the individual, almost joins with the tip of the other end of the political distribution: Randian libertarianism. 

In any event, there is no such thing as "anti-politics", there is only good politics or bad politics. "Anti-politics" only seems to be a desperate reaction to bad politics (interesting that it coincides with the beginning of the end of Neoliberalism, the bad politics du jour): a transitional state in search of good politics. The danger of an anti-politics delusion is that it could lead to withdrawal into individualism and isolation from democratic action, thus paving the way to "horrible politics".... or Revolution (here Brand could be right). In fact, there is a current attempt to start a Revolution in Australia, but not the kind that Brand would envisage, I guess. It's a backward-looking Neoliberal Revolution hidden inside the Budget from Hell.... but the anti-revolutionary forces are fighting hard with a pincer movement from across the Senate....."If you think anarchism is all about the individual"... 

schneids,
 
Just to keep it simple, the Anarchist Bakunin, for instance, was concerned about individual liberty and he rejected the herd-thinking of collectivism. He obviously highly regarded the concept of social cooperation but as the best route towards the achievement of such individual liberty. Moreover, for him individual liberty is achieved only when the rest of the individuals are also free.  

Therefore the social in Bakunin's Anarchism is a route to achieving individual fulfilment, hence his rejection of authoritarianism..... and the convergence with Libertarianism.

I am not saying that they are the same, by the way, what I am saying is that: "almost joins with the tip of the other end of the political distribution"...."The reason it took Marx five years to sell Das Kapital is because it takes five years to read Das Kapital."... Too true! Those interested in an introduction to Marxism are advised to start with Engels....
You make some good points in the rest of your post too, David.That's a bit naive, WS. What about looking at politicians as individuals who respond to the increasing damaging effects of the media influence. .... Hmm, where should we start, let me think..... Oh, of course: Murdoch's "KILL WHITLAM"!!.... and gees, the old man is still around and still poisoning our political life!!!"Labor have learnt nothing!".... But the Liberals will soon learn what Barrie is talking about: at the Vic, Qld and Federal elections!!!

Write it down and bet on it, ahld: The Napthine government is GONE!

Just to save time, I also answer to cameco96 below. The fate of the Newman's Government is 100% in the hands of Clive Palmer. If Clive directs his preferences to Labor (which I would expect he will do, given his hatred of the Newman Government), then the LNP is gone.... That would send an absolute electroshock through the spines of Liberal politicians across the country.... Looking forward to it, actually.

To my very many Liberal admirers (so thrilled with my extraordinary predictive power), I have to say that the NSW election is a big question mark. The ICAC investigations have seriously damaged both major parties, but the latest news involving Liberal politicians may have given some respite to the badly battered NSW Labor Party (I am not surprised that a bipartisan stench comes so strongly from NSW, the home of Australian Neoliberalism). Current polls give a substantial margin in favour of the Baird Government in the 2PP, but I noticed that they calculate the 2PP by assuming a 100% preference of the "others" category flowing to the Coalition, based on the last State election.... I am not sure how realistic that assumption is now."If Clive can keep his party registered he may garner a vote or two, back to the teacup Alpo....".... Sleep well SVJ, and happy dreaming. Crickey's Poll Bludger gives an overall national first preference for the PUP of 3.8% (across polls). BUT for the State election in Queensland the PUP is polling at more than 10%....
The Qld State election will be decided by Palmer: latest primary votes for the two major parties: 38.5% LNP vs 38% ALP (the Greens are polling at 10%).... In fact, currently the 2PP favours Labor: 51.5%....
I hope I haven't ruined your dinner....I will just focus on the GST. A broad base consumption tax is a typical brainchild of Neoliberal ideology: increase Government revenues by spreading the pain equally across the population, which inevitably affects those earning less more, in proportion to their income. Hence, the GST shifts the burden of supporting Government to those who can least afford it!!
That's just politically and ethically WRONG! The burden of keeping Government and public services functioning must fall far greatly on those who benefit more from Government support, assistance and the use of public services and also public infrastructure in the production of their wealth: namely the Big Companies and the richest individuals.
So, revisit individual and company taxes, clamp down on evasion and export of capital overseas, remove discounts, loopholes, subsidies and tax minimisation strategies. Show some guts and don't fear retaliation. Once the political momentum is shifting, no anti-MRRT Neoliberal brouhaha and propaganda will be able to stop a determined Government!!
.... As for the issue of bipartisanship, nothing whatever will happen until Tony Abbott and his gang of extremists are gone... Remind us about "bipartisanship" after the 2016 Federal election, Barrie. I am sure that PM Bill Shorten will be extremely keen on that.... but perhaps the Liberals won't...?Pay attention, Ben, I have repeated ad nauseam that under Keating Australia went through a Neoliberal-light set of reforms.
Hence my statement is perfectly correct....Good point. I must admit that I am starting to listen with more attention to what John Hewson has to say.The wiser former Liberal politicians become the more they distance themselves from the current bunch of Liberal incompetents in Government....ahld,
Please read above my reply to Ben and also my many old posts where I expressed my views on the Neoliberal-light reforms of Paul Keating (I expressed specific negative views regarding the Dawkins tertiary education reform, for instance, a clear Neoliberal policy).... So, full consistency from me, hence I stand tall on my moral high ground.... What about you?Write it down, I am against an increase in the GST no matter who suggests it, especially given the very hard times most Australians will be going through in the next few years, and I doubt that a Shorten Government will consider it. However, I would strongly support a renewed and more substantial MRRT and other tax initiatives targeting the tip of the income distribution and especially the major companies (including the foreign multinationals). They will always cry that they pay already too much in taxes anyway, I don't care if they cry a bit louder.Read all my posts in this thread, Edward.... You guys seem to be running in circles....Nobody is going to abolish the GST now, TOJ. But Abbott is the only one determined to increasing it.

"I sure could do without paying $73,000 in GST"... Thank Howard for that, mate.... and don't make the same mistake twice, please!"and now applied across Europe - the home of neoliberal extremism??".... Hi Iggy, Neoliberalism started spreading as an economic-political dogma across the Capitalist world in the late 1970s and early 1980s. A major brand of Neoliberalism has it's historic roots in Austria (Hayek started his career in Vienna, but  he eventually moved to the London School of Economics) dating back to the pre-WWII period.
In any event, I would absolutely love to see Tony Abbott riding to the next election on the back of a plan to broaden and increase the GST.... be my guest!Who, absolutely nothing is happening now that wasn't happening before.... NOTHING!... We don't have more terrorism, or more wars... The only thing that is morphing is the level of authoritarianism within this so-called "Liberal" government. In addition, the level of desperation of the Abbott Government is also increasing, given that the opinion polls are not responding to their series of scaremongering tricks. Brace for an unprecedented level of paranoia-fuelled desperation as soon as the one-term Victorian Coalition Government is booted out in November ...
I am still waiting for the final details of that story, but one person involved in a stabbing episode with two armed policemen who finally shot him, does not call for a hardening of national security policies, but in the deluded mind of a Neoliberal Government desperate to keep this Democracy under their strict control. BTW, you did notice that the episode occurred immediately after this brouhaha started and since then nothing else has happened, do you. If there was a generalised fear for lone wolf terrorists, where are they?.... Sorry, but there is nothing here, just the desperate attempt by this incompetent government to hang on to power for as long as they can: one term, as far as I can see.New draconian and authoritarian laws to protect us against extremely stupid terrorists?.... How stupid is the Government then, OUB?Day 30 of the Shorten ALP Federal Government, some time in late 2016: "We are glad to announce that the security issues that led to the passing of the Telecommunications (Interception and Access) Amendment (Data Retention) Bill 2014 no longer apply and my Government will introduce a reversal to the previous legislation which has already served us very well".... New bill passed in the Lower House by the ALP majority and also in the Upper House with the support of the Greens.... etc., etc.Quoting the author: "No proper case has been made for this increase in capability for surveillance of private citizens."... That's the point, Scott. And so, IF the ALP finally decides to go for it lest they are accused to "opening the doors to terrorism", they should remove the legislation as soon as they are in power by saying: "the doors are now closed enough to terrorism without this legislation".... You do realise that what's at stake here is not the RSPCA, do you?
The Liberals are putting all their eggs into the scaremongering basket: boat people, terrorists, Putin... and are hoping that Labor falls into the trap. What they don't realise is that they only need to fall once to break all their eggs!!!"We definitely need another report because to date, no one has been able to show an even remotely definitive scientific link between any observed climate change event and greenhouse gas emissions"... de Brere, I think that "internet torture by repetitive nonsense" should become a crime.... I hope that it could be a deterrent from inflicting torture by repetitive nonsense upon others.... Alternatively, do provide your evidence to falsify the hypothesis that greenhouse gases emissions are contributing to global warming.... So far, nobody has provided such evidence....Show me the paper that disproves anthropogenic global warming via the greenhouse effect!.... Waiting.... and please, I need a definitive prove, not any wishy washy argument."When hope is lost, people start to take matters into their own hands.".... Neoliberals know that, Lioness, and their solution is: Give more funds to Police and the Army, and introduce more draconian, anti-democratic laws. This will have the double advantage (they reckon) of keeping the enraged People at bay, whilst they continue introducing their Neoliberal restructuring of society: where the rich become richer and the rest live a zombie life.... often in jail!.... as characters such as Murdoch are falling from a tree, they will always extend their hand to try to grab a last apple....."Why don't we try and tone down the hyperbole, hmmm?".... Truth hurts, hmmm?Ben, were you around during the Rudd-Gillard governments? I was, and the despicable plan to undermine our Democracy, clearly manifested by the Murdoch press, was exactly the reason why I joined these The Drum comments in the first place!.... So, thank Murdoch for the birth of Alpo!!!Murdoch's solution to youth unemployment is to "free" the private sector from government regulations. He reckons that the trickling down is only prevented by a government plug!!... Clearly old foxes lose the ability to invent new tricks....Just youth unemployment, Jonathan? 
These are the latest figures for the combined real overall unemployment and underemployment from a Ray Morgan poll taken between August and September 2014:
NSW.....16.9%
QLD......18.3%
VIC.......19.4%
WA........16.0%
SA.........19.0%
TAS.......27.2%

That's what's "trickling down" from the Neoliberal "cornucopia".... precious little!!! This Government of Neoliberal Liars have no answer whatever to this crisis, hence Labor MUST put this issue at the very top of the political agenda both Federally and at the States level.
Yes, unemployed youth tend to convey their energy and creativity through often very nasty activities (see the bizarre phenomenon of the "evil clowns" in France). In the past, politicians just sent them to war to be used as cannon fodder, in the nuclear era, we better give them free education and then support them with a productive job! The Private Sector won't be able to solve this problem, an active Government is urgently required.... Bring the Federal Election forward, please!!!"It does not mean the approach taken by the Australian Liberal Party."... I have explained the complex reality of the Liberal Party very many times here Forrest. So, this is what your Party is made of:
a) A core Neoliberal group that is currently in charge and that hates the "guidance and rules of a strong state". They are trying their best to dismantle the welfare state and push harder to shift the responsibility of social affairs to the private sector, in a user-pay approach.
b) Abbott is not an enthusiastic supporter of such Neoliberal approach. He is obviously a Liberal in his emphasising of the private sector, but his is more of a Populist and Traditional Conservative with a strong Catholic flavour. He indeed doesn't dislike a stronger role for the State, especially when it comes to curbing liberties and diversity of opinions. Even Hayek was criticised for being allured by the temptation of introducing Neoliberalism under the protection of political Authoritarianism (see his support for Pinochet's Chile).
c) And there is a group of more classical Liberals as well, along the line of J.S. Mill's liberalism. 

Finally, Neoliberalism is not the same as the old fashioned 19th century laissez-faire, here we may agree, but the role of the state in Neoliberal Nirvana is that of making sure that nothing and nobody in society interferes with the rules of the big fish eats small fish. That is, the State must protect Competition, which is the core value of Neoliberalism. We, Social Democrats, hold Cooperation as a core value and welcome competition only when it produces goods for ALL not just a few.
I hope that you finally understand what is what....You are correct, John51. Although Competition is central to  Neoliberalism from an ideological perspective, it does indeed tend to produce, over time, a stable equilibrium whereby the economic activity is controlled by a relatively small number of very big players (the smaller players have been outcompeted). It is only thanks to anti-monopoly laws that a few additional competitors are allowed to survive, often just as a token gesture to the law, whilst most of the market is under the control of the big players.Forrest, you are approaching that dangerous threshold whereby rationalism gives way to irrationalism... stop before you plunge into an irreversible process.
If you don't know what Neoliberalism means, just do some work before rushing to reply. 
Good luck!It comes from Hayek's "The Road to Serfdom", one of the Neoliberal bibles.... they read it, and they believe it. That's why they are happy becoming slaves within a Neoliberal regime. Because they believe that for as long as they are not "Socialist" they are "free".....Of course the international flow of goods, services, information and people is not going to disappear at all. What it must change is the international flow of benefits!!! It is not the workers in rich countries who should become poor in order for the economy to become "more competitive", it is the workers in developing countries who should become wealthier!!!"Where was his concern when he purchased his inner city Melbourne home for 1.4 million"... Did he pay for it in cash or has he got a mortgage? Given than you seem to know so much about Green, you may perhaps like to explain to us?
In any event, your more pertinent question should have been: How much do you pay in taxes, Jonathan?
That's the point: earning is perfectly fine, just pay your due taxes!!! It is on this score that the supporters of the Liberal Party blatantly fail. They earn but don't want to pay any taxes! Redistribution through taxation is a major way to reduce inequality of opportunities and wellbeing!Do you want more volunteers?... Give the People a job that pays enough to have a decent life in this rather expensive country, and you will see the volunteers flocking back and happy to contribute to a society that is capable of giving them a respectable life.... It's simple, it's not hard!!
.... Other solutions are just band aids that ignore the fundamental issues!!That's a good point, Helvi. Volunteerism shouldn't be seen as a replacement for professional paid jobs. Yet, even when the core services are in fact carried out by paid professionals, there will be probably still space available for much socially useful activities that can be carried out for the sheer pleasure of it. I wouldn't discourage those activities at all. In fact, they help spread an appreciation for the value of Cooperation in society."Many families come from backgrounds or countries where the idea of volunteer community work is alien."... I strongly disagree with this. The sense of community and helping each other is broadly spread across all cultures of the world. It's a fundamental human behaviour. HOWEVER, for as long as immigrants feel alienated, if not rejected, let alone subject to ethnic/racist attacks, then they won't feel part of the community and therefore they won't have any interest in contributing with their volunteering. If they volunteer, it would be only within the confines of their group.... That's not good and it can be changed by better welcoming them and appreciating their specific contributions.I fully agree blax5, see my very first post above. Volunteering is more likely to occur when the people (whether pre- or post-retirement) have a good job/pension that satisfies their material needs. Then they may think of using their spare time for some community work.Interesting contribution. Thanks, C.Well, my dear Liberal Stormtroopers, you may otherwise follow Forrest's advice and get 0% taxes, so you can get next to nothing for everything you have.... It's your choice!Michael, it's simple:
- Free Uni/TAFE education for all
- Get a job after you graduate
- Pay high taxes (and higher the more you earn)
- Taxes finance free education for all

Let's hope that graduates earn as much as they possibly can, so that they pay a big chunk of money in taxes that can then help others get a tertiary education. 

If you didn't want to get a free tertiary education and just learned your trade in the "school of life", you still pay taxes according to your earnings and your children are free to choose between free education or following on the footsteps of their dad... etc.   In short, the system works within a framework of social cooperation and mutual obligations, and it also gives the freedom to anyone of pursuing other avenues in life if they choose to do so.... Nice, isn't it?
Morale amongst Universities staff is at an all-times low. The 50+ year olds are looking forward to retire as soon as it is financially feasible. The young are facing a work environment of ever increasing demands and ever decreasing professional satisfaction, all abundantly peppered with threats and expectations of overwork, including week-ends.  The model of University-as-Business is failing our Australian students and it's not always up to the expectations of the overseas students who pay big bucks for their degree.
.... Thanks heavens I retired.... but my wife is still living the Neoliberal University nightmare!"Why not use our tax system lift the whole nation."... Oh, no no, Skoda. The Neoliberal idea is to give more money to characters such as Gina Rinehart, so that she can buy existing companies such as TV channels, that she can then use to make more money for Gina Rinehart.... You see, it all "makes sense" does it?What this Government doesn't get is that many traditional Liberal voters are in the middle and some even in the lower percentiles of the income distribution. Many Nationals voters are even more so. So, with their delusion born out of a fixation with the top 5% end of town, the current Liberals are risking to lose a big chunk of their traditional vote, not to speak of the Centrists swingers. 

Our culturally entrenched sense of the fair go is no more no less than a core Social Democratic value, that has now become part of the political fabric of this country, especially since Whitlam. That's why Howard needed to find some scaremongering ploy (such as the asylum seekers) to help him in the introduction of Neoliberal policies. Abbott is trying the same trick with the intention of going even further, hoping to reach the purity of the Neoliberal Nirvana.... but the international conditions have completely changed since 2008, and their failure is virtually guaranteed.

Australians are both Individualists and Socialists, Cooperative and Competitive, Altruist and Selfish, Short-termists and Long-termists, and we live and act in our eternal quest to find a satisfactory equilibrium....Forrest, the only scam comes from the Denialist side... and yes, the World is recovering from that already and moving forward to a more sustainable way of life.... Care to join us?Billy, you are fighting a yesteryear battle. The no evidence whatsoever crap has been debunked by real scientists again and again. In fact, the major industrialised countries are ALL taking serious steps to curb CO2 emissions and transition towards a lower-carbon economy. EVERYBODY is coming on board, the laggards like Abbott's Oztraya will be either outcompeted or forced to accelerate the rate of change as soon as we get rid of the deluded Coalition.
But please, do keep repeating again and again the already debunked denialist talking point.... if that makes you happy.
We are moving on.....Did you get a little fall in your electricity bill today (probably only worth two or three cappuccinos)?.... Check your next bill tomorrow, mate! Energy companies were certainly put under political pressure to lower their bills once.... and they obliged. But they are not going to do it twice. Very soon the usual "increased costs, international this, unexpected that" will "perfectly" explain a further raise in the size of the electricity bills.... Welcome to the Free World of Neoliberalism!Graham, a few cappuccinos-equivalent once, is not the same as a few cappuccinos-equivalent two times a week, many weeks of the year, for people with little pocket money.... and therefore bad health.... GP co-payment is a total disgrace! Neoliberalism at it's very worst.Thanks for your honesty AE. So, it's the companies who are saving money, not their customers!!... With Labor the deal was the other way around!I am amazed how all the Liberals in this thread are saving money from this policy, whereas others are not. How could a person like Abbott have designed such an incredibly targeted policy?.... Truly remarkable stuff.John, I guess that an AGW-linked drought can't possible cause you any health problem..... or cause floods, or cyclones, or coastal storms, or change in the distribution of contagious diseases... etc., etc.
As for witch doctors scaremongering around, I would worry about those shouting over debt in Australia, but reassuring everybody about the debt when they are in New Zealand, or those scared of some dangerous Islamic plastic swords, or those afraid of "illegals" trying to take over the country, or those trying to concoct some fantasy Team Oztraya to fight Putin.... and the lunacy goes on and on.
.... I wonder how are Truss and Joyce going these days trying to reassure their Nationals-voting farmers that climate change is just a Greenies' fantasy to take over the world. Sure that those farmers saying that droughts are becoming more frequent and severe are just totally ignorant and they are not realising that in fact a Little Ice Age is about to start... or perhaps it has already started following the "hiatus"..... etc., etc.
"None of those claims is true."... Which just demonstrates your ignorance.... as always.
Next please?.... 
"Fossil fuels do not pollute"... Yes they do in the form of their contribution to global warming, that is seriously and negatively affecting the lives of billions around the world and the economies of very many countries.
In addition, fossil fuels also have additional direct polluting effects as in decreasing the quality of air in big cities: ask the Chinese about that. 
But look John, think positively: if we save fossil fuels now, we can then use them in 10,000 years time to heat the planet up as the next Little Ice Age does come.... it just requires a little bit of intergenerational business planning, is that something that Neoliberals would consider?
Actually, Theos, they pollute even when they are not burnt... ask the Alaskans what they think of Exxon..."You just can't bring that many people out of poverty with solar cells and wind turbines."... But you can make them sick in air-polluted cities, hence the Chinese are scaling down the burning of coal in the cities.... There are no quick fixes, Forrest, I am afraid. To the benefits we must also add the costs, to understand whether we will end up in surplus or deficit....Forrest, given that you don't understand the science of climate change, obviously you don't see anything wrong with CO2 pollution.... please, don't blame CO2 for that! On top of that, you still don't understand that the particles in the atmosphere that cause air pollution in cities come from the burning of fossil fuels.... surprise, surprise!No Billy, we are not at the max yet, but we are going up.... that's why the warming continues relentlessly.Oh no, not the same "cooling for 17 years" crap again. Look Billy, I told you a million times that even if you take the very unusual El Nino hyper-hot year of 1998 as a starting point, that maximum was exceeded in 2010: 12 years later, or about a solar cycle (which is completed in 11 years)!! the past 10 years have been hotter than the previous 10 years, hence there is no 17 year cooling phase at all, none whatever. Short periods of cooling are not unusual, and you can cherry pick a few years here or there, but the long-term trend is towards relentless warming. There is no evidence whatever for global cooling, let alone an imminent Little Ice Age. Oh, by the way, for the nth time, global warming requires BOTH greenhouse gases (CO2) AND a source of heath (solar radiation). During lows in solar radiation following the natural solar cycles, you can increase the concentration of CO2 and yet register low or no warming....The airlines are too worried about the daggers wielded by their competitors, to care about carbon pricing...Mark, the problem is that too many farmers just vote for the Nationals, because they believe that the Nationals care for rural and regional Australia; or for the Liberals, because they believe that the Liberals care for medium and small business people.... They are slowly learning that they are wrong on both counts!
Once their delusion is over, then the ALP and even the Greens may start to put more of their energy into building up better and stronger links with the farmers. Although some links are already there, I fully agree that they can become much stronger.Crises such as this one are supposed to spark a wave of creative reactions, new initiatives to overcome the problems and resume the economic activity. At the time I remember that I commented here on building abattoirs and freezing facilities in Darwin for the export of meat processes according to Muslim tradition for the Indonesian market. Rather than exporting and slaughtering animals in appalling conditions in Indonesia.
.... Instead, the world stood still, hoping that life as usual would resume as soon as possible....
Australians: We have got a problem!!FREEMAN, 
I agree that passing legislation is not an achievement per se. What matters is to produce valuable legislation and then be able to pass it and implement it. That occurred during the 6 years of the last ALP Government.
What's happening with this Coalition Government, however, is that they are producing crap legislation that they want to rush through Parliament, but so far they are not succeeding really.You first write this: "Predictably, you all create straw men arguments"... Then you write this: " chaotic gilliard years while 560 stupid, contentious bills were rushed through"....
... If you want to clown, look up for the nearest circus, we are pretty busy here ....Freeman, had you paid attention to the opinion polls since December you would have realised that the People seem to crave a return to those fabled "bad days of the Gillard chaos, blah blah" of the Liberal Party imagination. The People were promised Heaven, they believed it and voted for the self-defined archangels.... but they got Hell and some pretty nasty devils instead... The true face of this Neoliberal Government was clearly exposed in their Budget from Hell and the People have rejected it.... It's time to go back to Opposition, I am afraid.
Tell Abbott to be my guest and try to win the battles of tomorrow with yesterday's political weapons....It's a regressive tax, that's why Keating backed down and then fought Hewson (and won) on the issue.

"In a pertfect world there would be a higher GST and no income tax".... Ha, ha... and you call that a "perfect" world? Where higher income people pay no tax and low income people spend most of their earnings in exceedingly expensive and taxed basic items? That's no "envy" nonsense, my dear Ben, it's madness that inevitably leads to social instability. But fortunately, mad Governments can still be voted out. Victorians are ready!Ben, you are re-writing history, mate. In 1993 there was no Hawke!firthy, you do realise that your post is just your Liberal interpretation of facts, do you?.... "In 1992/93 he argued against it purely for political reasons."... Oh really? Had you listened to the O'Brien interviews with Keating you would have heard that by the time he had become PM he considered the Neoliberal-light reforms that he introduced to have gone far enough and it was time to shift the emphasis to the social.... There was when Murdoch abandoned the ALP for Howard's Coalition, who promised to resume the march along the Neoliberal path.
Oh, btw, you do realise that this is what I wrote: "that's why Keating backed down"... backed down, not never supported... Pay attention when you read, please.To be frank the only idiot here is Tony Abbott who is trying to pursue an increase in the GST by strangling the States of federal funding..... He is just adding yet another nail to his already pretty nailed political coffin.
As for Keating, read all my posts in this thread, try to use your brain as you do so, and I promise you that after a little while of serious effort you may understand...
As for the rest, I will leave it to your Liberal delusion... it's free of charge anyway. The only right thing for the country is to properly tax those who earn a lot but pay very little taxes. After the next election the topic will return, but now without the relative timidity of Rudd and Gillard.
The poor pay their direct taxes and the GST as well, because they have to spend most of their earnings in goods and services to stay alive... try again indeed. You obviously have no understanding whatever of what's going on in the world below the $180.000 p.a. income, do you?
.... Never mind, you will understand soon, stay tuned to the next State elections!Tator, do not confuse the declared (to the tax office) income by the top 10%, with the REAL income. You do realise that the top 10% are expert tax-minimisers do you?  Moreover, the bottom 75% tax payers are counted in the millions, the top 10% are considerably fewer, therefore their income per capita is extremely different. You don't go hard with taxes against those who are at the bottom, even if they are many, because what they lose in taxes and don't get back in public services hurts much more at the bottom than at the top. This is the tragedy of wealth inequality in otherwise rich countries that are poisoned by the toxin of Neoliberalism.Ben, there are Toyota Corolla PPL and Mercedes Benz PPL.... Do you understand the difference? Which one do you think is more useful?If they are the same for the Public Service, why should AT be concerned (see the start of this thread)?... It is the overall PPL scheme that AT was referring to, including the Mercedes Benz bits.... Stay on track and try not to drift into lalaland....Good point Peter. Somehow the Liberals believe that one person earning one million dollars is worth half the value of a million people earning two dollars each.... Hence they are happy to tax the one million people instead....Bev,
Get some course in accountancy. The budget of Operation Sovereign Borders is NOT measured only by the savings, BUT ALSO by the costs. As a result of OSB, MORE asylum seekers are arriving by air, add that to the costs as well, alongside sea patrolling, plus the one-way orange boats, etc. etc.
Do you understand? There is NO net savings until the TOTAL COSTS are factored in!
Try again next time.....Alpha, you have provided no full accounting of the costs incurred by this Government, you just provide "obvious" wishful thinking statements and some fanciful and partial figures. If you call that providing "facts" I can buy you a dictionary. In addition, you mention 200 arrivals by air since October 2013: reference for that is required, please, because for your information even under the draconian Howard regime of the Pacific Solution we had an annual intake of refugees coming by air of not less than 3000!! Yep, 3000 at least, every single year. 
Now we all see why the Australian economy is in free fall. But hey, if we hide it, nobody will notice, as Morrison and Abbott would say!....Jack,
How would a renting, low-middle income Australian (the numbers of whom are increasing) benefit from an increase in the GST but a decrease of taxes paid on rental income from investment properties? Even when costs and benefits cancel each other out in the macroeconomic equation, the social reality can be pretty nasty as a consequence, if the benefits are enjoyed by a small percentage of the population (high income), whereas the costs are paid by the rest (low income).When you don't have enough money to transfer to the rich, get a system in place where you can generate a steady flow from the poor to the rich: increase the GST whilst giving more concessions to the big end of town.
The Abbott Government is engaged in the greatest wealth transfer from the poor to the well off ever attempted in this country!
That's Neoliberalism for you in a nutshell!... If you don't like it, you already know what to do... see you in Victoria on the 20th of November!!mt_syd, you do realise that the Scandinavian countries with high taxation, including the GST, do return a massive amount of that money back to the People through public services do you?... That's why the Scandinavians do not have this paranoia against high taxes, it's not because they are masochist, it's because they can experience the material benefits of it.

What I am saying in my post is something completely different: I am criticising the Neoliberal system that gets the GST from the poor but gives most of the benefits (through tax concessions) to the rich. 

Which of the two models do you prefer?Hi PaP,
I can hear the words in your post shouted loud and clear by an ever increasing number of hard-working Australians!.... This country, under this Government, has lost its Compass!!!Colin Barnett has been in talks with Tony Abbott about the GST. Everybody seems to know about it but you. The States administer the GST, but cannot change it at will.The news about Barnett and Abbott with regard to the GST have been available in the press for a few months now. But I am happy to extend my comment. You do realise that Abbott's ploy has been to take away promised funds for health and education from the States in order to push them into begging Canberra for a raise in the GST? That's a pure and simple political ploy from the part of the Abbott Government, and a really bad one too. 

Taxation is important, but a fair taxation system is equally important. When it comes to taxation, at least two major issues must be considered: the amount raised and also where is the money coming from. Trying to spread the burden of raising tax money in such a way that those less well off are comparatively more burdened is irresponsible. 

So, here we have a government that is trying to introduce an increase in the GST in some way or another, but then repels the MRRT that affects the very high earning mining companies, many of them multinationals owned by foreigners!!!

Do you see the total ideological bankruptcy in all that?Diogenes, the Federal and State governments each year meet to reach an agreement about the co-founding of health and education services. The Abbott Government is reneging of the previous Labor government agreement with the states for an amount of about $80 billion of Federal contribution.
.... Ask the Premiers to try to fill an $80 billion black hole in the States budget if they can!... but an increase in the GST could do it... that's the devious trick! Abbott promised that he wouldn't change the GST, but he didn't promise that the State Premiers wouldn't ask for it.
Pathetic, isn't it?"The LNP Team Australia lied their way into office and no emergency be it budget or terrorist will save them from being booted out come next election"... and that pretty much wraps the whole situation up.Reinhard, this Government has no more political capital left to spend.... They could borrow some, but from whom? and at what interest rate?
... It's over!If the Swedes were "losing" 75% of their income through taxes we would have already seen a Swedish Revolution.... No Swedish People's revolution against the Government to be seen anywhere.... 
You have got a paradox there, John: Try to solve it, if you can!
Hint: What leaves through one door, comes back through the other.More clueless posts from John. John, Germany is phasing out their use of nuclear following the Fukushima disaster, and they are increasing their use of renewables. Their current, temporary increase in the use of coal is simply a short-term replacement for the loss of nuclear. Over the longer-term, coal will be gone too... It's over, John... the fossil fuels industry is heading for the palaeontological museum... where it belongs.Which "number of issues" (note the plural), Alpha?... Do you want to compare with the number of LIES and flip-flopping by Tony Abbott and his Government since the 7th of September 2013?... A world record difficult to beat, eh?Forrest, it's Progressives vs Conservatives in the competition for open mindedness...."The party that has the guts to ban all burkas and niqabs from this Country, will be the party supported by the greatest majority of Australians at the next election. The majority of Australians agree".... What a laughable statement, totally detached from reality. The burqas issue is pretty much irrelevant in the concerns of the vast majority of Australians, except a bunch of Liberal stormtroopers desperate to keep their deludes electoral hopes high by whatever means and a bunch of pro-Liberal paranoid voters. 
Proof: The burqas scaremongering Coalition is currently down in the opinion polls to 47.8% 2PP (average across the 5 major pollsters)!!!FREEMAN, there are not less than 30 regular pro-Liberal bloggers here who have very many of their posts published. What are you talking about?.... That the Greens only appear on the ABC talking about their views in their own words is a very big point in favour of the fairness of the ABC. The anomaly is the TOTAL absence of the Greens from the mainstream Media, except as an object of scorn and propagandistic scaremongering... Is that the joke of a "democracy" you want for Australia? For your information the Greens are the third strongest political force in Australia. Currently polling not less than 10% nationally!"if a party can't win the hearts and minds of voters then they won't get elected."... I agree, hence the role of the manipulative Media: manipulate the hearts and minds of voters so that what they wish is what the Government wants them to wish ("the age of entitlements is over", "leaners vs lifters", "we must fix Labor's disaster", "no pain no gain"... blah, blah). In this case the tactic was to try to brainwash the People through Media propaganda so that they would accept the Neoliberal Revolution that nobody wanted, nobody needs and nobody saw it coming.
... News Flash: THE PLOY HAS PATHETICALLY FAILED!!!!!
What? Still talking about Gillard's non-lie?... Talk about Abbott's never ending string of blatant LIES instead!!!... The man is gone just on the basis of that, imagine when you add all the other disasters upon disasters since the 7th of September 2013!!... First step on the road to Liberal oblivion: the Victoria State Election (latest opinion polls for the VIC State election: ReachTEL 53% ALP; Galaxy 52% ALP).... Bye bye Dennis!From November on they will be welcomed in the Free Republic of Victoria... citizenship offered on the spot! Help will be needed to rebuild this place after Hurricane Coalition...Who would have said: after the very damaging Obeid affair for the NSW Labor Party and the expectation of a multi-term Liberal-led Government, the result of the next State election are a very big question mark!!... Whoever wants to venture a prediction is fooling him/herself... Are you an intelligent, hard-working, honest, caring, well informed person?... Run for the NSW Parliament as an Independent!!! .....It's now or never!"Murdochs seem to carry the "crime""... Crime? Oh yes, join the dots: Murdoch... phone... hacking...trial...UK!"Relax. Australian political life is as it should be."... But it could be far, far better. That's why I congratulate Helvi for not relaxing.... But you can relax, Forrest, and stop barracking for this despicable government.... a brake may be in order perhaps?... Or perhaps not, because you are not relaxing?"It is an easy excuse to blame the lone wolf extremist on mental health issues and inadequate mental health care facilities"... In this case the blame is fact based and your "neither here nor there" sounds pretty much like the usual: If it doesn't fit with my prejudices, I raise the strength of the evidence required.... 
I don't blame you personally for that, it's a very common human argumentative weakness.In the words of Friedrich Hayek (the father of Neoliberalism): "dictatorship may be a necessary system for a transitional period. ... Personally I prefer a liberal dictatorship to democratic government devoid of liberalism".....

A total Neoliberal reorganisation of Society - as it is in the aim of this Government to introduce, against the will of the People - can only be achieved through authoritarian measures. Given that we are unlikely to slip into a full-blown dictatorial regime in Australia, the best way to achieve that is by fear mongering, that will make the People more keen to accept authoritarian initiatives that they dislike.

Under the protection of authoritarianism supported by fear, Neoliberal economic reforms such as those in the Budget from Hell can then be introduced.

That's the plan, that's the propaganda trick to achieve it.... it's up to us to REJECT IT!!!" it's going to be a long ten or 15 years of Tory government".... That's the best absurdum argumentum I have read in a long time, Peter!
But please, do keep dreaming.... it's one of the few entertainments that are still free of charge!.... See you in Victoria next month....

By the way, it's NEOLIBERAL, a well established economic and political school of thought that you have obviously never heard of. Please do make an effort to inform yourself, I have even given some reference books on this subject recently here. Adam Smith is not the same as the Neoliberals Hayek or Friedman...John, just stop that ignorant repeating of crap and lies. Consensus in science is based on the collective evaluation, by professional scientists, of the available evidence, not on irrational or arbitrary agreements. So, learn about science, please, a subject you have absolutely no knowledge about! It is well known than 80-90+% of professional scientists accept AGW, this claim has never been debunked but in the mind of deluded propagandists for the fossil fuels industry.

The Hockey Stick graph is there, in the data, it's always been there and it will never go away, because it's the reality as it is. We now even have our own Australian Hockey Stick to show you.... and you know it, as you have been repeatedly informed in the past!

Since 2005, only one of the studies on climate change consensus has delivered less than 80% agreement (a 60% agreement on the specific issue of legitimation, which also includes dissatisfaction with the IPCC reports for being too cautious!), all the others show between 80-90+% agreement (Bray 2010). 

If you have no idea, John, please do refrain from commenting!



Big Green?.... as compared to the Big Fossil Fuels Industries?.... Ha, ha! You are truly funny, Forrest...
Why coal? Because we are in Australia, and we are coal exporters? Big Oil you ask? Still there and fighting hard to keep polluting at will....
"This ceased to be about the environment quite some time ago"... Yes, the moment that the Big Fossil Fuels Industry saw climate change as a threat to their income and decided to invest their money to stop such threat. What would they care about the environment if they know that they can pay to build their own little and safe bubble, somewhere in the world?... This always happens when a very small number of very wealthy people have the power to decide for all of us!!John, inform yourself: China's imports of coal have decreased and not only because they are using their own coal, but also because their use of alternative, renewable, sources of energy are increasing: 9.8% now and to reach 10.7% by the end of 2014.
It's a relentless (if slow) process that is moving in one direction and one direction only: away from the burning of fossil fuels!... Now you know."It's up to you, Bill Shorten.".... and I add my voice to that of the Liberal John Hewson: Labor MUST stand FIRM against any attempt by the Abbott Neoliberal Government to target the RET!!!
Alternative sources of energy make BOTH economic AND environmental sense. Our path to greater competitiveness in the face of a low-carbon future was abruptly interrupted by the result of the 2013 election,  won by Abbott on the basis of LIES and media manipulation.... but it can be resumed on the basis of an informed vote in the Senate.... and then continued at the next Federal election as soon as this ideologically bankrupt Government is finally consigned to the dustbin of history!


Very good point, Paco. The issue of air pollution caused by the burning of fossil fuels is especially alarming in Chinese cities, and their Government is introducing policies to reduce such urban air pollution."Howard, at a guess, would have been eaten alive. His conduit to the public would have been blown wide open, and the response uncontrolled, and rightly critical and disparaging."... To achieve that Howard only needed to upset Rupert Murdoch, he did so in his last term, and he was gone: From the Prime Ministership.... and from Parliament.
The good news at the moment is that, as you correctly point out, the social media are gathering strength and the current Government of Neoliberal incompetents are helping very strongly in their own demise."between then and now, between a time of transformation and national ambition and the bitterly contested mundanities of the present".... Sorry Jonathan, but I think that you (and nearly 100% of the other commentators in this country!) may be misreading the current situation. There is a current, absolutely historical battle raging on around the world, and Australia is in the very middle of it. The battle is between the moribund Neoliberalism and the renewed Social Democracy. In Australia the battle started with the last Labor Government, especially with their response to the GFC and it has massively accelerated under this  Government of Liars, especially after they showed their true Neoliberal colours with the Budget from Hell. This Government wants to introduce a Neoliberal Revolution that nobody asked for or saw coming, the Progressive side (Labor and Greens) are offering a Social Democratic alternative  that involves a triple focus on our capacity to produce wealth (industry, business, innovation, trade, education...), our capacity to make EVERYBODY (not just a few) enjoy the material outcomes of such wealth production and our ability to achieve those two objectives in a manner that is environmentally sustainable....

Those who keep saying that we are somewhat lost in a little pond of petty personal political squabbles.... ARE POLITICALLY BLIND!.... The Political Battle is in full swing.... and Neoliberalism is losing it!!!!
As far as supporting free University education for all, it is true that the Greens are the only heirs of Whitlam's legacy. Labor is certainly defending tertiary education from the further assault of the Abbott Government, but I hope that the message sent by the Greens will help Labor stand firmer against this aspect of the Budget from Hell.
Life in universities is becoming unbearable: they are understaffed, staff is overworked, and morale is declining at a dangerous rate. Students are overwhelmed by the financial burden of costs of living, fees and debt.... and when they graduate, industry complains that they are not sufficiently trained.... and they import graduates from overseas who have enjoyed free education in their countries!!!There is one thing and one thing only that, from the point of view of climate change, can save the denialists' argument and the coal (fossil fuels) industry in the process: a Little Ice Age. Nothing else will do!... BUT, not a single shred of evidence is available anywhere that a Little Ice Age is about to start, let alone that it has already started!! N-O-N-E!neil,
Stop your delusion and come back to the real world of science... It's warm in here, whereas delusion makes you feel that it's cold.....Realist1:
The problem for those Russians or any other scientist and denialist bloggers in general, is that there is no Little Ice Age whatever to be seen.... Wake me up when you see one. The planet is NOT cooling, it continues its warming trend....1. Planet Earth, warming
2. Abbott and most of the conservative side of his cabinet, many of their conservative advisors, Liberal think tanks such as IPA, many pro-Coalition bloggers here, etc. They deny the reality of either global warming (they believe that the atmosphere is actually cooling) or the more specific anthropogenic effect on warming.
.... Looking forward for more empty rhetorical questions...."Free healthcare and education are the big ticket items most associated with Whitlam's legacy"... as compared to Hockey's: there is no such thing as a free lunch... And that's why the Budget from Hell has been rejected so dramatically by the majority. Obviously, very few expect a "free lunch" these days... but on the other hand nobody will ever accept to starve in the process of trying to get a lunch! Yet, this is exactly the political proposition offered by the Abbott Government, hence their consistent falling in the opinion polls. Latest 2PP for this Essential poll: 53% for the ALP, same as the latest Newspoll!Forrest, the whole life of Gough Whitlam was an endless battle....

... If you didn't know, now you do....The Great Man's life was a never ending battle....!!If you were honest about this: "Today, it is right and proper to celebrate the life of a great man"... You should have refrained from writing this: "His shortcomings and those of his government are well documented.".... You do realise that, do you Forrest?
.... Or perhaps you are just applying infomercial techniques to your posts now?" I wonder what he would say about Australia in 50 years time"... I hope it is: "It was bloody hard work, but it did finally pay off"....Hi Valerie,
Those were the times when we the concept of the "Social" (= fair go, community spirit) was still prevalent in this country. Thirty plus years of Neoliberalism focusing on selfishness and competition have strongly diluted the Social core of this country, but have not destroyed it altogether. A revival, although somewhat disorganised, started with Rudd and Gillard.... It's Bill Shorten's and Labor's challenge to lift the quality of our Social Democracy to new heights."But friends, today we should remember that Gough Whitlam modernised our party, he made our party electable."... John, I know that you have taken the task of "modernising the party" at heart, but don't forget: first and above all it's the philosophy and the political program that matter. There are urgent problems in this country, they need solutions. The bulk of people inhabiting the region in the middle of the political spectrum will not bother about how the leader is elected as much as they will worry about Labor's plan for spreading opportunities, creating jobs and a fair workplace relation environment, safeguard our environment, provide the necessary services in an affordable way, especially education, including higher education, and healthcare. Make sure that those who can most afford it do contribute financially to the common wealth through their fair share of taxes...."and the voters will not lightly return it without there being major change".... Dave, the polls have given a 2PP above 50% for the ALP since December, and even after the totally mad attempts by Abbott to create some space of positive news for him: from the stop the boats crap to MH370, MH17 stories, ISIL and the Islam brouhaha, Iraq.... nothing is working: latest Newspoll gives a 2PP of 53% to the ALP and Essential also gives 53% to the ALP.... The electorate is already bashing this Government of Liars hard and the bashing is relentless.
Whitlam was indeed a powerful leader. Shorten may not be as charismatic as Whitlam, but his team is top of the class, and that's what Australia needs today, far more than a charismatic leader.Are you talking about the Abbott Government, SiletCastaway?.... That's exactly what's happening right now!Barrie, the challenges for Labor are different now. The aim of the ALP is not to return to Government after "years in the wilderness", as it was at the times of Whitlam. the aim of the ALP is to provide a credible program for the future of Australia that ensures our economic wellbeing, in social justice and environmental sustainability. That's the challenge of modern Social Democracy as Neoliberalism is slowly rotting away. 

The issue of unity and more internal Democracy is obviously important, but it's important in a continuous way: it's always necessary to keep a political party evolving through the force of a Democratic engine. The Vision is what really matter, and the Vision is what voters are looking for. We know that the Liberals can only recycle the Neoliberal Delusion.... Labor must offer the Social Democratic Vision!In the same way as every smart government does: Make the government active participant in the economic activity of this country, by providing incentives, tax and smart/productive redistribution of taxes, making sure that profits are also enjoyed by the workers who become consumers and help the economy with their purchase power, make education affordable which will help future productivity and recoup the investment through taxes, do all that in an environmentally sustainable way through appropriate legislation (environmental protection).... etc. Rudd and Gillard started, the path was brutally interrupted by Rupert Murdoch, but it will be reactivated by the People through their vote in 2016... Well, N votes minus one, I guess.... I never expected to persuade you, of course.Rup will be around indeed, but judging from the opinion polls he seems to be unable to convince an unemployed person that it's all his/her fault or Labor's fault. The same with those who can't pay their ever increasing REAL Electricity Bill, groceries, rent... the doctor, school/Uni... etc. It looks like that in this age of the internet, Rup (and his successor) will be only able to manipulate in favour of the Libs when the world is doing well in general (or at least there is such illusion) and the Libs just happen to be in Government at the time due to sheer luck... It reminds me of Howard and Costello, for instance.Hi HPH,
Neoliberalism won the battle of the 1980s-90s-early 2000s... but it's losing the war! 
It's not over yet, I agree, but I don't see Neoliberalism providing any answer to the questions of billions all around the world, including hundreds of millions in economically advanced countries.... nothing much is trickling down.
The traditional Left is currently represented by the Greens in Australia. The ALP represents the Centre-Left. I know that Centre-Left is not "Left enough" for some, but it's "Left enough" for a sufficient number of People in the Centre at the moment. It is those very many people in the Centre that the ALP must be able to attract. 
Becoming too purist and uncompromising, thus confining the whole spectrum of Progressives to a 20% of very enthusiastic and fully committed minority (leaving the rest of the electorate to be attracted by the Liberal/Conservatives), may be "good for the soul".... but it's very, very bad for the country."and have shown no attempts to change that"... If you analyse the Rudd-Gillard Governments objectively, you will see that your conclusion is wrong. Their Governments may have not been spick-and-span, but they clearly showed a departure from Neoliberalism. Starting from their response to the GFC that was purely Keynesian, not Neoliberal. How Neoliberal was the MRRT (with all its faults) or even the NBN, a massive Government investment that would have made Hayek and Friedman turn around in their graves... and then the NDIS... etc. So, let's please open our eyes to reality.DPP, I think you have got some confusion there. Rudd linked his "social conservatism" to his Christian beliefs (many Labor supporters are religious persons, by the way) but his economic policies were Social Democractic (see the crucial redistributive role of Government). This was clearly demonstrated in his and Swan's response to the GFC. That was a purely Keynesian approach that is a politically Social Democratic response. Keynes was a supporter of a mixed economy, with Government interventionist role when needed (see Roosevelt's Social Democratic response to the Great Depression: a very Keynesian approach). Please don't confuse Social Democracy with statist Socialism (of the old school), let alone with Communism. 
As for the MRRT of course it was a taxation system, do mention the word "tax" to any Neoliberal, see how they react.
"Anyway the Social Democrats have been selling out since the 1920s"... This is blatantly false! Social progress has never been so widespread as during the period post-WWII and until the 1970s which was globally marked by Social Democratic policies. In the late 1970s-early 1980s Neoliberalism took over and we now know the results of it.
Those who criticise Social Democracy from the left should make their alternative program clear and be able to respond to the criticism satisfactorily.
In any event, I don't mind to constructively debating others from across the Progressive spectrum but, to borrow from Albanese: I like to FIGHT the Tories!rb, which Europeans? The Germans and the Scandinavian countries? Yes, those Europeans are doing pretty okay and the Scandinavians have followed pretty much a Social Democratic model whereas the Germans have followed a mixture of Social Democracy (see the power of the Unions there) and their own brand of Liberalism known as Ordo-liberalism, which is far more inclusive and gives far more power to Government than the harsher Neoliberalism.
As for the other Europeans, they in fact, like most other countries around the world, were sucked up into the Neoliberal experiment, even left-wing parties fell in the trap: UK (Blair- Labour), Spain (Gonzalez- Socialist), Italy (Craxi -Socialist)... etc."For it is FRANCE that you would wish us to be"... France has gone down the Neoliberal way as many other countries have, BUT they have a very long tradition of Government role in the affairs of the Nation (dating back to the Revolution). Yet, the French do also have a sense of private business and entrepreneurship, their GDP is even higher than that of the UK! France is a country that could bounce back from Neoliberalism successfully.

Australia must continue on her own path to Social Democracy. The fact that we are strongly exposed to the Asia-Pacific region adds a special flavour to our challenges (see the issue of Multiculturalism, for instance).Craig,

Like it or not you are currently trapped inside a Neoliberal Vision Bubble that Abbott and Hockey have built around you... Do you like it inside? How is the bubble being financed? Who is paying for it? What can Abbott show us for all the money spent building the bubble? Has he built any NBN? Established any NDIS?... or Gonski?... Where is the money going as our debt is escalating out of control?

... and costs of living are rising, unemployment increasing, salaries buying power being eroded... are we even going to have a Budget at all?

Buffoons!What are the Liberals "funding" again, maus?... The Liberals are funding nothing at the moment. Oh, sorry, they are funding a war in Iraq, looking for MH370, rescuing the remains of MH17, buying boats for a trip back for incoming asylum seekers.... and more "great investments" into the future of this country.... Clowns!maus, you can't repay anything if you don't keep your income up!... Unless you decide to start repaying the debt by selling the family jewellery... Yes, that's what they are doing now, the Liberals in Government: selling Medicare Private. But you have surely noticed that you can only sell an asset once!.... After that, what are they going to do?A great Labor Leader has left us, but his memory and legacy will endure. He came to power to introduce substantial Social Democratic reforms, just when Neoliberalism was slowly arising around the world. He left us when the Neoliberal political cycle is coming to an end and the renewal of Social Democracy is gathering strength. He lived his life during an historical period of our lives and helped build the foundations for our future as a Nation.
Vale Gough....
"Whitlam's legacy was to set the standard for Labors economic vandalism"... The Keating/Hawke economic reforms set Australia on a path of sustained growth.... well, until Abbott and Hockey, after deceiving the voters with their blatant LIES, took over and are now taking this country right towards our first recession in 22 years.... But following the entrepreneurial spirit, I am ready to become a very wealthy man in 2016 by selling..... baseball bats!"At the time of his dismissal people only knew what the headlines told them".... and at the time of the 2013 Federal election the People also only knew what the headlines told them..... Surprise, surprise in both cases the headlines were written by Rupert Murdoch!"for this person".... Just imagine, Tory Boy, what would you think of me if I refer to Winston Churchill as "this person".... The same I think of you!Time will come when the Governments of Rudd and Gillard will be analysed in the calm of rational historical research, rather than the chaos of the political battle. Don't forget that in the 1970s the Whitlam Government was considered a "disaster", hence he lost to Fraser in 1975... 
Too close to the facts, we may often lose perspective.I know that in the superficial world we live in, if a charismatic person does something good, that something is perceived as being better than if a non-charismatic person does it.... But I thought that you were able to see through the historical silliness of that. Even within the charismatic category the silliness can play tricks. For instance, compare the near aristocratic charisma of Whitlam with the pub-brawl charisma of Keating: both were reformers, and yet I bet that Keating will not reach the same place in the Charisma Pantheon as Whitlam.... But I hope that rational historical research can see through all that....Pragmatists build a country.... but Idealists set it into motion!Never mind, Paul, the Libs will soon find out that "being trashed at an election" still means "being trashed at an election".What you don't seem to understand, reaver (surprise, surprise!), is that to keep an epidemic out of Australia we should be sending specialised personnel to stop it at the source. If we don't stop it now it may indeed come to Australia, then what?
BTW, unwanted people are coming by plane by the thousands.... it's a deluge, and your Government is being swamped!!Coogara, WHO is not desperately requesting for international assistance in this matter because such assistance will not make any difference. There is no "useless assistance" when it comes to health crises in third world countries. There are other foreigners operating there already. Why aren't their countries as scared as Australia is?.... Probably because their PM/President is not the just-scared-to-lose-the-next-election Tony Abbott?We have tens of medical virologists across our medical schools and major hospitals, what are you talking about?.... Sending personnel to Africa helps in stopping the spread at the source. The more active the geographical focus of disease is, the more likely it is that it may overflow outside the area. The reason is very simple: the Ebola virus can have an incubation period of up to 42 days, and during that period you are an asymptomatic carrier. By air, in 42 days, you have already done the trip around the globe several times stopping at dozens of airports and closely interacting with many people.... I hope this tells you something about the importance of tackling any infectious disease directly at the source.... pretending that we are safe in our big island is total lunacy.Fred, if you don't understand what's going on, ask the experts indeed (which is what I do all the time!). Ask WHO or Medicins Sans Frontieres who are already there working hard whilst Abbott recoils in coward horror!

We can both send help and prepare ourselves for the worst case scenario. All at the same time.... we are a rich country for heaven's sake, we are not Bangladesh!GRF,
Keeping the infected cases properly isolated is a first step to prevent the spread of the infection. Helping the populations at risk building up their immune defences is another... To do all that any medical (and other forms of) help should be welcome. If the social frame collapses in those countries, then it's the end! Allowing the epidemic to run amok hoping that after some time survivors will be naturally selected who are immune to the virus, and therefore the virus itself may evolve into less virulent strains is rather risky and inhumane, don't you think?.... But hey, we already know that this bunch in Government are Social Darwinists, so I wouldn't be surprised if they find that kind of reasoning perfectly valid.... provided, of course, that they are not the ones suffering the risk of mortality..reasver,
The best way to keep infection out of Australia is to contain it at the source. That's what the responsible Americans are doing, whereas our useless Government can only speak the language of fear.
.... Boohoo... run in fear, rabbot!reaver, that's exactly the issue: it must remain contained."yes yes, Tony Abbott whatever is whatever times whatever worse ..OK?"... If you already know this, why did you even bother mentioning Labor? Nothing that Labor can do (or have done in the past) matches the debacle of the current Liberal incompetents in government.... But wait, there is more: just fasten your seat belts for 2015, it's going to be a very un-amusing rollercoaster ride!!!.... A message for Morrison: try to turn back the unemployed ones, if you can!!Problem, Alpha?... This is your side's problem: latest Newspoll 2PP fresh from the press, 53% ALP!!!
That's the only problem that matters for you, it's a big one.... and Abbott has shown to have no solutions whatever.
.... And the State election in Victoria is getting closer and closer... The Age of the One-Term Coalition Governments is upon us, Alpha!Hi, michael from perth,
Latest Newspoll for State voting intentions in WA: 50% ALP vs 50% Liberals... Prepare your luggage, Colin, time for departure is relentlessly approaching."is a clear example why the electorate has turned their back on the "workers" party."... Updated 2PP from the five major pollsters: 51.6% ALP.... The Coalition keeps sinking, clete: What's Abbott Plan B?

As for Labor, some of their traditional votes have gone ALL to the Greens, not a single one have gone to the Liberal Party... but many swingers are abandoning the Liberals and preferring Labor. So, the direction of the swing is in one direction and one direction only: TO THE LEFT!!!.... 
"As soon as the first confirmed medical report comes in, the mess will blow up in their faces."... Quite on the contrary. The accusatory finger will be directed to the Abbott Government: Why didn't you help stop Ebola at the source? Now look, it's spread and come here!.... 
Labor will watch and say: Told ya!
.... But by then, we will be all busy trying to stay alive, and this game of recrimination will count to little.... until the epidemic is contained, that is.... After that, some Liberal politicians may spend the rest of their lives in jail!!Zing, the Ebola epidemic is NOT spread all across Africa. The issue of containing it at the source is exactly that of preventing it from spreading across Africa first and then beyond.
The virus can have an incubation time of more than 40 days during which infected individuals are asymptomatic, you can't prevent it from spreading around the globe if you do not limit it at the source in the first place.
.... Yeah, using the brain indeed, that would be a substantial change for some Liberals!"So its the Australian governments responsibility to stop Ebola is it?"... It's the responsibility of the countries that have the financial and technical resources to do so to help in the effort of stopping this or any other infection. Did you really need me to explain this to you?Latest Newspoll: 53% ALP.... I like that kind of infection... keep on spreading it, we truly need one of pandemic proportions to consign the Liberal Party to the dustbin of history for quite some time.... where I hope they will have the opportunity to rethink their current values and throw away the pathological Neoliberalism that is infecting their political brain at the moment.Global warming IS CONTINUING, and the maximum temperature recorded in 1998 has been overcome in 2010. This year we have recorded some of the hottest months on record globally. There is no plateau, just relentless warming and a recent slow down in the warming rate that was coincident with a low in solar radiation that is part of the Sun's cyclical 11-year fluctuation. Global warming is superimposed on that!! 
Satellite temperature data have got problems, surface temperature measurements are more reliable and ALL major sources of such measurements show the same: relentless warming. That's why more and more countries are coming on board with greenhouse gases emissions reduction policies.... although deluded deniaslist bloggers are still living in their fantasy lalaland...Total ignorance, the data used by the BoM, NASA and NOAA have been corrected for urban island effects and other issues that made records in some locations unreliable long ago. Note that satellites do NOT measure temperatures directly, in addition there is heterogeneity in the data collected by the different satellites and calibrating them has been difficult, and data must be corrected for orbital drift.... in other words, forget about temperature data as estimated from satellites, they are pretty much unreliable!
The trend is NOT zero even starting from the much denialist-loved 1968, an exceptionally warm El Nino year! The high temperature of 1968 was overcome in 2010 for your information, and the last decade is warmer than all previous decades on record. Also, just focusing on El Nino years, they have become warmer during the "hiatus", and on top of that other hiatuses have been recorded in the past, in coincidence with minima in solar radiation. The point is that in spite of this short-term minima, the longer-term trend is of continued warming, against the prediction of denialist bloggers that we have reached a tip and a new Little Ice Age is about to begin.... still waiting.
Don't get confused, you obviously are unaware that the current warming trend is a multicausal phenomenon. There has been natural global warming that started around 1600 c.e., that's well known, but what you are unaware of is that on top of that natural trend there has been a further increase in global warming in the 1950s and especially in the 1970s. That's the greenhouse effect of industrial emissions, as it has been accepted by most people now.
Finally, the nonsense about the warming response to increased CO2 concentrations shows little understanding of the phenomenon we are talking about: global warming as caused by CO2 and other greenhouse gases requires such gases PLUS solar radiation. The sun goes through cycles of emissions, hence there are periods where to increased CO2 you do not have necessarily great increases in surface temperature: You need to input the sun into the equation!Paula,
The Liberal tactic is to try to squeeze political gains out of spreading fear, paranoia, and insecurity across the population and then offer pseudo-solutions as a way to remedy the state of uneasiness they plunged the People in. Fear of terrorism, fear of asylum seekers, fear of Ebola, fear of the Greens, fear of Labor, fear of Unions, fear of Science, fear of Muslims... and then offer: draconian anti-democratic laws, inhumane treatment of asylum seekers, propaganda against Greens and Labor, Royal Commissions against the Unions, financial starvation against Science, misrepresentation and scaremongering against Muslims..... In other words, in the hope of being re-elected and also with the intention of introducing their Neoliberal Revolution by stealth, they are sinking our country into a nightmare of violence, fear and authoritarianism.

The Ebola outbreak is an extremely serious medical situation. The countries affected do not have the technical capacity to contain the epidemic. They need help. We must be interested in containing the epidemic at the source, otherwise it may spread and potentially become a pandemic. We have the capacity, both technical and financial, to help. We cannot wash our hands and recoil in the shell of fear, paranoia and insecurity that I mentioned above."I am surprised at how partisan many of them are"... Then you write: "Then go your hardest at Labor and the Greens if they oppose it"... Usual Liberal propagandist. Also, you obviously have no idea about containing epidemics, which must be done at the source first and above all, and this requires  the help of developed countries when the source is in poor countries with no facilities and at high risk of being overwhelmed by the epidemic....  
Africa must no be abandoned on this issue, aid is required to help them isolate the infected ones, keep them in good health so that they may have a chance of survival, the more resistant individuals there are the more likely it is that the virus may evolve less pathogenic strains. We have to be proactive.... or we will regret it.neil.... you can't quarantine a continent!!.... Australia is not a safe island anymore. Ebola incubation lasts several days, an infected but non-symptomatic individual could travel wherever from Africa by any means... The epidemic is either stopped at the source or we are in troubles.Coogara, this has nothing to do with emotions (btw, lefties are far more rational than right-wingers who tend to be overwhelmed by the emotions of fear, hatred, and so on). If you understood about the evolution of virulence among viruses you would realise that it is at the stage where the virus is undergoing rapid evolution that must be contained at the source. That's what was done with SARS and also new strains of avian influenza in Asia. Countries that can't cope with this kind of public health challenges just need help. If we wash our hands, we have only ourselves to blame for the consequences."coal was not only essential for prosperity, both home and abroad, it was "good for humanity".".... Yeah, and smoking is good for your lungs... and for humanity.
Divesting from coal is not only good for the environment.... it's good for your portfolio too: in the past 3 years the Spot price of Newcastle 6000 kcal coal has gone down by 50%!!The only thing that finally saved the Banks and Financial Institutions around the world during the GFC was TAXPAYER MONEY, in the form of Government interventions.... 
Banks and financial institutions MUST be better regulated: a rare confluence of opinions with David Murray.... 
Will he be all talk and no walk?.... Will the pressure of Financial Institutions water down the proposed changes to the extent of rendering them meaningless?.... Let's wait and see.Forrest, and what would you know about photosynthesis and CO2?... Please do tell us, I am truly curious. Are the Romans implicated in photosynthesis?Hey Forrest, with global action the CO2 polluters are controlling the weather.... Do you want to know more?GS,
Abbott doesn't want our medical personnel to go to Africa because he is afraid of becoming infected himself if they come back testing positive.... Yep, he just can't see himself shirtfronting a nearly "weightless", "colourless" thing. He only feels comfortable with inert stuff he can punch.Tory Boy wrote in his post speedily closed to further comments:
"Will our contribution have a direct impact? Probably not.
Will our contribution send a message that whilst we may be a small power, we will stand up against tyranny whenever and wherever we can? I hope so."

The same argument can be used to support our contribution to climate change, Tory Boy... and that was the whole point of the article. So you are actually telling Adam that he is right. This intervention in Iraq and Syria is an equivalent to the intervention on climate change from the point of view of the Abbott Government. But they approach climate change and this military action in opposite ways. The reason for that? Simple: Pure and plain IDEOLOGY!....Historical evidence is not a matter of prejudice, it's a matter of facts. Where are the independent facts of the historical existence of Jesus? The author mentions Tacitus and Josephus. Please provide the short texts from those ancient authors (that could be easily quoted in this article or even a post) to support the case!I wish somebody had written a report like that when Baghdad was bombed during operation Shock and Awe in 2003.... but alas, what we got was mainly "colourful fireworks" and groups of "happy" Iraqis "thanking" the Americans for destabilising Saddam and killing them in the process....

.... but more to the point. I can't possibly imagine that any random reporter would be able to cover the events in a war zone. If you don't have the psychological capacity to somewhat emotionally detach yourself from that reality and mainly use the cognitive bits of your brain, then that kind of assignment is not for you....  But who knows, things may change with time and experience...."The nightmare for OZ continues"... But not for long... 2016 is relentlessly approaching... tick....tock... and the polls continue to be down."and doubts are still raised at every meeting that decisions taken are not properly followed through"... Exactly, one of the major issues at the moment is that of companies using tax heavens or avoiding paying their fare share of taxes.... Hockey agreed in no uncertain terms to that agenda... with a nudge and a wink!

As for growth, you cannot boost growth by shrinking the buying power of the People. Capitalism is traditionally fuelled by mass consumption, but under the Neoliberal model it is supposed to be fuelled by Financial speculation... that's a recipe for disaster.... as we should have already learned!!

These guys are not serious, they are slaves of their Big Business masters and will do nothing to change the status quo. The meeting will determine nothing!!

----------------------------------------------

P.S. Oh please, just stop this "shirtfronting" crap!!! The ancient Romans cunningly introduced the concept of "panem et circenses" to keep the People at bay. Abbott must understand that with all circus but no bread he won't be able to contain the electoral baseball bats!"Putin knows the full intensity of the worlds press spotlight will be on him more than ever after Abbott's comments."... You have got to be kidding me!.... Abbott who?.... Oh, and just to make this whole saga even more fun, Rossiyskaya Gazeta has published a whole supplement entitled "Russia Beyond the Headlines" in today's The Age.... Happy reading, clete...
The EU semi-serious boycott of Russian products is opening greater bilateral collaboration between Russia and China.... Well done EU, now sell your stuff to the Ukrainians!
Luke,
A large and still increasing world population, compounded by increased consumption per capita, is and it will become an even greater problem into the future. It's imperative that we stabilise the human world population. But on top of that, we have to shift to modes of producing life comfort that are environmentally sustainable. The planet may be big, but it's finite. However, materials are virtually infinitely recyclable and energy from the Sun has still a very, very long "life" ahead.True, but some forms of optimism are more delusional than others...Bloody hell, cases like yours should make all of us angry... No, not just angry, but Mad as Hell! Where has the sense of humanity gone in this country under the Abbott Government?
People in your case are being depicted by the Government propaganda as:

1) Lazy
2) Irresponsible
3) Spending all their money on the pokies, fast food, smoke and alcohol
4) Trying to live the high life at taxpayer expense

And the resulting message is that people like you should be Punished for all that, not rewarded.

Under the Abbott Government, that's your country's reward after 60 years of life and work!!! We cannot expect People to decide that their only hope is just charity.... or a "safer" life in jail!!!.... MADNESS!!!
TC, we just pity the poor readers. Imagine, being led to vote against their own interests by the Murdoch propaganda.... But many of them are realising their mistake. Updated average 2PP across the 5 major pollsters: 51.6% ALP!I obviously agree with the fundamental premise of free speech. But as a nation we have to be careful to prevent some behaviours to destabilise society. The law is there exactly with that purpose. We are not inert individual particles just moving around following a random "Brownian motion" (an expression I borrow from Physics). Our movement and ideas tend to coalesce and give raise to organised action by individuals into groups. That's why we have the police to check organised crime, the secret services to check for organised terrorist groups, etc. Hatred potentially leading to violent action is a behaviour that should be closely monitored by society and its representatives, because when hatred coalesces a sufficient number of angry and determined individuals, violence follows, and social instability may spread. This is a very serious issue for any Democracy: how to keep Freedom, without Chaos, and without using the chaos scaremongering to justify Authoritarianism.... It's a difficult balance, but a balance that can be achieved if we are all aware of what's at stake."The only people with the right to decide who should arrive or leave Australia are migration officials , the minister of the department and the courts."... Well, you forget the People who, with their vote, change Government which, eventually, can change the laws that migration officials, the minister and the courts must follow.... Just from memory, it's called: Democracy."Multiculturalism is and has been a disaster around the world, is divisive and creates racist ghettos.".... "Multiculturalism" was considered a very great "success" in the Western world since the early 15th centuries.... when it was colonial powers that increased the level of multiculturalism in their colonies.... And that's exactly the problem. As a consequence of that historical reality, each time a Western country receives large waves of immigrants, they don't think in terms of "immigration" and increased cultural diversity for the benefit of society.... they see it as Colonisation.... the "revenge of the former defeated".... a very Christian sense of past culpability and the coming of the inevitable expiation of your sins.... etc. etc..... PATHETIC!
---------------------------------------------------

P.S. No evidence that multiculturalism is a disaster, by the way! The most dynamic Western economies are those typified by great levels of immigration."If you (like my family) came here on the first fleet, lived and worked on making this country what it is today and passing that love on to the next generation. Who have fought in almost all conflicts that this country that I love has asked of my family, and some that have died for the flag are now consided racist?"... 

Those who worked hard and fought in  wars for this country did so in order for Australia to become a Democratic, Independent and Prosperous society where the Fair Go for All is the Norm not the Exception. They didn't work and fight to defend Bigotry and Racism. Many of them were descendant of poor and oppressed Irish People, poor Scots who had to leave their country, and also poor Englishmen and women who were unceremoniously kicked out of the system by those who considered them to be social surplus. They arrived here and contributed to the historical journey of this country. That journey continues with the work of many others coming from many other places around the world, often leaving their native country for the same reasons your forebears did. 
"The truth of love it or leave it lies there: this is not a consensus conclusion but the angry protest of a minority who feel their view of what constitutes "Australia" is under challenge.".... And that strikes at the very core of this issue. What Australia is, cannot be defined by any specific group, whether they are angry or not. Australia is defined by all Australians as we live and transform this country over time. The only unshakable frame is the law that is current at any given time.... Nobody, even the most rabid nationalist, flag weaving, proud citizen can escape the law. In fact, an illegally acting, stereotypical "Patriot" should be regarded as far less Australian than the average, law abiding Muhammad. 

Love is an emotion. If you want to get emotional, then talk about love for humanity, of which Australia is just one of many geographic and cultural representations.... and we have a very nice collection of the world humanity here to love for generations to come....The article quotes Devine and Bolt writing about this issue before Green did. Are you sick of them too?

Judging from the polls those other people are still less than 50%... keep fuming and hating.... and crossing your fingers.You do realise that the whole issue of the article is to ask what "love it" means do you?There is no more or less love there than the one shown by the Liberal Party in trying to deceptively impose an extreme Neoliberal model of society upon Australia. At least Ismail Alwahwah is open about his objective, whereas Abbott and his Gang remained silent before the election and unsheathed their Neoliberal dagger only after being elected!!"Why doesn't your deeply biased site ever publish right-wing views".... It is your perception that is biased Bill, not the ABC. Just on top of my head, this is a list of recent right-wing contributors to The Drum:
Kevin Donnelly
David Leyonhjelm
Chris Berg
Paula Matthewson
Sinclair Davidson
Malcolm Turnbull
Chris Uhlmann....Pkc,
People who came here after WWII did not come here to "simply enjoy the benefits". They came here to work bloody hard, and thanks to their bloody hard work now Australia can call herself successful economically. Stop being blind to the contribution of others!.... If there is a war now, those going to the front won't be only the Smiths and the Rogers, but also the Yen, and the Hua, and the Gonzalez, and the Rossi, and the Nguyen, and the Bauer, and the Al-Hamdan, and the Krishnamurthy... they will be all there, defending their country.Dear pkc,

ALL immigrants (since 1788) have come to Australia (barring the convicts) because they were looking for something better.

To suggest that recent immigrants and their descendants will not display an equal allegiance to this country when the country is in danger is not speculative, it's just ignorance. They will be defending their home and their families, they are no different to you and me. Be more concerned about the cowards from the upper classes who will probably find any excuse not to risk their lives.

If you still don't understand the value of multi-ethnic immigration, here you have some surnames from the list of senior leadership in the various branches of the ADF: van Balen, Mayer, Uzzell, Holzberger, Sengelman, Turnbull.

Past wars did you mention? A couple of Victoria Cross recipients here: Borella, Starcevich.

It's about time that we stop this right-wing idiocy of dividing the country between those in "Team Australia" and those not in the team, with added stench of ethnic discrimination .... You guys should be pretty much ashamed!Dugong, the ANU has not named for the purpose of shaming anyone. That's your delusion mixed with Liberal propagandistic opportunism. The ANU, unlike IPA, must be open and tell everyone about their decisions (= make those decisions public) and the justifications for those decisions.Peter, the financial success of companies can be affected by politics!
The successful investment is always a mixed result of commercial rationality, luck, psychology, knowledge of politics... and keep adding. That's why not all investors in the share market become millionaires.IPA on the attack! How dare the ANU, one of our two top Universities, challenge the Neoliberal dictum that money is the only thing that matters in investment?.... How arrogant of them, what do they think they are, an institution of higher learning?.... Unbelievable, eh Sinclair?

Now, here is your real worry: ""ANU Seven" have had their corporate reputations trashed by a sloppy process and an arrogant public institution"... Come clean: how many of them are financial contributors to the IPA?... You don't want to tell us? 

Our National Tertiary Institutions have a DUTY to invest in a financially responsible way, and they ALSO should have a DUTY to invest in a manner that is SOCIALLY ETHICAL and ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE. That's the vision for the future: make money by all means but do so in a way that you don't wreck the bloody place to satisfy your greed. 
Michael, you do realise that your concern must be based on solid data not on casual observations, do you? To understand the behaviour of people at the ANU you should survey those working and studying there and see how many of those concerned about climate change come by car and why, how many walk or come by bike or public transport, and how many do the same among the denialists. Then see how many denialists there are overall compared to warmists... etc. ... Hard work to get to the bottom of the truth, isn't it? But that's what academics do!Hitting the poorest harder? That's perfectly consistent with the Neoliberal ideology of this Government. 
Proof:
a) Friedrich Hayek, one of the founding fathers of Neoliberalism, based his economic theories on Social Darwinism: where the successful ones survive and the unsuccessful ones perish and are pruned out of the population.
b) Success, in the Neoliberal ideology, is achieved through the establishment of rules that favour Competition. Competition, and therefore the production of winners and losers, is the concept at the very core of Neoliberalism.
c) At any given point in time the poor are the losers in the free competition under Neoliberal rules.
d) The poor must not be rewarded, lest they become an anti-model. Quite on the contrary, the message must be clear that if you become poor you will be hard hit even by Government.
e) Hence, you better be rich and successful.
.... the Social Survival of the Fittest....Revenues? Oh yes, the Liberals are really, really very worried about offshore tax heavens and tax minimisation schemes by BIG companies. They are making a lot of noise about that, and they are organising meetings and will talk and write down stuff and lots of plans of attacks with no retreat and no surrender.... and as they do all that, they nudge nudge and wink wink at their Big Business financial supporters....Hi madmax,
Your post reminds me of something. On 17 July 2009 the U.S. President Barack Obama delivered a speech to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in New York.
At one point he said this:
"I know what can happen to a child who doesn't have that chance. But I also know what can happen to a child that does. I was raised by a single mom. I didn't come from a lot of wealth. I got into my share of trouble as a child. My life could have easily taken a turn for the worse. When I drive through Harlem or I drive through the South Side of Chicago and I see young men on the corners, I say, there but for the grace of God go I." 
 
But we know that it wasn't for the "Grace of God" that he escaped an almost given fate. He got the help from others: his family of course (mother and grandparents), but also through Government schemes and initiatives. Australia must never lose this sense of community, of social co-responsibility.... that's the only way that a young Aboriginal boy or girl who is today learning the first words at school in a poor, far flung community, could perhaps become our first Obama.... and people like you and many others can still have a fighting chance in life. 

They are very clever, gbe, and I am afraid that you are showing short-sightedness (just like Hockey, Abbott and the rest of the Liberal Gang). Read here, from everybody's ABC:

"A rapidly slowing demand for thermal coal in China has prompted predictions its consumption will peak within two years.

The Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis says it is bad news for the New South Wales coal industry which has pegged much of its hopes for continuing growth on rising demand in China.

Relying on figures from China's electricity sector, the group says imports are at their slowest rate of growth in decades.

Director Tim Buckley says China is diversifying its energy mix and moving away from coal.

"Whilst coal is still 66 per cent of the total generating capacity of China, the Chinese Government has made it very clear for a large number of reasons that they want to diversify their electricity mix, so that they have a lot more nuclear, a lot more hydro, a lot more wind, a lot more solar and a lot more energy efficiency," he said."
TDM,
Please answer one question: Is total coal consumption decreasing or increasing in China? In other words: is the local coal going to fully replace the imports and on top of that add more or is it that total consumption is decreasing and what's going to be used will be mainly local?Divestment is good ethics, good thinking and good business: Win, Win, Win!!"Divestment of taxpayer funding for the ANU"...
 
Albo, you don't seem to be aware that this Government of elitists want to take away money from most universities in order to focus the financial help on just the top ones: The ANU is one of them!!!"Also I'm always troubled when people talk about equality in terms of outcomes. It should be in terms of opportuity, rights and access."... It sounds "reasonable", AJ, does it?.... But it's not. You do start with equal opportunities, but then over time, through life, s..t happens. Once that has occurred, what do you do as a Government? Just say: "Sorry Sir, but you already had your opportunity.... and FAILED! Now face up to the consequences and get stuffed!".... Do you regard that to be the role of Government?... We are in a Democracy (still), how would you expect that person to vote?"The IPA argues we should not focus on the gap between rich and poor but the bottom line, which is improving. Given our attitudes to the gap, this is a convenient position."... Ha, ha, the usual nonsense propagated by the IPA Neoliberals and their stormtroopers here in the Drum. The bottom line is not improving at all! Life in this country is becoming increasingly expensive and therefore poverty increases when there is a government that uses Neoliberal fantasies to ignore the problem, and Neoliberal policies to making it worse!
Proof:
Between 2003/4 and 2007/8 (Howard Government + GFC) OFFICIAL poverty in Australia increased to about 14.5%. After Labor started introducing their social policies, poverty decreased to about 12% in 2009/10. But it took a new Coalition Government to take the rate of poverty up to 13.9%!... The bottomline is heading to the bottom, my dear IPA Neoliberals!Freddie,

There is nothing "relative" about being unemployed, or homeless, or when you live under a roof but are struggling to pay the rent and have to skip lunch in order to do so.... or when you can't keep up with your bills and are in permanent threat of seeing your electricity or gas cut.... and pray, just pray that you are young and still reasonably healthy.
How can you relativise that definition of poverty?

As the pie grows, that kind of poverty is increasing because accessing the basics becomes more expensive in accordance to the size of the pie, but the few gluttons eat most of it and the crumbles are not enough for the majority."The unemployed rate is also historically low"... FALSE! It's higher now than it was under Labor, after recovering from the disaster of the Neoliberal GFC.

"The number of homeless people is low".... FALSE! There are more than 100,000 people OFFICIALLY homeless (heavens only how many more there really are), this is about the entire population of Albury-Wodonga.

"I can't remember the last time I saw a news story talking about all these Australians who have starved to death."... You don't read many stories in the newspapers about youth suicide either.... ask yourself WHY?

"The amount of people living in true poverty in this country is miniscule.".... FALSE! This is from ACOSS: "2,548,496 people (13.9% of all people) living below the poverty line, after taking account of their housing costs"... Do you call 13.9% of the population "minuscule"?

"The rest of your comment is just a false emotional plea that isn't backed up by any evidence."... I have just demonstrated that your IPA-inspired Neoliberal ideology is seriously impairing your capacity of reasoning and severely limiting your knowledge.... Do something about it.... Quick!

The People at the bottom are going through extremely hard times, and the situation is getting worse under this Neoliberal Government of Liars.... But make no mistake.... those People VOTE!
Good question, why do they smoke?.... Think psychology, think stress, and finally think that smoking becomes addictive. There you go, mystery solved.AE,
When you are taken by an addictive drug, quitting is not easy (although it's possible, of course). It does require personal will but also social support.

"And it's not like only poor people have stress in their lives".. Oh no, no. But when I am stressed I take a week off to the Sunshine Coast, in a nice hotel and enjoy the relaxing waves of the sea.... stress over!... If you are poor (not because you have "an expensive destructive habit", but because you have fallen and nobody cares and when you try to stand up, in comes your Neoliberal competitor to sink you yet again... and again nobody cares).... you can smoke and drink!!

My point, that Neoliberals do not seem to be able to grasp, is that poor people under stress can JUST afford to smoke in order to get some kind of temporary relief, and this Neoliberal Government is making things much, much worse!!! Brace for more medical problems in the population.OUB,
I am not rich and I am not poor, I just have enough and that's all I need to be happy. I do donate to some charities and also happily pay my taxes.
All poor are deserving. They are deserving of our concern, not our scorn.Indeed, being rich is not a disease.... being richer can be.Hi Leftover,
I hope you are not depressed... cheer up, fight back and don't let the system stuff you!
I am not a rich person and indeed I don't need to be a rich person to be happy. But I do need some basics to live decently in this expensive country. Everybody should be able to access a source of income to live properly! If somebody is missing out, we, as a country, have got a problem.Peter,
To the individual we can only offer words here, to the country we can offer food for thought and a hope that through the vote of the People a new way of managing the affairs of Australia can emerge.

But I agree with Blzbob above... politicians better understand the meaning of the next voting events (in Vic, Qld, and Federally), because if they don't get the message loud and clear, I fear that we are going to navigate some pretty rough social seas."What makes the economy go round; people with money to spend not the wealthy storing it in foreign bank accounts and avoiding tax."... What a mortal strike at very heart of the current Liberal Party. They used to be the Party of small businesses, the little entrepreneur, the one who needs clients with money and employs people who then spend their money... Now it's the Party of the Multinationals, Financial Speculators, and Billionaires....
The small shop owner and the People at large?.... Just live within your means, will you!  
"More than 30,000 small businesses shut up shop between the 2007 and 2010 Federal elections under Labor.".... SilentCastaway, for the nth time, never ever forget this: GLOBAL FINANCIAL CRISIS!.... Do you get it? And who gave the GFC to the last Labor Government? The NEOLIBERAL IDEOLOGY of which the Howard Government was representative and this incompetent Abbott Government is following exactly on the same path.
You don't need to be lectured, you just need to learn, in whichever way you can! In fact, here is more information for you:
Business failures Quarter 4 2013: about 11,000
Quarter 1 2014: about 11,000
Quarter 2 2014: about 10,000
That's 32,000 in less than ONE YEAR!
Do you get it?.... That's why the polls are down... and stay down for this Government."Of course the figures you cite are for all businesses, not just small business."... Small businesses fail far more than large businesses.... Having been castaway for so long is breaking your grip on reality it seems....

Tell about the number of businesses start ups to those who have lost their business! 

Ha, ha, Q2 2014 business failures caused by Labor?... With the government sinking the economy with their Neoliberal policies and the Budget from Hell? Tell that to the voters, see how they will reward the Liberal Party for "saving them" (careful to avoid the baseball bats, though).

The fantasy surplus of the Liberal Government went down the drain with their GFC! Not only that, the mess they caused through both the GFC and also through neglecting our national infrastructure and services for 11 long years required further borrowing by Labor. But the debt is skyrocketing under this Government of Neoliberal incompetents.... and the People are noticing.... and the opinion polls are going South for the Coalition....

.... But don't worry, you must be safe on your island... happy fishing!That's the story of the vast majority of Australians, Gary, you are telling nothing new. But you forgot to tell us at least one little bit of your biography: How much and what kind of government benefits did you get throughout your life in Australia? You see, put a dollar value to that, then imagine paying for it from your own pocket.... That's the Neoliberal world this Liberal Party is offering to your children: a world where the harder you work, the more you stay the same....Al,
The problem with inequality is the condition of those who are at the bottom. You see, the worse their situation is, and the more they are, the more unstable society becomes.... I assure you, you don't want to live in a socially unstable society."There are three things I have always noticed about people of working age that get welfare".... May I rephrase so: "There are three prejudices I have always had about people of working age that get welfare"... Yeah, that sounds more realistic.
A bunch of real cases of welfare rorters (amply publicised by the Murdoch press and other private Media) a  norm do not make!"to give himself some short-term polling success"... Ha, ha!! That "short-term" polling success of yours has been relentlessly going on since December 2013 (just 3 months after the election), and in fact it's mostly a reaction to the debacle after debacle of this Government of incompetents and the fast deteriorating economic situation in this country.

Tell Abbott to stop looking for MH370.... and start looking for a new job!!Too many of the hard-core ALP supporters would love to see Shorten go for Abbott in the same way as Muhammad Ali (then still Cassius Clay) went hard against Sonny Liston demolishing him in 1964.... But the Liberal propaganda machine is powerful and well in control of the Media. An aggressive stance may make the Leader of the ALP (whoever he is) more prone to make a mistake, stumble and receive a knock out punch. This is exactly what the Liberals are hoping for.

So far Shorten has got it reasonably right. He is using the Ali's counterattack tactic that exhausted George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle fight of 1974.... In fact Abbott, Hockey and the rest of the Gang are completely running out of ideas. Their Neoliberal program is in tatters, they look exhausted and uninspired. They have used all the propaganda tricks in the book and they have all failed and badly backfired (like the disgraceful resurgence of racism in this country). 

The knock out punch will come with their response to the current worsening of economic conditions.... after that, Shorten will only need a gentle touch and down the Government will go at the election.

That will be the very easy part. The really hard work will start immediately afterwards, to lift this country again from the current Neoliberal Mess... I strongly recommend to Shorten, Albanese, Bowen, Plibersek and all the rest of this very good ALP team to start working on their program for Government.... you won't be able to afford a second of relaxation!!!Labor is ahead in ALL Polls. Checks the facts indeed John, these are the facts:
Galaxy: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP
Newspoll: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP
Morgan: 53% ALP vs 47% L/NP 
Essential: 52% ALP vs 48% L/NP
ReachTEL: 51% ALP vs 49% L/NP

Do you understand now?
"No doubt Abbott will move to the attack, a la Ali, very soon".... Among all your usual nonsense, this quote is interesting. Abbott has taken Foreman's tactic from day one.... and he is exhausted: no ideas, no program, no budget.... no future!Is it too much to hope that you UNDRESTAND before replying?

Your lot is heading the Foreman way... keep punching, feeling that Shorten is on the ropes.... keep punching Tony, keep punching.... and lose!

Do you get it now, John?Is it too much to ask you that you think and focus on what matters, rather than getting distracted by typos?.... Focus man, focus.

Abbott is gone politically but the Liberal Party is stuck with him no matter how exhausted he is. They know that they can't change their boxer mid-fight.... and so they keep praying that he might recover, as Shorten absorbs the ever weaker punches.... in the end, a little kick will do to produce the final KO.

Your friend? Ha!... "great" source of insider knowledge about the ALP.... I have also got a friend, and he knows a lot about the internal matters of the Liberal Party.... It's war between Abbott and Hockey, it's war between the Neoliberal and the Populist.... take cover John, you don't want to be caught in the cross-"friendly" fire!"Is it too much to hope for that you might read before writing - and spell?".... As usual you get too distracted by irrelevant issues. Focus on what matters John, and what matters is that Abbott is heading for the floor.... His "Team Oztraya" should throw the towel, and avoid some very serious damage. 
EG,
Please do add up the neutrals and positives: 35% + 14% + 3% = 52%!.... That's a majority!... Only a minority thinks that Shorten is bad/terrible. What about Abbott? According to Crickey's Poll Bludger the current combined net satisfaction for the two leaders across pollsters is:
-4.7% for Tony Abbott and -0.9% for Bill Shorten... Tony Abbott is in a far worse position than Bill Shorten as you can see.Marsupials were bloody lucky to have been geographically trapped here in Australia. In South America they are in a pretty pathetic minority among the mammals.... Dream of a marsupial take over of the world not.... eutherians rule!

That's why those who like the concept of maintaining high biodiversity should be very concerned about the issue raised in this article.There are only 5 major polls (the same that the Libs loved so much before the last Federal election, minus Nielsen that is not doing political polling anymore) and ALL of them, absolutely ALL of them give the ALP ahead: no variability, no discrepancy, full unanimity!.... Why do you think that Tony is totally desperate and he and Peta are trying absolutely all the old and tired tricks in the book?.... But so far, nothing rhymes!"was a stake through the heart of democracy"... FALSE! The People do not vote the PM in, the People vote for the Party and the Party representatives in parliament elect the PM. How many times do we have to explain this to Liberals trying to push some ill informed "Labor is antidemocratic" nonsense? The People were clearly deceived by the relentless Media Propaganda.... the Media Propaganda continues unabated and more hysterical than ever.... but the People have learned and the Coalition is advised to start packing.... Pretty simple and straightforward.If you really want to continue along that line of argumentation, I will be waiting for your strong criticism of being "undemocratic" towards the Northern Territory CLP and the Victorian Liberal Party! No excuses, please, or exceptions that those "cases are different", blah, blah!

All that was done are within the "rules of the democratic game" in Australia, and never forget, Costello did not take advantage of the rules of the game not because he didn't know them, but simply because he never had the numbers.... but the intention of "knifing" Howard was there.... continuously and probably starting well before the last term in office.Name 1 single communist in the Australian Parliament, gbe.
The word "Communism" is something that right-wingers produce each time they see they are about to lose an election.... Drive your own conclusion from that, gbe."He was not loved, but he could have been respected as the man who cleaned up the mess.".... Abbott is the person at the very root of the Mess, crucially helped by Murdoch and the Media Gang. That's why the mess is getting considerably messier under his "leadership" (so called). But I do believe that this Government will signal the reaching of the bottom. It will be up to Labor, in collaboration with the Greens, and perhaps some Independents to truly start a Progressive Renaissance for Australian politics in 2016. The challenge is there, the economic environment will be very difficult and the people will be looking for real solutions to their real needs.... The Libs, on the other hand, will be seating quietly in their few seats.... licking their wounds for quite a while and deeply absorbed in existential thoughts....Alpha, the alliance (formal or informal, it doesn't matter) between Labor and Greens is a million times more natural than the formal alliance between the Liberals (the standard bearers for Neoliberalism) and the Nationals (traditional Protectionists). 
As for being unelectable, I am happy to test that in a Federal election right now.... but Abbott won't go for it, of course. So we are just left with some smaller tests at the State elections in Victoria and Queensland.... let's see who is the unelectable one. Oh, and don't forget, in both State elections we are talking about two first-term governments....!"and the driver would have liked to drive straight through the middle of the march. That cutback will not "cripple the economy".".... Did you ask him whether he was a sympathiser pf Golden Dawn?... Cut backs and emphasis on "repaying debt" are sinking the EU, and now even Germany is in troubles. The recovery has stalled and they are heading south once again.... The dead cat bounce of Neoliberalism!It all makes sense, Vincent. Think: When Neoliberals get into government they systematically destroy all public services. Then they privatise them, and so in the near future you should expect to: a) be charged for any phone call you make to Cetrelink, b) be charged for the advice (per second spent talking) if you get an answer, c) be charged for each complain you submit (by the word).... The charges will be automatically deducted from your son's student Youth Allowance. The Government expects you to thank them, with a smaller allowance your son won't be able to buy as much unhealthy fast food, drink so much alcohol, smoke so much....neil, 
I know perfectly well what Neoliberalism means. But I bet that 90% of Liberal voters who are unwittingly embracing Neoliberal economic reforms (which also include associated social changes, by the way!) through this Government, have never heard of it (as demonstrated by many posts by Liberal supporters here). This tells you that most Liberal voters in Australia haven't the slightest clue what they are voting for.... You tell me in which category you are.
For those who are interested to finally understand the term Neoliberalism, I recommend these two books (although there are very many more available):
a) Dumenil and Levy "The Crisis of Neoliberalism": a very detailed dissection of the international policies leading up to the GF and its aftermaths.
b) Dardot and Laval "The New Way of the World: On Neoliberal Society": A thorough analysis of the historical roots of Neoliberalism and its economic, philosophical and political foundations.
..... Happy reading everyone!

Philosophically, Abbott is not a Neoliberal, he is a Populist Conservative. But he must obey his Neoliberal Masters (they paid for his election). Hockey is their current front man.... but he is doing an absolutely crap of a job for them...."and suggests, to your discomfort, that "neo-liberalism" might be considered to be a new economic force to be welcomed".... Really? Welcomed?

Just one little quote from the book of very many that I could produce for you, so you can learn:
"Neoliberalism is a new stage of capitalism that emerged in the wake of the structural crisis of the 1970s. It expresses the strategy of the capitalist classes in alliance with upper management, specifically financial managers, intending to strengthen their hegemony and to expand it globally....this strategy appeared successful, based on its own objectives, the income and wealth of a privileged minority, and the dominance of a country. The contemporary crisis is an outcome of the contradictions inherent in that strategy. The crisis revealed the strategy's unsustainable character, leading to what can be denoted as the 'crisis of neoliberalism'"... etc.

Yeah, great "new economic force to be welcomed" indeed! Please do take your Neoliberal goggles off when you read! Certainly Dumenil and Levy do not declare Neoliberalism defunct... Multinational interests won't give up their desire to control capital and societies so easily... but the Long March to rescue our Democracies has begun!
Actually that's a very good example of how "trustworthy" the Private Sector is in an emergency.... and more privatisations are expected from this Neoliberal Government, so brace for endless Liberal "pink bats" equivalent cases across the country."They might be next!"... Actually, next is the redundancy of this Federal Government of Liars.... and we don't need any ad hoc review to do that!"with more than 3000 workers earmarked to go".... Oh, no, no, Ian, you really "don't understand" how Neoliberalism works. You see, the obvious "fact" is that ATO was just wasting excruciatingly extremely valuable taxpayer money by totally inefficiently doing the job that it could be done perfectly well, if not better, with 3000 fewer workers. Those 3000 workers were actually doing nothing (fully demonstrated by a thorough investigation of the Neoliberal Government). They just spent their time at the pokies, sipping latte and eating fast food..... It all "makes sense", does it? Not only that, our "great" Treasurer Joe Hockey has enthusiastically embraced the OECD's Global Crackdown on Tax Avoidance plan: and getting ATO already prepared to finish last in the race!!! 

Some States have recently advanced their clock by one hour.... Can we advance the Federal Electoral clock by two years?.... Please?Peter,
A country is not a private business and it's not the same as a single individual. Neoliberalism has really messed up the perception of society in the mind of too many people for too long.

What is "inefficient", Peter? Is spending money on the environment inefficient? What about spending it on the disabled and unemployed ones, is that inefficient too?

If you fall, you will surely consider the help provided in lifting you up as being inefficient, and hence you will volunteer to stay down.... Or perhaps not?

This country does not have so much a problem of producing wealth, but a problem of how to best use such wealth for the good of the entire country.... if you know what I mean.AE,
I have repeated ad nauseam here, and most Social Democratic progressives will tell you the same: I applaud with a standing ovation the entrepreneurial capacity of those who can build a small, medium, large or humongous business. Bravo!! and again, Bravo!!... Not only that, I have also repeated that I am happy if my taxpayer money is used by Government to help promising emerging industries.... But now everybody just pay your taxes in full, pay tour workers a decent salary, provide a safe workplace, respect the environment and the law.... etc. 
Do you know what I mean?A number of voters have been brainwashed by Tony Abbott and the Liberal Party into fearing terrorists operating in far away Iraq.

The Labor Party has supported the anti-terrorist stance.

Issue neutralised.

Now that those voters are already shaking in febrile fear, the Labor Party should tell them to be fearful of losing their job, of being unable to repay their mortgage, the raising costs of living, whether they will have an education, or proper medical attention, or access to any public services....

Mr Abbott: TRY TO NEUTRALISE THAT!!!!  
"One is the new offence of "advocating terrorism", being inserted in the Commonwealth Criminal Code with a five-year prison term."...
I advocate the support of the rebels fighting in Syria against 
Bashar al-Assad....
I advocate the support for the fight of the Uyghur people independence from China....
I advocate the support of the rebels in Chechnya for their independence from Russia...
... Okay guys, I will be away, back in 5 years... Or perhaps I will receive a letter of congratulations from Abbott and Brandis instead???
"It always takes longer to fix than wreck.".. Yep, fixing the 11 years of economic wreck left by Howard/Costello (with the GFC cherry on the cake as a "bonus"): it took Labor 6 years just to stabilise the situation, but after this last gasp of Neoliberal disaster with the Abbott/Hockey government, it will take Labor another 6 years to just stabilise the situation... 
"the worst aspects of the GFC didn't spread to Australia"... They didn't because of the prompt and effective response of the ALP Government. Chances are that we may be able to test this idea next year...."Also I can't understand why working one hour a week means one is considered employed."... There is an unspoken entendre across the political spectrum regarding that. If the truth is told about the real levels of unemployment, it would take weeks for a Bolshevik Revolution to unfold in this country....Living in a cloud castle indeed. The OECD does not mandate the one hour a week criterion, it just suggests it:
 
"The employed comprise all persons above a specified age who during a specified brief period, either one week or one day, were in the following categories:

(a) paid employment:

- at work: persons who during the reference period performed some work for a wage or salary, in cash or in kind; 

.... For operational purposes the notion of ?some work? may be interpreted as work for at least one hour"

Note the last paragraph uses the expression "may be interpreted". The decision to actually interpret it that way is a political decision, and we do understand why it is convenient politically, do we?

Also, you will notice the strong Neoliberal influence in that definition.... Very useful politically, as Neoliberalism focuses on the business community and the competition between businesses, not on the welfare of the workers.  
 
Mark, who has the correct approach to measuring unemployment, in your view?Don't worry, Michael. At least in Victoria you will know what the real current levels of unemployment are through the vote at the State election in November... brace for a trashing of the Napthine Government, meaning that the levels of unemployment are truly high!!More internal Democracy is always better. A first step was made already, further steps are also welcome. But identifying Unionism with the rogue elements (like Kathy Jackson, the darling of the Liberal Party) is a massive mistake. I can assure you, the Liberal Party is far from identifying the Business Community with the rogue elements who are already or should be in jail. In fact, they never mention such rogue elements, most of whom are Liberal Party donors if not members. Why is the ALP expected, on the other hand, to be in permanent navel-gazing mode about Unionism is beyond logic. There is nothing that the Liberal Party hopes more at the moment than to divert the attention of the People from their current debacle after debacle to the usual "disunity", "they don't know what they stand for"... blah, blah, blah regarding the Labor Party. 

Use tripartite percentages for the election of leader and representatives by all means (it will get the ALP closer to the system used by the English Labour Party)... but get on with the job quickly and above all strengthen the links between the ALP and strong and honest Unionism. Never forget, the unionised work force has been stuck at about 20% since 2000, that's 14 years!... Yep, the "decline" is completely stalled.... ask yourself why?Whitey, there is nothing democratic about the Liberal Party, just ask Clive Palmer how "democratic" the Liberal Party is (and he is a millionaire!!). The ranks and files have no chance whatever to elect the leader of their Party, and behind the scenes it is the Big Business financial contributors (via money or in kind donations, the latter includes free propaganda in newspapers, TV and radio news and comments) who dictate what should be done and who is to be supported and who should not at any given point in time.
Labor will find its way, there is no question about that. I suggest to the Liberal supporters to worry about the state of their own house.... because it truly needs some urgent renovation!big joe, if Clive Palmer was truly annoyed with the LNP because of issues with his business activities (which is a real possibility, of course), it's simply because the current leadership of the LNP and the Federal Liberal Party favoured his business competitors!.... There is no escape from the Liberal logic: it's always a fight for favours for this or the other business interests.DM, I don't vote for the PUP, but I am more than happy to see the PUP as the spanner in the motor of the Coalition, especially the LNP in Queensland. Getting rid of the current Coalition governments around the country has become a collective effort and a National duty.
Oh, by the way, you do realise that there are quite a few politicians leaving the Liberal Party or the LNP and either becoming independent or joining a Labor Government do you?... Any explanation for such a trend?Does the taint of politics trashes the reputation of the Business Council of Australia (and other business organisations) too? Unions' support for Labor is logical and quite natural: Unions support the political Party that is more likely to favour the workers, to support them in their constant fight for appropriate remuneration and work conditions. For safety in the workplace and protection of their rights. That's what the relationship between the ALP and Unions is all about! Tell the Liberal Party to start fighting for the workers rather than the bosses, and you will see very many Liberal Unions emerging all over the place.... guaranteed!"Obviously this means that people aren't interested in the current union model"... If  you work in a small company and you tell your boss that you are a member of a Union and you receive the sack the next day, yes, that may become a kind of "incentive" not to join a Union for some workers.... But you see that there is a problem there, do you? There is no reason for that worker to be happy, even if s/he has to shut up for practical reasons. That worker still votes, and his/her opinion on those and other matters will be finally heard: see 20% Union membership vs. 51.6% updated average 2PP for the ALP in the opinion polls...."Fallacy. The unions exist for the purpose of delivering financial and political power to selected union officials. No more, and no less."... If you are so ready to accept that, then you are equally ready to accept this statement:
"Companies exist for the purpose of delivering financial and political power to the CEO and selected executive officials of the company. No more, no less".... 
If your reply to my statement is that companies have the purpose to deliver best result to the shareholders, then you should also accept the statement: "The unions exist primarily to assist their members in uneven disputes".
If the Company fails the shareholders the shareholders leave (sell), if the Union fails its members, the members leave.... simple and inescapable logic. 
Well, let's not get too depressed with the current state of knowledge on brain biology. It is true that we still know less that what we don't know.... but we certainly know more that what we knew 50 years ago.Very good article Prof, although to answer the question "What can be done?" we still need at least a working understanding of "What is it?". There is no "mind" if there is no brain (and the rest of the body, in fact). But there may be a brain without a "mind" (as in the case of people in a vegetative state). Therefore mental illness is fundamentally biological, but the causation is usually complex and multifactorial as you rightly point out. Therefore, there is likely no magic bullet as far as therapy is concerned and also a multifactorial approach will be required for most conditions, ranging from medication to psychological/behavioural therapies to the control of social factors.New World,

ESP has been tested again and again under proper scientifically controlled experimentation.... there is nothing there.
Even the alleged effect of intercessory prayers have been tested scientifically in controlled conditions... nothing again.

There is no question whatever that the brain and the phenomenon it helps produce with the aid of other parts of our body: the mind, are complex biological entities that we still don't understand much. But however it works, angels won't be found pulling the levers, and non-physical "forces" are unlikely to be found that have the capacity to exert an action on physical entities.Very good post Anon. You are right, something like depression comes in a whole range of "packages". Some behavioural biologists have studied depressive states and have come to the conclusion that such states are basically useful: a mild and temporal state of depression helps the mind focus on an issue as we try to solve it. But then there are other forms of depression that become more and more complicated, some being chronic and potentially leading to suicide. The latter require some more serious intervention.

Your example of a farmer in financial strife is very good. As soon as the financial situation is worsening and the farmer starts feeling anxious trying to find a solution to the problem, what s/he needs is financial help, plus perhaps technical advice to try to stop the problem from recurring (change crops.... or even sell the farm and move on). A psychologist can't tackle those issues, but a Government rural financial scheme could.The more we study a continuum, the more subdivisions we can detect... 

But you are right, it's a continuous challenge to try to understand what requires any intervention and what not, and what kind of intervention exactly.Parents should know that, but the final decision and major responsibility for what happens next are theirs.
Btw, the genetic determination of psychiatric conditions is less than 100% most of the time; the usual pattern is a contribution of both genes and the environment.May I ask you one question?.... You are "Fearful" of what exactly?.... The lying and manipulating Mainstream Media?... If so, I suggest to use a different word, such as "Disgusted" or "Outraged"."But beyond that point, there is a lack of restraint, a grasping of commercial opportunity at whatever the cost and a lack of regard even for the fundamental truth, that is even more worrying.".... I guess that following some internal memos from the management after Abbott declared war on the ABC, you guys are under some pressure to restrain your language. Given that I am not subject to the same restrictions (just those under the control of the moderator), please allow me to continue that paragraph: And it is also worrying that such lack of restraint and regard for the fundamental truth, are systematically consistent with a political propagandistic agenda in support of this Conservative Government. Fear and hatred are being used to establish an authoritarian support for the introduction of the Neoliberal Revolution that nobody wanted and nobody asked for.... a revolution that was kept well hidden to the scrutinising eyes of the voters before the Federal election. The Budget from Hell has been fortunately wrecked.... and now our Muslim communities must suffer the rage of the frustrated Abbott Government!!!OUB, the more posts anyone tries to submit, the more likely it is that some of them will not be published. Moderators try to keep the contributions as balanced as they can, so that not a single individual swamps this place with his silly, biased, usually uninformative and repetitious comments.Good comment, Peter. I would only suggest that the house price deflation be carefully managed, so that it's gradual (spanning five years or so) rather than sudden. This will require two things: control foreign investment in Australian real estate, and provide alternative avenues for investment for Australians.No, that's why they are planning to stop... let's see what happens some time after they have done so...."The US and UK are "leaving the financial crisis behind""... If that's the bright aspect of your comment for next year, Alan, we are doomed! The American share market is looking more and more about to plunge.... and let's not forget, the forecast is for slower growth for China in 2015....

I have no idea what Abbott and Hockey's Plan B is, but unless they come up with one pretty quickly we are going to drown in a river of tears.... The AllOrds have been going down for quite a few days now (losing all the gains for 2014!!). This has surprised me, as I expected the drop to start in early 2015. So, we may still have the chance for a dead cat bounce from now to early December... or this is truly the beginning of the end...."Abbott and Hockey are simply trying to rectify it"... If you call that "trying to rectify", let's get them out of the way asap, and bring Shorten and the ALP team in. There was nothing to rectify before the 7th of Sept. 2013 that Labor wasn't already on the way of rectifying (such as the mess left to Labor by the Neoliberal international madness, that developed unchecked throughout 11 years of Coalition Government)... now there is a bloody lot and this bunch of incompetents are making things worse!... Look up the word "Recession" in the dictionary, you are going to hear it a lot in 2015.John1,
It's way much safer to just get rid of the Coalition!... The slide down the hill to oblivion will start in Victoria next month, to be followed by Queensland ... and then it will be the Federal Government's turn... One after the other the dominos will fall...Finally, some serious scholar putting this issue in the right perspective. Congratulations to Geoffrey Brahm!

Oh, btw: "Speaker Bronwyn Bishop might be unchained of all those heavy pearls"... I am afraid that she would be instantly recognised: wearing the pearls on top of the burqa..."The other day a lady got bashed in a train just because she was wearing a niqab."... Yet another real victim of Tony Abbott and his desperate campaign to lift the fortunes of the Liberal Party in the polls at all costs.... Is anyone counting the number of these disgraceful attacks? So we can show the political bill to Abbott come election time??"would allow people who are patently opposed to a western/Australian way of life to settle here"... That's a very big can of worms Coogara. Aboriginal people are opposed to quite a few aspects of the Western way of life, and so are groups of European-Australians such as those who dislike consumerism, eating meat, religion, the list is endless. It's not the "opposition to our western/Australian way of life" that is the fundamental criterion to use here, rather it's the conforming with the law."There are people however who have an outlook that accepts only their one set of religious, social and political beliefs have any relevance and that not only must these must prevail but that at some point they should dominate the rest of society.".... But I guess that you (we, actually) should also worry about those who only accept their own specific sets of beliefs and who are already majority and wish to dominate the rest of society (= repression of minority views). Believe me, I am not playing word games, I am sure that you will see the real concerns about life in a real Democracy that is behind this issue. Again, with this I am not condoning (not for a second) illegal and unconstitutional acts. Tolerance inevitably bumps into the limits imposed by the law. Trying to change the current laws, however, also bumps into the issue of tolerance.The only thing that intelligent people are telling you is to stop this racist campaign based on nothing, that has been concocted by the desperate propaganda branch of the Liberal Party just with the purpose of  trying to lift Tony and his Gang in the polls.... It's not working and Tony &amp; Gang better start fixing the total mess they are causing to the economy, jobs and capacity to generate income in this country!! The Liberals are the true horrorists we should be worrying about!!Dean,
Shorten has been talking about the Labor alternative to this bankrupt Government of Liars for months now.... if you haven't been listening, don't blame Shorten. Start from the Budget Reply.Read the transcript of the Budget Reply! Then go and read the transcripts of the other speeches since then. It's all there.... if you really want to see. After you have done that, come back and let's argue..... Economy, industrial relations, communications, environment, education, taxation, public services... The Progressive agenda for the transformation of Australia will continue, after this brief 3-year bankrupt Neoliberal interlude.... Surely you get it, do you?"They have no option but to take him to an election that he will lose them."... Really?... After all the hysterical tactics of this Coalition Government to scare the People of Australia to submission, this is the average two-party preferred vote across the 5 major pollsters: 51.6% ALP!! According to the Crickey's Poll Bludger (that uses a model that blatantly biases the results in favour of the Coalition), the net satisfaction for Tony Abbott is -4.7%, and for Bill Shorten is higher at -0.9%!!!.... Who is in electoral troubles again?.... Nothing is working for Abbott, I am afraid.... What's Plan B?  
"The number of boats that have arrived this year is in single digits"... It's double digits, at least 12.... and the number of boats was decreasing under Rudd-II. Should Abbott thank Rudd?

Stop lying about the carbon tax!! I had well and truly enough of Liberal LIES. Abbott has officially accumulated 7 (according to FactCheck).... but we know that they are dozens!

No matter what Tony and Peta have come up with.... the polls are down... and stay down!!The carbon tax reduced emissions in Australia significantly. The global effort is the sum of individual efforts. By your silly argumentation if one single nation is not able to significantly stop the pollution they should ignore the issue and continue polluting. All nations will do the same, and pollution will continue to the long-term detriment of all. Do you understand now?.... But fortunately the rest of the world is smarter than that, and after the Australian Labor-led  (with Greens support) push for controlling emissions, the USA and China in particular, two major polluters, are moving in the right direction, along with the EU.... exactly at the moment when Australia is retreating under this government of political troglodytes.... What's Tony going to do as his reliance on exporting coal will start to slowly sink?.... What would Plan B be?Hi Whitey,
The budget does not need to be balanced overnight, especially if the international economy suffers another blow (potentially next year). We can't risk a recession in Australia under those conditions, because the consequences for unemployment could be disastrous. I strongly recommend everybody to abandon the adherence to pre-packaged economic theories and be more sensible, pragmatic and flexible. This is what Labor have in store, as demonstrated already during the Rudd-Gillard Governments. Climate change policies are already available: ETS plus support for renewables. Abbott is adopting a very different strategy and I am not sure what is he going to do as the price of coal keeps decreasing, a downward trend started around 2011.2 years?... But by then there won't be anyone voting for the Coalition.... Make it a bit over one year: brace for a Federal election by November 2015!All very good points, John, but there are some fundamental issues that we must consider.
a) Idealistic principles that make you feel good but keep you in opposition are useless. Pragmatism must never be abandoned.
b) At the moment the Progressive side of politics has two main branches: 
1) Labor, a party that must give satisfactory answers to the mass of middle of the road citizens who are not overly excited by the big wars of ideas, rather they are concerned about jobs, work conditions, salaries, costs of living, social services, quality of the environment, health, education, the safety of their savings/investments, security in retirement, a future for their children. Lose those voters and the party is gone!
2) The Greens, who definitely appeal to the traditional left, they are down in the trenches fighting for the ideals (with some exceptions such as the lifting of the borrowing ceiling). They have been attracting some left-wing Labor voters, but they have been unable to lift their own ceiling of around 10% (except in Melbourne).
c) Fight hard for those pragmatic issues mentioned above, fight hard for a plan for the future: new industries including those related to climate change, role of government in social and productive investment, environmentally sustainable economic progress, the openinig of the Australian mind through our precious multiculturalism. Coordinate with the Greens on a BASIC PROGRESSIVE CONSENSUS.

The political battle to come (in Vic, Qld and then Federally in 2016) is a true battle of worldviews, it's not a little challenge for the "relevance" or "survival" of Labor or the Liberal Party.It's a clear possibility, bren, but a formal coalition won't happen now. The relationship between the two Parties still requires a degree of maturing, that's why I appeal for the production of a Basic Progressive Consensus. That would be a good starting point for further developments.I agree, Saulg. There is much political work to do for the Greens too and I would love to see some summit between Labor and Greens to smooth positions regarding at least the major areas of Government role and the legislative agenda. So that, numbers allowing, after Labor returns to Government in 2016 the agenda can swiftly go through the Senate.Brilliant point, gerard!... Melbourne, for instance, is slowly developing a more inclusive urbanistic, with greater de-centralisation of social activities, and spreading of focuses of community attraction (not just shopping, but also community festivals, artistic performances, etc.) across the different suburbs. The clue here is to: mix up, communicate, interact.... the perfect recipes to decrease ignorance, fear and mistrust."If it took 800 police to stop a terrorist attack"... What "terrorist attack" was stopped again? Please do not fill the very big gaps in the Abbott narrative with your imagination!!Indeed, discrimination, ostracism, prejudice can push some members of the LGBTI community to depression and from there some may slide down the gurgle of life.... until it's all lost. However, sexual orientation is NOT a mental pathology. You don't prevent suicide among members of the LGBTI community by trying to "straighten them up". Quite on the contrary, greater acceptance will go a long way to help address those mental issues.Hi Apow,
Many studies on the psychological effects of discrimination based on sexual orientation have been already carried out. Psychologists have compared the level of psychological problems detected in homosexuals who are socially adjusted and those of non-homosexual people: they do not differ and their mental health is fine. It is mainly when the homosexual suffers the brunt of social rejection that things start to complicate mentally. A classic work on this issue is one by Evelyn Hooker (1957 Journal of Projective Techniques 21: 18-21), other works include: Strassberg et al. 1979 Archives of Sexual Behavior 8: 491-496; Gonsiorek 1991 a chapter in the book "Homosexuality: Research implications for public policy".The information I reported was not over time but at a given point in time, and that information just shows that if homosexuals are accepted in the community they do perfectly fine mentally. But to answer your question  about the trends over time, indeed attempted suicides were relatively more common among homosexuals in the past, with a trend to increase in frequency up until the early 1990s. Attempted suicides seem to have decreased in the early 2000s (see for instance King et al. 2008 BMC Psychiatry 8: 70).Let's imagine one disability pension "rorter". Total cost for the Government: about $20,000 p.a.

This is from an article by Peter Martin published in the SMH on 13 May 2014:
"The latest tax statistics show 75 ultra-high-earning Australians paid no tax at all in 2011-12. Zero. Zip.

Each earned more than $1 million from investments or wages. Between them they made $195 million, an average of $2.6 million each.

The fortunate 75 paid no income tax, no Medicare levy and no Medicare surcharge, even though 60 of them had private health insurance.

The reason? They managed to cut their combined taxable incomes to $82. That?s right, $1.10 each."

So, if we tax such parasites the max. effective tax rate of 44.9% (rather than the current effective 0%!!), the Government would recover an average of $1,167,400 per person. This is equivalent to 58 disability pension "rorters" per millionaire tax rorter.

Question: Where should the Government focus most of its efforts?




Patto,

$18 billion a year in disability fraud? You have got to be joking right? The entire DSP budget is $16 Billion!!!

Read this article by Heath Aston and Georgia Wilkins "Business leaders to face parliamentary inquiry on tax avoidance" published on 2 October 2014 in the SMH..... Glencore is in the black list... but they are not alone.
  
Patto,
If you do the right research you will see that Australians became more conservative in their investment strategies especially after the GFC.... Would you blame them?.... But the point here is that multinational companies must pay their fairer share of taxes. Our minerals are going to stay where they are, they are going nowhere, and so if company A or B doesn't like the taxation deal they are invited to go elsewhere, somebody else will do the job instead."death cults"... ISIL is not a death cult, it is a political organisation and they have a political plan for a section of the Middle East, and are determined to carry out such plan by force. The most important question to ask is who is financing them and for what purpose. Are their financiers also their Masters? What is the plan that the Masters actually have?

As for the Abbott response to this situation, just think that the current scaremongering is way above the reaction this country had to both 9/11 and the Bali bombings. Therefore, this is just a politically motivated set of changes that can only have two justifications: a) Increase the level of authoritarianism in this country to protect the Government from the popular backlash of the unwanted Neoliberal Revolution they want to force on the Australian People. b) Try to corner the ALP into some mould of "weak on security" for electoral advantage. 

Ah, if the Liberal spin masters could spend half of their time not on such idiocies but on tackling and solving the real problems the People of Australia are facing right now.Of course, Trent, a Liberal PM languishing in the polls would definitely go for 'death cult' every time.... just like now. But two more percentage points down in the polls, and brace for a "murderous demonic bloodthirsty death cult"... and so forth."and you Alpo are one of the ones that make this world dangerous"... WOW, mike2, you truly make me feel important. If I understood you correctly, I am supposed to be as dangerous as Albert Einstein, isn't it?Coogara, I am certainly not an apologist for terrorism, and I am on record here supporting more funds for our national security agencies, so they are better supported in their professional job. But the reality of this current threat does not match the overblown hysteria of this Government. So, from that I can only conclude that our political "leadership" is either psychologically unstable (paranoid personality disorder could be a potential diagnosis), or they are simply trying to exploit this situation for their political advantage.So, from that I guess that you are ready to deploy our Christian soldiers in defence of the true religion?... Catholic and Protestants are okay? Or do you have preference for one over the other?
Whatever ISIL does to get their combatants pumped up, transforming this into a religious war is just idiotic. Why? Because if you do so, it is quite natural to then start turning against our own Muslim communities. Do you see the danger against Democracy in that? .... but perhaps that's exactly what ISIL wants you to do.....Nothing is working for this Government. Their Neoliberal Revolution riding on the back of Authoritarianism is going absolutely nowhere. They want for themselves the freedom of restricting our freedoms so that the free market may free ourselves from our jobs, financial safety and public service support... Ah don't your really "love" the Neoliberal "Road to Freedom"... or was it to "Serfdom"?"They have to under UN convention as the nearest safe havens from Syria and Iraq."... FALSE! They don't "have" to, it just happens. Those refugees are perfectly entitled to skip Turkey, drive to the Gulf, jump on a boat, and head for Australia to seek refuge.

"They are all states with massive internal problems as a result of exactly that influx of refugees.".... Finally, you are understanding why in Australia we must increase our intake of refugees, so we can have a more credible share of the burden, rather than just relying on others to do the heavy lifting.... we are international leaners on this issue...

"Our freedoms are not being eroded as you claim"... The erosion of our freedoms is compared with our own country over time, not with Burma. You don't take away Democratic powers from the People and then tell them to shut up because in other countries is much worse....1. The choice is between a place that gives you hope for a better life and one that doesn't. What would you choose if you had to flee a country? We only accept genuine refugees (those who are processed and found to be so), we return those who are not genuine. We have always operated in this way, but right-wing refugee haters prefer to ignore this basic truth. Refugee escape current danger, not past danger or imagined danger. Go to Iraq or Afghanistan and live there for a couple of years, then you will understand.

2. We can double our official intake of refugees easily with no effect whatever on anything! It is other countries that are struggling under the weight of the influx of refugees, not Australia.

3. Our debt is not a problem full stop (no need for comparison with Greece or any other country)! In fact even Hockey plays with this concept: debt not a problem when he addresses international investors, debt a BIG problem when he addresses a national audience.... Can you see the manipulative idiocy?Lee, a bad Japan doesn't make Australia good. We can do more, Japan can do MUCH more.... Note how those are two islands with a past history of xenophobia (in Japan it was much harder than in Australia, though).Japan's cultural insularity has been historical. They historically remained within the confine of their archipelago (except when they decided to expand their Empire into Manchuria) and also didn't accept foreigners. Was that "good" in the long run? Germany, the USA, Canada, Sweden, regularly accept many more refugees and are broadly more open to other forms of immigration. Are they doing worse than Japan?... Japan is definitely not a good model for Australia as far as immigration (including the issue of refugees) is concerned.Forget it, James. Liberals don't understand the meaning of the word investment anymore. They think that debt is a negative value and you have to transform that negative value into a positive one by living within your means. So, if you buy a truck for your business and are in debt, a Liberal would suggest to you to sell the truck, repay your debt, and then live within your means.... This is the so called "Party of business"... Oh dear me!C'mon John,
You are certainly not comparing ISIL with Nazi Germany, are you? Nazi Germany should be compared with the country/ies behind ISIL... May I suggest to start with Saudi Arabia? "Funny" enough, a USA ally...."has given Abbott a small sugar hit lift in the polls".... But the sugar is still pretty bitter. Updated average 2PP across the 5 major pollsters: 51.9% ALP!!"The massive debt they saddled us with"... This has now become the massive debt the Liberal Party has saddled us with. The sooner they are gone, the better, according to that argument.

"The boat people problem"... As far as paranoia is concerned, the "boat people problem" stopped being a problem with Rudd-II. Abbot promised to "stop the boats" but the boats have not stopped (at least 12 intercepted in 2014). The boat people remain an unresolved issue and I have been repeating ad nauseam that this requires a by-partisan approach that avoids playing the populist scaremongering card for electoral gains. This can be done, but only after Abbott, Morrison and the deluded section of this Liberal gang are gone, along with their mad advisers.

The Australian People will fall for nothing.... they are just trying to escape the disaster of this Government as quickly as they possibly can...... who can blame them?
No contradiction, if you truly understand what "stopped being a problem" means. Rudd-II decreased the numbers to a trickle, hence the boats stopped being a problem (although in fact they were never a problem, only paranoia and political propaganda made them a "problem"). But Abbott promised to STOP the boats.... hence he FAILED!.... and the voters are starting to understand.... Check those opinion polls, it's all in negative territory for Abbott: What's Plan B?"The Opposition would have a hard time arguing against it because they "support" the military action."... The ALP supported the action but not any specific way of funding it. That will be a matter of negotiations. The Government will propose ways of funding the intervention, Labor may agree or disagree and provide alternatives.... The ways of funding this mission will reflect the philosophical priorities of each Party.What? Are you asking the Liberals to produce a cost/benefit analysis, Haderak?... Oh, no, no... This is what the Liberals do:
a) Labor Policies: just calculate the COSTS.
b) Liberal Policies: just calculated the BENEFITS.
Conclude that the economy is always better under a Liberal Government...
... What really amazes me is that this idiocy worked for 11 long years under Howard/Costello."the public needs to have absolute confidence in state institutions like the police that there is no inappropriate influence from private organisations".... Absolutely correct, and this issue strikes at the very core of our Democracy. Democracy is far more important than anything else, including the Church!!"So you'd be happy for us to stand by the sidelines as the ISIS barbarians murder civilians by the thousand"... Andy, where did you stand when the barbarians Bush and Howard were bombing Iraq and murdering thousands of civilians?... What was your thinking back then? Are you going to count how many innocent civilians will be killed for each eliminated ISIS militant this time around?... Are you going to ask for their names and the details of their lives, or you will be just happy with a broad "collateral damage" description?
What will be the objective to be achieved? What will determine when the Mission is Accomplished?Zing,
If you do a quick search you will find that many specialists in international law will disagree with that "the civilians who died from Western military action during the Iraqi invasion were killed lawfully" statement of yours. Just as one of many, this is a quote from Kramer, Michalowski and Rothe (2005) Social Justice 32: 52-81:

"1. The 2003 invasion and subsequent occupation of Iraq by the United States and its allies was a violation of international law.
2. Insofar as the invasion and occupation of Iraq took place under the auspices of state authority, they are state crimes.
3. The state officials responsible for the violations of law pursuant to the invasion and occupation of Iraq are guilty of war crimes." 

So, do inform yourself before writing nonsense such as "So your comments seem to be slander at best".... I am happy to say that your comments are just based on ignorance.Zing, 
You replied to the opinions of those specialists (and they are not alone) with your unsubstantiated opinions. Hence you are putting yourself in a position of irrelevance.... Please do try to lift your game!... To have an international court decision on this matter you have to have a trial. It is the prevention of this trial that is at the core of the USA and their allies efforts as far as the Iraq war is concerned..... Winners tend to be grinners, didn't you know?mike,
Is the reassurance of a defeat of ISIL (on humanitarian grounds) the same as the promised reassurance of a democratic Iraq upon the destruction of the Saddam Hussein regime?.... It was the failure of the latter that eventually produced ISIL. What's going to come next, after the West fails to destroy ISIL?.... Can you see the trend in the escalation of chaos and madness in the region since the Iraq War?.... But perhaps it's the permanent state of chaos that the USA and Israel want for the Arab world?Alpha,
No Party leader has more detractors within the Party than outside it."opposed a $40 million ego trip by Rudd and Labor trying to get it as opposed to going for it on merit - something the left would never understand I guess."

Alpha,
How much did the Liberal Government of NSW have to invest to get the 2000 Olympics given to Sydney?.... So, the Liberals also don't understand the concept of "going for it on merit"?.... Or perhaps it is you who don't understand that presenting your case on the international stage requires some money?"ego trip"... Those are your words, not mine. Try not to imagine agreements that are only in  your mind, please. As usual when it comes to Labor you calculate the costs (using convenient criteria, I guess) but fail to consider the benefits: same with the MRRT, the NBN, the response to the GFC.... it's always the same pattern. Whereas when it comes to the Coalition you guys always fail to calculate the costs. For your information, the Sydney Olympics "generated a loss in Australian real private and public consumption in present value terms of $2.1 billion" (Gieseke and Madden 2011 Economic Papers 30: 218-232)....$2.1 BILLION LOSS! Don't thank me for informing you, I am here to serve.I agree that Bishop has been as incompetent as the other Government ministers. Let's not forget that she is on the international stage only thanks to the former Labor Government securing a seat for Australia in the UN Security Council... A feat loudly derided by the then Abbott Opposition.Please do check the current Labor front bench. You will be positively surprised.Popularity for Abbott from Morgan following the national security circus?... Approve: 44, Disapprove: 47, Difference: -3 NEGATIVE!!
Bishop popular?... Oh yeah, but only when compared with other Liberals. Let's say that she is "locally popular but globally unpopular". In fact Labor supporters regard her below average (45.5).
The news are truly bad for the Coalition: Virtually the entirety of their frontbench is a disaster and they are more disliked than liked, many of them even within the ranks of Liberal supporters. 
Latest opinion poll available is from Galaxy: 51% Labor vs 49% Coalition... 
....A plan B, quick, the Libs really need a plan B...Polls update fresh from the press!
Latest Morgan poll is available:
53% ALP VS 47% Coalition

.... Where is the bloody Plan B, Tony?.... can't you just ask Peta?"But the markets won't wait until then to react. They're already sniffing the breeze.".... Before a big, almost vertical fall, there tends to be a very steep raise in the value of shares....But we will have the Recession We Didn't Have To Have...'Will Bill Shorten unify Labor?'... ahld, you are actually the only one asking that question. Now, regarding the Coalition, I fully agree with you that disunity is death. But, unfortunately, unity behind a totally incompetent leader and cabinet is also death... LOSE/LOSE, I am afraid.
"No Alpo, there are many watching Shorten closely to see how he is going to unravel the mess they have made"... What mess? Do you mean Hockey's Budget from Hell? Escalating public debt since September? Escalating public deficit since September? Increasing unemployment since September? Increasing costs of living? Decreasing salaries? Deteriorating public services since September?... What has Shorten to do with any of that?.... It's time for the Coalition to grow up and face the judgment of the People!"No, nothing to see here folks!"... Please do read my post again, I have listed quite a few things that you should see... Head... Sand...
The ALP is in constant renewal! The Rudd/Gillard policies were very different to the Hawke/Keating policies.... The Abbott policies are just the Howard policies on steroids!

The only political parties that are truly shedding a meaningful light to the future for this Country are the ALP and the Greens.... the rest is still lost in the archaic Neoliberal fog.

Looking forward to see the soul searching of both Libs and Nats after their loss in 2016.... or perhaps they will conclude that they should have been even harsher and harder and sunk the boot deeper?Since last December the combined results of the 5 major opinion polls have consistently given the ALP above 50%.... Is that evidence enough? Not even the ISIL brouhaha has been able to get the Coalition above 50%... one failure after another, and the majority acknowledge that.There are very many debates that should be going on behind the scene right now in the Government:
a) Who on earth asked for the Neoliberal Revolution clearly introduced with this Budget from Hell? Was everybody aware of the full extent of it? Does everybody agree with the philosophy? 
b) What on earth do the Nationals think about climate change policies and also free trade agreements and imports of agricultural products? What do they think about Hockey's government-hands-off-the-struggling-sectors-of-agriculture stance: if you sink, that's life.... next please? What do they think about the strangling of small and medium primary producers by city-based Supermarkets and also multinationals?
c) What are the Coalition members of Parliament in marginal seats feeding back to the front bench regarding the destruction of social services (health, education) and the social safety net (support for unemployed people)?
d) What are those who really understand about history and matters of international affairs feeding back to the PM regarding this mad intervention in the Middle East (do the Liberals ever learn from their mistakes)?
.... and the list goes on and on and on....
On the other hand, if they change Abbott for another leader it would be political suicide.
Solution: Early election in the second half of 2015, before the situation becomes totally desperate for the Coalition. Backbenchers: protect your job!custard, wake up and read:
a) carbon tax: It's not in the plans of the ALP. What they are going to introduce is an emission trading scheme, as most industrialised countries are doing at the moment.
b) mining tax: YES, but not the flimsy previous MRRT, we need a much stronger and muscular one!!
c) turning back boats: Tony is not stopping the boats either, at least 12 boats were intercepted in 2014. What Shorten needs to do, along with the new leadership of the Liberal Party after he becomes PM is to sit down and agree on a consensus policy that is effective and humane. The Coalition have already squeezed all the propaganda they could out of this, there is no more in there. It's time to think about proper solutions! 
d) being unable to articulate a pathway back to surplus and debt reduction: The current Government is making both the debt and the surplus a complete mess. They are out of control and have no idea what to do except shrink our economy and risk a recession (that we don't have to have) for next year!!

What I have just described about the endless failures of this incompetent Government (and there are many more!) is not the "elephant in the room".... that's a gigantic Blue Whale in  the room!.... and this issue will be sorted out at the next election, make no mistake!
gbe,
The Rudd/Gillard governments were quite different from the Neoliberal-light Hawke/Keating Governments. We truly have to stop to be lazy in our analysis of politics and just repeat tired stereotypes. Please focus on the facts, the raw facts, and you will discover a whole new universe. The current Government is trying to force a Neoliberal Revolution down the throat of Australians, against their will, and on top of that are using exaggerated scaremongering to distract the "patient"!!.... Enough is truly bloody enough!"Stop the Boats - done".... NO! 12 boats intercepted in 2014! The boats keep coming!
"Axe the Tax - done"... The tax was going anyway as the permanent Labor policy is the emission reduction scheme. Not only that, expenditures associated with the tax remain!... FAIL!
"Return to surplus - WIP."... Judging from what this bunch of incompetents are doing, that fantasy "return to surplus" will be in the never never future!

End of this Government. Next one, please!
"But if IS is allowed to be the Sunni part of Iraq, the Kurds will secede, and indeed this will embolden other secessionist movements around the middle East."... Which other "secessionist movements"?... What's wrong with splitting a country?.... What's best: to enforce unity and retain an artificial unstable equilibrium or split and reach a more natural stable equilibrium? 

Do you really think that the money that finances ISIL does not come mainly from Saudi Arabia?

Iraq is gone, the Kurds are praying that somebody protects them and so they can create a stable Kurdish country... watch Lebanon next."It is because of the 'visions' of people like Green that we need to lose a bit of freedom to be protected from multiculturalism.".... APM, your posts are becoming more and more delusional... The last time somebody became paranoid about "foreign cultures" taking over the whole country, he ended up organising some concentration camps with in-built gas chambers!!!... Isn't about time to start learning the lessons from History?APM,
Honestly, what are the values that we are selling out? Who is exploiting us? Who is putting us in danger?... Which danger, actually?.... I mean, please do stay calm and keep a sense of proportions, this is truly going a bit too far. Look, I will tell you a true anecdote that happened to me just a couple of days ago. I went to a train station to pick up my daughter and as I was parking I saw two policemen looking around with concentrated attention. Now, I am male, I sport a goaty and my hair is (still) reasonably brownish. As I was preparing to exit the car I did realise that one of the policemen was looking at me, but what impressed me the most was that the facial expression was neither inquisitive nor stern.... he actually looked concerned if not frightened.... until I got closer and smiled and he smiled in return....
I mean, can you see the issue there?Once suggestion to Labor: After returning to Government in 2016 and the current brouhaha, scaremongering and utter madness about ISIL is over, announce that "the condition for the maintenance of such exceedingly intrusive powers for our intelligence agencies are no longer in place and therefore we can return to our previous legislation that served us so well".... Freedom is restored and a sense of national responsibility is maintained.... win/win."Let Albo or Bowen have a go"... As a Labor voter I honestly recommend the Liberal Party to let Malcolm Turnbull have a go. It's really the right time now, so he can at least have a chance to fix the mess.
Alpha, the legislation was proposed by Abbott, not Shorten. Abbott is taking away some of our freedoms with the excuse of an imminent danger for our national security, entire way of life (and add more exaggeration and brouhaha as you like) from ISIL. All that crap has a very strong impact on the population and therefore Shorten must be on the same ticket to reassure everybody. Once the situation calms down and the scaremongers are sent packing, Labor must return our security policies to normality. We don't want to lose our Freedoms and Democracy small bit by small bit using excuses, don't we Alpha?I guess that you prefer Tony Abbott who forgot saying: "No cuts to education, no cuts to health, no change to pensions, no change to the GST and no cuts to the ABC or SBS.".... I prefer a politician who forgets a timeline, than one who forgets his promises, and pretty major ones at that!
"JULIA Gillard says she is prepared to legislate a carbon price in the next term."
"I don't rule out the possibility of legislating a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme"

(The Australian August 20, 2010)

Remember that the tax was always going to last 3 years! It was negotiated with the Greens after the voters delivered a hung Parliament.

There is no juice in this story anymore for the Coalition, ahld.... there never was, but for the Murdoch propaganda and lies.
ahld writes:

"The Carbon pollution reduction scam did not rate a mention before April 2012"...

But Alpo had clearly written that:

""JULIA Gillard says she is prepared to legislate a carbon price in the next term."
"I don't rule out the possibility of legislating a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme"

(The Australian August 20, 2010)"

In my calendar the year 2010 comes exactly 2 years BEFORE 2012.... What kind of calendar are you using, ahld?.... Just curious.
.... I have more quotes pre-2010 election regarding this if you want to see them, just ask, and they will delivered to you free of charge courtesy of "Alpo Truth Services"...
aGuy,
You must be the only Australian left who is supporting the LIES in the Budget from Hell and the disgraceful Neoliberal ideological attack on our social frame. Stay in the trenches to the bitter end.... every ideology needs its "heroes".... and "martyrs"...."Abbott was always a political dog and would rip apart any leader of the opposite party."... The only thing that Abbott is ripping apart is himself and his Party. Abbott did nothing, the damage was done by Murdoch, that's why the first thing that Abbott did was to thank him."Alpo, Murdoch is your scape goat for everything. ".... I wish he and the right-wing Media controllers were just a scapegoat, but they are not. They know that in a Democracy the control of the media is essential.... and they act accordingly. Murdoch, for instance, gives away his newspapers for free everywhere, from airports to universities and more, and no, he doesn't do that because he is Santa Claus.... it's an investment in propaganda!neil,
Labor produced Kim Beazley and Simon Crean during the Howard years... were they also "attack dogs"?.... were they "megalomaniac"?.... Why didn't they succeed?.... Because the megalomaniac attack dogs in the Liberal Party made sure to shred them to pieces!
.... Lesson learned!
I agree with you that with Abbott we are in a truly alternative universe, but Bill Shorten does show the calm and control that is differentiating him from Abbott. Labor must be able to combine strength and determination with a less battleline-hysterical stance shown by the Abbott Coalition.... So far so good, and the People seem to appreciate it, according to the opinion polls."So quickly have labor and the greens ceded any moral, social or responisble position"...  and what would the professional LIARS Liberals know about "more, social or responsible" positions?.... Don't make me laugh!The populist Juan Domingo Peron (better known internationally for his wife Evita) started the plunging of a once great country, Argentina, into the scrap pile of history. Administrative incompetence, stealing of public money on a grand scale, various levels of political corruption, tax evasion, and just keep adding the worst examples of social malfunction. They have got the lot.... and yet, the country is big, rich in resources, and the population has one of the greatest potentials for success (cultural, technical, scientific, commercial....) amongst the Latin American countries.... Argentina is the usual case of a very good raw material wasted in making crap by an incompetent artisan.I agree that the response is lazy. I suggest this one: The voluntary voting system increases the chances that alienated people stop participating in the Democratic process thus contributing to the factors that cause their alienation. This leads to a social dynamic of ever increasing alienation... until the pressure inside the social kettle is such that the kettle explodes....
... Our compulsory voting system helps (to an extent) in preventing that from happening.
So, WS, the ABC is a fifth column and it publishes your post, but they still refuse to publish this post of mine:

"The Coalition inherited a massive debt and deficit from the Labor Party."... and your Government hit the road running with an increase in borrowing, eliminating the debt ceiling altogether, and sending the deficit to the roof. I invite the readers to see the article by Alan Austin "Abbott and Hockey?s debt and deficit disaster" in Independent Australia.

The Budget from Hell of your Government, Malcolm, is not an act of "duty" to repair the federal budget, it's an act of political aggression on the Australian People, in order to introduce a Neoliberal Revolution that nobody saw coming, nobody wanted and nobody needs!

"ABC and SBS are no exception"... First, they were an exception according to public comments (= lies) by Tony Abbott before the election. But in addition, your government has an extremely poor understanding of what a "public service" means. To understand the worthiness of a public service you have to combine not only the costs but ALSO the benefits. What are the benefits of the ABC and SBS? How much are those benefits worth in terms of dollars?? How much are good quality information, and diversity of opinions worth in dollar figures?

Sorry Malcolm, that's a FAIL..... yet another one on the road to the Coalition political oblivion....

"The need to increase ratings to attract the advertising dollar should focus the mind."... Focus the mind on what?Thanks Greg for keeping us focused on what really matters, rather than some phantom threat from a group of extreme Islamic insurgents currently waging war in Iraq and Syria. The ECONOMY is what matters and things are truly becoming messy. From the ABC News main webpage: "The Australian Industry Group's Performance of Manufacturing Index for September slipped just 0.8 points to 46.5 - edging further below the 50-point level that separates expansion from contraction.".... Further contraction in manufacturing: What are you going to do, Mr Abbott?John Dickson, there is nothing in your post that as far as good or evil is concerned does not relate equally to Islam and Christianity. The great Muslim prophet Jesus Christ spread love through the centuries via both religions, and many of his followers also spell the blood of their enemies in the battlefields, prisons and slave-run economies in the name of God and Allah. For each Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, there is always a George W. Bush....Josh, Christianity was built, since the beginning but then also Theologically since the Middle Ages, on the concepts of "Holy War" and "Just War". You may read Thomas Aquinas and St Augustine, for instance. Christianity didn't spread around the world on the back of the message of love found in the Gospels.
..... I can't argue with matters of faith such as "Jesus was sinless, no other prophet can claim the same."Isa and Jesus are the one and same person (if you regard Jesus as an actual historical figure). But that same person is considered differently by Christianity and Islam. I guess that deciding on this issue is (as usual in Theology) a matter of faith, therefore no discussion is actually worthwhile. Christians and Muslims should just live in peace agreeing that they disagree on this matter. No need to kill each other, I also agree to disagree with many posters here and yet we all live happily in this great and Democratic country of ours.APM, you Christians have a very strange concept of love. I am not sure how bombing somebody out of love and for their own good, could possibly make any sense.The reality, as it is described by the current best science available, is that the current global warming trend is a combination of a long-term natural global warming process that is significantly increased by the additional warming caused by human greenhouse gases emissions. The rapid increase in atmospheric temperatures for the past 40 years or so, compared with previous trends, is significantly due to the human factor. Within this broad trend, there are fluctuations in the rate of warming that are affected by natural phenomena such as the 11-year long solar cycles.
So: GW is occurring, and it is BOTH natural and man made.Gregory, give it up. Rhetoric, word games, sophisms, have led the human species nowhere... One milligram of science is enough to crash a billion sophisms. I hope my main reply to you is published, I don't want to repeat the same information again and again."There's still heat in global warming".... Actually, the heating.... never stopped!The only ones still deluded about the "unreality" of climate change are Liberal politicians, their faithful stormtroopers and the coal/oil interests paying for their whisky and Russian caviar (consumed in secrecy lest they are accused of hypocrisy)....
Ask the hard working farmers who still naively believe that the Nationals and the Liberals are there to protect their interests, what they think about climate change!!"That is the discussion we need to have"... We can't have a discussion on the total nonsense you have written. 
For instance: "the data tells us there is no warming"... FALSE! Warming never stopped and the maximum temperature recorded in 1998 was overcome in 2010.... You didn't know? Of course, if you just read propaganda, you will never know what the real science is saying."Huh ? Really ? Where ? How was this measured ?"... You have no idea eh? Go to the websites of NASA, NOAA and the UK MetOffice and you will find that surface temperature anomalies (in degrees Celsius) for 1998 were lower than for 2010:
NASA GISS 0.53 vs 0.55
NOAA NCDC 0.51 vs 0.54
MetOffice HadCRUT4 0.52 vs 0.58

You obviously don't understand the issue of biases and limitations of alternative datasets. Read more about the real science, rather than downloading from the usual denialist websites.... The only thing that is over is the denialists' brouhaha, more countries are coming on board and the coal industry better start finding alternative sources of revenues.... Happy denialing to you, though.
Disraeli, when farmers will stop voting the Nationals or Liberal and start voting for the Greens or the ALP or Independent you mat finally understand.... but by then it will be too late for you guys."It uses the distraction of an empty promise ... to launch a full-blown assault on the rule of law, attempting to remove any constraints or oversight of what the Government can do".... and this, beyond the issue of asylum seekers, will be the great "legacy" of this one-term Neoliberal Abbott Government!

Neoliberalism is supposed to foster total freedom from Government, but Neoliberalism has learned that in real life you can  only introduce draconian Neoliberal reforms if you put in place an authoritarian political system. This is what's happening in Australia at the moment, the People are waking up to it, the majority doesn't like it and they will vote accordingly!Hi AE,
But I guess you don't believe the story that the current trend in the polls (down below 50% for the Coalition since December) is just a fiction, given the Coalition supporters' obsession with the polls when they had Gillard pinned down to below 50% for quite some time.... At this point in time a second term for Abbott looks just about as likely as me receiving a phone call from the Nobel Foundation, announcing my winning of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine that "I know I fully deserve".....Hi Edward, the Federal Government is doing the same. Newman and Abbott have a clearly coordinated strategy. The bounce in the polls for Abbott has occurred, but it's not enough to even reach the 50% 2PP. So, I guess that he will keep on bumping his head on the same wall for some time and then, just change to another wall. As for Newman, please do note that Newspoll allocates preferences on the basis of the recorded votes at the pervious election. But note that in Qld the PUP plus others account for something like 16-18% of the primary vote (from memory). That's huge and therefore it will all come down to the final preferences allocated by the PUP in particular, come election day..... Can you see Palmer supporting the Newman Government?reaver,
The PUP still commands too many votes, in  spite of any recent spill over to the LNP. And the voters who returned to the LNP are probably those who would have voted 2 LNP after voting 1 PUP anyway. Palmer and the PUP remain the king/queenmakers in Qld in my view.John, the refugees are exploiting nothing. They are not welcomed with cheers and flowers, they are sent to refugee camps and there they wait for their case to be processed. If they do not qualify they are returned where they came from. The hysteria, panic, and general free-for-all scaremongering is exclusive responsibility of this Government of Liars, who are still deluded that they will be returned in 2016.... Nope!reaver, the 2PP went to 50%/50% as soon as Rudd returned. Abbott was indeed unelectable (he lost in 2010), but it took a truly massive campaign by Murdoch and the Media Gang to transform the good Labor Government into a "total disaster", etc.... Finally, enough voters fell into the trap (but not enough in the Senate!!) and they have realised their mistake since December 2013 (just 3 months from the election!!). The opinion polls have been relentlessly in favour of Labor since then, and nothing that this Government of Liars have tried has worked.... what's next?
Next year is going to be the decisive period for Abbott: if the economy goes up he may stand an unlikely chance (just may).... if the economy goes belly up, not even a million Catholic novenas will be able to save him.... It's no mystery that my prediction is for the latter (bet on it, it's a truly safe one).More than that, Esteban, it is such a disgrace that this issue has become such a central topic in the political football game. There should be bipartisanship based on a sensible balance of international legality, humanitarianism, and practical effectiveness.Esteban, the Greens are making sure that any "sensible balance" in our asylum seekers policies, also considers the issue of "humanitarianism"... The current Government equates "humanitarianism" with "weakness" and a "flood of unwanted people pouring in through the open gates". It does not need to be that way."The assumptions that the city's youth might be as apolitical and solely focused on business as the generation before were meant to be has proved badly wrong."... So, when they were under British rule they were encouraged to be apolitical. Under Chinese rule they are encouraged to be very political.... Me smell some rats, here....But the People really fear the Budget.... hence the Government is sinking.... A plan B! a plan B! my government for a plan B!
"We've seen over the last fortnight how events in distant Iraq have materially changed the security environment in Australia."... Not because there is any real change, only because there is a consistent campaign of propaganda and scaremongering that this Government of Liars hopes it will lift their sinking fortunes in the polls.... No Way, it won't!APM, are you complaining that not all your posts are published? I see very many of your posts that are being published. I also know that very many of my posts are not published (and the trend has been worsening in the last few weeks). I do also have my own suspicions, but you haven't seen any post of mine (except this one) whingeing about that.
.... Just keep trying and let's hope that if there is some game going on, it's at least fair to all sides."There are, certainly, some conceptual distinctions between traditional crime and terrorism. The latter is primarily intended to create fear."... By that definition, would the Abbott Government qualify as a "terrorist group"?.... Hmmm, great food for thought, thanks Chris."It's striking how little justification the Government has offered for the new advocating terrorism offense"... Totally spot on, Chris. The situation now is nothing compared to the early 2000s (9/11, Bali bombings), and yet this Government of Liars are mounting a brouhaha of mastodontic proportions as if an army of blood-thirsty ISIL terrorists was about to land all around Australia.... But there is a "justification": "Save the sinking Abbott Government".... poor little deluded ones!I have explained many times over, Alpha. When it comes to terrorism, framed as a mortal danger to the lives of all Australians, that can strike unexpectedly just around the corner, etc. etc. a cunning Government can create the conditions whereby any official resistance from the Opposition parties, can be easily framed as cowardice, irresponsibility, "dangerous stance that will endanger the lives of innocent Australians"... etc., you surely know the routine. In that case, whether the danger is real or fictitious (surely vastly exaggerated in this case), the opposition just goes along and neutralises the issue..... 
Now that the issue has been politically neutralised, Alpha, what about the Budget? What about unemployment? What about the costs of living? What about public services?.... We haven't forgotten about that, the People haven't forgotten. This Government is making life for ordinary Australians look and feel like hell.... and the clock is ticking.... relentlessly.
