Short sighted Left triumphalism. PUP will do the same Labor too. It's not a Left/Right thing but a governable/ungovernable thing. Give PUP several more months to embarrass themselves and then go for the DD. No point in hanging on to power but impotent. LNP might eek out a few more Senate seats. I can't see Labor doing well no matter what the polls say because they have zilch credibility, preferring cheaply opposing everything rather than renewal or national interest. Right now Labor is still pro carbon tax, defending rotten union connections, and are ideologically sympathetic to open borders no matter they say. Good luck with that platform. The LNP still represents a return to the norms of effective governance.I can't believe that there are so many conservative voters who end up being tricked into voting for parties/independents that end up supporting the Left. There is a pattern of disgruntled LNP candidates superficially appealing to conservative and libertarian/individualsm, 'against the machine' instincts and love of scallywags. You just have to say you are 'returning power to people'- stuff emphasising local and keeping promises and populist drivel. Its style over substance. These fraudsters are typically really disgruntled former and failed LNP types playing out revenge fantasies and enjoying the spotlight to cause chaos. The Left don't suffer from these outbreaks of individuals going awol and damaging their own side because they believe in collective approaches to everything and thus are all group thinking clones with no intellect or flair. I sometimes envy the Left's discipline and ability to stoically renounce truth for electoral gain.There is a failure here to accept the basic reality that Australia is a wealthy country and millions from the third world be prepared to do whatever it takes to access our wealth. This means it is not tenable for Australia to accept people joining our society merely with a 'likely story' of persecution. We cannot know who is genuinely at risk. However we do know that EVERY asylum seeker travels a vast distance for economic gain and most 'lose' their documents along the way. Loads of lies and deception and violence and self harm and convenient pregnancies, and why do they all seem to be related to each other? These things should be clues. It's embarrassing and frustrating to see otherwise intelligent people switch their brains off and deny pull factors and widespread gaming of the system. It's not moral to choose to be stupid and gullible. We might as well open up a Department of Compassion and hand out money to anyone who feels they really deserve it without any need for proof. Some people just believe in a borderless world and this is why refugee advocates don't care about us being swamped by their 'compassion'.Alfie, it would be more correct to say that 'even some of the strongest supporters of the LABOR Party cannot feel comfortable about many of the actions being taken in the name of renouncing our sovereign borders so anyone can enter our community based on lies at our expense and kill people with compassion.'The pro open border onslaught is relentless at the ABC isn't it morton? Its astonishing that the Left puts so much effort into finding ways to import as much of the third world as it can and stuff the obvious calamitious consequences. What a ridiculous and mad obsession and at my expense. I think it's worse than just white guilt. It should be in DSM as a disorder and would involve elements of narcissism and disordered thinking and suicide ideation. There is no space at the ABC for content from the practical, rational majority to have their say on this matter. Sensible people know exactly who is hurting who in this world and why and how net human potential could be improved and we aren't allowed to talk about it because it might 'offend' the perpetrators. Instead the answer is always for white people to sacrifice themselves to accommodate the cultures that are obviously the sources of misery. It's beyond stupid; it really is mad.Evidence eh? How about the former director of offshore processing in Australia?s immigration detention camps (Greg Lake) who claims asylum-seekers are coached and encouraged to attempt self-harm by refugee advocates who then use the incidents as political capital. Mr Lake said he grew disgusted by the actions of some refugee advocates who were clearly urging asylum-seekers to self-harm as a form of protest so they could put out a press release about it. He said the advocates communicated with the asylum-seekers by Facebook message, phone and email. While the department did not read asylum-seekers? communications, he said what was going on was obvious and often emerged later in interviews with detainees who had hurt themselves on purpose. He said he believed some advocates communicated with a ringleader, who then ?stood over? other
detainees to compel them to make a statement through self-harm. ?There are certain prominent advocates who will coach and encourage asylum-seekers to self-harm as a political protest and it makes me very upset and I believe it is at odds with their mandate as advocates,? Mr Lake said. ?The problem is, outside of the government or public service, people aren?t aware of their tactics.?It is interesting that human rights advocates never shed tears for ordinary Australians and often villains. The false 'morality' being practiced here is a self absorbed determination to parade how wonderful thew are. Be scared of anyone who makes a living out of  a narrow Left interpretation of the holy book of human rights with one size fits all solutions to all human relationships, a disdain for democracy, and no concept of 'responsibilities'. The irony is that these types don't care for real people in the real world and are a net cause of human misery with their social engineering based on airbrushed assumptions.Why doesn't the President of the AUSTRALIAN Human Rights Commission confine herself to dealing with the rights of AUSTRALIANS rather than effectively encouraging an exodus from the third world to Australia that goes against the democratic rights of AUSTRALIANS. Articles like this encourage self harm and reward people who try to force their way in without permission.By 'heart' you mean an open border don't you? There are many from failed, violent, oppressive cultures hell bent on entering this country ANY way they can and it must be resisted, and by doing so our leadership shows that its 'heart' is rightly protecting Australian interests, and not decadent capitulation to third world marauders. There is no global citizenship.This is not an area where compromises can be made Bernice. People from the third world are only interested as to whether turning up on a boat has a fair chance of resulting in a permanent visa and colonisation through family reunion. They don't care about complex details about human rights or conventions; these things are just tools to trigger something called 'compassion' and 'asylum'. You can't talk tough and not follow through in this area because the punters see straight through weakness and will exploit every tiny concession to the max. They take cues from every exception made that furthers resettlement goals as a precedent and shape their behaviour accordingly. If this one boat from India with very dubious claims is not resisted dozens more boats in the wings will set sail too and we will be soon be swamped. They think if they just get to x'mas Island they can further weaken our resolve with self harm and having babies and rioting and organising more boats and on and on. We cannot ever compromise against this determined illegal immigration. The only sustainable response is to say 'go away and apply through official channels' and then we will choose some on our own terms.Come on Peter, please don't site those worthless assessments. It's just multiple 'benefit of the doubts' with no hard evidence. These same people usually discard their documents too which is pretty much an admission of deception. The Sri-Lankans on the customs boat travelled from India where they were safe. Of course it's about money. I see no similarity between Australians being blown out of the sky and determined illegal immigration. The people on that boat are effectively self harming to force their way into our community and refugee advocates encourage this variously by design and accident. No reason for heartfelt capitulation for passive-aggressive and meritless bad behaviour from non-Australians.A few thousand? That's already been proven false in recent experience. Refugee advocates would quickly turn this into hundreds of thousands and still complain. Some refugees 'contribute' to our society but most have poor English and no usable skills. They typically spend years on many years on welfare as their prime income and add to this many other costs such as Gonski, translators.... That is a drain, not a 'contribution'. There are also the 'contributions' we don't want; most come from backgrounds steeped in medieval thinking that are hostile to Western liberal traditions and are a great source of crime and incivility. Unfortunately 'transparency' is a problem because refugees and their advocates have proven to effectively be people smugglers and assist in other disreputable ways.It is not 'inflammatory' or 'hyperbolic' to claim that refugee advocates support an 'open border'. This is what their efforts actually are in aid of in practice. ie they assist anyone who wants to resettle in this country under the guise of 'asylum'. They reflexively support every single claim. They turn a blind eye to all wrong doing. They are not rational or ever consider Australia's interests. They don't care about the drownings that their efforts encourage. They assist claimants to rort the system and pull self harm stunts. They demonise Australians for not accepting an effectively open border. Asylum seeking advocacy is a cult of a borderless world that should just reveal its intentions rather than play this deceitful and dangerous game of social engineering.Reza Berati put himself in Australia's 'custody' for choosing to subvert the Refugee Convention by claiming he was being persecuted when his family admits that he was only seeking financial gain. Labor had earlier allowed many from his village to get away with the same rort which no doubt encouraged Reza to similarly lie and put his life in danger. The government report on his death made it clear that Iranians were the group most responsible for the rioting, and that they used racial and other abuse to goad their PNG guards. It is foolish to be too sympathetic to people who typically behave atrociously and treat us like fools. Australia does not need to import people who routinely and quickly resort to violence and deception to get their way.Please explain how defending our borders from invasion is 'Naziism'. They are coming without permission, by force, to stay forever, and won't take no for an answer. They made themselves 'stateless' when they gave up their safe haven. They are abusing themselves for cash and we should never reward people for threats and self harm. Funny how the media covers up details of suicides of Australians but highlights manipulative self harm of non-citizens with a clear motive to take advantage of us. There are many double standards where asylum seekers are put on a pedestal and privileged in ways that no Australian could hope to get away with.We are surrendering liberty because we don't want to be seen to be profiling and offend the 2.2 percent of Australians from the religion that is the entire source of the problem. Personally, I am not happy to sacrifice my freedom and privacy to protect the feelings of the religious group that is to varying degrees opposed to my way of life. I don't care if they are offended to be confronted with the truth. The very first thing that should be done is to recognise that the larger the membership of that religious population, the bigger the terrorism threat. That should be a clue about our immigration policies. It is absurd and a sign of Western senility that this isn't the first course of action. Appeasement.None of the major source countries of our Muslim population are freedom loving peaceful places or known for tolerating secularism or ethnic minorities, and few are democratic. Women and homosexuals are treated appallingly. It is the religious dominance that shapes these societies. Not surprisingly the Australian muslim community continues the traditions of their homelands and rather than integrating the second generation appears no different with jihad calling. Wherever these communities exist there is always a climate of violence and oppression. There is no reason to be optimistic. You probably think it is racist to notice these things. I say it is in the public interest to be honest and act accordingly.'it is the responsibility of a multicultural Australia to condemn hatred against all minorities'.

You don't have to be a minority to be the victim of racism. White people are singled out for racial criticism in 'anti-racism' articles and in many of the comments on The Drum, particularly to excuse or cover up failures of multiculturalism. White people reasonably pointing out really nasty racist behaviour and attitudes of some groups are themselves accused of racism. 'Racism' has become a debased word that is usually used by people with a lack of sense of proportion and to turn reality upside down and silence and protect the wicked.In the multicutural society though, some minorities take advantage of tolerance and protection to enable them to prey on other minorities or the society at large. Moves to curtail unreasonable behaviour is met by cries of 'racism'. In other words we have the emergence of anti-racism efforts being subverted by some minorities to enable cultures of racism and other socially deleterious outcomes by making it virtually illegal to hold some groups to account. That is one of the problems of 18c.I doubt that too many individuals from minorities will ever be charged with 18c offences no matter how obvious the case. 18c is a Left project and everything they say and do, including from the federal race commissioner himself, gives the impression that only white people are being targeted for 'racism'. ie 18c is a tool in the culture wars to silence and punish whites. Bolt got done for calm political commentary about a matter of public interest but 'Aboriginals' have vastly more nasty  squabbles about Aboriginal identity and we all know no Aboriginal person will ever be charged with an 18c offence in any circumstances. This is relativism, double standards, different rules based on race - that is state sanctioned racism.I know where you are coming from Bob. Keep it up. Yes, what are said to be the West's strengths are being cynically used against us and most have been brainwashed not to see it or at least accept it. Instead of fighting to protect our way of life, many children supposedly of the enlightenment assist the cultures who are brazenly trying to bring it all undone. They call this 'progressive'. I call it insanity. It's nice to have some support occasionally.Racism isn't the only show in town. We must have the ability to challenge people based on membership of a cultural/ethnic/religious group without it being regarded automatically as racism. Diversity does actually mean difference and some of these differences are things that society broadly might look down upon as aberrant behaviour and attitudes. If terrorism is a particular problem in one group, then society has the right to criticise and demand that these people desist. Members of that community will say they are victims of racism because most are not terrorists, but this is a denial of reality as these things usually point to entrenched antisocial belief systems that only really can be tackled by that cultural community. They must take responsibility for their problems. Too often major issues in society such as the treatment of women, gays etc are swept under the carpet on the basis of not wanting to appear racist even though there are easily identifiable notorious offenders with common cultural links and outlooks that really should be challenged. 'Racism' is often a villains defence and we should not have to sell out basic standards of acceptable behaviour to appease the wrong or the bad even if it offends. This is often the lesser hurt than say accepting forced marriages. It's a messy business and we shouldn't be too shrill about racist claims.Anglo Saxons are always challenged, almost uniquely. Oddly, the 'anti-racism' brigade do this the most. We shouldn't be dividing races into victims and perpetrators by birth. That too is racist. It's not about sides; it should be about protecting basic principles and standards and letting valid criticism fall on various groups based on merit alone irrespective of wider agendas. No double standards or it all unravels in a sea of contradictions and perversity. It's nuts to think you stop racism or defend the muslim world by reflexively finding faults with whites. It's not really relevant what the Irish do. Deal with the problem.If you think Aboriginal people are incapable of making good choices to improve their position in Australia then that is either racist or you have to accept that cultural choices will led to non-Western outcomes.'They enrich us'

Draconian anti terrorism laws are being introduced because migrants often do not 'enrich us'. We have heard just today that most categories of visas are a colossal scam where lies are the norm. Skilled migrants often don't use their qualifications for quality jobs. Many migrants, especially asylum seekers are known to spend their lives predominantly on welfare. The migrants are enriched at our expense and we get a welfare bill, lies, terrorism, and crowded polluted cities.We could just target the group that is always responsible for the terror but apparently that is called profiling so we all have to suffer for this gift of multiculturalism. The people who cause the problem are mostly beneficiaries of 'compassionate' immigration decisions including their descendents. This outcome was predictable so the Left can't really complain. The bad compromise we get is that in order to be protected from being blown up we are all now under suspicion and will lose privacy and freedom all to appear non-discriminatory to the people who are actually the source of the threats, and to the cultural Marxists who refuse to link A to B to stop this threat from increasing its foothold in the first place. I recommend a strong unapologetic defence of Western ways and a one way ticket for anyone who doesn't like it.'Welcome to 1984'

Except here the enemy is real. Just one terrorist bomb on an underground station and it will forever damage this nation in so many ways. My reading of 1984 to be applied here is the importance of the freedom to say the truth - that two plus two equals four. The Left think the answer is bendable to suit utopian social engineering, but this has led to the threat of cultures inherently hostile to Western ways being brought into our midst. Many of us have been victimised for pointing out this fatal contradiction. This situation was inevitable and entirely avoidable.Some of the key 'facts' were postmodern facts that wouldn't past the pub test. Bolt couldn't really challenge them without this being seen as evidence of more 'racism'. It was Kafkaesque. There is no possibility in this intolerant Leftist climate to make the anti-racist case 'easily and legally' that race based benefits are perverse, by making people focus on difference rather than similarities and do not take into account need which sees benefits accrue to the already well off at the expense of others suffering genuine disadvantage. 18c protects vested interests and bad ideas.The correct reference to 1984 is that the dangers of some forms of immigration that necessitate the government's actions have been outlawed as 'thought crimes'. Blind Freddy could tell you that Muslim culture and values contradict western liberal values and this tension would lead to conflict. We have many or most muslims rejecting our way of life and prefer backward middle eastern oppression and violence rather than peace and tolerance and freedom, and yet even as Rome burns all the Left can worry about is white racism. Accommodating these illiberal cultures is a sell out of the Lefts' own values just to obsess over an irrational social experiment to force everyone to live together irrespective of the predictable disastrous outcomes. This applies all over the Western world. The multicultural fraudsters are the ones you should be angry with.Yank, this is my third attempt to answer your question on an article concerning freedom. We are all being punished to protect the group that is hostile to us. Apparently it is discriminatory to target the readily identifiable group that means us harm and we must suffer a loss of freedom and privacy to pretend this group doesn't have a massive problem with violence and to keep up the Left faith that the real problem is as always white racism. The Islamists must be laughing at us.Dove, I am supposed to switch my brain off and see nothing, no patterns, no bad things, except white racism. All cultures are equally everything and no criteria can ever be established to measure this. I call this bigotry. Any theory or ideology that cannot be falsified is faith based junk. I say that we deal in the truth and rationality first and worry about how that might offend someone second.Plenty of sensible things can be done. For example, ban all the firebrand clerics or jail or deport with extreme prejudice; that garbage has no place in our society. Second, proper immigration controls so we know who people are, dismiss asylum claims without hard evidence and any hint of violence in detention; put newcomers on probation for say five years to weed out thugs and extremists. No family reunion only skilled. Get proactive in demanding conforming to Western values and shame the community for the behaviour of its members. Use your imagination.Why accuse me of hatred. I am not blowing anyone up, or assaulting people, or performing genital mutilation, or forcing underage girls to marry me to be my slave. I do not support Sharia Law or the extermination of Jews.... Get a sense of proportion. I am trying to reduce hate rather than hide behind multicultural platitudes that enable real hate.I know all about confirmation bias but I am quite intelligent and informed and know for example about the terrible things that come out of the central west suburbs of Sydney and it is very real and everyone knows about it, and the people who behave this way see no problem except always claim to be victims when they are hostile to all other groups. They regularly say they don't accept Western culture and people are actually being hurt. They are also the main source of terrorist threats in this country. It is the intolerance and backward culture of that group you should be worried about instead of shooting the messenger who is trying to realistic about the disastrous importation of a hateful violent oppressive culture.Are you saying there has never been a single opinion piece submitted to the Drum supporting harsh border protection measures or are you saying that every single one has been rejected?
I even submitted an official complaint that 100 percent of Drum articles support open borders despite community standards and never got a reply. I am supposed to believe that a whole bunch of smart management types at the ABC with policies encouraging diversity have not noticed that only one end of the political spectrum is ever represented when many complain about it. It is literally a conspiracy.@ Tiliqua.

The Left dominated ABC applies its own self serving 'standards' to exclude non Left content. eg If you are against open borders it is a 'fact' to the Left's moral guardians that you are a racist so this argument has never been seen. In other words they say there is no bias because the Left is correct and good and other points of view are wrong and evil. Real balance offends them. Furthermore, the articles here are opinion pieces. Why are opinions from the Green's end of the political spectrum represented massively disproportionate to their support in the community at the expense of those on the Right? The ABC should not have a worldview or attempt to sermanise or exclude otherwise it is a political entity and illegitimate because it corrupts democracy at public expense.

Oh I am dying to hear your definition of 'bias' Trent. I bet it has little to do with giving a fair hearing according to community standards and everything to do with making excuses to exclude the views of most Australians.Yep the most obvious racism I see daily is the media and political racism of the cultural Marxists that insist that racism is a whites only affair. I have suffered and witnessed racist rants like the lady on the train by a group that is beyond criticism on my ABC, as has many who have lived in country towns.I am not excusing anything, but it is notable that there are never ever examples of non white racism against whites in these anti-racism articles. When there clearly is non white racism like the targeting of whites in the lead up to the Cronulla riots it is airbrushed or excused. This does suggest the ideological construction of a narrative (as opposed to reality) that whites are uniquely racist and other races can only be victims of it. This is both cultural relativism and racist by definition.Feelings of anti anti Muslim sentiments should be judged on whether they are justified or not, not whether it offends people behaving badly, or challenges multicultural ideology. You can't blame non-muslim Australians for being very unhappy about importing people who are often staunchly anti-western, and in some cases are willing to resort to mass murder to enslave us in a Islamic theocracy. I refuse to tolerate this. There is no moderate muslim majority in any muslim community. I am judged as a Right winger here but I would say that compared to the muslim at the 50th percentile their views are far to the Right of mine. Yet the Left is only interested in attacking and censoring white conservatives for pointing that out, whilst the people most opposed to everything they believe in are protected because of some dumb and inherently contradictory race ideology.Our Muslim migrants come from the worlds worst muslim societies thanks to 'compassionate' decisions that have made Australia LESS compassionate and less progressive. We don't get many immigrants from Indonesia and Malaysia so what they do is less relevant.I keep being challenged to provide evidence by the Left who then don't allow me to answer. I try to provide evidence over and over but people like you support censorship of criticism of non white groups because you think it is 'prejudice' so these answers are not seen. Therefore it is exasperating to be insulted and to meet demands for evidence when this 'debate' is a fix and you don't genuinely want to hear the answer.Actually you were taught by delusional ideologues that it is not moral to notice negative differences in racial groups and that only white people have faults. Therefore you have been brainwashed to not use your full mental capacities to see what is right in front of you. It is actually a cult of anti-enlightenment stupidity and immoral.Hey there is no problem with terrorism or general anti-western sentiment and extremely violent crime in our suburbs because Malcolm says it's just 'xenophobic fears'. I suggest some are realityphobic. Instead of fighting against forced marriage and female circumcision the Left are actually promoting the acceptance of it by protecting the culture that predominantly practices it.I never made the claim that white Anglo Saxons do not commit violent crimes. The only purpose of that non-sequitur is to obfuscate the truth that there is a hugely disproportionate problem with crime and oppression in muslim communities universally compared to Western communities. I can differentiate between different degrees of things with an honesty not held hostage to ideology, whereas the Left basically say one bad white guy invalidates criticism of other cultures because it means they are the same. No they aren't and you know it. It's a duck.The Left didn't want 18c watered down because it would protect 'bigots' ie people with mere opinions, but they don't want to stop Islamic bigots who are actually in the act of hateful crimes or materially supporting them. This looks like culture wars that are always to silence and weaken whites and western ways, whilst making concessions to all other races/cultures and religions. All cultures are not of equal value; it's the content that matters - if I am still allowed to say so.What if that religion has proven to be anti all other religions and regularly uses deadly violence to enforce? The people who you are protecting do not tolerate you or I. That is the sort of practical reality we need to come to terms with.You don't need explicit anti-Islam laws. All the extremists just happen to be Muslims. The new laws would for example say it is illegal to be involved in a certain conflict because it is none of Australia's business, or immoral, or the threat of terrorism... There are other ways to target errant groups without appearing to be prejudiced. Take immigration. It you support progressive values you should support an analysis made of the impact of people from certain countries moving to Australia. For example when surveyed, people from most middle eastern countries make responses that they are unbelievably homophobic, anti-semetic etc and therefore people from those countries should be excluded from immigration programs. No mention of race or religion. It is not racist or bigoted but a rational assessment that these people are unlikely to thrive in Australia and will persecute certain groups. Call it quality control and progressive.There are exceptions to every rule but it doesn't diminish that there pattens that exist in most socially undesirable things and that the main perpetrators of harm are readily identifiable and where the problem is actually being imported it seems unnecessary to continue making the same mistakes just to parade non-discriminatory credentials. Arguably problems with identity based aspects need solutions based on best practice the same as any other rational decision making based on probabilities of consequences, so we shouldn't have to get so defensive about improving society just to placate people causing most of the problems.

I don't think there has ever been a white person on X'mas Island so we will never know if there is white privilege at play. I do note however, that most refugees do come from a similar religious/cultural background and it is not easy to determine whether they are really victims or just as oppressive and violent as the people they claim to be fleeing from.Where is a single article in favour of harsh border protection measures as supported by the majority. The ABC usually attacks Labor from the Left too.Calling everything you disagree with a 'slogan' is in fact a boring slogan. The government must find a way to better target known bludgers rather than punish everyone. Aboriginal 'disadvantage' is not linked to 'dispossession' since they had none of the things we value in the first place. It's dishonest to blame whites for all Aboriginal dysfunction and at the same time value the culture that produces negative outcomes. I don't think it would be possible to squeeze in more Left articles of faith. Spin doctor at large.The culture is inherently at odds with the action necessary to bring about acceptable life outcomes and high standards that are expected of every other culture. This 'disadvantage' is really about 'choice' and those who enable bad choices. I am not actually allowed to accept your challenge to 'enlighten' you to the best of my ability. Your right to free speech (and to abuse me by calling me 'pathetic and dishonest' and 'bigoted') has been protected, whereas my commonly held opinion is virtually out of bounds and I am deserving of ridicule. It's a fix that is unbalanced and antidemocratic and protects bad ideas and vested interests.'bloody-minded insane psycho-killer Israelis'.

Swap the word 'Israelis' for 'Palestinians' and watch the Left exclude and demonise you. This is the intellectual abyss you get when 'equality' and 'balance' and 'facts' are only relative according to the Left's unchallengeable hierarchy of victims and perpetrators, and privilege the world's worst cultures to oddly prove you are morally superior.LeftyRoy, the Palestinians are still continuing their offensive and not surprisingly bringing 'horror' upon themselves. When people like you get upset about civilian casualties Hamas wins. You have been manipulated by people who practice self harm to elicit western sympathy just like asylum seekers do. That is their political solution - to live and die for attacking peaceful liberal Jews and observing extreme Islam, and to start a war they can't win and put their military operations amongst civilians and booby trapping everything, so that comfortable, shallow Westerners see images of kids in hospitals and blame Israel for what is an eternal Palestinian genocidal terror. Gaza is a terrorist entity that its people support, the place is bristling with rockets and tunnels for starting wars, and it gets what it deserves. Not Israels fault that Palestinians think life is cheap and are utterly uncompromising.'...withdrawal from occupied territory. This would remove the main point of contention.'

False. The main point of contention is that Hamas is openly committed to the destruction of Israel and Jews. Since you know this, why would you be an enabler of genocide and the establishment of an expanded Palestinian Islamist terror state? Why do you support Islamists?Yank, they are here because people like you supported unnecessarily opening the borders knowing full well that most Australians will never accept an open border and would have to respond harshly to stop this. The Left basically sent out a search party to find poor people and encourage them to abuse themselves for western riches that had a high probability of ending in death, hardship and disappointment. It is 'beyond contempt' that some selfish self absorbed Australians are still on their high horse and abusing the sane majority despite causing all this pain and mayhem, ignoring the well established will of the people, and refusing to recognise in plain sight the attempts of many or most 'refugees' to game the Refugee Convention for cash and colonisation.We don't want them in our care. They have forced themselves upon us. Passive aggressive is the new form of attack against the West. You just make yourself a victim and compassion rewards kick in. Hamas does this too. In effect our own tolerance is being cynically used against us. Human rights have become a villains charter to enable bad behaviour and dysfunction because there are no matching responsibilities like 'do not get on leaky boat for material gain and ditch documents'. Self imposed problems and crookedness should result in forfeiture of 'Rights'. If we do not reward people who attempt to enter by boat there will be no problem. It's perfectly logical.Back up a bit Yank. There are overarching rights and wrongs too. Every community from the dawn of time has had rules about who gets to join a community. It requires the consent of the people; call it democracy and legitimacy and sovereignty. We do not consent - at least not like this. The current movements and tactics even satisfy some definitions of invasion. 'Desperation' is not evidence of anything when there are clear rewards on offer above safety. Don't tell me it is wrong to be concerned that some Australians want to create an existential threat to my my great country to suit countless people that most of us have no kinship with.You speak of the possibility of sending people back if assessed as not requiring protection. A lot of us though look at those sort of Left claims with great suspicion. More likely those supporting refugees will assist them to resort to any number of subversive tactics to stay. Everything is challenged in courts; people suddenly procreate; there are riots; the self harm; exaggeration of risks of return... We know from experience that the Left just want every single person who arrives by boat to stay because they believe they are saving the world whether or not they have a genuine need for protection. The bar isn't just too low; there isn't a bar at all.People who were fleeing nothing immediate in Indonesia and India put babies on boats where they will end up dead or in detention and that is Australia's shame? They even have babies in detention. There have been reports that some refugees sexually assault children in detention, and that this is partly a cultural problem. Why do we need this threat in our community? Every asylum seeker is partly or fully coming for material gain and those who put the sugar on the table and unleash this harm on children should be ashamed. Compassion is useless to me without recognition of cause and effect and motives.It is odd that the Palestinians would prefer to live in camps forever essentially because they insist on the right of return to Israel when virtually none of them ever lived there. They have to move on. Islamism is the root cause of the on-going conflict which makes Palestinians uncompromising and, Gaza at least, a terrorist society. There is also the matter of the genocidal stuff that can be found in the Hamas Charter and actually practiced at every opportunity. I would also add that experience show that people from this milieu easily become hostile to Western ways without provocation. We need to be protected from predictable dangers too.'Most distressing, however, was people's heightened emotional state.'

Millions of Australians also have a 'heightened emotional state' to keep them out. Australia cannot be held responsible for the disappointment of people not being allowed to just stroll in without invitation and handed Centrelink forms. There is no nice way to say no and no reason to apologise for exercising our sovereign right to determine who enters our community. I also know that some of this distress is a deliberate tactic to wear us down to capitulate and that advocates encourage this. We have provided the 'certainty' that they will never settle in Australia thereby stopping others from forcing their way in the dodgiest of ways. I am sick of this monolithic minority opinion to flood Australia with the third world. Why is there never a different opinion hereabouts? 

The Left no longer exists? Now that is postmodernism. I'm pretty sure universities are full of socialists. There is certainly less mainstream Left emphasis on socialism, but they have moved on to social engineering and much of this can be embedded into the capitalist system. The goal is now to make everyone the same in terms of what they regard as equal outcomes and deny innate differences or choices that result in diversity. The Left pretend to support diversity simply as a platitude to force everyone together to be developed into clones. Humanity can only be perfected, purified, and be peaceful when all independent thought and identity is crushed. Inconvenient truth is an enemy to this project which is why the scourge of anti-intellectual postmodern Leftist thinking and tactics will continue to make objective reality bendable to social engineering goals that are invented out of thin air - eg rubbish like 'all cultures are of equal value' which makes no sense. 

The Left increasingly tries to sidestep and hollow out democracy  by bureaucratising the Left project to take decisions away from ordinary people are seen as brutish and stupid. Left ideology is being redefined as 'human rights' and apparently there are 'experts' (Leftists) who are privileged to define these rights without your consent, and non accountable courts can also enforce these 'rights'. This paternalist thinking is similar to China's political system. The paternalist ABC of course practices 'balance' without actual balance in the physical universe under a labyrinth of Left sophistry and 'standards' that deliberately exclude.You made no attempt to address the issue of systemic bias. Fail. If much of the political spectrum is barely represented then the ABC is a partizan political entity rather than a impartial public media outlet and this is a corruption of democracy that renders the ABC illegitimate and undeserving of public funding.No this isn't just some subjective bleating from some one eyed supporter trying to exclude anyone. I want actual balance, not postmodern 'balance'. I think we can agree there is a spectrum of political ideas in the population. We can roughly use voting patterns and polling to determine what Left and Right issues are and how many hold these views. The simplest test then is whether Left and Right voices are heard on the ABC roughly according in proportion to those in the community. The ABC fails this test miserably. On every contentious issue, the ABC clearly represents the Left option on things like Aboriginal affairs, climate change, gay marriage, immigration, equality, and so on. This ABC is utterly predictable in nearly every specific instance. You say there is a 'good cross section of opinion'. I can't imagine that you are stupid so I don't know how you could think this. I am sorry to harp on about this but I am still waiting for a justification for how a 'balanced' ABC has never ever included an article that advocated for strong border measures against refugees even though the majority of Australians expect this. How does expecting ONE article that represents the majority make me a 'one eyed supporter' trying to exclude 'alternative points of view'? There are no alternative points of view to the Left on that issue so that argument is ludicrously hypocritical and other worldly. I think the Left has redefined balance to mean something different to overall impartiality. It's a fix to exclude non Left content. For example, Green says good journalism is by definition Left journalism. What tripe! Then plenty is filtered out according to 'standards' like human rights, and 18c type 'offensiveness'. The ABC mentality regards arguments against the open border as inherently racist so that argument will never be seen on MY ABC. In short, everything that is conspicuously missing is or underrepresented is bias. There are no excuses.Yank, whether those views are justified or not is not the point. Who are you are anyone else to judge political views as a test for their inclusion? What you call 'discrimination' is to others just some word used to silence people. It's not an argument but an excuse not to have one. What is the point of even having a comments section if the ABC expects the public to conform to the ideology of a narrow, privileged clique of Leftists? It is fundamentally anti-democratic and unreasonable. The ABC is there to reflect community standards not to set them otherwise it is just a branch of the Greens or some other Marxist entity. Some of us really believe in the power of a good cogent argument as a way to advance society rather than just wild activism and banning opposition.There has never ever been a single article against open borders on the ABC in a country where a majority consistently supports harsh border protection measures. 'Under-5s' would call this bias. I have made this charge 1487 times and I have yet to get a satisfactory response. I question the integrity of anyone who claims this isn't bias. You must think the 'moon is made of cheese if this isn't bias'.
If you genuinely do not think this is bias I would love to know the metric you are working from, and define bias and balance and impartiality. Please show me a single article that proves me wrong. I can't believe I have to have such an insane conversation. In my universe two plus two still equal four and is not adjusted according to social engineering goals or morality or anything else.Witness another poster boy for the 'tolerant' 'progressive' Left revealing their true nature. ie Intolerant, anti-intellectual, abusive, tribalism over principal, feel entitled to hijack a public broadcaster to impose thought direction without explanation or apology.Ingenuous is prescribing acceptable political content according to Greens orthodoxy to exclude everything else yet claims bias is all in my head. He cannot even conceive of any rebuttal to the Lefts' stance on boats. Can you believe the nerve? There is no possibility to write an alternative article on 'refugees' because people who think like you at the ABC (all of them) will never permit it. Congratulations the Left wins another opponentless argument by banning dissent. Doesn't it feel a bit empty?But they are not going to sell the ABC although I would have thought that the ABC was goading the government to do so given that the hard Left that dominates at the ABC does campaign against them at public expense. That is extraordinarily generous and tolerant. Every day I await the ABC to publish a single article that represents the majority view on 'refugees' and it never comes. This systemic failure to be pluralistic is a form of corruption. No one here even bothers to justify this, instead they start blathering about Murdoch conspiracies and bogans and slogans. Am I supposed to believe that senior management doesn't notice that most people are deliberately disenfranchised? Do they not notice that shows like Q&amp;A and Insiders are stacked Left every single week? They hide behind journalistic 'standards' to exclude; articles are written by 'freelance writers' and 'communications experts' - 100 percent Left. The arrogance and bullying and hate of ordinary people and sense of entitlement is staggering. Dystopia is already here.
Your comment was a stereotype of much of what I was complain about. Good work.Where is something on the 'middle' on refugees on The Drum and not an open border free-for-all? And by 'middle' I don't mean some postmodern blather that somehow excludes majority opinion by definition. I expect to hear crickets chirping as usual.In the Left mind any Right representation at all is defined as Right bias isn't it Olive. I also bet you regard all those radical activists that go unchallenged and those with Labor/Green links as middle ground. I have noticed lately all these people saying 'what Left?', 'who are the Left?' The Left denies its own existence in order to seem the norm and dominate.It is difficult to advance a point of view that does not offend someone. The right to freely express one's self should outweigh this. I honestly don't give a damn if my words offend some hypothetical reader who is searching to be offended. I am a white conservative male and thus under attack all the time but I don't try to silence people for it. Massive double standards. Who decides what is offensive? Who decides who is to be 'protected' from being offended? It's just a comments section for god's sake. Get out of my life thought police! Repeal 18c.The ABC caters to inner city Green types that have 'a lot of money'. Just look at the Q&amp;A audience. Why can't these privileged people manage to start their own media outlet instead of mooching off millions of battlers that have to pay for exclusively Left output that many battlers despise?It's not about what you or other Leftists like Olive. You are not a judge of what is acceptable on a public broadcaster in a democracy any more than I am. It's about the right for everyone to have have their say on their own terms barring genuinely offensive conduct as measured by real community standards. How can you deal with real diversity like multiculturalism when you show a complete disregard for other points of view?Those are all Left news sources. This is activist media that filters information through social engineering objectives. You are told only what they think is good for you - to manipulate you. These same people openly support censorship so why would you only use  media sources that you know are treating you like an idiot and not to be trusted? You cannot possibly have a good understanding of the world without access to challenging news and views. A thinking person searches out all the facts and opinions and uses their own mind to develop their own ideas and BS detector, otherwise you are just another ill informed group thinking cog in the monolithic Leftist collective. The rough edges of the unsophisticated media does tend to inform you of things that would be airbrushed by paternalists.The Sydney Telegraph is read primarily by Labor voters. There will never be a Labor government without majority support amongst tabloid readers. Labor still depends upon the old school blue collar vote that Labor stood for before the dregs of the middle class took over for social engineering and these people actually can't stand their own core support base. I can't see how the bourgeois Left attacking the tastes and habits of most of their own voters does Labor any good.I read most of the media in this country daily and I can assure you that the ABC stands out as the media outlet that is most aimed at one particular segment of society and skewed accordingly. ie hard bourgeois Left. It's the Left talking to the Left and excluding the majority at public expense. The Sydney Telegraph is not conservative; it just appeals to the ordinary people that the Left used to cater to and now hate. It's also ridiculous to assert that conservative opinions are all bought. Just because the ABC is not private does not mean its news is any more reliable. Indeed the lack of market pressures has made the ABC a sheltered workshop for Left ideologues. I don't know why anyone would want to hear news from an organisation who support censoring and activism. The result is that those who are rusted on ABC tragics are deliberately choosing to live in a bubble of ignorance so their sense of moral superiority is not offended. ie the Left think too much information and rational questioning is immoral; truth does not trump Left orthodoxy.Most of the media is Left. Surveys have shown that most journalists are Left. Journalism schools are notoriously Left. In Sydney Fairfax also skews Left even though it is mostly sold in conservative seats - no wonder they are going broke. 

I choose to come here to reclaim My ABC for people of all political viewpoints. In fact as a conservative I am the 'vulnerable' hereabouts. My views are uncommonly represented in articles and I am subject to the whims of what offends Leftist ABC staff for my comments to be published. No one from the majority has EVER been represented in a article on boat people. How does the exclusion (and implied hate) of many to most Australians sit with your idea of a fair go? I note the personal abuse of people you disagree with that is indicative of the intolerant Left.Once again you miss the point that Left 'news' is what is left when you exclude things that offend Left sensibilities and you end up with news that excludes ideas and information or is based upon dishonest foundations. I deplore activism masquerading as news that seeks to manipulate me for social engineering purposes. I want all the relevant information warts and all to weigh up things myself. The ABC fails this test. The give away is where Left media is quick to find fault with say white men and in equivalent cases obviously makes excuses for or cover up identities on the basis of some assumed hierarchy of victimhood and perpetrators that is baseless. It often turns the real world upside down and protects villains, for example, by implying that white people are exclusively racist whilst in the real world whites are the only multiculturalists and are far more likely to be the victims of race related crimes compared to other groups I can't even mention here. I see the same double standards in what is and isn't allowed in comments. This sort of campaigning is not news or analysis but straight out ideological dogma and makes Left media untrustworthy and often quite mad and evil.Most people are not obsessed with politics or social activism or like an argument. Many are are not particularly bright either. If tabloids keep unsophisticated or disinterested people engaged, even by accident, its a good thing. I would still judge that the masses get the big issues right more than the ABC's latte class who are out of touch and indulge in imposing unnecessary experimental social engineering based more on faith than evidence. Someone has to be the voice of Joe average in a democracy. God knows the ABC refuses to and actually despises ordinary people. The tabloids and their readers aren't pushing me around either.The 'PM's management of international relations' is very good. The Left love to construct this false narrative that Abbott is 'embarrassing' himself and Australia. Those people and their media sympathisers are embarrassing themselves. I see a capable leader advancing Australian interests. He has had to work hard to repair the damage by Rudd who managed to upset all our key allies. Abbott didn't upset the Indonesians; Rudd did by spying on Mrs SBY and opening the borders. Stopping the boats stops the tensions. I'm embarrassed about the refugee lobby who try to make us look weak and gullible with cringeworthy false moralism. Wikileaks showed the Americans thought Rudd was an unstable windbag and full of himself. Rudd upset China and Japan. Yet the Left media didn't notice all this damage because they put tribalism above principle. Gillard was simply out of her depth and disinterested. Abbott deals with the world confidently without excessive BS and without capitulating to every overseas criticism. Now he leads the world on the plane travesty. Shame on Europe and Obama for their cowardness. Abbott is a true statesman. The author is fantasising that the world is shaming us taking a neutral position on Palestine. All communications and media 'experts' are Leftists and I do notice how they slip in lots of little Left nuggets that are attempts to manipulate me by presenting contentious opinions as facts. It won't fool me.I just find it interesting that people who call themselves communications and media experts are so willing to display such bias when I would have thought they would need to be impartial to have credibility. It looks unprofessional. I also know these people pride themselves for manipulating people for a living and see these articles as an opportunity to do just that. Leftist spin doctors. Because I know this I must question the polling and interpretation more so than if a non-partizan attempt was made here.It doesn't matter what true Islam is. All I care is that many followers of Islam regard using extreme violence as part of their religious adherence as normal and even a requirement. As widely practiced, Christians turn the other cheek and Muslims go looking for a fight; Christians are tolerant and muslims are intolerant. Chalk and cheese.I do know what I am talking about. It is based on the readily observable patterns that I see both here and abroad. I am pretty sure I am not imagining that wherever there is a significant muslim presence there is an environment of violence and oppression and extremism as compared to places where christians dominate. I have a post graduate degree in humanities and know about the dangers of stereotyping and history and tolerance and so on but I still see fundamental differences between the impacts of Islam and Christianity in the modern world. I do not regard it as intelligent or moral to pretend these strong patterns do not exist. It's like denying the impact of alcohol on driving or cigarettes on health. Dancing around the issue by saying all religions have the capacity for evil is dishonest. The outcome of the presence of the religions is clear cut and predictable over place and time. You are defending the indefensible. I wonder why.You really have to stop with the dishonesty that Christianity is an equally destructive and extreme force as Islam in the world. The Left cannot defend Islam anymore except to say Christianity is just as bad - rubbish. Christianity has evolved and ancient texts and symbols and songs are of little relevance. Christianity does not pervade Western thought the way that Islam dominates all aspect of their societies. Christianity usually compliments humanistic advancement these days whilst Islam is utterly unreconstructed from its tribal and medieval origins and cannot see outside this bubble. Nothing is ever questioned or advanced and part of the good life is to demonstrate one's brutality as a mark of piety. All the conflicts of the Middle east centre on Islam and a race to the bottom in idiotic tribalised visions of brutality and oppression. Muslims terrorise christians and rarely the other way around including christians who are helping them escape poverty and persecution. I cannot even think of any muslim humanitarians for non muslims. The simple test is, would you choose to live in a country dominated by Christians or Muslims? Game, set, match.The Congo war has nothing to do with religion, just a history of dysfunction that sees conflict normalised seemingly forever. I cannot find any reference to anyone fighting for a Christian god or vision, or any sort of philosophy. Just because Christians inhabit an area does not make christianity the problem; rather they have grafted a superficial form of christianity onto traditional tribal cultures but it just isn't a factor here. Sub Saharan Africa cannot seem to discipline itself to be stable and develop but that is a different topic. Occam's razor suggests something that you would regard as the scariest idea in the world. I do not know of any widespread Christian extremist groups in Africa but I can think of several Islamist groups that have the usual monolithic property of solving problems through extreme violence and imposing a primitive, miserable existence based on a wrathful god. Boko Haram is telling us very loudly that they kill and destroy and enslave in the name of Islam. It's particularly repulsive because it is an organised and deliberate and merciless repudiation of human potential above ground.No its an indictment of our immigration system that we import people from an extreme cultural/religious societies and then expect some other than extremism and hostility to Western ways to happen. 'Our community' and 'schooling systems' are not failing except to the extent the Left says that all cultures are of equal value despite their actual content and refuses to address this because of some 'racism' bogeyman. This is what multiculturalism logically leads to - a liberal culture nurturing an illiberal culture that threatens to overwhelm us, and the Left is not equipped to recognise this and respond in ways that preserve their own broader progressive principles. Why does it take the Right to protect the Lefts' own values?'Preventing deaths at sea' might be a fig leaf Alpo for the right but it should satisfy the advocates who go on about saving lives. After all you have to be alive to have rights, and I doubt there would be over 1000 deaths if those people stayed at home, but the open border fanatics made self harm pay off for most. You, like others seem to romanticise this danger and like to play god for personal stimulation.

You know full well that if this mob of likely economic migrants was brought to the mainland it would make it more difficult to send them back. This has little to do with persecution and everything about letting in everyone from the third world at any cost. Right now there would be advocates implying that self harm would help their cause and coaching them to lie and thwart the system. Good god they are even going to sue us for trying to stop them entering Australia illegally. Meanwhile they would be contacting relatives and smugglers to organise more boats to break in. It's a sham. Advocates cannot conceive of any situation where these people are quickly sent back. 

Question Alpo. If they are assessed as Tamils free from persecution living in India for years, and coming to make money, should the 157 be swiftly returned to India. Yes or No?Arguably you do need economic, cultural, and social rights to fully realise your freedom (civil and political rights). However, the Refugee Convention only recognises political persecution and this is a good thing because otherwise every poor person in the world could claim that poverty is actually a loss of freedom and demand access to the West. It's just another borderless world argument. In the real world there are a lot of other less abstract things to consider like culture and human nature and rational self interest.'It is too easy for many of us to group them together and think of them 'the other'.

No it isn't. I have tried several times today to challenge the worship of the 'other' beyond all reason and have been denied numerous times. There is simply no way to criticise non-white cultures on the ABC even if fair comment and in the public interest. The Leftist collective of the ABC is not pluralistic and tolerant as it claims but hateful and totalitarian. I will continue to try and defend your right to live in a liberal society from people who are from inherently illiberal cultures.'perpetrated by a broad cross section of faith'.

Ok lets test that ludicrous claim locally. In Sydney 'bad things' happen like forced arranged marriages, child trafficking, immigration rackets, genital mutilation, rampant gun crime, terrorism... Nup, these are 99 percent Muslim threats. In other words if these people weren't imported under 'compassionate' grounds then these problems would be almost non-existent in Sydney. So much easier to blame a soft Western target like Christians isn't it than admit the truth?Yes Trev, the threat of suicide bombers, and people demanding a medieval religious theocracy, and death to Jews and all infidels, and kids holding severed heads is just imagined by 'flat earthers after listening to talk back radio'. All we have to do is stop horrid white christians hearing about these things and there will be brotherly love between all faiths.It is quite telling that in the comments, where we should be talking about terrorists and Islam there is more criticism of the West and Christians. I feel like I'm watching my own civilisation commit suicide.
Are there any sane people left? I'm pretty sure muslims are not sitting around feeling guilty about being intolerant to us, but searching for victimhood in everything whilst demanding we change to suit their violent illiberal norms. You know it's true.It's not personal Dove. I am polite to everyone I meet in person and avoid politics - that is a conservative trait; the Left parade their politics allegiances the whole time and abuse and assault. However, I do have to weigh up cause and effect and choose between the lesser of evils so that my 'grandchildren' are not in danger. White Australians seem to do all the tolerating and it's time this spirit was reciprocated.The problem is much wider. Muslim Tanveer Ahmed, a psychiatrist, says in The Australian today that Muslims are prone to terrorism and anti-social behaviour because they have little internal locus of control and believe everything is god's will. They demand everyone else change to suit them, have a victim mentality, and are uncompromising. The differences between Islam and Western leads to high levels of mental illness that also makes Muslims more extreme. Tolerance and awareness cannot help these things.TC, most Lebanese Muslims in Australia are from a poor background and most Australian terrorists are of Lebanese muslim decent. They originated from the Lebanese Concession of about 1976. ASIO warned against this program because they were mostly rural peasants with low levels of education and skills, with some links to extreme sectarian movements. Immigration lost control and almost anyone got in. Dare I say this has not ended well for harmony in Australia. The psychiatrist, Ahmed, also included the children of refugees from Iraq and Afghanistan as part of the problem.Splos1; you need to read Muslim psychiatrist Tanveer Ahmed in the Australian today. My detailed account has already been censored today. He works with Muslim prisoners and sees great similarities between terrorists and general Muslim prisoners. In short, Muslims are prone to anti-social behaviour. They come from backgrounds where boys are not disciplined or expected to meet wider community expectations. They are raised to believe that they have little control over their destinies; it's all god's will. They think they are victims even when they are persecuting others, cannot compromise, and expect society to change to suit them. Religious traditions and values dominate their outlook. Tolerance and awareness cannot change them.That is a really tiresome stock Left answer that denies reality. We do not have to account for every single person from a group to make general observations about clear patterns. I am sure there were nice Nazi's too - so what? - did this mean we should have ignored that threat? The only thing worse than stereotyping is not stereotyping because the latter says you are not allowed to see anything staring you in the face. I think we can be grown-ups and identify real threats. Then you compare Christians and Muslims and see no difference as if there is some moral case to punish everyone for the clear faults of one group. You know full well that your chances of prospering in any Muslim dominated society is about zero. I don't need any introspection about my faith to see that Islam is the main source in the world of violence and oppression. Christianity is irrelevant. I don't know why the Left always go on about diversity and then when diverse things happen deny it or blame someone else. The content of culture and its consequences is the only real moral thing you should be concerned with rather than needlessly demonising white Christians. Why are you protecting a group that typically hates everything 'progressive' and will kill to thwart your belief system?I'm talking about the norms of good judgement and a sense of proportion is vital to compare things. It's not good enough to say apples and oranges are the same thing because they are both fruit. You won't survive the day with that reasoning. Focusing on similarities whilst ignoring differences is just a way to cover up and avoid the issue. Do you really want to argue that diversity does not equal differences, or that differences can't be negative?There is tolerance and there is suicidal tolerance. I expect other groups to make an effort or we are just ceding ground for no reason other than trying to make the failed ideology of multiculturalism look good for a little longer. I do not think reasonable standards of civility is 'elitism'.There is an almost universal pattern of Muslims persecuting Christians Dove and it's getting worse. Not only is this fair but most Australians would feel more kinship with christians and a better likelihood of successful integration.Did Big Brother Abbott invent the terrorist threat? And there was silly me thinking there was all this jihad going on, even in Boston. I don't don't why the Left keep citing 1984 when it was a warning against Left extremism. It is the Left who do postmodernism you know ie making stuff up to manipulate people and enforce tyranny.There are people in our cities who are committed to destroying our way of life by making us dead or slaves in an Islamic theocracy and all you can say is that 'we have nothing to fear'. There is also a more general high level of anti-social behaviour and illiberal that is endemic in all muslim communities and that isn't a problem either I guess. A muslim child raised in Sydney is holding a severed head and this still doesn't impress you. Gun violence, forced marriage, honour killings, slavery, female circumcision - nothing to worry about. Against this backdrop you bother to rail against 'shock jocks' and 'Abbott' and blather about 'children overboard' and 'weapons of mass destruction' - ah now you see a problem - the symbolism of white evilness; and we all know symbols and not offending minorities and censoring and are much more important concerns than the very real people trying to kill us for not being of their medieval faith and destroying human potential.Great post Jimbob, especially 'Tolerance" is a nice idea but what are you going to do when the "other" is intolerant of you?'. People around here often then ask for 'evidence' of this but when you try to give a detailed answer it won't get published. In fact the more evidence you provide to strengthen your argument the more of a threat you are to Left sensibilities and the more intolerant you are seen to be. It makes no sense of course to rational people. It's actually two faiths we are up against. One is elements of Islam and the other are cultural Marxists who defend them even though Islam is against the entire progressive project. The thing they share in common is a closed minded, pre-enlightement, faith based worldview that persecutes non-believers.You could apply that 'copycat' garbage to everything bad and dangerous and people will still do stupid things, so the people who do want to keep living shouldn't have to suffer censorship. It's not even anyone's business what I do with my life, and suicide can be a rational decision for sane people. This dancing around the subject is weird; we see deaths reported without overt description of the circumstances and then all these anti-suicide organisations and phone numbers under articles that give it away and just beg questions. Nanny state nonsense. They might as well tell you not to smoke and drink and eat your vegies too. Williams was a troubled soul all of his life and he knew exactly what he was doing and we should accept his choice.Jackmed, you used the word 'disaster' three times but you cannot name a single disaster can you? They aren't allowed to govern, but at least it keeps out the party that did actually lurch from disaster to disaster. The difference is that yours is a phoney narrative and a slogan, whilst the latter actually happened.You are going to blame LNP for Rudd's spying and open borders? Good luck with that. The relationship was much stronger previously under Howard too. It was sweet mercy to put the hopelessly uncompetitive car industry out of its misery. The workers wouldn't make reasonable concessions to save their own jobs. Why should aged care workers subsidise high paid car workers? I will probably benefit from the NDIS Peter, but it was heavily politicised by Labor for preelection votes and was rushed and completely botched. We will still have it but probably have to trial it more. Voters don't reject budgets, Senates do.The Greens cannot be negotiated with at all to the point where they actually reject Green measures; Labor has no ideas at all, and won't admit to their incompetence, corruption, and spend thrift ways, and just blocks everything because they are still having a hissy fit for losing; PUP are clueless populists. It is not normal or reasonable to block most of a budget shortly after an election. The system is broken. How is this 'entirely' of the government's making. Oh, I see more of that phoney narrative.It's time to add 'disaster' to the list of words robbed of meaning as just another Leftist weapon of hate word like 'gaffe', 'misogyny', 'racism', 'embarrassed' - all abuse signifying little in the physical universe. When the 'disasters' are blocked by the loony senate you will no doubt call that a 'disaster' too. Either way 'disaster' - whatever. Nothing constructive.Malcolm I disagree with you but I cannot tell you why, even by way of a made up racial group to illustrate the perversity of 'protecting' people from being offended. This is an unreasonable restriction of my freedom of speech. On this censored attempt I would suggest that people who are confident in their 'facts' do not need to ban challenges. Tyrants ban ideas Malcolm. They don't even ban the ideas of muslim hate preachers in this country but questioning Aboriginal identity is considered more dangerous than terrorism.  18c is an activist law, and the Bolt case would have been laughed out of court had it been based on community standards.RegH, people like Bolt bring out in the open real harms being done in the community that often are committed by racial groups and in the name of racial groups, that the Left cover up to protect their failed multiculturalism ideology. You don't care if those people 'do something stupid'; you will turn a blind eye. You are only looking for potential white crimes. This position is racist.Len, 18c makes it harder to for me to defend Jews against the  racial intolerance of another group because that group then claims it is a victim of racism. Jews might have to flee Europe again to escape a group that is fervently anti Jewish with actual violence. Because merit is no excuse for 'racial' criticism, it is very difficult for anyone to identify the threat and deal with it effectively. In other words 18c and other 'anti-racist' measures can have the effect of protecting villains and enabling real racism, as opposed to 'racism' that is abstract or merely being challenging ideas. I should be able to criticise immigration patterns for reasons such as protecting Jews, but the Left don't appear to care about real world outcomes.Malcolm, the absurdity is the paternalists can talk about Bolt's 'facts' being wrong all day but we cannot talk about the nature of some of those 'facts'. It's a closed loop of postmodern idiocy - as is intended. We can talk about whether we think the dingo took the baby, but this is a law of terror that says the public can only agree with its rulings. If I challenge these 'facts' then I am automatically labelled a racist and censored here. These 'facts' are a joke in the community.We shouldn't have social 'facts' about contentious issues to suit some groups who cannot be challenged. We shouldn't even have to be correct to air our point of view publically. We shouldn't have judges determining if the 'tone' of our political ideas are acceptable. I don't know why you don't get this.Racial identity is no more a fact in the Bolt case than those useless refugee assessments that found nearly every Afghan on the boats required protection without a scrap of evidence and lots of suspicious behaviour and obvious motives to lie. Just last week it was leaked that 90 percent of Afghan visa applications are fraudulent. What I am getting at is that there are simply some 'facts' that are heavily politicised and really opinions or inherently undefinable. The Left assert all sots of bogus things are facts to try and reshape society. It is postmodernism and it is dripping with dishonesty from Marxist fools and bullies.Always the 'science' as an appeal to authority. Well the actual temperatures (the only authority) disagree with the models of the climate industry. This means that even the climate is a denier. I'm sure the Left will dream up another bogeyman impose to world socialism.Everyone wants to change political rules and institutions on the basis that it will make it easier for their side to have their way. There will always be a contest between those who believe we should deal with the world as it is, and those who just make stuff up, overreach, moralise, try and make opposition illegal, and ignore the facts of life.Good god where was the analysis of 'reform' as a weasel word when Labor last misruled? Gillard and her box ticking defenders took the debasing of language for political millage to new heights. Labor 'reform' usually meant 'to spend more' on things that are not evidence based liked Gonski. The Left openly believes that language changes minds so we can expect deception to be the norm. I await an analysis of the Left's rampant postmodern use of language in words such as 'misogyny', 'gaffe', 'racism', and 'phobic'. These are not descriptions of anything in the physical universe but abuse and intolerance.'Bigotry' is just another word to say you disagree and abuse someone at the same time. I often rail against people from the middle east joining our community because they cannot and will not integrate. You would call this bigotry when you should be telling me why I am wrong. But you can't because of some baloney ideology. In fact my 'bigotry' in this case is to defend tolerance and rights that enable you to be free from violence and oppression.The Sri-Lankans put themselves in this situation. They were safe in Tamil Nadu. They rejected their safe haven to chase money in the West. Now India will not take them back because their actions show they must not need protection, so the only alternative is to send them to Sri-Lanka which even Bob Carr (Labor) admits is reasonably safe and the the asylum industry has beat up the dangers as another ruse to open the borders. The convention does say that once asylum has been accepted, anything else is country shopping.My bottom line is that enough of them are rorting the system that the benefit of the doubt should go to Australia's interests. The 'compassionate' set the bar too low and find ways to pretty much let them all stay, even with evidence of deception and violence... If you have no documents or lie you are a crook - period. Blind Freddy knows that Sri-Lankans in particular come here to make money. Same for Iranians. Reza Berati came to make money. A likely story in the face of dubious behaviour is a terrible reason to accept 'refugees'. Hard evidence of persecution or the highway. Otherwise we are seen as a soft touch and pull in more and more people coming for the wrong reason and with more extreme tactics of self harm, babies on boats, threats, violence. Not being sceptical is just dumb.Were those assessments based on hard evidence? No. But we do know about ditched documents and lies and threats and violence, and people coming from countries without war, the Iranian women who came for a boobjob, captain Ehad and his extended family living in three public houses, and on and on. There is clear pattern of deception. Several of the Sri Lankans on the last boat returned have said they were coming to make money. Reza Berati's family said he was coming to make money. Are you accusing them of lying? Labor's 'assessments' were a figleaf to disguise capitulation. Just benefit of the doubt piled on top of each other based on coached stories and coached self harm stunts until they all stayed - this includes the courts which overturned most negative assessments. All stacked against Australia. A farce.They should give Morrison awards for saving thousands from drowning from the human rights regime. We need a discussion about what human rights really are. Perverse things happen when utopians think it is possible to prescribe all relations in society with one size fits all laws that do not take into account things like 'responsibilities' of citizens such as not subverting asylum for economic gain. I prefer the real world to the abstract and fantasy world. The Left can't even admit that all cultures are not of equal value so their 'laws' can only cause harm.The Left minority that doesn't believe in borders is embarrassing itself by constantly concocting foreign outrage. This government actually does 'represent our aspirations' in this area - its called a democratic mandate. Please explain your open border aspirations. There is little evidence that we are sending anyone back to their persecutors. The war is long over and Bob Carr has said that the asylum industry is wildly exaggerating the risks for returnees. The 'refugees' keep saying that they are coming for work. Do their own words not convince you? Stop projecting your 'compassion' fantasies.Refugee advocates are effectively inviting millions of the world's poor and troubled to force their way into Australia on the basis of any possibility of something bad happening to someone in the third world. 'could', possibly', 'potentially', 'maybes' are weasel words to exaggerate risks can never be entirely disproved - and that is of course the intention. I am fairly sure that 1000's more will die on boat journeys than by 'persecution'. This means the precautionary principle and the most 'compassionate' option is to resettle no-one who arrives by boat.What they say and what they do are different things. The empirical evidence is that refugees are variously unwilling or unable to obtain employment and are a huge burden to society over generations.The Left never proposed any solution that would actually work including the Malaysian solution once the quota was filled. They could not of pulled off the new Pacific Solution either. They just want to give the appearance of doing something. They ideologically cannot accept that this is not an area where half measures work or you can fool people. Asylum seekers and smugglers right deduced that Labor would welcome just about everyone who turned up if they were persistent and the veracity of their claims made no difference to this outcome. Most of Labor and its membership think we are global citizens, which means that we are deserving of no greater status than a goat herder in Afghanistan, so we should have no effective borders. The unborn children of that goat herder will also be given public housing years before Australians.'This raises a real risk of refoulement'.

No, Tamils were given a safe haven in Tamil Nadu in India and they have relinquished this safety for a dash for cash. This is country shopping after receiving asylum. The 'obligations' pedants should know this means they are in fact subverting the Refugee convention. India understandably doesn't want them back because their actions show they do not need protection, and they are right to point out the war was over years ago and Sri-Lankan conditions are not that bad. Bob Carr, a recent foreign minister has said that the asylum industry has talked up mythical threats. Funny that they didn't care about the threat of Tamil terrorism all those years. Every account I have heard from these 'refugees' and their relatives has clearly stated they are moving for work opportunities in a Western country. You can waste your time huffing and puffing about assessment processes, but they will all be sent back. If they go to X'mas Island they will bung on all the self harm and lies and procreate and anything else to stall the inevitable. Better to send a firm message.Pat, they do know the outcomes, but the shallow moralism of the Left prevents rationality. It's all about THEM, not asylum seekers per se; practicing compassion feels good, even if it kills or leads to the entry of people who oppose all their Western values. You can't win an argument based on this woolly thinking. It is notable that most people advocating open borders are middle class utopians who do not have to actually associate with the asylum seekers themselves or have to worry about the fear of gunfire at night, and stabbings....Yes I welcome Norwegians because they are a successful and friendly liberal culture that will integrate well with ours, not reject us or fight wars in Syria, and not be a welfare burden. The real moral story is that it's quite mad not to consider likely outcomes.I am talking about culture. Racism is just a word to abuse people and silence them from discussing differences. I see limited value in a relatively peaceful society in pretending some groups don't have certain characteristics. We need to know these things. For example I have said here a few times that I have seen good evidence that one common asylum group practices underage forced marriage in our cities in almost every family. If you think this is a racist comment, then I retort that you are in favour of violence against women in children. See the problem with saying nothing?and all the examples of racism you could find were from white western democracies. ie countries that are notable for multiculturalism and liberalism which no other races practice. You have nothing to say about the rest of the world that is rampantly racist in comparison. You say nothing about the violence and oppression imported into those peaceful countries and the real fears of being swamped that has led to tougher immigration regimes. I think you would prosper more in the countries that you criticised rather than the ones you inexplicably left out.You are offended that some of the majority, who are not represented in the articles at all on this issue feel they should be allowed to have their say on taxpayer funded media. That says a lot about the Left and its exclusionary and authoritarian heart. Bigotry isn't just things you disagree with. I am trying to preserve your right to be progressive from people from cultures who usually are not. Not stereotyping to deny core truths is even worse.He is accountable to the majority of people who charged him with the core election promise to secure our borders by whatever means it takes. You only want 'accountability' to keep the borders open for anyone to turn up and stay without invitation. There are no half measures on this issue; every single tiny concession leads to exploitation in the third world by people who are watching carefully searching for a way to subvert the Refugee Convention and manipulate the weak kneed and nutters with threats of self harm. Don't encourage this.Here is a poll showing that most Australians support the government's tough border measures or think they are not tough enough, yet this is only mentioned to gleefully argue that this may not influence votes too much. Why are these majority voices completely excluded on MY ABC? Why does the majority of Australians offend the ABC? Why can't the ABC find someone from the majority? What happened to plurality, and the Charter, and fairness? I seriously want someone to answer this.How do asylum seekers have a hotline to refugee advocates?
How do the current crop of Sri-Lankans have high level legal representation? These advocates seem to be coaching 'refugees' to subvert the Refugee Convention. Surely the advocates are part of the people smuggling industry on some level. Much knowledge of these incursions and 'rescue' calls also resides within recent immigrant communities - shouldn't we regard all asylum seekers as people smugglers too? We are being undermined from within.
They were critical of Rudd/Gillard from the Left. Rudd was savaged on Q&amp;A for not being Left enough. The ABC criticised Labor for being poor at selling its message and the distraction of leadership instability because they were dismayed that this helped conservative forces. Gillard has been canonised by the ABC as a box ticking icon and two journalists lost their jobs for offending the ABC's Gillard sensibilities. People here usually twist calls for 'balance' into a strawman that conservatives want to dominate the ABC which is a ludicrous concern given the almost total Left hegemony already in plain sight and without apology. The Left think any conservative presence is a right wing takeover. These totalitarians backslap themselves for being 'compassionate' and 'tolerant'. This situation is an abomination.You just made up that bit about 'violent persecution'. You probably don't require evidence; you just want to practice 'empathy and compassion'. Its not wise to stick your head in the sand and deny economic motives, and Sri Lankans are notorious for this. I hope you aren't just using 'persecution' as a excuse for some dumb utopian ideology of a borderless world. Why not show how much you care by doing something to help out yourself? It's not right to expect the disbeliever majority of the public to pay for your personal, minority obsession that is about as healthy for Australia as smoking.
and you can easily google up Fairfax articles from the last week where the current Sri-Lankan asylum seekers and their relatives make it clear in their own words that they are coming for financial gain. I have attempted to provide this evidence today but been prevented.We don't need just any sort of people Mark. There is quality control to consider. We need skills and we need people who can be easily integrated into a peaceful liberal democracy. Unfortunately the asylum seekers we now attract have a record of being the worst sorts of new Australians. It is in the public interest to make this differentiation.It's about time refugee advocates stopped pussy footing around and took personal responsibility for everything that goes wrong in third world countries. This means you must save 'refugees' by letting them stay at your house indefinitely at your expense, and pay a bond that is forfeited if their claims end up being lies (most of them) or they commit crimes. In this way open border ideologues and the mad can indulge in their useless, destructive follies without being a burden to the majority who think our community is worth defending, and encouraging people to lie and risk drowning themselves is a bad idea.That boat of 150 odd was not fleeing anything but poverty. They were living safely in Tamil Nadu. You should really be offended at the subversion of the refugee convention and the lies of persecution to colonise Australia. My bet is that no evidence of lies and economic motives (even in their own words) would make you want to stop the boats. Am I right?No I actually tried to provide evidence to you of these Sri-Lankan 'refugees' admitting that they were coming for wealth, work, and to import their wider families, but I wasn't allowed to. You are free to abuse and I can't respond with cited facts. Says it all really.Do you care if they are actually refugees or not, or do you just accept anyone who says they are fleeing something or other? I think once you weed out the non Tamils and people who voluntarily left Tamil Nadu for money, then there will be few left. It is ridiculous to take in everyone just in case something bad happens, or expect Australia to be responsible for what foreigners to to each other in backward, distant countries. You will need about a million beds. You haven't considered pull factors at all have you or that people will drown on their way to gaming you? If you set up a system that relies on emotional blackmail and lies to trigger 'compassion' for financial rewards you will be burnt. Most of us know this. Hint: Don't put asylum seekers on a pedestal.Most of us expect our government to be proactive in protecting our interests. Do you think we should have let the Japanese invade because their there was no legislation to prohibit this? No, we took the fight abroad to stop the problem before it could arrive. It is more of a dictatorship for a minority of self haters to ignore the will of the people to eliminate Australia's borders.On things like Iraq/Afghanistan, elements of the West have to form alliances to get things done. World government is a joke that reinforces the evil and backwardness of the worst cultures and worst forms of government. UN and HR is not taken seriously by most of the world to solve real problems, and instead is used as a weapon against the West for shakedowns like climate change, trying to demonise Israel whilst persecuting their own people, and seeking to entrench fundamentalist Islam as a norm. In the West international obligations and relations are used as tools by the Left to by pass democracy and cave in to third world demands. The conceit is that the West is nothing special and holds back the rest of the world with its white racism and evil capitalism and must sacrifice itself to save the world. All cultures are considered equal even when they despise the whole progressive program. All I see is a bunch of poor people trying to colonise Australia for its wealth from cultures that make us worse off. Most Australians would expect the law to be practical to put Australian interests first rather than let backward and deceptive foreigners and illegitimate 'obilgations' steal our sovereignty.It is not sustainable to take in everyone from troubled lands on the off chance something bad might happen to them if we resist their forced entry. Many of the current punters are not even Tamils. Many have left from Tamil Nadu and have left their safe haven to come to Australia for money. Compassion' (ie open border) will lead to countless thousands making the journey making this untenable. It will not improve Sri-Lanka one jot. Your 'compassion' opens space for people to lie and risk their lives.

You are guilty of bad theatre. Australia is not 'held in contempt' by any civilised country. Australia does not not treat refugees with 'utmost brutality'. It is not 'morally bankrupt' to deter Sri-Lanka's illegal entrants who are typically found to be coming here to earn money. Nearly all deaths of asylum seekers have been caused by people claiming to be 'compassionate'. They should feel ashamed for their self indulgent false moralism.A sense of self preservation would be welcome from refugee advocates. 5000 more refugees poured into Italy just last weekend. There are hundreds of thousands waiting to board boats in North Africa. A few days ago two Pakistanis were found in a tiny kids pool inflatable boat trying to cross the English Channel. There are millions who will do anything for economic advancement. Every Western country that lets in people from these troubled cultures/religion now has a major problem with crime, terrorism, ghettos, welfare, religious extremism, and directly challenges western enlightenment values. If we get this wrong, it is all over. Lets apply the precautionary principle.Tell me how this reasoning is wrong. Millions want to start a new life in a Western country. The system demands that something called 'persecution' is the currency to trigger 'compassion' for migration outcomes. These claims may be true or not, but we cannot really determine this, partly because asylum seekers usually destroy their own papers. They will say and do anything to game the system and have seen this. We could just give them the benefit of the doubt but this is seen as a cue that Australia's borders are open and that deceptive behaviour will be tolerated and rewarded. This is what happened under Labor. However, the supply is inexhaustible which means that we would soon be overwhelmed and could not resettle potentially millions whether they have genuine persecution claims or not. Thus we prefer to resettle a limited number of people from offshore, and we are in control, not anyone self selecting and people smugglers. There is nothing special about asylum seekers, and it is right to question the motives of people who think that an open border has no seriously negative consequences. Anyone who cannot tell you how many is enough has no credibility with sane, intelligent people.I made an official complaint that there has never been a single refugee article against open borders. I have never received a response and nothing has changed. The majority of Australians are being hectored and not represented at public expense.
The other 'slippery slope' is triggering a mass influx by giving every benefit of the doubt to people who must all be considered under suspicion of coming here for purely economic motives. Lets keep it real. Refugee advocates consider themselves to be 'good people' but they did nothing to stop many from drowning, and actually encourage risky behaviour. The 'bad people' stopped this. Why would it be a good idea to restart mass drownings? The 'good people' are shallow and self indulgent and dangerous.'Racism' is just abuse; it doesn't explain anything, and is intended to shut down debate and inquiry. I guess we are supposed to put our head in the sand and meekly accept that all cultures are of equal value and outcomes don't matter. This is the opposite of being educated. It is a cult of wilful ignorance. You could have said that many or most Australians have great reservations about people coming from those backgrounds. All that should matter is whether those concerns are well founded or not and how much risk is acceptable.Comrade, the evidence is the explosion in the number of unauthorised arrivals when the Pacific Solution was dismantled, and the massive reduction of attempts under the new Pacific Solution. It is rational to believe that without action this deluge would have continued to increase almost exponentially until the situation was completely out of control and an existential threat. Why does this not bother you?

It is naive at best to effectively invite the entire third world to Australia to make claims for resettlement. That is not a strawman because that action would surely lead to millions overwhelming us. The more 'humane' the treatment, the more low quality the claims and behaviour gets. It's the equivalent of standing in a shopping centre with your arms outstretched offering hundred dollar bills to anyone who feels they deserve more money - a denial of human nature. Similarly, the assessment process too has to involve some actual facts, and not simply assume that members of certain communities are all victims without hard evidence. Better still, there is no way to have an honest asylum seeker process, given the incentives to deceive, so we should not practice any such thing.The benefits of unfettered multiculturalism are grossly exaggerated, and clear problems with specific groups and contradictions are just airbrushed out. It is not rational to believe that all cultures are of equal value and will make for good, tolerant, civilised citizenry. The mulitculturalists are nutters that think they are saving the world by blending all cultures/religions together. What it really does is cause unnecessary conflict, denies the very meaning of diversity by forcing people to change, and lowers standards. If every culture is wonderful without examination of the content, you believe in nothing. But we know that the multicultural Left do have very socially progressive values. Unfortunately most non-Western cultures don't. You cannot be both for and against forced underage marriage. We import several ethnicities that practice this as a norm in our cities. How is Australia 'enriched' by this? These problems mean that the Left wants us to let in the enemies of progressive values. Rather than face up to this fatal contradiction that is a cultural suicide cult, they ban the voices of reason and abuse them with debased words like 'racist'. I will continue to try and save the Left from betraying its own values to uphold Western standards.What, you totally agree that we should let in large numbers of people from the Middle East? I disagree.

You agree that Middle Eastern people 'enrich us beyond measure?' I disagree.

You agree that they will bring 'cultural riches'? I disagree.

You agree that 'we would be crazy not to seize this opportunity to grow'? I disagree.

You agree the 'vast majority....simply want to live new lives in peace'? Not peace by Western standards. Not peace according to progressive values that they reject.

It is readily apparent that people from that background typically fail to adapt to life in Western societies and even hate us.On the people from the middle east - 'What cultural riches they will bring, if we let them. We would be crazy not to seize this opportunity to grow.' 

How do otherwise intelligent people come up with such garbage? Nothing could be dumber than importing the most oppressive and violent culture in the world, that hates the people of the West and their values in plain sight. Empty platitudes won't cut it. Every act of compassion like this actually makes Australia a less compassionate society. The content of culture does matter. It is a moral failure to not consider likely outcomes.Dove, I have to use the descriptor 'Middle Eastern' because I tend to get snipped if I mention individual nationalities or even the religion involved in most travesties. I haven't even been able to cite evidence of the behaviour of certain nationalities that led to the Manus Island death, even in a government report. Some groups are deemed victims and the worse they behave the more the Left thinks they need protection. You though have been allowed to make a joke at the expense of Israel. According to the Left hierarchy of victimology, the people of the 'middle East' behave so badly that someone must have done something to justify the senseless brutality. The Left refuse to face up to the nature of this culture/religion, so Israel cops the blame instead. I welcome Jews to Australia to celebrate and progress our civilised cultures and societies together, and to resist backward cultures.The people who speak of 'denial' of global warming are the same people who deny and demonise people for pointing out a much more deadly and urgent threat from one of the world's major religions. This problem doesn't require debates about opaque science because the source is openly screaming its intentions in words and actions, and as a result the West won't be around long enough to worry about a bit of heating at this rate. We should be 'talking about it'. Interestingly, what the two movements have in common is a hate of freedom and progress, and rejection of enlightenment rationality.Enough of phoney overseas condemnation of anything you disagree with. We are not the 'world's pariah' in any way. That is just your wishful thinking. The Barrier Reef is over 2300 km long. I think there is plenty of room for both industry and the natural environment. Without growth in national wealth we cannot afford social welfare improvements.Palmer's 'Party' institutionalises populism in the parliament which in a superficial sense adds to democracy, but it comes without coherent values and realistic plans about ruling for all. Usually, flaky voices are absorbed into mainstream parties and their influence limited, and this gives space for governments to get on with governing effectively without endless distractions, concessions, and uncertainty. Palmer represents gridlock and chaos and mocks parliament and democracy. Voting to punish the major parties by electing a clown who promises all things to all people just hurts everyone.What I find interesting is that The Festival of Dangerous Ideas has never been at all dangerous. It's completely dominated by obsessions of the cultural Left so it ends up being a conversation between the hard and soft Left like much of ABC political content. They should have had mainstream topics like 'Multiculturalism doesn't work' - too dangerous. I don't know if this talk was supposed to be an opening for a fairly extreme Muslim to defend his faith against 'racists' and attack the West or whether it was marketing. The Left do constantly search for exclusively white racism and this was probably just another way to introduce the topic to true believers. They are very predictable. Fear of Islam is not a phobia but rational - that would make a good topic too.Honour killings are just the pointiest end of the Islamic world's regular treatment of women as second class citizens and chattels. This barbarity is also linked to forced marriage, virtual slavery, and treating women as pieces of flesh, including those underage. Such a culture should be feared and loathed if genuinely think of yourself as progressive. But all you care about is labeling people as suffering a mental illness for daring to reach the correct conclusion, that one author this week called the 'moral reality'.The Left are friends of anyone who opposes the government. Only the Left deny the existence of Left/Right. They like to regard themselves as the centre, and everything else is extreme right. It's part of the mindset that if you just make stuff up for long enough and exclude other views, the people can be fooled into believing and approving of anything. They also like to manipulate language so that words like 'racism', 'hate', 'misogyny', and 'gaffe' have been debased from their real meanings to be used to abuse their political opponents. In short the Left believe that there is no objective reality except what assists in achieving irrational utopian social engineering, and these lies are justified by appointing themselves as moral guardians who are uncompromising and intolerant.Elvis the Labor government did manage to pass their big agendas through the parliament. This didn't work out well for the nation - just Whitlamesque chaos, waste, debt, mismanagement, and no border to speak of. Your lot had fun wrecking the joint; now we have to pay for Labor's grandiose time bombs, and this requires real savings and reforms that Labor squibbed on. Labor's appalling record justified the Coalition opposing much. I think rational government is centre ground but Labor and the Greens do not have a plan to do anything constructive; just spend and regulate and moralise. I find the Left far less tolerant than the Right. The Right thinks you are wrong but we believe in freedom, value debate, and respect democracy; the Left says the Right is evil and we must be regulated and excluded and punished, and hand over sovereignty to HR/UN nonsense. The Left strangely reserves most of its tolerance for intolerant cultures. Palmer looks like he might achieve what always should have been Australia's position on climate action - follow than major powers rather than the conceit of 'leading'.Artful Dodger; my reasons for rejecting climate action are:
1) I know the modelling has been wrong for years, and I smell science being politicised with wild claims, rent seeking, and world government/anti democratic ideology, so I suspect catastrophic climate change is exaggerated.
2) There are benefits of climate change. More rain, faster growing crops, I hate winter.
3) Action won't make much difference anyway and is not cost effective. Future technology is our best hope and this requires growth.
4) Why should we lead the world? 
It's never a good idea to mix Green ideology and capitalism. I can't see how this body can be 'profitable'. Almost every Green scheme ends in waste and failure. It's a carpetbaggers fantasy to loot the public purse.Most are economic refugees according to Carr and Rudd so I doubt they face much risk of torture. The Manus Island report also has evidence that the rioting was based on economic considerations. This less than 50 percent chance of torture thing is just hysterical spin to prise open the borders to anyone. There is a less than 50 percent chance of a plane falling on my head today too, so what? However it is 100 percent certain that there will never be a point of view aired on the ABC (including The Drum) that represents the large majority of Australians who support the government's tough border protection measures. How is that fair John, or do people like you have a special moral right to hector the majority without challenge at public expense?It is not credible to make out there are all these refugees who face a 49 percent risk of torture. Firstly most are economic 'refugees' or they wouldn't travel thousands of km to come here; second, they not only bring zero evidence of a high likelihood of torture, but they actually discard their documents and make up fake names/birthdates and generally deceive so we can't even find out what the truth is. A reasonable person might conclude that a person fleeing persecution wouldn't do this. Thirdly, why does Australia have a responsibility to take in everyone in the world who claims there is a 'chance' of something bad happening? Why am I responsible for the wilful rejection of modernity and idiotic tribalism of the middle east? Arguably, there are no genuine victims from these societies, just winners and losers.Dire, no I haven't met any asylum seekers, but irrespective of the veracity of their claims I know that most of them make poor immigrants. I cannot see people as victims who reject liberalism, modernity, and practice an extreme religion that always sees violence and oppression endemic in their communities all over the world. They persecute people themselves, cannot and will not change, and we should not be enabling people with these habits to join our society. You cannot be both pro-asylum seekers and call yourself a progressive when most asylum seekers hate the entire progressive agenda. For example, some of us get called terrible things for being anti gay marriage, but the asylum cult wants to let in people who are typically back in the dark ages and don't believe homosexuals even have a right to live - a victim making factory. Yet this doesn't worry 'progressives'. It makes no sense.Forget the soft 'obligations' wording and get real; everyone in the third world and certain cultures/religions has 'a well founded fear of persecution'. The refugee rules also never considered gaming for a western lifestyle in a shrinking world of modern transport and communications. Most are determined to hide their identity and background by throwing their papers in the ocean. Arriving without documents is bad faith and should result in automatic rejection of claims. If you believe in a system where every benefit of the doubt goes to asylum seekers, who have obvious motives to feign persecution, then you are telling the world that Australia's borders are open to anyone who tells a likely story. It is not hyperbole to say that Australia would be destroyed in a few years.We are only allowed to 'ridicule' the ideas of white men. The Left know that the worst ideas come from non Western cultures and that if we ridicule a speaker such as this Muslim fella, then we are really rejecting the cultural/religious group at large. This then upsets the nonsense that all cultures are of equal value, and rightfully raises questions about immigration. Then the Left say we shouldn't talk about these things because whites will attack non-white people, and only whites can be racist because of their 'privilege'. Objective reality doesn't get much of a look in. To the Left truth is only useful when it can be bendable to further the allegedly moral goals of social activism that are plucked out of thin air by pre-enlightenment, self indulgent utopians - postmodernism.I am sure I would loath the man's views, but I enjoy hearing the thinking behind things I disagree with because I learn something. We must all have our beliefs challenged to make better sense of the world and grow, otherwise you end up sounding like those student activist types who are full of slogans and attitude, but don't really understand anything outside of a superficial reading of sociology 101. Bring on all comers. Same at The Drum too.He suggested 'the West needs saving by Islam'. I'd love to hear that. We are too decadent. Family values perhaps. Can't see how any Westerner is better off in a caliphate. Ruby Hamad says Badar was set up as a scary Muslim for publicity and misrepresents the Australian muslim community as extremists. I would bet that his views would not be far off the norm. The 'moderates' seem mythical.The 'moral reality' is that the West should not tolerate one of the world's major religions on its own turf because the average follower has belief systems that are the antithesis of progressive thinking. This is not bigotry but a calm appraisal of what hurts or helps human potential. It also follows that silencing and punishing people for pointing out this 'moral reality' is also wrong. The Left make the massive error of privileging 'race' (really culture) over all other progressive goals. ie defending illiberal cultures as equal to Western values means you betray many other progressive liberal ideals. For example, many feminists are stuck on finding fault with white men, but censor themselves about criticism of the cultures that are obviously the major sources for treating women like slaves because race still apparently trumps all other concerns in the Left's monolithic hierarchy of victimology. It makes no sense. It then falls to the Right to try and uphold the Left's own progressive values. The Left calls this 'hate'.'Swan did a remarkable job'? What a 'remarkable statement. Labor will not get credit for GFC spending because they subsequently showed that undisciplined spending is something that just comes naturally to them. Apart from the massive waste on BER etc, the big spending went on long after the GFC emergency was over. Then they locked us into unaffordable and evidence blinkered Gonski, and rushed and botched the NDIS with politics. Labor couldn't implement the opening of an envelope. Fiscal conservative, hell no; the GFC was just a Trojan horse for big government. Labor is incredibly defending its record, and even now has no interest in balancing the books. They are promising more of the same. Forget the polls; when given a choice, not many will switch votes for guaranteed failure.Labor cannot go to the next election just unenthusiastically muttering under their breath that they support the government's tough border protection measures, but make it a rock solid commitment that they will not give an inch to be exploited. There is no such thing as tough compassion. Labor has no credibility here so the ideological maddies who weep and talk about 'global citizenship' and 'obligations' must be silenced or they will be be easy pickings for a very well justified fear campaign. If they don't give a damn about borders, they don't give a damn about any notion of an sovereign, democratic, peaceful Australian community.RayS, you are part of the reason for the fall of the West. You just took the side of the people who hate us. You made no mention of Muslim ideology or culture or mentality that is intrinsically violent, oppressive, and anti-Western. Apparently its all our own fault. Well mostly it's the Lefts' fault for being pathologically unable to criticise the 'other'. In fact the worse the 'other' behaves merely confirms to a Leftist how terrible the West must be and must deserve savagery. The Left think it is a virtue to deliberately switch of one's brain to see nothing wrong with a clear enemy, see no patterns, no honest cause and effect. They call this wilful ignorance and lies education and tolerance. All cultures are of equal value which means the Left have no values. In this vacuum,  bad people who know exactly what they stand for and who don't consider the feelings of other groups are able spread their hateful cultures. In essence the Left is enabling the people who are the most against the entire progressive project. It's bonkers. It is an abandonment of enlightenment rationality, that also sees the Left championing the entry of the cultures that hate the West the most. When they inevitably show hostility to Western ways, the Left side with villains to cover up evil and blame everyone except the people who are committing acts of barbarism. The real 'foolish mistakes' arise when we do not stand up for genuine Western values and indulge in anti-intellectual cultural relativism. The Left cannot accept the real meaning of diversity is that there will always be irreconcilable differences between groups and appeasement and postmodern lies fail moral reality because it invites destruction.The West did not 'create' any sort of 'terrorist situation'. Nor did it create the Sunni/Shiite schism of 632. Nor is it responsible for the ridiculous victim mentality that sees even the most violent thugs think they are hard done by. Nor did the West create the ME lack of capacity to self reflect on behaviour and attitudes that make conflict and oppression normal; nor did the West make them quick to respond to conflict with extreme violence and threats; or make them utterly uncompromising; or unbelievably tribalised and unable to see anything from other points of view. Most importantly, the ideology of medieval theocracy and jihad has always dominated the ME. They do not dream of improving human potential above ground and are ferociously against change.

I can admit that the West should not have got involved in Iraq/Afghanistan. There is a moral case to change the middle east though. It is the ground zero of the most obscene travesties inflicted on the human condition and exports hate. The West offered Iraq et al the chance of better lives. Democracy, rule of law, upholding human rights, escape from cruel religious and authoritarian leaders, economic prosperity. Instead the people of the ME failed themselves by choosing to keep living miserable, brutal lives, and to lash out at foreign influences. They will simply not fight for anything noble or progressive. The West was guilty of overestimating them. They really are 'other'. As such, I regard everyone from that milieu as backward, violent, untrustworthy, and beyond help. There is no right way to proceed with such people and we should leave them alone wherever possible. These conflicts have revealed the true nature of the people of the ME and I can't see how the Left can consider this any sort of victory. Still I hope the West drops a lot of bombs on ISIS with great prejudice.godbothered, we do broadly share the same values relative to the average 'middle eastern' person, but for some reason the Left have an obsession with 'race' that sees them willing to compromise all other values. I say we should judge other races (really culture) on their practical content and whether this causes offence or not is neither here nor there. I am actually trying to defend most progressive values and the Left is essentially working against itself. Go figure.'Our efforts should be squarely on our region.' 

Good, then we don't need asylum seekers from far away either.

'our involvement in Iraq will heighten our risk of a terrorist attack.'

Our immigration program is the source of ALL the domestic terrorism threats. We shouldn't have our foreign policy dictated by people that have been allowed to settle here for 'compassionate' reasons who bring barbarism with them.

'How many died from terrorism?'

It only takes one idiot to blow up an underground train station and this country will never be the same. Terrorism is not just about death; it is psychological warfare to bully us into submission. Better to shut down the source than be cowardly and just accept it. 

Yank, you are an appeaser.Stuffed Olive, there are other forms of greed. For example, the Lefts' insistence of total domination of the ABC as a place for propaganda at public expense is greedy. Poor Righties have to pay for bourgeois Lefties to subvert public media to sermanise things Righties don't like and that are against their interests. They are so greedy that, astonishingly, there has never single article against open borders on The Drum. The Right have been giving enough to tolerate the intolerance of the Left, whilst the Left ban and bully and hate and lie to be moral but fail moral reality.Alpo, you just summed up Labor's morally bankrupt strategy - block everything and then claim this makes the government incompetent. They are even blocking things they would have done themselves - pathetic. The comparisons about LNP in opposition are spurious. Labor was given space to implement its agenda during the Rudd years with relative LNP goodwill. They lost the confidence of the public because they botched almost every policy independent of the opposition. Abbott held Gillard to account on the back of a proven record of not being able to effectively govern. Labor hung themselves. This is completely different to the current situation where Labor et al came in on day one and declared war on the LNP and would not allow them to govern in any circumstances. This lack of spirit for accepting a democratic outcome is unprecedented. People like you are trashing democracy and the public interest to invent narratives. Let the government govern and then we can decide if we like the results at an election. Poisoning the entire political system is bad for both Left and Right.Mark, many of us are worried that what you call demonising the Islamic community' results in travesties like the rampant child sex abuse scandal in Rotherham UK. If we are discouraged to identify problems because it might offend ethnic minorities then you are enabling all sorts of evil. In Rotherham 1400 underage girls were sacrificed to make bad people feel comfortable and multiculturalists feel good about their dumb ideology. I only care about outcomes Mark, what about you?Gary, there is a substantial hardcore Islamist element in Muslim communities universally and throughout Islam's history. They are able to enforce religious rule over all aspects of life, and it creates a wider muslim culture and mentality that accepts violence as the principle way to deal with conflict, nothing is ever questioned, and outsiders are not tolerated. In other words, not only are there terrorists but the rest are conditioned to be like minded in supporting backwardness or at least will not resist. I question the integrity and motives of people who maintain there is no difference in outcomes between Muslims and Christianity when evidence of is stark and even being screamed by muslims themselves.You have asked some questions but I have been blocked from answering you twice. It seems impossible to say that society expects that a problem that is 100 percent from the muslim community is their responsibility to fix, just like the army is held responsible for a culture of sexism. You can say anything you want about about whites and christians around here, but a democratic state organ is demanding that we only worry about muslims being 'marginalised'. Cultural relativism - a very slippery slope that demonises people the Left disagree with yet enables bad guys to practice real bone snapping hate.Sorry, Zany but technology is making other sources of fossil fuels obtainable and economical. America is rapidly weaning itself off middle eastern oil; they are producing more of their own. Fracking technology made shale oil very profitable to produce and has driven a 60% increase in domestic crude oil production over the last three years. Even if the West didn't need the oil  and tried to leave the middle east alone the ME extremists will still export their hate, largely through the internet to muslims in the West. Restricting immigration from the major sources of radicalism seems the most logical measure to limit extremism, but apparently, choosing not to import people who object to our way of life is called hate. It is also called a 'phobia' and 'discrimination' and 'racism' to ask a group that causes the entire terrorism problem to desist and to stop raising their children this way.When you try and narrow down terrorism to just a few bad eggs, it is covering up the nature of Islam. Islam creates a mentality that is uncivilised and this can be seen in Muslim populations universally. Of particular concern is the way Islam leads to the resolution of conflict through violence as a norm. I cannot elaborate because 'progressive' forces are more interested in protecting unprogressive forces than the truth. Cue irrelevant criticism of Christianity.I disapprove of your bigotry for refusing to see the world as it is. You do not create a world that maximises human potential by denying the readily observable patterns concerning Islam and violence. All that should matter is whether I am correct or not rather than banning and abuse. This 'otherness' worship is ridiculous and childish and counter productive. A closed loop of insanity. Often the Wests enemies are not victims but just hate our way of life and it is unenlightened to pretend otherwise. The Left however cannot comprehend of anything but racist white bogeyman. It's bizarre that I have to keep telling grown ups that two plus two equals four and is not bendable to fulfill utopian fantasies that defy reason and fact.Making everyone feel alienated is the whole point of multiculturalism. It's meant to be a mark of advanced civilisation to be tolerant of  everyone and to be forced to compromise values. Apparently being tolerant of all customs and values, even when they are polar opposites, is good for us. So now I am both for and against female circumcision - can't offend anyone you know and all cultures are of equal value. In reality diversity equals conflict, and cultural groups will always form ghettos - multi-monoculture. All non-white cultures reject multiculturalism so the focus on white tolerance is not justified.

Lets be honest; nearly everyone who participates here is white, and somewhere out there, for example, is a huge Chinese community that has nothing to do with us. I doubt they have the slightest interest in white Australia and its customs or politics and we don't speak the same languages. We will never know each other and are happy this way. Multiculturalism is a myth.Where are the suburbs teaming with angry Christians thugs wanting to behead people and enslave us in a miserable medieval theocracy of violence and oppression? You have literally just invented a Christian threat out of thin air. They don't exist and you know it.Palmer's opinions are just random garbage. I like to hear all ideological perspectives aired freely but Palmer is not even attempting to say anything coherent or useful for public discourse. He is just a bully who abuses everyone as a norm, and worse still it's mostly based on his toxic personal relationships rather than anything of principal. There is nothing 'refreshing' about this. He is the most pointless and poisonous influence seen in parliament - far worse than Hanson.Peter, your attitude is that you don't like the traditional political forces so it's good for someone who is nasty, stands for nothing, and doesn't know what he is talking about, to just blow the joint up. Palmer also buys the votes of the stupid, and uses power to make himself richer. How do you think such a force helps your interests or Australians generally?You are enabling an extremely wealthy man; who is a bully; who buys populist votes from the ignorant whilst having no political belief system; is possibly corrupt; and is a racist? How does this sit with your 'progressive' values? What was that about 'unfair and regressive'? Why does the Left invariably support the uncivilised?and Labor's plan is?........(sound of crickets at night). Whatever you think of this government, there is no reason for people who changed to the Coalition to change back because everything that is wrong with Labor is unresolved. ie everyone knows they will open the borders; corrupt union relationships; spendthrifts; Green inanity; incapable of effective evidence based governance; they hate most of the people of vote for them (white working class).
My 'spin' is that opinion polls mostly reflect the the normal situation of a coalition government doing unpopular but necessary things early in the first term. The budget in particular is not going down well. The Senate situation means there is more negative attention to budget measures than usual. I would add that the Left/media started a very negative narrative from day one as revenge and denial of how awful Labor were. Mungo Maccallum for example declared here that the boats policy was 'failing' only weeks after the election (ie wrong, ridiculously early to make a judgement, and attempting to create a negative narrative about everything). They weren't allowed to settle in and be judged on merit. Labor was not placed under that scrutiny by the media that disgracefully downplayed Rudd's dysfunction until he was kicked out by his own party. In any case, elections are different to polling. People are forced to make a choice rather than judge the Coalition alone. I still firmly believe that Labor was so hated and so unchanged that many will baulk at returning to Labor. The Coalition has simply not made the epic stuff ups like actual policy failures. It's only been ten months you know? The Left is dealing in fear and lowbrow junk like 'winks' that cannot really match Labor's rampant ineptitude and waste and they will probably be judged as unelectable for several years. It's still a choice between hope and proven failure at this stage.The Left media attacked Labor from the Left. The rest was frustration that Labor was not selling its Left agenda well enough. The Q&amp;A audience savaged Rudd before the election for not being Left enough. The ABC is an institutionalised  protest movement of the Left - shoe throwing at a Lib PM; the dog fornication episode; the Q&amp;A socialist alternative disruption...  The Australian was the only media outlet that revealed Rudd was a toxic, maniacal, shapeshifting fraud, hiding in a bunker surrounded by young sycophants. The SMH is bought by people living in conservative parts of Sydney but has become nakedly hostile to the political leanings of its own audience - no wonder it is going broke. The Age is Pravda and unreadable. The tabloids espouse values that used to be Left but the modern Left now thinks those people are rednecks and despises them. I do not know by what metric you think sovereign borders has failed, but I suggest that virtually no boats and no drownings is a reasonable way to judge its success. Experience shows that all entry to this country should be treated as suspicious.We are still learning more about how dysfunctional and divided Labor were. Swan's account is the latest to confirm this. I am sure that key figures within Labor and their media allies know that they are not fit to rule.Better the foreign investment than saving pretend jobs in manufacturing that sees semi skilled car workers being paid 100k plus and never satisfied, which is subsidised by real battlers. A nice union/Labor racket only for a privileged few.Many Australians ARE concerned about Chinese money making housing less affordable, and this may become a major issue in the future, even for 'progressives'. I find the practice of building skyscrapers in Sydney aimed at a monoculture of Chinese with the ridiculous cultural concession of leaving out floors numbered with a '4' quite disturbing. Palmer though was just ranting about personal problems with Chinese business associates and race is just another tool to vent. He is actually for onshore processing of asylum seekers. He is just making it up as he goes and has no principles, ans is certainly not going to be a hero of the anti-multiculturalists. Australians can, by the way, differentiate between the impact of Chinese and people from the middle east who behave quite differently. It is Labor that plays the race card with the middle eastern community, and people like Bob Carr and Richard Marles advocate selling out western values and terrorism threats for votes.Patrick, people know that Coalition governments have to be called in to fix up Labor debt, dysfunction, and loony social engineering. It's always a crisis after Labor misrule. Coalitions usually enact tough measures early, and they are unpopular, but deep down most accept that these things need to be done to restore order and sanity. After a couple of years most usually come around to the view that they may not find coalition rule particularly thrilling or compassionate, but they do get the job done rather well without really stuffing up, and and are worth another round. When people get bored of prosperity and take it for granted they call in the snake oil salesmen to ply their calamitous 'vision' once again. This time round we are being denied the cleanup because there are more nutters than usual thanks to Palmer's vote buying 'I Reckon' Party. Imagine what would happen if Labor got their hands on the treasury before the Coalition were able to sensibly manage debt and restore economic prosperity.anna, the Left are the real 'shock jocks' in our media. The SMH for example has largely discarded proper journalism to indulge in a daily slew of Left hectoring articles designed to shame, vilify, and silence ordinary people just enjoying their freedom to express their views in public. This intolerant activism masquerading as news and journalism is opened to comment for true believers to judge and abuse in a Twitterati style Left hate mob looking for petty, trumped up infractions of the Left faith full of emotions, false moralism, exaggeration, and misrepresentation. Shock jocks indeed.'gaffe' - a cheap opportunity for the Left to erupt in mob hate towards political enemies and anyone with an independent mind who doesn't accept the entire hard Left agenda to make us all the same and part of the collective of stupid. It is perfectly obvious that Abbott's 'shirtfront' comment was meant to convey that he would be firmly confronting Putin over the plane atrocity, unlike Left panderers to anything foreign. It is what the public demands on a serious issue where Australians were killed. He said it in a colourful way - so what? The demented Left has embarrassed themselves with this obsession with 'shirtfronting' that sees it talked about over and over on the ABC for weeks. For what purpose? For whose benefit? The ABC should practice proper journalism and drop this twitter like condemnation and humiliation hatefest about nothing. Sorry, Barrie but you have cheapened yourself by further drawing out this 'shirtfronting' Left slogan for cheap political mileage. It was fun at first, but now it's just bias.Abbott was a rugby player and in rugby parlance shirtfronting involves grabbing an opponent's shirt as an unspecified challenge. Yet Abbott's enemies and unprofessional media have deliberately and dishonestly conflated this with the Aussie Rules meaning of a specific act of extreme violence. Typical Left, always spinning and reinventing words and misrepresenting reality. Media watch should be onto this but they are part of the postmodern culture of rejecting objective reality to pursue dumb, destructive, endless social revolution.Abbott talks like a normal person and its good to hear our leaders sometimes dispense with technocratic and PC gibberish. In this case most Australians would have been happy to hear a PM proudly stick up for Australian interests and assert himself against a foreign bully and murderer. Gillard the nanny talked down to us, and Rudd was a phoney and a narcissistic waffler. Both were cold and machine like. Both regularly caved into unreasonable and undemocratic foreign interests. Do you really think you are going to laugh Abbott out of office given the useless clowns that preceded him, or is the laughter just the intolerant chattering classes way of showing they are superior to most Australians?Exactly. People who were born in this country and who benefit from peace and prosperity wish to gleefully cut off heads in the name of their religion and we are supposed to look for 'root causes of extremism' as if their sense of victimhood has some justification. What has the Palestinian problem got to do with life in Sydney's West?'Sophisticated discussion' is a euphemism for never blaming Muslims for anything. The last thing the West should do is feed the mentality that muslims are inherently victims and have no responsibility for peacefully solving conflict and tolerating difference. The 'root causes' of extremism are plainly their own medieval religious and cultural attitudes and trying to empathise with this irrationality is not helpful but weakness.From a Conservative perspective, Greg Sheridan points out that Snowden type leaks will happen anyway and that a "good national security journalist tries to provide context, narrative and meaning to such leaks. That inevitably involves disclosing new information. This will now be illegal under these dismal laws"...."This legislation will not limit bad actors such as Snowden but it will gravely weaken the position of responsible journalists who work on national security. It is not only wrong in principle, it?s quite dumb."There are few operational details concerning controlling our borders that you need to know because people like you will assist foreigners in swamping our country for cash and colonisation. Most Australians command their government to stop the mass movement of people from the worst societies in the world from plundering and threatening us and accept that dark arts are absolutely necessary to dissuade people who only understand the law of the jungle. We are 'working towards' order, sovereignty, self preservation, and stopping drownings. There is no global citizenship, and no foreign authority.Yank, Tory Boy didn't go off on a tangent. Whitlam was known to be 'obstinately childish for mature open-minded discussion' and his near catastrophic misrule of Left purity was thoroughly rejected by Australians more than once. Massive unfunded spending isn't a virtue but a debt legacy. The family unit isn't a plaything to mess with. Sure we needed a jolt of modernisation by 1972, but Whitlam's test of 'ideas against realities' reaffirmed that for the most part reality cannot be reinvented by being inspired or flattering the intelligence of social justice types. Conservatism represents maturity because it understands human nature, cause and effect, appreciates the social and historic glues that that keep societies from fracturing. Evolution not revolution. The Left just dream stuff up and don't care about reality or results; They wallow in glorious failure.I say we abandon all Left 'political and social theory' and institutions like the ABC that creates and panders to groups in our society that make Australia a worse place, and do not allow facts and ideas that challenge Leftists who are offended by reality. There is nothing 'intellectually sound' about maintaining that there are not strong patterns about groups and events and if you ban these as 'racial and religious stereotypes' then you believe that lies should trump reality. This is the 'advance' of self indulgent stupidity and a rejection of the enlightenment.It's interesting that the Left get so worked up seeking out and inventing petty infractions for attitudes allegedly against the 'progressive' program like Winkgate and Woolies T-shirtgate and he/shegate, and in doing so this hateful mob demonises good people over nothing, yet when it comes to a world religion/culture that militantly and crudely challenges everything they believe in they are nowhere to be seen, except to say that criticism is racist, and tolerance and concessions will make the problem go away. The Left must discard the dumb harmful visions and start again with ideas grounded in reality.You mean things like 18c and trying to put limits on the media to conform to Left standards. Listening to Leftists bemoaning losses of freedom is galling coming from people whose social engineering disasters caused these problems and who think regulating the human condition including thoughts is a virtue to create morally perfect people and societies whether they like it or not.Libertarians are strange political animals. I'd say they are about 60/40 more Right than Left. What they do share with the Left is a preoccupation with narrow abstract values that are often impractical and contradictory. David wants 18c completely removed but this open battle of ideas is hollowed out because acting upon these ideas is bound to restrict freedom. I would like to hear libertarians espouse some values on real, gritty issues for once.The Chinese version of 'democracy' is democratic centralism. The central Party sets the political direction and the 'democracy' part is in the people contributing to bring central policies to fruition. The Party 'consults' the people who participate to improve bureaucratic efficiency. There are no political programs, only concrete problems that can be addressed 'scientifically'. So 'democracy' is technocratic participation that does not bring about contestation but is a tool to strengthen the CCP's ruling capacity.Resistance is useless. The CCP are masters of turning apparent democratic concessions into measures that do even more for CCP interests - as long as prosperity prevails. eg recent village level democracy in mainland China is to make local officials more accountable to the Party by having the locals pressure them. Hong Kong (and the rest of China) will gradually evolve into Singapore style democracy that is quasi authoritarian and has almost perfected the efficient rational state. Most Chinese will be happy with this. Dare I say there are also cultural aspects to this.Those 'long-term solutions' are junk. Refugee advocates know that TPVs will inevitably lead to permanent visas. The history is that once people arrive here they nearly all stay no matter the veracity of their claims. As far as addressing the root causes of people fleeing, this is vague waffle that says nothing new. Usually the cause of conflict is religious/cultural attitudes; the West can't possible change this as we have seen in the middle east. There is plenty of Western assistance going into development strategies and the world has never been so prosperous, yet there are more people fleeing. It's just easier to do so now with modern communications and transport.Gregory, bask in the warm inner glow of knowing those 'Leftist opinion writers' are respectful of human right and international obligations. It's the only morality that counts, certainly not moral reality. It's a religious faith you know, and just as dangerous as the old variety.You have to harden up Lilly. The world is a jungle full of people hostile to your way of life and who will exploit every little concession to 'compassion'. All they understand is force and weakness, and we must be just as determined as they are or we will be over-run. The current policy has proven to be the minimum level of dissuasion to get the job done.I remember around last Christmas when so many on the Left here were certain the boats would re-emerge after the 'monsoon'. In fact they were hoping they would so they could keep practicing compassion, whatever that means in these postmodern days.There must be marketing people telling Scott that there is a huge untapped market out there of average Australians who feel disenfranchised. The ABC can prove its worth by catering to their needs as well instead of the disproportionate focus on a patronising social justice agenda. Niche content deserves niche funding.EM Laidly, out of the hundreds of articles on asylum seekers on the Drum, every single one comes from the minority Left/Greens perspective that essentially would throw open the borders to anyone who wants to come here. Many here complain regularly about this refusal to acknowledge the majority opinion on this matter, but nothing ever changes. This is astonishing and outrageous. The ABC is ideologically committed to open borders and is telling most Australians to go jump at public expense.

Is that a 'concrete' enough example of bias for you?Yes Chris L, you have inadvertently nailed it. The ABC is ideologically incapable of being unbiased because according to their Left values, human rights and treaties trump representing the views of most Australians because democracy entails breaking 'our commitment to international treaty, law, and to human rights'. Human rights and other international twaddle are just another form of Left politics that excludes non-Left content. See the self-serving justification for bias? Most Australians do not see the world through a prism of rights and treaties and 'obligations' and want the ABC to be responsive to the people, not undemocratic, international Leftist dogma.There is a report not being talked about in the Left media by the International Organisation for Migration called 'Fatal Journeys, Tracking Lives Lost during Migration'. 1070 asylum seekers died seeking refuge in Australia from 2009-2013 mostly from drowning. IN 2014 ONE died, Reza Berati. Perhaps we could add the fella with the infection. Under the old policy there would be hundreds more dead by now. First you have to be alive to be 'treated with respect, dignity and compassion'. If the ABC and the Greens have an ideological committed to human rights and obligations without regard to the real world then they are also committed to the consequence of killing people. 
I have never heard anyone from the Right of politics say that they want to dominate the ABC. Just some reasonable accommodation will do, but more than tokenism to set us apart like lepers like Counterpoint, Insiders, and Q&amp;A. Mainstream or even hard Right voices should not have to be in the naughty corner and have to pass a Left morality test for inclusion. There is no justification to misuse the ABC as a partisan political outlet for Left propaganda.In the 15 months since there might have been 300 more articles with the minority viewpoint - a non-Left strike rate of .3 percent. I guess that makes my bias claims a lie. Reith was a former senior Liberal minister and impossible to muzzle. Back then the Drum had input from Reith, Vanstone, and Ross Cameron. All gone and not replaced.Putting a few conservatives on the ABC board will never have any impact; it never has before. They are up against a culture of wall-to-wall social activism that is belligerent, self-absorbed, and impossible to dislodge in true public service style. These diehards (practically everyone) believe the ABC's highest priority is to rigidly impose Left theocracy because they hate ordinary Australians and must 'educate' us, and ruthlessly exclude mainstream voices that have other ideas. Conservatives have to start playing the culture wars as hard as the Left. If Turnbull were to replace Mark Scott you just know we would get another status quo appointment.'weaken a pillar of Australian democracy.'

The ABC does contribute to democracy by giving a voice to minorities groups who would find it hard to be heard in commercial media. However, this means the ABC draws in malcontents and free loaders who see it as a natural home for conducting a protest movement against mainstream Australian values. There may be diversity in minority representation, but they share the same militant social justice mindset that is intolerant and prothletising. The upshot is that the ABC has an institutional culture of a socialist collective that stubbornly refuses to acknowledge non-Left voices. The spirit of the Charter is warped to privilege social activism at the expense of mainstream Australian representation, hiding behind 'standards' like human rights and anti-discrimination that in reality is about exclusion rather than inclusion. An ABC that refuses to cater to a diversity of voices corrupts democracy because favouring some political ideas over other ideas makes it a political organ of Left politics. Mark Scott knows all this, but again has dodged this central issue which further discredits appeals to secure funding. If the needs of many or most Australians are invisible or loathed to the groupthinking ideologues then the ABC's funding should be narrowed to reflect this. This is democratic.AndrewH, your political compass is broken. We have a pretty good idea of what Left and Right currently is based on the last election result, and the ABC is dominated by people who are hostile to the government on just about issue, which also means they are also hostile to the values of most Australians. They even attack Labor from the Left. On every issue of political controversy, the ABC's mental default position is essentially left of centre: opposition to labour-market deregulation, antiterror laws and tough border protection; support for a republic, multiculturalism and same-sex marriage; an obsession with gender issues, Aboriginal rights and catastrophic manmade global warming; and a deep suspicion of Tony Abbott, neo-conservatives, economic rationalists, climate sceptics and the ?Christian Right?. These people won't get the soft interview.'Looking at many of the comments the ABC is in deep trouble.'

Worse still, they have shown no capacity to self reflect and respond to these criticisms. Being a protest movement at public expense, they will dig in and campaign that the government is interfering with their 'independence', which means 'get stuffed, we are a socialist collective and we will do as we please with tax-payer money.'Given the dominance of Left ideology in education and that education reforms are always part of the culture wars, this review should not scare the horses too much. It certainly isn't a right wing blitzkrieg. It's a politically astute document for being realistic (ie Left hegemony) and just tweaking the curriculum to weed out some of the excesses of social justice baloney and include content about Australia that isn't just victim based but celebrates our achievements and background. It is inappropriate for school education to be an instrument for activists prothletising social revolution. Educators not are privileged with a special insight in morality, values, or social policies and should pull their heads in; anything else is undemocratic and brainwashing. There is an objective reality that doesn't need deconstructing for white, male  crimes at this level. Social objectives do still have a place and are recognised here. Less clutter and more explicit focus on core skills is good news.Loco Lobo, LNP will be re-elected easily. The polls reflect government dissatisfaction, not an endorsement of Labor that is populist and reflexively obstructs. Governments only change when there is a viable alternative, and Labor is unelectable because they haven't changed and few want to see a repeat performance.Monty, new oppositions usually accept the democratic mandate and quietly give space for new governments to enact much of their core program and there is relative peace for a while. This time there was no honeymoon because Labor went straight into negative and obstruction mode. Brenden Nelson and Turnbull accepted they were in opposition and put the national interest first. It was only after Rudd proved unable to govern that Abbott went hardball. Abbott was successful because he was skilled at pointing out how dreadful Labor really were and Labor did get most of their program through so they have themselves to blame. In contrast, Labor never really accepted its defeat. The Left media and supporters made it clear even whilst the votes were still being counted that they were going to hysterically attack the government from the get-go and junk the national interest, reality, and the democratic mandate. I remember Mungo saying the government's border security measures were 'failing' three weeks after the election. Often criticism appears to be written before hand, like all that garbage about Abbott embarrassing us overseas whilst in reality great things were being achieved. Oppositions aren't supposed to be like a vile twitter mob. I think social media makes the Left look like lunatics. Some of this negativity does rub off and Shorten will benefit for some time, but this support is soft and they aren't doing the hard yards to make themselves match fit to appear like a government in waiting.Multiculturalism is essentially 'australiaphobia'. Its central tenent is that Australia, or more precisely white Australia is something to be ashamed of, and we need to replace these people with other people as different as possible without any regard to the values of new settlers or negative consequences. Multiculturalists have never explained why they support people committed to destroying the entire progressive project and who come from tribalised societies that do not value other cultures themselves. When the inevitable clash of cultures eventuates the ideologues see it as just another opportunity to tell 'Australians' how wicked they are. No discussion of any criteria for the success or failure of multiculturalism is even possible. It is a evidence free zone of reckless social engineering, and white Australia has been marked for destruction so crazy, morally vain people can wallow in some pointless, futile, attempt to create global citizens.'Multiculturalism says that we are all Australians.' To some people being Australian is just a piece of paper to gain access to material wealth whilst rejecting any notion of being part of a wider Australian society, and are just part of a colonial outpost with little loyalty to Australia and no interest in integrating. Why would you respect Australian cultural norms and standards if all cultures are of equal value? I don't expect everyone to be of British ancestry, but do expect broad compliance and zest for Western values.It's quite a dilemma. Old school unionism has the street smarts and self interest to keep the ALP electorally centre ground, but democracy and the stench of union corruption calls for more power for the membership, which attracts the 'loony Left' or Green-lite. I can't see the dregs of the middle class ever taking border control seriously. They will become a laughing stock of patronising, social engineering, moralistic elites.The CFMEU and AWU should be disaffiliated from the ALP. Of course Shorten's power base is the AWU.Whenever I hear the word 'moral' the idea of censorship closely follows. The media also has 'a moral contract' to tell us everything that might interest most Australians concerned about not letting middle eastern style violence and oppression become a norm here. The fourth estate should hold all sections of the community accountable for their actions and not let some groups escape valid criticism or accept low standards on religious/cultural grounds. Simply calling such scrutiny 'hate' whilst great wrongs are being perpetrated is neither 'moral' nor intellectually sustainable. The social engineers should also be asked to explain why their failed 'visions' have caused such problems and should be shamed for bringing this senseless conflict into the lives of the sane.'I would like to think those amongst us who commit those horrible offences against Muslim women are definitely in the minority.'

And people like you will be allowed to criticise white Australia all day. 
Meanwhile, some of us would to talk about the core problem. You know, the tribal guys who want to force us back to the ways of 5th century Arabia and the alelged 'moderates' who do nothing to stop it. We can't talk about it because our ABC has taken sides with the recalcitrant. If you dare see a pattern and attempt to describe it you are seen as demonising and stereotyping and 'snip' - unless you are white or christian.That is blind faith Ann. You can't just assume that all cultures naturally gravitate to Western ways. Muslim based cultures stand out because of their fierce resistance to change. The West including christianity has evolved. The muslim world remains remarkably unreconstructed since the Middle Ages. Arguably the second generation of Muslims Australians has not adapted well to our way of life despite being immersed from birth in a society with apparent advantages of freedom and prosperity not available in their parents homelands. This logically raises doubts...Meredith, my point is that some religions/cultures tend towards tolerance and some towards tribalism. It is not correct to imply all cultures equally responsible for 'demonising' and 'making generalisations about whole groups of people'. Only European based cultures practice multiculturalism. This is tolerance. The other extreme is the religion that does not tolerate difference and practices piety by conflicting with anyone different, including within their own religion. Societies based on this religion are starkly violent and oppressive compared to places with little of this religion. This is tribalism and intolerance. It is chalk and cheese. How can I describe the world I live in if patterns that are readily observable are just nullified as stereotyping? It is a near meaningless concept that is designed to shut down rational people. All that matters is whether I am right or wrong. First we have to get real, and based on this we can then move forward to working on 'peace in this world' or whatever is actually achievable. If we proceed upon false assumptions then we fail. Without robust debate we fail. My successful society should not have to be a social experiment for evidence free Left 'visions'. I know that everyone is capable of terrible things, but this is still just another way to pretend the patterns don't exist. They do and they matter, anything else is not enlightened. It is ridiculous to have to qualify everything I say about group behaviour with statements that 'most are good' or whatever. I suggest that you are the 'blinkered' one and ask you to 'look at the world the way it actually is'.Of course I 'take sides'. I don't have to justify my motivations to comment or be even-handed. I will say though that one motivation  to try and post here is largely as a protest at the lack of non-Left representation at the ABC. Millions of Australians would support my views but they are nowhere to be seen. I believe that society benefits from robust debate. I reject the other view that social engineering ideologues (Jonathon Green) know what is good for my soul and that we should not question their follies, lest villains get offended. Exclusion begets extremism as Lefties would say. I would probably tone down my opinions if ABC was the broad church that the Charter promises instead of a corrupter of democracy.Thanks Jonathon for that mass of otherness worship. There may be exaggeration on specific incidents in the media (which the media does with everything), but the fear in the community goes much further than the pointy end of terrorism. Most Australians are aware that wherever muslim communities exist there persists a culture of low standards of civility. In the West this means that Western values tend to be shunned and the non-muslims dehumanised. This lack of harmony of course alarms people. Studies and security advice worldwide have shown that extremism is not caused by poverty. Indeed the middle class and educated muslims are MORE likely to support extremism. There is an ideology at work here, and an unjustified persecution complex. Pushing the problem under the carpet and self hate and appeasement do not change the threat to our peaceful, tolerant society. We want muslims to drop tribalism and identify and be loyal to Australia first. They don't seem to reciprocate tolerance and looking at Europe this appears to be universal. This is not my fault or the fault of the media. Copping criticism is part of living in a democracy. They need to be challenged more not less.Seccombe has that patronising Left way of smirking and making fun out of sober, wise analysis like Henderson's as if 'hear no evil, see no evil' just makes unpleasantness go away. His sneering and rudeness is a form of ad hominem and deserved a reaction. Marr is even worse with the moral theatrics. The show is called 'Insiders' and those with LNP connections are a valuable asset in a sea of Left groupthink. Don't forget that two Right journalists without official LNP links were sacked for upsetting Left 'standards'. These standards are misused as political weapons to exclude.Whose 'truth' Alpo? I have had about ten comments in a row 'disappeared' no matter how carefully written. The ABC is using current events as an excuse to purge Right comments. I have noticed that articles that call for media restraint actually practice this in the moderation.Spacey, people like Jonathan Green are telling us they believe in censorship because they say they it 'fans the fear of disquiet'. This sounds harmless enough at first but their base is that non-muslims are unfairly blaming muslims for muslim terrorism. Fancy that? To these ideologues only criticism of non-muslims is acceptable as Jonathon has shown us today. It is an argument that naturally excludes non-Left views. Cultural relativism and denial. Anyone who believes that 18c was correctly applied in the Bolt case would support censorship here too. This Lefts' censorious attitude is no doubt a real factor here.I have noticed lately that everytime there is an article that says we should pull our heads in and pretend nothing is happening to not inflame the situation, the ABC uses this as an excuse to further turn the screws in the comments section to reduce it to an even more one way Leftist debacle than usual. I think the views of the average person are now unpublishable on the ABC. I don't know how they get away with this. Eight not published in row.They also have a habit of shutting down threads that are actually interesting. The people are not to be trusted.Thanks Gerard for again switching the focus from radical Islam to anything else. 'We really ought to concentrate on that elusive quality of inclusivity and closeness with each other.' No we shouldn't. We should be rational and face up to the nature of the beast and act decisively, instead of sweeping it under the carpet because it makes the Left uncomfortable. There is something Pythonesque about these denials.It is a balanced approach. Disapproved of but should still be legal. I think most people feel this way so this should not be controversial except for those waiting to pounce in a Twitter style mob of hate about not much. There has also been some confusion and Abbott is not in control of security in Parliament House. Personally I find it distasteful for a symbol of oppression to be seen in our home of democracy.But Bishop is not in a Left party so conservative voters will not be suspicious that she is going to bring feminist and other social engineering baggage with her, and you can't imagine Bishop being undignified and describing herself a victim of something called misogyny when things get tough. Many like the author here are too quick to see criticism of powerful women as gender based. Men suffer from much abuse too based on their appearance and lifestyle. Indeed Gillard called Joe Hockey fat in parliament, and no-one seemed to notice. Even when gender is explicitly mentioned it still may not mean anything beyond taking making millage out of any difference like being fat, bald, short, etc. If women only can't be subject to abuse and silly names and cartoons and must be protected, that is not equality, THAT is sexist. 'Ditch the Witch' is tame enough for Play School. 

It is fair to scrutinise a PM on the basis of narrow, unconventional background. We want to see signs that they have walked a mile in the shoes of ordinary people. Gillard had that typically alienating Labor career path of law degree, student leadership, union legal work, enter parliament... and no children, marriage, or religion. You could argue all this made Gillard out of touch and poor at communicating.Olive, the author might have worked for John Howard but if you follow the link up top to her Twitter you will see that she is of the Left and she converses with the Left. She is pro-asylum seekers and anti the burqa ban. Conservatives don't install only ideological warriors into jobs like Labor.The Left have no genuine interest in history; they use it to search for a bunch of narrow, context free, morality tales in order to pursue social engineering agendas. After their onslaught of irrelevant pseudo history they smugly say, 'you do not understand history'. I still do not know how searching for historic faults with christianity helps me deal realistically with a more problematic religion in 2014. You will never hear about their 1500 year history of non-development on your ABC.If climate change is so certain and factual then you shouldn't mind if some people question it to keep it honest. The ABC finds space for every other type of diversity and respects and protects backward cultures, so why are climate skeptic perspectives to be uniquely excluded? All the other social issues that the ABC only sees from the Left having nothing to do with 'truth', but are VALUES. The national broadcaster is not supposed to privilege ideological 'truths' from one end of the spectrum. By favouring some voices and excluding others, the ABC becomes a political entity that corrupts democracy.The Charter is a bunch of worthless platitudes. It must be for the current state of affairs. They twist it to suit their own agenda ie the ABC is a protest movement for minorities and any cause that might assist like climate change. Science in my view has been politicised. I don't know if the consensus is correct or not but I smell a lot of manipulation and exaggeration, and rent seeking. The science should not prescribe social solutions eg massive foreign aid, leading the world, suspending democracy, world government, another excuse for open borders... There is a social engineering agenda afoot and that deserves debate rather than abusing and excluding concerned citizens.Dove, the ABC already broadly supports the muslim persecution complex. The ABC is famous for taking everyone's side except Australias. There is a problem with multiculturalism when one group puts its world-wide religious identity far above a national identity or national interest and essentially threatens the rest of society if the elected government does not change its foreign policy.'I won't have to put up with bias' [on the ABC].

In other words you think wall to wall Left views on every issue is not bias. On boats for example, the ABC only mentions asylum seekers 'news' so that it can then let loose all the critics of current policies; we hear from the lawyers, the human rights lobby, asylum seekers and their families, foreign criticism, and sundry academics from every angle who all want an open border. There is never 'news' that might be detrimental to asylum seekers. If I only listened to the ABC I would not know that nearly all refugees from most countries stay on welfare for many years, or know all the insider news from inside detention centres about the rorting and violence and ridiculous claims, and soft assessments. We get ABC 'standards, not community standards'. Therefore you cannot trust ABC news because it is selected to support a Left world view.As long as the ABC gets to decide what bias is it will continue. You cannot make an official complaint of systemic bias against the ABC. It suits them to narrow down 'bias' to specific instances to cover up the general bias which is obvious. Complaints are dismissed because ABC 'standards' tend to exclude non-Left content eg human rights, anti-discrimination, cannot stereotype.... They say there is no bias but it just so happens that after these standards have been applied, as interpreted by Leftists, only Left content remains. In common sense terms ABC bias is the culture of generally not reflecting community standards and excluding them, whilst privileging and protecting narrow hard Left voices.I am sick of hearing about these ridiculous inquiries that find there is no ABC Left bias, or even that it is skewed Right - yeah and the moon is made of cheese. Do you really expect intelligent people to believe that Q&amp;A is not always stacked heavily to the Left? If you put social values on a Left/Right spectrum according to community standards, do you expect me to believe the ABC does not lean massively Left on climate change, asylum seekers, free speech, homosexuality, and everything to do with race, culture, and Aboriginals? There are zero conservative presenters on any flagship show but many significant Labor presenters who have links to the Labor Party. At about this point of the argument the Left start denying there is a Left.Liberian authorities have said they will prosecute Dallas Ebola patient Thomas Duncan when he returns home for allegedly lying on his airport departure screening questionnaire about whether he had had contact with a person infected with the virus. Duncan answered "no" to questions about whether he had cared for an Ebola patient or touched the body of someone who had died in an area affected by Ebola.dean, we are up against ABC 'standards'. They believe human rights are the ultimate moral and legal authority, and therefore only human rights perspectives will be seen here because other views would be promoting human rights abuses and thus invalid and ferociously excluded. Other notions of the ABC's role are trumped, like representing diversity ie the majority of Australians who are sensible enough to consider human rights to be just one consideration. The ABC groupthinking fundamentalists think that the defining characteristic of democracy is the protection of alleged human rights, and this means that by excluding dissenters they are promoting democracy. Similarly they see no bias; 'balance' is redefined as Left values by default as non-Left views are disqualified as falling foul of 'standards'.There has only ever been evidence that other asylum seekers sexually assault asylum seekers; this hardly inspires confidence. It is well established that activist elements commonly infiltrate detention facilities in order to coach asylum seekers to subvert the system and invent claims and cause disturbances to try and discredit detention. An inquiry has been set up to investigate these dirty tricks. 

The UN reported asylum seeker registrations in Indonesia fell by 71 percent between Jan 2013-2014. The Malaysians have reported the unusual flow of refugees crossing the straits back into Malaysia. You are probably one of those people who kept saying the boats would return after the monsoon.

You won't know much about the many cases of refugee deaths if your main source of news is the ABC. It was too inconvenient to people who practice 'compassion'. These instances were reported elsewhere by sources who do not censor news on spurious moral grounds.The 'refugees' who are 'rescued' by Italy tend to head to the honeypot of welfare friendly countries like Britain. Thousands drown or kill each other en route to seek a better life. Many play a cat and mouse game at Calais to try and hide in or under lorries, trains, anything. It's crude and offensive. Once in Britain the swamped system gives up and one way or another and they stay and are given council houses. Sham marriages are common. Welfare is rorted. Nobody wants them but the European nations are competing to force them somewhere else. Eventually there will be crackdown. Many Brits are envious of Australia's resolve on stopping this farce.'do not allow holders to bring their family to Australia nor to return if they leave Australia.'

Asylum seeking is colonisation; they all come as a beachhead to bring over their extended families in perpetuity and others with false documents like underage brides. It is another unnecessary rights inflation add-on and has nothing to do with persecution. Stopping the chance of this prize removes this overarching motive to arrive illegally. Then there are all those 'refugees' who have a habit of returning to their place of alleged persecution once they have their permanent visas, no doubt arranging for chain migration legally or otherwise, and funny money business. We are a cash cow. This behaviour should nullify their claims.There was a good article in the OZ today by Professor of Law, James Allen that said conservative governments lose the culture wars because they do a lousy job of putting people into jobs that affect the general cultural outlook. Neither Howard or Abbott have really taken on the universities and ABC. Mark Scott might have been appointed by Howard but we see by his performance that he has made no attempt to redress the monolithic Left dominance. If Turnbull replaces Scott, he would likely install another who would maintain the status quo. One or two Right chairpeople will make no appreciable impact on an ABC that is institutionally and defiantly a Left powerhouse. Only radical surgery will make a real difference. I say rebuild it brick by brick or privatise it. Similarly Brandis is correct to say that historical conservative intellectual indifference to the human rights movement was a massive mistake because it allowed the Left to dominate and define 'Rights.' Indeed human rights are really a backdoor and undemocratic form of Left politics.If someone wearing this tried to interact with me, I would ignore them as they have chosen to aggressively alienate themselves from me and become an object.Surely it's is the burqa that 'creates division.' It's purpose is to build a wall around a person (and culture) to alienate us from each other. It symbolises idolisation of tribalism and medieval thinking including slavery. Wherever this attire is common the human condition is cheapened and limited, and conflict resolution through violence is the norm. It is appropriate for a leader who is supposed to unify all tribes to find this aggressively divisive garment distasteful. He is also right though to say it is not the state's business to formally prescribe how we should dress. Only types predisposed to looking for an excuse for fight by feigning victimhood will have a problem with Abbott's words.Dove, you ducked the issue. What do you think of the burqa in a Western society? We look for alleged 'moderates' to say something reassuring on these controversial issues that doesn't sound divisive or belligerent or victimhood.Shorten and co ideologically are probably closer to Green than the LNP on terrorism and the myriad of social issues surrounding it, but know that they must broadly side with the government to neutralise any perception that Labor is not serious in protecting the values and welfare of most Australians. They are distancing themselves  from the loony Left that is seen as largely responsible for home grown terrorism and appeasers.open borders, family reunion, all cultures are of equal value, no assimilation, pandering to to their typically NESB constituencies, cultural relativism, support burqa wearing, 18c - demonising as hate mongers people who see inconvenient patterns and silencing them leading to social disaster.Sleepykarly, you might want to back up from the self-hate and first question why Australians who have benefited from compassionate immigration and offered a brighter future would want to attack us just because of things that happen overseas that don't impact on them. If a person born in South West Sydney believes that disagreements with foreign policy necessitates slaughtering random Australians of another religion as a way to show religious piety, then there would seem to a problem in our assumptions about multiculturalism. People whose prime loyalty is to their religion and who dehumanise everyone else should leave, and our immigration programs should exclude people who are a high risk of rejecting our values.Lyler there is a perception that Labor is only half hearted about security because of social engineering instincts. For example, on refugees, they tries to be tough and compassionate at the same time which made them ineffectual. They decimated defence expenditure down to its lowest percentage of GDP since 1938. They are committed to global citizenship follies called 'international obligations' that trump the national interest. They self hate in international disputes. Security requires practical action and resolve to deal with the real world.Trent, the idea is to be proactive and stop these events from occurring in the first place. It is naive to think there aren't Australians influenced by calls to jihad. If there was a Lee Rigby style atrocity it would be a national catastrophe and probably more freedom limiting anti-terror laws passed to make people feel safe. Rooting out the jihadists protects the muslim community from a backlash.It is because of the 'visions' of people like Green that we need to lose a bit of freedom to be protected from multiculturalism. Last week Green said that the protection of Western values is 'ethnocentrism' and 'monoculture built on intolerant assimilation' and there is no 'true progress' without our core values being challenged. Well congratulations Mr Green we are being challenged and it's not pretty. We are not going to be protected from the inevitable conflict of diverse cultures simply through one sided tolerance and appealing to some groups' better nature.The WW2 lesson of 'tolerance' has been taken to an equally dangerous extreme. Too often tolerance becomes willful blindness and delusion that cultures share more in common than they really do. This is supposed to stop conflict. In reality, some cultures do not self reflect or reciprocate tolerance, and the West's culture of self criticism is used as a weapon by the uncivilised to manipulate us into selling out our values, being exploited, and putting us in danger.I quit this forum but I can't take these ludicrous redefinitions of 'Left' as the norm any more. We know who is Left by the near 100 percent espousal of Left values. eg gay marriage, republic, everything Aboriginal and multicultural, terrorism, free speech, climate change.... Election results are a good rough indicator of Left/Right and almost no-one on the ABC supports the LNP on anything. This is called Left. There is hard Left like Marr, Green, Mungo, and no equivalent on the Right at all. Bolt would laugh at a claim Fran Kelly supports the LNP. 'Counterpoint' gives the game away; this implies that non-Left views are worthy of only token representation even when we have a Centre Right government preferred by most Australians. Indeed counterpoint to what except Left? Vanstone is considered to be a moderate amongst Liberals. And the coup de grase - every single opinion article on refugees implies a preference for open borders. There will never ever be an 'opinion' that represents the majority that supports the government's tough stance against asylum seekers. This means the ABC is deliberately campaigning against both the government and most Australians. The ABC hides behind 'standards' like human rights, anti-discrimination, no prejudice or stereotyping to exclude non Left views. They ignore the diversity of views bit. It is a corruption of democracy.I correct myself. There is far Right representation, that of one religious minority. They appear on the ABC as victims where the Left are considered useful idiots, but usually have extremely conservative social values that go unquestioned, and even concealed which means the Left is working against most of its own values.They won't cut anything. It's a bluff. I like Lateline and there is worse bias elsewhere. I agree that Q&amp;A and Media Watch should go regardless of cutbacks. Both these programs perform exactly the opposite function one might expect from their titles in Orwellian style. They aggressively pursue hard Left agendas. All Media Watch hosts have been Left and have an obsession with discrediting Murdoch media. Most of the panel of Q&amp;A and host and audience and twitter are hard Left.Self criticism and 'love and friendship' is good, but I'm pretty sure the other religion is not having a similar conversation of reflection and tolerance. Lets keep it real.Some might be genuine but most aren't. Kevin Rudd said this, Bob Carr said this. Sri-Lanka is not a bad place now. Tamils are accommodated with members in parliament and cultural respect like Tamil media. We have people 'fleeing' Sri-lanka from India - go figure. Leftist Paul McGeough's on the ground investigation of Reza Berati found that many members of his village trod a well practiced pathway to deceive Australia and no-one was claiming persecution, just looking for financial advancement. We can't take everyone on the basis that there is a vague possibility they are not lying.There are no 'international obligations'. Human rights 'laws' have little legitimacy with the public. There is only democracy and Australia's interests and common sense. 'Realistic migration pathways need to be available.' No, the point of being harsh is to remove incentives to arrive here uninvited and full of deception. Every little concession is interpreted as a cue for people to board boats. As long as most Australians support the government's commitment to secure borders there is no need to feel 'embarrassed'. 'Embarrassed' is code for disliking Australians and treating our way of life as a plaything for evidence free social experiments.You can talk of 'scaremongering', but people with another opinion are victims of an ideology which insists that socially acceptable values are set in stone and we cannot respond to your claim - in a democracy on a public broadcaster. The Left is now only talking to the Left.No there has definitely been a major crackdown on what is possible here. The sorts of things that people like me say are missing.Steve the definition of 'hate' and 'demonisation' now includes all criticism or even mention of the offending minority. There are mainstream views that the ABC now effectively treats as 'acts of terrorism'. There is zero option for 'dissent' on this issue. It also means vast swaths of contestable public issues are now off limits. The Left has not suffered any loss of freedom and they were unjustly privileged in the first place. There is your 'police state' mentality.
