yank I think you will find that just like the many wars between Protestant and Catholic that were almost always along clean ethnic/national lines, the current religious wars in the Middle East also nearly always align along neat tribal/ethnic/national groups.

You might almost say there's something political or regional about it, ala the Serbs/Croats or whoever had that big blowout in Europe. They had different religions too and they almost certainly banged on about them, but that's wasn't why they were fighting.

Look into some history of the ME regions and how often those people/tribes have fought each other (hint: thousands of years) even as religions changed.There's not much evidence there that Mao wasn't a deistic god rather than the one we typically think of. I mean, two lines of text versus a wholesale embrace of a religion-free society?

And Stalin sure did a good job of oppressing religion and driving out priests for someone who was "secretly" one. I think it's fair to say that Stalin was pretty damn insane. (He did die, after all, because he left his own guards so paranoid that they didn't dare disturb him even after a long period of not seeing him.) And certainly many of the co-authors of Communist Russia, his fellow socialists that simply lost the bloody lottery to be leader, were very anti-religious.

As for Hitler... that seems a bit of both, obviously happy to use religion when it suited him and discard it when it didn't. In other words, he doesn't come across as a religious fundamentalist creating a war because of his particular brand of beliefs in God.I'm sure many people understand the power dynamics that go into racism, but since you WILL find groups of people prepared to argue that power dynamics are the only thing that makes racism a problem (or that the disempowered's racism should not be addressed until they are empowered) you will find people incensed by that position and erecting shabby barriers against their own racism by talking about how reverse-racism is not decried as harshly.

In understand that it is not only racist actions we need to curtail, that those actions are always prefaced by racist speech, we can't simply decide to only curtail that racist speech which has *in the past* lead to racist actions. Because that puts us continually behind the curve-ball in combating it. It would be like the police never patrolling around being a deterrent but just sitting inside the cop shop until someone called them out.

Everyone knows that if power shifted in opposite directions, today's victims would be tomorrow's bullies. History shows that easily, as does this whole Israel/Gaza crisis. Both groups would bully the other if they could, and have.

Racism/bigotry against those in power should be criticised as much as bigotry against those who are weak.

Because their positions could switch tomorrow.Well Jade that is all true... in the West. Go to some other countries and you might suddenly find yourself the harassed minority.

So we can only complain about bigotry when we're actually being physically/financially hurt by it?Steve you're making a big ask against biology by suggesting people not identify themselves by groups.

Forget religions and nationalities.

Think gangs. Think football clubs. Fan clubs. Fashion cliques. Economic statuses. Education brackets. Sexual orientations.

I like your idea of utopia but like all utopian ideals, it is made of dreams and fog and clears once out in the sunlight of reality...Generality I don't think we get to make rules about whether other sovereign states operate with theocratic governments or not.Not to mention that there's not a single person who's lived or will live who doesn't hold a combination of false and true, bad and good beliefs.

The most supposedly rational person can have insanely irrational beliefs about relationships and emotions. (In fact I know some that do.) Or even if they know their ideas are wrong, find themselves unable to act differently.

And that much of our mind-frame towards decoding the "laws" of the universe i.e. physics came from a religious mindset that *believed there were laws to begin with* because "God ordered the world just so".

There's not some magic flip point at which a person stops being irrational and becomes rational.Puddlegums did it ever occur to you that the Muslims are looking at the Jew's beliefs and deciding they are false, and therefore bad.

All they've done that's different from you is they've made the jump to violently attacking people for having the bad/false beliefs.

Something that I'm sure many people of other religions, or the militantly anti-religious, would be happy to do if given the chance...Really, Terry? I think there have been plenty of pauses between the fighting where Hamas has not been actively launching rockets.

And surprise, surprise, Israel did not lift their blockade. Because, oh, Hamas were *totally* going to start firing rockets again soon. So we can't. So sorry.We saw those 'black balloons' against a mosque, and while this antisemitism is disgusting, it is not some solitary incident in the long line of low-grade, generalised racism by Australians towards any "other".

But apparently because "other nations" do it worse than us, that makes ours OK.

All that means is that we're rich and comfortable enough to not want to take our frustrations out on the people we hate, not that we don't hate people just as much sometimes.OUB do you remember that the Palestinian boy that was beaten up and whose friend was killed actually had US citizenship? And maybe that had something to do with the "speedy" arrest?

Anyway, we see so many calls for "the moderate muslims" to call out the hardliners amongst them. Why shouldn't the "moderate Jews" be expected to call out Israel just as hard?But Steven, Israeli =/= Jew.

The problem these perpetrators of racist acts have, like all other people who perpetrate racist acts or sentiments, is that they're damn stupid.Hey Craig this may amaze you, but some people are able to concede that both sides of a grudge match are in the wrong, but still demand the stronger of the two stop beating the other one's face into an unrecognisable mush.The conflicts in the ME go far beyond just the 30s when Israel was created.

If anything, that just gave all the various Arabs/Persians/Turks a big central enemy to all focus on rather than killing each other.

There's a saying... Myself against my brother, myself and my brother against my enemy.

In that context, the decision to put a bunch of (mainly ethnic European) Jews smack dab in a very tribal and volatile area was like kicking a hornets nest.No it's a death sentence in some Muslim majority countries...

Oh that's right I forgot, if someone isn't following their "holy book" to the literal word, they're not "really" someone from that religion are they?

No true Scotsman and all...I hate Abbott as much as you do, and I like many facets of Australian culture, but I would disagree with you that Australians are becoming "more racist" or less compassionate...

I think they are just being pressed up harder against the wall of life, and looking for a smaller target to beat up on.

After all, Europe looked lovely and tolerant until their economies tanked and then suddenly, racists! Racists everywhere!Terry, bearing in mind that the Iron Shield defense was pretty good in keeping Hamas' rockets out, why wasn't that good enough for Israel? Sure they had some heavy insurance premiums in the form of national defense, but they were safe?

Isn't that what all countries want? To be safe? Or do they actually want to steamroll their neighbours houses down and uproot their fields?Why do we have to decide who to support?

Who did we support during the Balkan wars? If Argentina and Brazil go to war tomorrow, will we pick a side?

If China attacks North Korea, will we have to be lovers of whoever that dork that runs North Korea is to be upset if China nukes the place?Craig if you compare the coverage of the war that the ABC gives with what Al Jazeera gives, you will find that the ABC is HUGELY friendly towards Israel.

They went along with the whole paradigm of reporting Hamas rockets vs Israeli casualties as though they were equally important.

They report that their were rockets stored in some UN buildings... but not that they haven't been stored in *currently used* UN buildings but in abandoned ones.

And they never talk about how in 2009 Israeli troops were actually caught on camera using Palestinian youths as *literal* human shields.That's exactly the point he's making. The Jewish Old Testament told of the Israelites fighting the Philistines LONG before they were Muslims.

They're just taking up a millennium old grudge match.Carlton may have been widely condemned as an antisemite but that wasn't why he was fired.

It was because he was personally abusive to people.Arabs and semites not exactly the same group. Iraqis and Iranians aren't Arabs and certainly don't say they are within earshot of one.Nearly all racism, in fact nearly all bigotry, is enacted by people who are struggling in some way. Economically, emotionally, physically, mentally, etc.

Poor, uneducated people with few prospects certainly outnumber rich people in incidents of bigotry, especially the violent sort.

I think the most we get from the rich are some recordings of them saying all Jews or all blacks are horrible. 

Because when you're comfortable, what motivation do you have to go out of your way to hurt someone else?

But when you're at the bottom of the barrel, trying not to break down, any target looks attractive for an outpouring of abuse.

Hence that woman on the train making the racist rant who said that she was simply at breaking point and looking for a victim.

Not excusing the people who do it, at all. Simply pointing out that many of the people who *don't* do it probably aren't any less hateful but simply more comfortable and content.

And that making people content (and not punishing them for being lazy or poor) reduces the amount of people who are going to want to find a victim.It is important to note that the Palestinians in the West Bank are not under the control of Hamas. 

Is it just a coincidence that the portion of Palestine most squeezed under Israel's pressure is the one that voted in the more extreme government?I have always thought the same thing. The state of Israel is inevitable.

Unethical? As hell. But also inevitable.

There are some epic struggles that people must fight in order to overcome totalitarianism. But, this one isn't going to pan out.

Just like the Europeans rolling into Australia and America, there is a clear winner and loser in this fight, and we don't have to think they *should* win to think they *will* win.Does every Australian death that can possibly be linked to a foreign government merit economic hardship to the whole of Australia?

Russia may have given them the missiles but they didn't pull the trigger. Why are we punishing the supplier over the individuals that made the decision?

Russia and the US both gave a lot of arms to various groups that are now terrorists and that were used to murder countless people. Do we hold Russia or the US responsible for that?

Or is this a special case because they were "one of us"...?So it's just a coincidence that the backpackers also can be induced to work cash-in-hand for less money?

And that they will be leaving the area soon and have no incentive to unionise or complain of bad conditions?

Of course, it's all coincidence.Men only "had it all" because they had wives - if they ever "had it all". How many career men have lamented that they didn't really know their own children well, or are surprised when their adult children don't have good relationships with them?

You can argue that men were just outsourcing the childraising/homemaking work to the wife and it's no different to outsourcing it to some unrelated woman, but the wife was at least usually the children's biological mother and thus had some interest in their wellbeing and upbringing besides money.

Basically, the only woman who will "have it all" is the woman whose partner, regardless of gender, accepts the role of the "wife".Not to mention, I'm sure sex offenders "create their own victims" all the time - but when they're born to them the normal way, we don't seem to mind!

There's no ban on sex offenders having children naturally, why should there be one for surrogacy?By "generalising" I think he means that while you are basing your comments on "what you have seen", you don't have any actual facts to back that up.

The couple's story is changing and they seem to probably be liars. But that's not proven, so it's not a fact.

Also, being liars doesn't stop them being loving parents. Possible, but not a fact.There are still some risks inherent in childbirth - I don't think it can be quite true to say she is 'no less' than beforehand.

For instance, if she has to have a caesarian for whatever reason, that can change her chances to have a vaginal birth in the future. Should she be paid extra for that un-reversible change to her body, if it takes place?

Some women also have depression after childbirth - should she be paid extra if that happens?

Some women have hormone  changes during and after that can lead to thyroid problems - should she be paid extra if that happens?

If it becomes "just another job" then there is going to be a lot of insurance and occupational health and safety come into effect. Which is going to be a LOT more expensive than a Thai surrogate.

So we will still see people shop overseas rather than go with an expensive Australian mother.Not sure why my reply to you about foster families was not suitable for posting... curious.

In it, I pointed out that a police check and referees are required for a foster family, which seems to be the standards for determining that they are "decent" people, in your words. Can you think of a better standard?

I also note that while you seem incensed that age and health are taken into account for foster parenting, that is because age and health have a big role to play in people's ability to financially provide for their dependants. It wouldn't be wise to have a child placed with an 80-year-old to be raised in the knowledge that person may die in a year or two and emotionally impact the child. Neither should 18-year-olds be able to become foster parents.

I was not able to find any laws or guidelines preventing homosexual people from being foster parents, which was your other contention: "sexuality". Can you demonstrate where such a barrier exists?

A married middle-aged couple with children have been demonstrated to the most suitable environment for foster children, whether that squares with your ideology or not.Australia DOES already allow surrogacy between people who know each other and already prohibits money being involved.

So your final note is invalid.

The reason people shop around for a surrogate is plainly because there's no-one in their lives who could perform the role for them or is willing to.No-one has ever suggested he was - he was just more well-known.

That's why charities have to spend so much money on overheads like advertising and awareness campaigns - people don't give money to a cause they aren't aware exists.Humans are already priced commodities, in effect.

When parents split, one of them is forced to "pay" for the child-raising they don't do. We can pretend like it's a service being paid for, but really, considering the payment still has to take place even if the male involved did not want the child and does not want to pay for the service, I think that proves such a notion to be a lie.

Parents are unofficially "contractually bound" to pay for the raising of a child even if they don't want to and don't want the child. That is giving the child a price. (even if it fluctuates according to the ability of the parents to pay)

I won't disagree with you that it's distasteful, even if necessary.For all the people saying this is the call to make paid surrogacy legal in Australia, I ask: If surrogacy is a legitimate means to earn money, then shouldn't paid blood and organ donations also become legal?

I have two kidneys - why shouldn't I earn a couple grand selling one? I could sure use the money and I think I'd miss it less than a baby.

There's no reason one should be excluded while others aren't.You think the bans on sex selection are enforced in India?

Maybe they are more for high-profile pregnancies like surrogacies, but across the board they are not. That's why it's a huge social issue there.Let's not leave men out of the party. Let's make it legal to sell your organs.

Bone marrow, a kidney, a lung and some liver. A recipe for a debt-free higher education?And women are denied the right to make money by selling their eggs.

Clear discrimination against women!There's few other "jobs" in life where each transaction carries the risk of depression, scarring, physiological changes and, although rare, death.

Just because someone would do it for money doesn't mean we should allow it.Part of the reason the government ones aren't so well run is because when they outsource to private contractors, said private contractors feel they can charge/do whatever they like because it's government money!Candy companies do well during economic downtimes.

Maybe we can eat our way to economic prosperity.

Or diabetes.Yeah, the Russian peasants got super agitated the more the Tsar succeeded in suppressing them. Where did that lead?"People who disagree with a direction get more agitated the more those they appose succeed"

Quote from you SVJ.

The people who disagreed with the Tsar's decisions the more he succeeded = the Russian peasants.

And it follows on from there...So you don't deny the Liberal pollies are "leaners", you just contend the Labor ones are as well?

Well that still doesn't beckon one to support Abbott's government or his stupid "leaner/lifter" rhetoric.I agree, the system that limits the power of the sitting govt. is not broken, we've just had some bad implementations of it.

I was very pleased to see Labor running left and right trying to please independents, compromising and back-flipping. Politicians should be nimble and agile, not earth-moving equipment that tramples along everyone who gets in their way.Hyperbole is your friend, I see. The NBN is the "most disastrously mal-administered farce in history" is it? Glad to have the entire Soviet and Chinese communist regimes removed from that spot to reverentially defer to our bumbling Aussie pollies.Usually because they have some emotional investment in their worldview. I've seen science people who know pollution is a bad thing still fighting tooth and nail against climate action because "then the hippies win".As though Labor is the only other option...I bet Family First is really big into basket-weaving with those traditional values.

Not sure about the Hunters &amp; Fishers though... think they like sturdier stuff than baskets these days.The labour shortages are because of birth rates, nothing to do with the current economy... and even then that prediction will only hold if the economy stays on trajectory during those decades. The most likely outcome of people believing this little "factoid" is that immigration will increase... driving up house prices. I guess that's good for someone in the construction industry like you?

That you have latched onto that piece of information as though it was good news for the country is laughable.You said you were a construction supplier. I suppose you make the special concrete that's too good to use in houses.

Regardless, the fact that you are gathering all these "potential" "factoids" to rally your cause shows it is on shaky ground.

A *prediction* of the future based on no hiccups happening between now and then is one of your supports that the *current* economy is fine?That's what always surprises me Judy. No-one is denying that we can't open our doors to the refugees, but so many Australians seem happy - gleeful almost - to see punishing action taken against them by their leaders.

Does it not occur to them that having the kind of leader who is happy to viciously punish people can backfire on them when they become the target...?Sorry, but no-one is going to pay attention to your attempts to re-define words.

Take it up with Macquarie if you have a problem.I love that none of them had the spine to admit that the position she used to give weight to her demands was the same one the current government pooh-poohed so strongly when Labor was going for it.

No self-reflection there at all.So the $54 million for the seat was wasted even though it was probably the only thing that got us on the mission to get human remains from the wreckage... which wasn't a waste?

See some problems in that circular logic?I guess that depends how well she can present an image of being a "respectable lady" who is always impeccably presented and knows a woman's role. Lulz.No, I personally still think it was a silly idea not to wait until the fighting died down a bit or, frankly, just accept that some things would never be recovered.

Maybe I just don't hold human remains as somehow sancrosact once they're not an actual, animated human being any more.

After all, we cut them up and burn them to ashes after death all the time.The French seemed to wait until after the war was over to do it, didn't they...?Really? Average Aussie is smarter than that? I must request that you furnish that claim with evidence!

I probably couldn't stand talking to Lambie for more than a half hour but I do recognise she is a more typical example of the electorate - a weathervane if you will for what the "I don't care unless it affects me" segment of the population feel.

Ignore at peril.Some people have this amazing ability called "foresight"! Maybe it's a superpower!Facts??? Like how the pink batts was a "huge disaster" because there were a couple deaths, though a huge increase in jobs and insulation that resulted in savings of power bills?

Do you have any idea how many people died building the Sydney Harbour Bridge? The Hoover Damn? Pretty much all public infrastructure ever? Were those "huge disasters"?

Puh-lease.But Edward! Abbott is flagging, and as an ubermensch, his failure must only be attributed to some outside source, his nemesis if you will.

Shorten!

Despite the fact that most Labour supporters wouldn't want him as PM, he is now described as "powerful" - a "destroyer of PMs".

What kind of kryptonite will it take to destroy the fiendish Shorten?But Brian said Shorten destroyed one of those Labor PMs.

Come on, keep the narrative consistent.So... you think Labor should be held to a different standard as the Liberal party?They only held the balance of power in that instance because of how other senators were voting. In a more landslide vote they may not make a difference.

In any case, I'm glad an independent has such power, even if they are crazy and self-interested.

So are the LNP and Labor!In North Korea everyone has enough to eat. (FACT) I know because the government says so.

Same logic...I don't see Abbott giving up power any easier than Rudd did.And yet above we have some Liberal supporters touting the new "prediction" of labour shortages in Australia a few decades from now because of our low reproduction rate.

Some people are able to see the cycle of life in society as more than an individual issue and are happy to shuttle people towards various paths depending on what is *best* for society.

If we need more children to replace us, money will be given to have children. If we need less children, money will be fined if you have children, etc.

Just... geeze, this whole "omg paying for someone else's children" thing is so utterly, utterly below the level of reasonable political discourse. It's like "omg paying for someone else's roads" or "omg paying for someone else's public park".

It's all about what benefits greater society - nothing to do with anyone loving babies.I remember being in school when Pauline Hanson was around and she was pretty badly pilloried as well. 

Although it was more of the "reassuring ourselves we aren't racist by mocking an even bigger racist" type of thing.So because dressing a 4-year-old in a miniskirt isn't hardcore sexual abuse of said 4-year-old, we should ignore it?That's exactly right.

Pretty people will keep using their looks as currency as long as the rest of us uglies are trading in it.There is plenty of proof that stuff happens to traditional family and social structures when important institutions like marriage are altered.

But it's all already happened a hundred times over with fault-free divorces and open family structures.

Fighting against gay marriage at this point is just lashing out with your dying breath.And that's why the legal entity should be extended to gay couples.

If people who hold an older, more traditional form of marriage want that form to continue, they need to rename it and continue doing it without any oversight by the state.

After all, it used to be a marriage contract was just that - a contract. Now it's not. But people could technically still take out legal contracts when they got married if they wanted to. They could make promises to their society/church/friends that had consequences if they wanted to.

If marriage has become something you don't like anymore, make a new institution that suits you better.Yeah... I've also seen studies that showed that children adopted by gay couples had a higher chance of being gay than children adopted by straight couples, which punches into a few foundations of modern "gay acceptance theory".

I am sure it may have been biased, but the study existed. You may want to detail the way the study was composed.Hmmm, it's strange again in turn because I am heterosexual, but I find very little compelling reason to get married beyond "this is what my family/friends expect and what will signal that this is a proper relationship". (I did get married, it was a very cheap party and it lasted less than 2 hours).

It sounds like you have a similar desire. You want everyone to know "this is the real deal". 

The people arguing against it are arguing from a cultural standpoint when that wasn't why people got married.

I repeat that I do think gay marriage needs to be legal in our country, but when we look at other countries that have arranged marriages, stricter divorce laws and where, basically, marriage is still a duty and not a fun thing, we have to realise that they are NOT going to agree with us until that changes for them too (if it does).Nobody is up for people marrying their dogs because they haven't been introduced to anyone who wants to do it.

Think about it, the article acknowledges that a decade ago you wouldn't have gotten this support? What changed?

People met openly gay people and realised they were normal. People learnt more about what it means to be gay and what it doesn't mean.

I challenge you, if you think that people who have sex with animals are all raging perverts who abuse the animals in question, to do some actual googling and reading on zoophilia. There was a fairly recent openly reported article discussing a dolphin that insisted its human handler pleasure it, and then committed suicide by refusing to breathe when she stopped working with him.

Your eyes may be opened.I think it will be up to conservative heterosexuals to create the new union, which would be divorced (ironically) from state recognition; a union that has some of the former constrictions of marriage, such as having to have a reason beyond "we just stopped loving each other" to divorce.

Some religions have them already, however they nearly all link their religious marriage with the state's legal marriage. They just need to sever that link.Rob, the UK has not forced the Anglican church to perform same-sex marriages, although there are agitators for it.

But I think they will find that is further than they can push public opinion.Connie, I assume you have some data or assertion for your claim that women were lauded or encouraged to stay in abusive relationships.

Even in very conservative countries under Islam there is normally fairly easy ways for the couple to divorce if one of them is seriously mistreating the other.

In fact there was some ridiculous article a few years back about how a guy had apparently said the ceremonial divorce phrase in his sleep and decided he had to go through with it and then re-marry her, because it was religiously binding.

As soon as the law forbade a man to "discipline" his wife, it became valid for her to leave him because he abused her. And actually, it was valid beforehand as well; there was just a much higher standard of what "abuse" was. i.e.: she had to prove he beat her when she did nothing wrong, or far beyond what was reasonable for her actions.The lack of good welfare programs did get them to work for a pittance, for decades. It's only recently that the system has shown such heavy signs of collapse that they've conceded that minimum wage controls are required after all.Yeah we should all want to take the type of jobs that want a worker for only a couple of weeks while they are on holiday... and on that, we'll raise a family and pay rent/mortgage.

Genius!Um, that is what is claimed... who claimed that and are you happy to assign them your trust?The "pub truth test"? Is that some manner of scientific measurement? Or something that sounds like a good idea after you've knocked back a few?

Also, the pollies all probably have dirt on each other at any moment. Just not enough dirt to be worth airing, when their own will be aired in turn.Maybe it would be helpful if the identity, policies and public actions of some of these staffers were considered more newsworthy.

It's bad enough that we have corporate and ideological interests in the wings with politicians providing "human faces" - having other more immediate puppetmasters who still remain anonymous goes beyond the pale.I'm sure even if it were something all the concerned parties was adamant was unethical, they would still be doing it, and they'd all know each other was doing it.

So any high-horsing by other journalists about her actions are just a display for the public.Interestingly many people had, in private, rather disparaging comments about John Howard, and yet he is regarded even by the left as being a fairly stable Liberal PM.

Oh and all politicians drink and swear like sailors, apparently.Because they have the promise of future "exclusive information" if they keep the big stuff under wraps.Mmmm like that recent gag order on a story concerning heads of state of other nations. Even just a hint like "their relatives were caught in wrongdoing and we don't want it to reflect badly on them" or some such might go some way to reducing interest in why it was introduced.The reason, Gordon, is that the pollies and the journos hate each other, but do have some degree of respect for the other. In addition, they need the other to be informed and not go down the wrong track (unless its a track they want them to go down).

But they have no such respect for the masses, who they don't trust with sensitive information.How can we tell politicians to make decisions in the best interest of the country when we won't support them?

If everyone acted in the "best interest of the country", as they do in China and Japan, people would marry when it was most socially desirable. They would have as many or few children as was socially desirable.

They would move where they should, consume or not consume the mind-altering substances as they were told.

Individualism demands that the state not require the citizen do what is best for the country.

Why on earth do we then think that politicians will either???I hardly want conflict, I want change.

I simply don't see how any movement is being made towards changes, and the longer that goes on the more conflict builds.Sidneysaid, the characterisation of the boomers as the "enemy" for the "crime of getting old" may be unfair, but you can't deny that for the smaller population of youth, unable to afford a home, but coming into the realisation that their lifes taxes will support the boomers retirement...

The boomers ARE an enemy.Well at least you didn't include "publicly popular" to that criteria. That was more than even the Messiah could ask for, apparently!You'd think the whistleblowers who were in on the party would work out their immunity deals before coming public.Cynicism may be unpleasant, but it's not always wrong. 

Chamberlain was hopeful, Churchill was cynical; who was right?

There is definitely a breakdown in social trust brewing, and that can lead to further breakdowns, but it doesn't have to if we address it now.

Latham has offered a solution, however a bizarre one as I don't see how so-called "independent" bodies can be expected to remain any more independent and un-biased than politicians.

But at least it's a conversation-starter.I almost wish the Greens would let the rabid left take over and become once again the scapegoat enemy that conservatives obviously crave. 

So the centre people of both stripes could quietly nation-build under the shadow of their epic battle royale.And yet if we closed our doors to multinationalism, we would have been marginalised and become about as productive, wealthy and relevant as Greenland. (No offence, Greenland)No, multinational tax shelters are a curse. Saying the fire is bad doesn't mean we should go jump into a vat of ice, either.The Swiss model is likely, in Australia, to provide a mix of left and right results. Which is probably why no-body wants to be the one to implement it.snickersnee, if I could have a second of time from your diatribe, do you honestly think that the cultural left achieved nothing for females with all their attacks on middle-aged males?

Voting? Trousers? Careers? Divorces? Abortions?

Love em or hate em, you can't deny that they WON. (I also don't see how that victory left the weak (women) weaker.)

So obviously they attacked the right target. Unless you think a war can be won by firing rockets into the sea.Yes of course... the rage of women trapped in marriages and social situations they hated was completely confected... that's how it managed to sweep over the entire globe like wildfire.

For your information, I don't even particularly support abortion. But it's clearly an area where the desire of the majority of women -whether I am one of them or not- won out. They won. 

If women were really so miserable under their new conditions they would fight back again, but so far we see no signs of any real movement to remove the vote and career options from women.

Also it seems to me like Japan and Germany became pretty equal with everyone else even after being portrayed in a victim/villain drama...Hesper, the government didn't "force" banks to give loans to anyone, any more than banks "forced" unsuitable people to take up loans. They just both loosened their standards to the point where things got crazy.The far left fell, but a lot picked up the banner somewhat changed. The Scandinavians are proof that some socialism can be mixed into a capitalist system, however it needs the sympathy and support of the entire people - which has always been Communism's fatal flaw, that it is a system which will only benefit people if they ALL enter into it willingly.

It's why small communes can exist just fine under even Anarchy, but as soon as you have to accommodate different viewpoints, suddenly you need a head honcho calling the shots.Yes I certainly agree with you that "The Left" fell if "the left" was simply communism/socialism, but the anti-capitalist vacuum was eventually filled and that has become the "new left".

And yes, the LNP is so far from centre that they do make the centre look left, by relation.APM you seem to not have had much contact with "the left" if that is what you think.

You say the left wants there to be no diversity between people. In that case, who are all the people banging on about the evils of cultural appropriation? Are they conservatives that are shaming teams named "Redskins"? That want some people's culture to be "sacred" and "untouchable" by others? That doesn't sound like a lack of diversity, that sounds like diversity enshrined as holy.

Not to mention I'm sure anyone would agree that "the left" tends to be more open to sexual diversity.

They also don't seem to have any desire to censor different forms of expression that I've seen - most of the time when you see people calling for the banning of rap songs, offensive modern art or edgy plays are conservatives. Or was it "the left" who raged against the "Piss Christ" work?

I think what you mean is that the left want there to be no ECONOMIC DIVERSITY. They ideally want everyone to be just as well off as everyone else. You are correct there.

However you can't twist that to pretend they are "enemies of diversity" across all areas.Socialism in the form it was used in many places did fail, and therefore the radical left fell. I don't know how you can claim otherwise. If capitalism ended tomorrow would you say the right-leaning conservatives were still an active force?

Socialism did succeed in part in Scandinavia and other countries (China seems to be doing real damn well right now, but for different reasons) and so it didn't completely die off.Well, it's correct that while the Greens are environmental extremists they are not socialist extremists. Sorry but unless they want the state to own everything down to people's houses, they aren't Communists. Since you seem to like "external definitions" here's one for the term "communist"; a 

socioeconomic system structured upon common ownership of the means of production and characterized by the absence of classes, money, and the state.

Does that sound like the policies of the Greens? Abolish money? Abolish the state?

It's not like there's only two kinds of extremists, conservative and liberal.SOS, Australia wanting to be a Republic apart from the UK is like a 5-year-old wanting to drive his very own car just like Daddy.

Sorry, it's hard to think of ourselves as powerless, immature and irrelevant on the world stage, but it's true.No that's not a problem with my thesis.. I'm sorry but I don't see some magical "figurehead" role as being so important.

Is our country functioning as we intend it to? Yes? Does it need some extra magical president plonked on top of it to work correctly?

Extremely doubtful. 

You invoke the words "executive arm of government" like others would invoke "divine right of kings". People have to buy into your belief system already for them to have any impact.Yeah Laos and Malta are doing really swell aren't they?

Has it occurred to you that the reason we are so successful is PRECISELY because we have been suckling on England's teat??

If you want Australia to become the next Laos, be my guest. Just give me time to make my arrangements to move.Yes, that's working out great for the USA.This is why rulers/politicians wives often have such a big role... if your lovely queen/first lady can be regularly seen slumming it or attending charity events, people think you mustn't be all that bad a person or she wouldn't be married to you.

The relative irrelevance of them in Australian politics just allows us to judge people on their own merits, haha.They're not impossible to create but they're not easy to create either, and they require just as much policing as politicians. It would simply shift the "image" of power away from the politicians and towards whoever the decision-makers in these organisations were.They don't need to bribe everyone, Question. They only need to pull their heartstrings. Much cheaper. Just print off some fliers about "the children" and you can get people to turn on anyone or anything.Gordon do you somehow think that socialist/communist thought didn't take the economy into account? Have you read any of their tracts?

The economy and labour and the marketplace are pretty much ALL they talk about!You know some people only get their PhD in their 40s or so...

Also, I think Tony at least came up with the PPL scheme on his own. Maybe there were whispers in his ear, but judging by his zeal for it he obviously believes it's his own idea.They provide advice but they don't get to decide policy. I think that is the difference he is suggesting.

So the independent bodies don't just write up reports and recommendations but actually get to be at the table voting on whether they take place.Why would he want to justify his pension? Doesn't everyone on a pension just want to kick back and live the high life?Well, to be fair, the Left's great experiments did fail.

Maybe they shouldn't have tried them in Russia, Motherland of Corruption.

They've had to regroup and re-strategise. Did a fairly good job in Northern Europe.I have no delusions that the West or Westerners are not corrupt. (I remember in "Business Ethics" courses being roundabout told that you have to bribe people to do business in Asia. Oh but you shouldn't. But you'll have to.) The difference seems to be the level of public acceptance or how much you have to sweep under the rug.

Communist China is terribly corrupt, and the people there seethe against it.

Communist Russia is/was terribly corrupt, but the people seem to just want to keep their head down and avoid problems. Or maybe get in on the pie if they can. And to be fair, Russians as a nation have endured centuries of crap. I can understand them individually just wanting a peaceful life. If they named Putin the Tsar, precious little would seem to actually change in their power structure.

But consider that France and Russia and China all had the same (basic) revolutions, yet ended up in different places. 

That tells me it wasn't the revolution that was flawed, it was the after-party.I don't think the young want less democracy, just that they want an overhaul of democracy.

Hopefully, it can be done in a mature manner and not as a bloodbath.The senior managers can't create a supportive environment if their own masters are un-supportive of them.

Unless they are willing to take the fall for any of their underlings.

I have only had run-ins with more minor public servants, and it does seem that even if there are stupid practices taking place, calling them stupid doesn't do a darn thing.

You have to suggest the alternative, cost it, and be willing to shed blood to implement it.

And then wear the badge of any failures involved.

That's a lot to ask from a wage slave.You are right in many ways. The vast mass of Australia does not want to be identified as left-leaning in any way, even when, if you use veiled questions, you discover they actually share many of the same sentiments. 

To what degree they also share the doublethink delusion of Americans that they all have the potential to "make it" and be rich one day, I don't know.

This leaves those openly declaring themselves liberals as pariahs, and they do what a lot of pariahs do; enjoy and self-glorify their status as "outsiders".Wow, you think the masses reading tabloids get the big issues more than the ABC readers? That must have been why Queenslanders thought Bligh was such a communist for selling off state resources and then replaced her with a capitalist who apparently would never do any such thing.The US had designs on Iraq. And I'm sorry, but you have to be living in a cave on Mars to not know by now that it was the US that financed and trained the groups that  nearly all the current Islamic radicals spring from.And the Roman empire was blamed for every misfortune of their colonies too.

That's what happens when you set yourself in power. People expect you to fix time and space. Sucks, don't it?They could have a pot plant as their current leader and it would be more popular than Abbott.Well mick if negative gearing isn't such a big deal, as you say, then it won't matter if it's removed, will it?Great to see you supporting the removal of negative gearing so ardently!Because if they let go of the property they wouldn't recover all of their money anyway, and would then be out of a home?

People only sell their house when the price drops if the bank forces them to. It only needs some temporary restrictions on when the bank can foreclose on mortgage borrowers.Exactly. The current over-priced housing market has simply set up a financial battle between generations, with the older generation holding these inflated assets and currently being the strongest voting force. So the government won't touch them. But the younger generation are shafted until they come into their own as the major voting force.I would actually. If someone had borrowed millions to invest in shares that would lose money and be negatively geared, I would think he was just as big a crackpot.

Some of us hold the short trading of shares in high contempt.Sorry Brian but the figures say you are wrong. FHB are at *historically low* rates. That means that plenty who should be able to buy aren't able to.

They were priced out of the market by the developers. You pretending they were all just hopeless louts who needed the generosity of someone else's money-making investment is laughable. And detestable. But mainly laughable.gbe, do you really not believe that there are some people out there who will never be able to be trained/bullied/encouraged into productive work?

Don't believe in the existence of people with Foetal Alcohol Syndrome? Mild Autism? Mental problems that won't get them on a disability?

Wow, whole swathes of people written out of existence. How convenient.I clearly included "mental problems that won't get them on a disability". Considering how many people already think that people with mental problems are rorting the disability pension, do you seriously believe there aren't people out there knocked back from it or not even trying, despite probably being eligible?
So there are only 50 job snobs then? So it's not a problem, clearly.

Glad you think so.I do love how the fruit-picking jobs are banged out, $25 an hour, wow! And for that all you have to do is pay your accommodation in a new location, the fuel costs to get you there and back, and you're probably still having to pay rent on your old place back home because you're only going to be away for a month or two and it's easier then finding a new place to rent.

And of course now you're away from your family and your partner can't rely on you for child care so they have to pay to send them professional childcare.

So in the end you make almost nothing and spend a few months uprooted from your social circles where you are actually likely to make contacts leading to a job.

Job snob!Other John if this was really about getting the best bang for your tax bucks, you would accept that for some hopeless individuals, it is cheaper to pay them dole then pay for the costs to society when they turn to crime.

But you don't really want to accept the economical option there, do you?Of course, brad, everyone who disagrees with you is lazy, shiftless and selfish.

It makes it so easy when you paint everyone black and white, doesn't it?Well if you can't change the attitude of the participants inside the program being proposed, and you know that will doom it to failure, why pay to implement it?Of course Sarah that's what we're all arguing. We're not just incensed at a stupid measure that is proven not to work. We're trying to give the lazy a free ride.

Isn't constructing straw man arguments to tear down just the easiest thing ever?This may amaze you WA Ideas, but not all programmers program with the same language, and not all are compatible with iphone apps. 

And learning a new programming language is still a serious undertaking even for someone already fluent with one or several.Ahh see after being proven to be relying on anecdotes and "personal experience" you are now trying to lift those from the mire of poor opinion and place them on the pedestal next to peer-reviewed research and statistically quantified data.

Sorry, sell that lemon to someone else. We're not buying it here.I have found it endlessly amusing how angry these people can become when confronted with some basic facts.

My late grandfather-in-law was particularly stupid about aboriginals, arabs, immigrants and anyone a different colour from him. I only had to give him a few quotes of actual research or facts to get him red in the face and yelling.

Of course all the people who disagree with you are morally and intellectually inferior, conservatives. Of course they are.I never get angry, it's taken some emotional training but it's almost impossible now.

And trust me, even back when I did get angry, when presented with uncomfortable facts, anger was my last reaction. I am more likely to become quiet and thoughtful in an effort to internally process them.

Which is why seeing other people become angry is so amusing. Because you know they are holding shallow opinions, or else they would have something more than anger to back them up.Swagmen never committed crimes or cheated people due to knowing they would be out of town tomorrow! Door-knocking and fruit-picking are the way to go, just as Ravenslaw says. I know he looks forward to the unshaven swagmen knocking at his door and begging to mow his astroturf lawn.Scotchy, if you were applying for 40 jobs in an hour, it would require that you hadn't even read the job requirements, addressed any selection criteria or sent a personalised cover letter.

Is that how you think people should hunt for jobs, then?Of course the conservatives know the employers don't want them. But what's important is that they are being SEEN to do their share by playing in the pantomime of deserving poor. These old, frail and redundant people can't just sit around idle. They have to prove every day their virtue by going through the motions of trying to get work. Otherwise they do not deserve this free money we are giving them.Not to mention, he obviously got his first job about 30 or 40 years ago. 

It's like he said "I got my first job by applying to the guild of candlemakers as an apprentice, did my hard yards and before you knew it, I was supplying fine tallow to the best households in town."

Completely out of touch, utterly devoid of usefulness.An attitude like accepting that facts are valid, research is more important than some old crow like Ravensclaws "I did it uphill both ways in the snow"?

That's the kind of attitude I would think employers wanted.I actually have known people who picked fruit (well, cucumbers, in fact). They were relatives of the people who owned the farm and they were paid shocking rates. It was per-bin and sometimes it was mere dollars for a whole bin of cucumbers.

Obviously the only reason they did it was because they were relatives and it was a "family farm". They weren't being intentionally exploited either; the season was just so good for cucumber farmers everywhere that the price was super low. They either had to pick them for almost nothing or let them rot. Of course they are going to pick them.

But does anyone seriously believe that farm could have sustained some proper employees, not "under-the-counter" paid nephews and cousins?AE glad to see you siding with anecdote and personal belief over facts and research. Good to keep in mind when discussing things with you.You claimed you were "with" the original poster, who brought up issues like job snobs and other nonsense which is purely, as the article says, anecdotal.

When there are more people looking for work than there are jobs, then someone is going to miss out and applying labels to them like "job snob" is, frankly, stupid. Because mathematically, there were going to be some people without a job.

Then you bring up how there's rent assistance so they're not that poorly off and obviously, trying to prove that some people "prefer" that lifestyle to getting a job.

Again, anecdotal, and attempting to put the blame for the unemployment on the unemployed even though MATHEMATICALLY THEY CANNOT ALL HAVE JOBS.Getting employed by your dad doesn't count, Alfie.How laughable you are. Your main concern is how to make people take jobs? Did you not see the numbers above that there are more applicants than jobs? That jobs are being filled fast and easily?

Why would some people not accepting jobs they are offered be a problem in this system? You are just inventing a problem you have no evidence exists in order to rain down more moral judgement on people.

Of course they are worried about moving away from their favourite cat, and not, you know, their wife and children.

Your attempts to make people into cardboard cut-outs is amateurish at best.So you think it is fine for the government to spend $5 billion on something that you are beginning to accept will do nothing, because it won't do "worse than nothing".

So, you're admitting it's basically just for show, making people think the government is "trying it's best" to tackle the unemployment problem.

Sorry but I expect better from my tax dollars than pageantry. If they don't have a solution, don't throw money away at things they know won't work so they "look busy".Ahhh you had a poor education, no wonder you talk so disparagingly about those 'over-educated' or 'socialist academics' and so forth.

I understand your underlying envy and fear that you aren't as clever as everyone else. I understand.And here we have you straight away saying "OH I wasn't talking about YOU, just all those other rorters". Then as each "rorter" comes up with their story you say "Oh but not YOU, th other guys" until you find the 5 people that are actually a problem then you point at them and scream "Look at those welfare cheats!  Change the system!"Oh gbe here we see you again trying to take a swipe at the "over-educated". It's ok. I'm here for you. I understand that you never had the opportunities to actually learn and study and had to do the hard yards.

I understand you resent anyone who can string several sentences together without making a grammatical or logical error. 

We're here in support of you.Ahh Other John, you straight away blame "the education system" for producing criminals and not the "labour system" even though it is very well-documented that economic pressures cause crime.

See, here is a case of some evidence that does not fit with your narrative. Take the evidence. Go on, take it. It won't hurt you.But graazt his is the RIGHT ideology! This isn't about facts or reality. It's about idealism! Pure, white hot belief of the morally pure, hard-working, tax-paying (older white male) conservative!He has to pretend his opponent is somehow doing the wrong thing or arguing from a position of personal selfishness because that makes it easier to just attack the opponent personally.

Much easier than constructing a relevant and factual argument.gbe, I know you struggle with reading and numbers and all that fancy stuff, but do try hard to look at the article again.

More. Applicants. Than. Jobs.

Not. Possible. Everyone. Has. Job.

No. Job. For. Everyone.

Is that still hard? I can probably make it even simpler if you need it.Ahh gbe of course, those "desk-jockeys" just doing surveys, quantifying data, they have no idea about the REAL world. That's for real blokes like you who've never read Kafka or even know who he was. Some basket-weaver, probably.That's because no-one wants to employ them, not because they don't want to work.

Look above numbers. Not enough jobs.

Just keep repeating that until it actually sinks in and you understand it.

Not enough jobs.

Not enough jobs.gbe if all these kids have decided not to work then that only makes the situation better!

After all there are more applicants than jobs, so if the lesser people stop looking, employers will only get the cream of the crop!

You should be happy if these lazy slobs don't even bother to apply, clearly!This is so beautiful I'm almost crying. Yes, yes, let's give the disaffected, angry youth who can't get jobs military training. When that system spits them out and they still can't get jobs they will just meekly accept their lot, of course.gbe I'm not sure if you're just trying to prove the author's point or what.

"In my experience" blah blah blah negates all rigorous evidence and research blah blah why doesn't the government just come right to gbe for their decision making he has ALL THE ANSWERS PEOPLE!

His life is perfect. He's never made a mistake, never struggled. O, if only we could all live the great life of gbe. We would weep from the revelation of how great we could all be.Ahhh gbe is so wise. See the answers flow forth as he strokes his luxurious whiskers.

You are just proving the author right. You don't care about research or facts or evidence provided by "basket-weaving" academics that are "over-educated". 

You, the hard-working oldie, has all the answers. I mean, you don't even know more than one language and have probably never read a philosophical text in your life. Calculus is completely beyond you and you don't even know what all the different economic schools of thought individually represent.

But you have all the answers.So Coogara you admit this policy is more about "attacking a mentality" than actually producing results in reducing unemployment.

It's a psychological policy, in other words, not one designed to uplift people into paid work.And private jobs are funded by consumers paying money for their services... the same way consumers pay taxes for government services...

It's the same thing. I'm afraid I can't help you if you don't understand.Well there have been LNP-supporting commentator up in the thread openly saying this policy is to "attack the mentality" of layabouts like yourself.

They know damn well what they're doing and that they're grinding you down into the ground. Don't think they really have your best interests at heart and are just misguided.No, it's not effective. It was tried in the UK and evidence showed it failed.

Do you want to ignore the evidence and try it again at the cost of $5 billion? If so, why? Why are you so happy to ignore evidence?See, he said nothing of the sort, you are just putting words into his mouth because you don't have an actual argument.

But don't stop posting, please. You are hilarious. We need the light-heartedness of your buffoonery to get us through these dark times.Well you do harp on about population reduction without actually offering any answers.

Methinks because you know that sterilisation, child limit policies and legal, nay encouraged, euthanasia would not be popular.

Better to enlighten them on those things once they're already in agreement with you about the big picture, hey?Jack you don't understand what he means because you are trying to apply logic to the situation.

Micka is not. He is applying emotion, ideology and belief.

The poor that get gummint money must DESERVE it. They have to at least play their parts of "honest, hard-working but down on their luck" to the public. They must make a spectacle of their hardship so that we get some moral enjoyment out of our tax dollars.

Do you understand what he's saying now?So basically micka, you don't really care that they won't get a job from this, you just want your pound of flesh for having to support them.

They OWE it to you to prove their virtue and moral diligence by continuing to look for jobs that don't exist, knocking on doors that won't open.

If we must pay our taxes to support them we demand to at least receive satisfaction that they are the deserving poor!Sorry micka but you can't just take what I say and replace the words and still have it make any sense.

I do care that they get jobs. And this scheme is proven to not help people get jobs. This is why I don't support it.

All this scheme is proven to do is to make middle-class battlers feel better than their tax money is going to people who are "trying hard enough".

If they aren't looking for jobs, that doesn't actually affect me much at all. You see, I understand that if they really don't want to work, they won't, and if their support is cut off, many will turn to crime. Have you done any serious reading into why even hardcore capitalist countries like the USA offer food stamps and other welfare for the poor?

I don't care how hard the unemployed are or aren't trying. If they are rorting the existing system, report them. If the system isn't working, change it.

But don't change it in ways that have NO evidence behind them (such as this) and are clearly formed only on ideology.

And in your last statement, what do you think you CAN demand of those out of work when you give them tax money? Can we demand they come mow my lawn? Can we demand they all wear certain colours? Cleaning gutters and sending applications they know will not work are in the same league.Wow, I had no idea amazingly intelligent geniuses with all the answers like yourself existed.

Well this changes everything. Hold up people, come listen to what rikistyxixi has to say! He didn't write it down or anything but he's so right, just so right, he knows it.

I weep with gratitude at your profound wisdom, that the few experiences you've had in your life actually apply to all people everywhere, and you are never wrong.

If only we'd known about you sooner, all the disasters could have been averted...Exactly. We cannot, physically and realistically, prevent rorting. All we can do is minimise it.

Is this current program going to minimise rorting? Can it prove it? No.

Not only can it not prove it, but there is evidence from the UK to prove that it won't.

So anyone who supports it is doing so in the face of all facts and evidence. They better have something better to back them up than just "I knew some people who.."Sorry but you are still incorrect no matter how much you try to claim your background and experience suggests otherwise.

I have a personal background that has suggested many things are true to me, including that people can live harmoniously together without government if they try.

However, I also am accepting of real-world knowledge and experience that says that will never happen except in small communities and for short periods.

You, on the other hand, are saying that "personal stories" like mine should trump overall information that says that they are, statistically speaking, insignificant outliers.

Do you have any evidence that YOUR experiences aren't statistically insignificant outliers? If so, please present it.

Also, for your personal interest, while I pay attention to "personal stories" of refugees, I also know that desperate people will say and do anything to get what they want. Not all of us can only see issues in black and white.You don't understand work for the dole because you don't value forcing people to prove their moral uprightness before they receive a pittance from the government purse.You're so correct it's hilarious matt. 

They don't understand logic. They only understand slogans, taglines, little "nuggets of wisdom" that were made with liquefied chicken pulp and no real substance.

If they did understand logic they could provide more than "in my experience" "I know some people" "I believe that" etc.

But they won't. Just watch.See, rob here has an anecdotal experience. Therefore, this trumps the evidence.

Thank you for your valuable contribution, rob.TracyD, comprehension is clearly not your strong point. Stop and think for a minute why they would change the regulations to say that people had to "search" for more jobs but didn't have to actually apply for them or report them.

Maybe they should make it a regulation that people had to give a minute of silence in gratitude for government welfare each day too. But don't worry, you don't have to report it or prove it or anything.

Of course if they are making this a policy, they are going to check up on it, and by "search" they mean TRY AND GET.I'm glad somebody understands it and isn't sitting around scratching their heads about what this is supposed to achieve.

This is textbook "boot to the face" here, people.Of course, honest and true Ravensclaw would never be in a bad situation because he's just such a hard-working, morally upright guy that that sort of thing doesn't happen to."don't really want to" move.

Do you know why they don't want to move?

Maybe because their partner still had a job and would have to give it up if they moved? Or maybe you think they should just give up the partner?

Maybe they have health needs that aren't going to be met in some other, hellhole location like the mines or rural towns or fruit-picking areas. Some medications are scarcely stocked even in city pharmacies and you have to visit several to find some! Heavens forbid you need to regularly see a specialist and have one that already has your medical history and you trust.

Maybe they have a mortgage and moving would mean either paying rent and mortgage at the same time, or selling their house and "hoping" it all works out?

Maybe they don't want to move because they have emotional fear issues and know they won't find new friends. Maybe they fear taking their children to some other state with a different syllabus will disrupt their education and prevent THEM making good friendships.

Nah, they're just too lazy, that's all.Yup that's why they have all those dole-bludgers on disability pension lined up for the next round of public outrage.

Oooh we'll show some old lady who can't even remember what her medical problems are and can be easily pressured into confession fraud and, oh my, the crowd is salivating already.He is clearly being facetious in describing how the business-owner will view the older person they are being paid (bribed) to take on.

If they didn't want to take them on beforehand, obviously they had some bad view of the elderly, or they would be employing them already.Well that's still five more broken promises than the LNP supporters banged on about Gillard breaking.

So I guess we get to yell five times louder, or just five times longer?

You decide.Which is why it's so important for the average Liberal voter to turn on their own party hard and fast, before too much damage can be done to it that it's unsalvageable.

Similarly, Labor voters have to come to terms with where their party failed and attack the rot of unions.This is the heart of the issue. Automation has created an economy where we can produce things so cheaply and easily, that there are more workers than there is work to be done.

However we can't let some people just sit back and enjoy the ride because that would make those who ARE working jealous. Not to mention we have centuries of work-ethic as a moral trait drilled into us. (Remember some cultures had dutiful revenge for family slights as a moral trait. They're not universal laws.)

So we have to create busy-work for these people. Or at least we have to make their lives so miserable that those still working don't envy them and are happy to keep working.

We'll give them barely enough to live on and kick them now and then, when the people are getting restless.

Of course the resources are there to let them live properly, we just have to tax the rich. They do it in Scandinavia.James, they don't sneak in Asians because Australians won't do the work... they sneak in Asians because they'll do the work for half price!Lorenzo the fact you think anyone is having babies to receive benefits shows you are deluded. They cost far more than you get in benefits, and any mother cutting corners on her childcare to such an extent would have them taken away from her by the state.Well we certainly won't follow any of your suggestions then. Heavens knows we don't want to subject any people to employment under a troglodyte like yourself.Oh John Coochey that's nothing I have 10 friends who all were hopeless bludgers, then one day a rough-tough sort came and kicked them around forcing them to work for what they wanted. All of them saw the light and became solid, upstanding blokes despite their drug-addled parents and so  forth.

I know it because it happened to my ten friends!Exactly. Make the selfish people like the above posters feel that other people are duly suffering for their "free money". If they have to give their taxes to someone else they want to see a return, at least in human misery!Sorry Lorenzo but proper research is the opposite of anecdotes. So if anecdotes are all you can come up with, scram.Exactly. This is simply an attempt to make people agreeable the next time workchoices comes in, or to never ask for minimum wage to be raised so it slowly decays as inflation rises.

It's just to get the poor to work harder for less money, done by putting the boot on their throat and calling them lazy.Ah but once they become criminals, the pollies can increase police forces - creating jobs - lock them all up and make themselves look "tough on crime". A double win for the polls!Of course. If we were really keen on making sure everyone "pays their own way" in society we would get rid of trust funds and make complete and total death taxes. We would spend all our time clamping down on loop-holes and evasion techniques.

But no, better to punish the poor.Nobody "prefers" to work weekends. So don't be ridiculous. People only "love" weekend work BECAUSE of the penalties. If you got rid of them, you would suddenly find every employer battling hard against ever being scheduled on a weekend.Ignoring numbers and facts is what sets "adults" apart from the rest of us, apparently.Ahh more delicious anecdotes, assumptions and "I get the impression" without a single shred of documented evidence. Bracing!And those multinational corporations are their friends... so of course they don't want to do anything to them!Skeptic, I think you'll find he agrees with you. He's making the point that there aren't any jobs, so we should apply to the people telling us we need to apply.Yeah all those degrees with no jobs in them are just worthless. Mathematics, physics, statistics... basket-weavers, all of them!

Oooh I know, what about those PhD biologists in the field of agricultural genetics with excellent credentials! They must be getting jobs, right? Oh, no, wait, we don't offer any proper funding here, they're all going overseas.

Glad to see the back of those basket-weavers!Obviously the end game is that the Australian workforce is harried, scared and made poor enough that they accept the wages and conditions that are common in the third world, thus making us "competitive".

Meanwhile, our masters will sip champagne and laugh about how lazy everyone else is. Oh, but now they must dash for tennis. What a busy schedule!Hahaha, the Vietnamese were all "hard yakka" huh? Never heard of the Vietnamese mafia then? Never seen a hand tattooed to show what crimes they'd committed?

Also if the Vietnamese were so different, why are some of them, including this author, comparing their own situation with the new refugees?Because nobody could pretend to be someone else on a social media account or anything. They're super secure and reliable sources of information.I thought polls meant nothing to people like you who insist there hasn't been a widespread drop in support for the Australian government - according to polling.Sorry el pint-sized but yes, I expected our government to do nothing but make requests of other national bodies and governments. That would have been the sensible thing to do. Even if my own relatives had been on the flight, I would have held funerals for them already, sans bodies. 

We're a tiny, powerless country and most of our population seems to like it that way, not caring what the rest of the world thinks of us. 

Therefore, we have no power to make demands or send forces where they weren't requested.Nonna doesn't it shock you that nobody went and retrieved all those bodies from the wreck of the Titanic? How could they be so heartless? Didn't they know the relatives needed closure?So people in a warzone, without weapons, who clearly support one side over another, are fair targets?

Hellooooo civilian causalities!Uhhh, hey Lordy? Journalists are not "participants" in a war any more than any other civilian is. If you don't have a gun, you should not be shot at, according to the UN conventions to which our own government subscribes.

You cannot magically decide they are "combatants" just because you don't like their point of view.No because you just made up a bunch of stuff.

Journalist is a profession, not some kind of sacred calling one gets sworn to. One can very much be a prejudiced, biased journalist and STILL be a journalist. They're just a bad journalist. But still a journalist.

Also I'm sorry but the UN does not agree with your definition of civilians. Civilians are not only the people who lived there when the war broke out. If someone from another country wanders in and isn't fighting - they're also a civilian. 

If they don't have a gun and never had a gun - they are a civilian. Don't like it? Take it up with the UN.You're trying to argue that the plane wasn't shot down? There are pictures of damage consistent with external explosions. Do you think someone threw a pipe bomb out the window while they were flying along?Because Tony Abbott, and other government officials, are expected to have a thick enough skin that they are not going to purposely ignore a member of their country who gives them lip and tries to make them look bad.

Sure, they don't have to allow them access, but I think you'll find the journos already know that. This wasn't an intimate interview the press was requesting, it was life-and-death information on where was being mortared.

Withholding that because you just "don't like those people" is childish and outrageous."They reported like they almost wished an Australian would die."

Got some quotes or evidence for that?Sorry, so you admit the Australian govt could have done so much more to protect their own civilians but it's OK they didn't because these ones were "whingy"?So you think no government should ever offer even the basest of protections for war journalists, who they know are going to be there and in fact, often encourage to be there if they think it will help their side of the story?

Get real. This was not an Australian military manoeuvre. There was no sensitive information we needed to protect.

If they weren't journalists but just hapless tourists who had travelled there before the warnings went out, and asked the AFP to tell them if the nearby town was being bombed, would you say "good on the AFP for not telling them, serves them right"?And don't worry, all those males that weren't counted in that 34% were bonafide Hamas terrorists, and not just teenage boys and the fathers and husbands of those civilian women.

Just as in ancient wars of old, you kill all the men regardless of whether they're holding a sword or a plow, right?You know there's an actual photo of Israeli troops using a Palestinian teenager as a literal human shield from 2009 right?Actually I think anyone, even a private citizen, should have gotten a response, even if it was just "We can't guarantee your safety, leave now".

In addition, you are ignoring the very long, long role of combat journalists and the fact that the Govt. always knows they will be there and that they shouldn't just neglect them.

Finally, as he pointed out several times, he and his group gave THEM information that they decided to use, and it was basic courtesy to expect that they would do the same in return when requested.

As he says, what operational secrecy were they hoping to achieve? Both armies knew exactly where they were at all times.Hey nameless, WE'RE not at war, but it IS a warzone.

Some commonsense and logic would go a fair ways.Yes, the rules are different. Did you not know that?

There are actual United Nations "war rules" that dictate who is allowed to do what. As we are not a party of the war, the rules apply to our people there differently than they would to someone of another nationality who was involved in the war.

The AFP was not considered a combatant - they could not be shot at without breaching the "war rules", as you say. That's why they were actually telling the two armies where they were at all times, so they wouldn't be shot. And that's why the journalists were asking the AFP to tell them where the AFP was going to be - because the AFP was not going to be shot at, and the journalists would also like not to be shot at.

There was no operational secrecy. It's not our war.Baz, I don't think the ABC journalists were complaining that they were in danger by going to the warzone and the Aussie govt should protect them under all circumstances.

They were complaining that the govt had information that there was no need to be secret about, that they COULD have shared and that would have protected them, and they decided not to.Isn't going into a war zone "doing your own digging"? They didn't want to report "gotcha" news, they wanted to talk about the proceedings of the expedition. 

Nor did he complain that the AFP didn't give them all the juicy gossip. Just, you know, whether or not there were currently people shooting rifles in the area.So you think the journalists were secretly hoping the AFP would send them into live gunfire so they could criticise them?

You seem to think much more of journalists' inherent bravery than I do.Andy, hate to tell you this but there is generations-long tradition of wartime journalists and armies always know they will be there and if possible, try to prevent them from getting killed. Even if just by repeated warnings to "not go there".

That's kind of what he wanted - to be told where not to go in more specific detail than "the whole place".You flap on about "accepting the liability" but I do not recall a single case where a war journalist has blamed their own government for their injury or death. Can you point one out to me? 

Would you also like to re-read the official response? It said nothing about liability.

You are just making stuff up.Uhhh... is there such a thing as an "officially sanctioned Australian war correspondent"? I'm pretty sure that the government doesn't run any other media agencies that they can "officially" sanction a journalist from. The government appoints media ministers, it does not appoint war journalists. So you are, once again, making stuff up.

Also, saying "we told you not to go there" is not the same as saying "we can't tell you information in case it turns out to be wrong and you sue us". Legal liability is quite specific, if you cannot point out that it applies in this case, then invoking the spectre of it is, indeed, making things up.He wasn't demanding support - he was just pointing out that after giving support to the AFP himself, they did not give any in return, and their positions or where the fighting was, was NOT a secret that needed to be kept from anyone.We aren't don't that. We did air drops in the mountains in Iraq where civilians were under siege. Read the news.They weren't asking to be told when an Australian army was on the move. They were asking to be told when a protected convoy that BOTH ARMIES knew about was on the move. Or where it would be staying that night (which the armies would already know) or where they were explicitly avoiding (which, believe me, the armies would already know).

Also they were not asking for this information to be "posted" online or TV or otherwise. Just to be informed in a private phone call or something. Sheesh.Complaining about the AFP's actions and possible policies is not the same as claiming something was "the government's fault".

If I say the local police are beating up kids, am I saying it's the government's fault?You mean by going directly to the location, even if it's a battleground?

Like they were?The fact is, if someone at the AFP's "attitude" towards journalists (other Australian citizens) lead to them purposefully withholding requested information about safe travel zones, that's a problem.He's an Australian, he went to report on an Australian action... the AFP convoy. How is that not something that would be of interest to his Australian readers?And the US invaded Iraq. Who's the bad guys there again?

I agree with you about conspiracy theories, but pretending Russia is some evil entity that never has sanctions for its actions is just as silly.So first you say it's "pretty simply" (sic) that Russia is "painted as the bad guy" by the media, but then when called on that you post a four paragraph explanation of why the situation is not, in fact, actually that simple.No, it could not cause issues with security.

Both armies knew where the convoy would be.

Both armies knew where the current fighting was (you bet they did).

There was no-one the journalists could tell the information to who would pounce on it and use it for evil.

They were just being jerks.Except we're not at war here. The AFP was a third party just as much as the journos were, and were not given any "secret" information - they were just told when there would be an AGREED ceasefire.Except they weren't asked to "protect spectators" but simply to relay on information about where they would be or where the fighting was.

No-one was asking them to shield the journalists with their bodies or rush to their rescue. Just tell them a time and place.

And we weren't at war and we had no secrets that both armies didn't already know.Forrest please do actually read the articles before commenting. 

Yes, they should have been told exactly where the Australian "forces" were. You know why? Because BOTH ARMIES WERE TOLD.

You know? The guys shooting rockets? They were told where the Australians were.

So WHO exactly did it need to be kept a secret from?Forrest I may be naive, but at least I can comprehend sentences that I have read.

What "unacceptable risk"? Do you think the AFP thought the journalists would go home if they didn't tell them where they were? Of course not. They knew they were going to go "blundering" around regardless. So what risk did they think they were reducing?

Do you think the armies would have been more likely to fire on the AFP and commit a war crime if there were journalists trailing them? If so, why?David, the harm, as Forrest has all but admitted below, is that the journalists *wouldn't* be shot at if they knew where the AFP was and could follow them.What does rewards and trophies have to do with being told when and where there was going to be a ceasefire, or if the ceasefire was being breached? As the journalists themselves reported to the AFP.

This wasn't about the AFP keeping secrets about "the truth" of the story. Can you read? It was about then not telling the journalists if they knew there was shelling going on.

Also, "Why cast our government officials like the PM and Foreign Minister as bungling fools stumbling around the world stage?"

Well you'll have to ask all the Chinese, Indonesian and US journalists the same question.They weren't asked to "provide assistance" just information. Not "let us in your truck and escort us" just "why are you running away so fast? Are there landmines up ahead? What time is the ceasefire?"

And no, we're not at war, it wasn't military secrets, so don't even start.Are you suggesting that the journalists deserved to not be told where the battle front was moving because they were somehow bad people?"forgotten about in the heat of the moment". Sure, that's reasonable. Unless, you know, the journalists send a request for information and you just don't give it. And then don't apologise later or something for just forgetting and leaving them without info in the war zone, which I'm fairly sure is ranked as "impolite" in every book of etiquette.They did stay there up until the AFP called it off. Are you suggesting they actually needed to stand in fields that were being mortared in order to get the story about what the AFP did and how they did it out to us?They didn't undermine the AFP by not telling them when the battlefront was moving and the ceasefire being breached. So how can you claim otherwise?That doesn't really prove the Ukrainians shot down the jet, just because they are breaking ceasefires.

Amazingly, it's possible for both sides in a conflict to be evil.So? What's your point? Should we ban all the journalists? Same with pollies and used car salesmen?

Or are you just saying we shouldn't care if some of them get shot full of holes because the AFP doesn't bother to warn them when the battlelines change?No, they should have arrested them in Indonesia, where they were smuggling drugs to.

Or do you think that Australian police should stop arresting people who smuggle drugs into Australia and just leave that to the country they were being smuggled from?

The fact that Indonesia has harsher penalties than us does not mean we should shield our civilians from doing "the time" (even if that's forever) for a crime they commit overseas.

I'm sure you are glad when the Australia government prosecutes people of other nationalities who commit crimes here.spud, explain to me how the journalists could have used the information on where they was and wasn't a ceasefire to "put someone else in danger"?

They actually tried to GET others out of danger with their own information, as they said. This was not refuted by the AFP so why would you doubt it?Nice implication that everyone who is poor smokes.Bingo! A lot of pensioners will barely drive anywhere, or use public transport, or taxis if they have a gold card.

But all of those fares can increase when fuel goes up, just because they don't own a car or buy petrol at the pump doesn't mean they won't be affected.Didn't you know Steve? Your opinion matters more the more money you have.But previously to get your voyeurism fix you had to wait for an execution or actually spy on your neighbours.

Now you can just watch reality TV.Curious that comment seems to be censored...

Bahbet only used the word "fear" but not fear of death. It makes more sense to read it as fear of suicide amongst your own loved ones, or fear of your grisly death being made a public spectacle.

"Fear of death" was only brought up by yourself, Rusty. So your talk about "transference" may be hitting closer to home than you expected.Bahbet's fear of death? They didn't mention death, just fear. Fear of someone close to them also committing suicide? Fear of the details of their own or a loved one's death becoming public like this? Very open to interpretation.

The fact you interpreted it as "fear of death" certainly does bring transference to mind...Then it's only necessary to those people. If people are that obsessed they will find all the details themselves if they're not explicitly censored. There's a difference between censored and simply not bandied about everywhere.
I personally find it amazing how little even family members can care about mental health and depression in the elderly. As though it is assumed natural that they should become sad, withdrawn and troubled as they near the end of their life so, hey, why bother treating it?

As someone who has suffered both, I'd rather be in physical than mental pain, and I'm sure I'm not the only one.That could be very true, although his personal battles with alcohol and drugs could have contributed to relationship breakdown, as could have simply the fact that he had long-term depression.

Though you think by wife No.3 he'd have pre-nups in place.I have to agree. Even censored or cropped pictures of executions and people holding severed heads should be beyond what the media here is allowed to publish.

One can certainly find the uncensored easily enough if you look for it. There's no need to serve up the visuals to people who just want to know what happened.Comedians have a higher rate of neurotic mental states than the average, according to one survey study. But not all of them, by a long shot.

Depression and addiction feed each other and it is quite 'chicken and egg'. 

They would only "magnify" it because of the other side-effects of addiction; money and relationship problems.Well, if he had been older I'm sure the question would have been "what did he die of?" but if you're young, it seems to usually be an accident or intentional (by yourself or someone else).

You may be right about depression and addiction both being hereditary and co-morbid, but they can play independently of each other. I had little exposure to alcohol or drugs as a youth, and as a result have never indulged even in my suicidal depths of depression. But sugar? Damn, don't get between me and a cake. The lack of a "serious" addiction has never stopped me being depressed, though. Just stopped the depression from having more catastrophic effects on my life.There is evidence they work, even if not as well as we'd like. Finding the right mental health drug for each individual is a bit like playing roulette. Sometimes it's Russian roulette is all.It never occurred to me to ask "how" he committed suicide. But that may be because I already know all the possible ways and the nitty gritty was irrelevant. 
Yeah it takes like an hour to get through, in my experience. An hour is an eternity sometimes.It's because the US government DOES interfere that it is cheap. Same with half the things they make and buy internally. Huge subsidies for all kinds of industries.Oh, well, if Sydney's doing OK then bugger the rest of Australia. It's just backdrop for the tourist photo shoots anyway.You think housing going strong is a sign of a good economy? Why weren't you there to tell that to the Americans, Brits and assorted others when their housing industry was flying skyhigh just before a massive crash?The funny thing is that many over-50s find the only good work they can get is with the government, since they cannot, by their own laws, discriminate based on age.

And yet the neo-cons want to shed those jobs as well. All the while whipping the unemployed older people for not "trying hard enough".Indeed, robots will be able to remember and direct you to all the relevant legal acts better than a human could. 

And many trades on the share market are already done by computers.

Shame that no-one will buy all their wonderful machine-made goods if nobody has a job.I think a lot of people are clueless about how many qualified youth are going to be leaving Australia if the situation doesn't improve.

This government has been happy to continue shedding research funding, such that most of our best scientists go overseas to do their research. 

For some reason we accept we have to pay top dollar for top talent CEOs but when it comes to medical or agricultural or energy research, well, what can we get for a tenner?Yeah hear that all you nurses, woodworkers, machinists and chemical scientists.

Get out there and make your own job!Unemployment is necessary to keep wages low.

There, I fixed it for you.Yes, the chiefs do rule, and they will continue to unless either the people themselves rise up against that form of governance, or a dictatorship is put in place such as being part of a colony.

This wishywashy "we support the democratic process, unless it doesnt go our way" that the US and it's allies - ourselves included - are playing around in is just delaying the inevitable.Really? The West has historically had a lot of "good" for themselves come from stealing the wealth of other peoples. We wouldn't be the technological and economic powerhouses we are if not for wealth theft by our forefathers.The religious nutjobs in the ME don't make our lives difficult - except if you mean by refusing to sell us cheap oil, therefore limiting our exponential growth and status as first class nations.

Yeah I guess by that selfish style of thinking they were "making our lives difficult".I think you'll find the problem is that no system of government that has been imposed on a people by force will succeed unless it continues to bring force to bear.

Our own nations only recently, historically speaking, became democracies. Why should we force other nations to go at a faster speed than they are comfortable with?Oh you mean how Saddam wasn't reasonable or even rational. What with his crazy insistence he didn't have WMDs... crazy people!As far as I know they have not sided with them because that would require accepting ISIS as the caliphate and therefore giving up all their own power.

However they are not one solid group but various small units and individual ones may have defected - maybe the system has just crumbled out from underneath the leaders.

It would be ironic if it was other terrorists that destroyed them and not Team America.john1 do you only think of the very impaired people when you think "Downs syndrome" and not realise it is a SPECTRUM disorder and many individuals can live happy and reasonably productive lives?

You've basically just said whenever you see a person with Down's Syndrome you are silently judging that person's parents for making "everyone else pay for them".

That is toxic.Well, you obviously haven't seen some in the health industry advocating for these screenings to be mandatory instead of optional, to reduce the amount of children born with Downs.

And maybe you don't also know that these screenings are not 100% - you can easily get a false positive for Downs.The financial costs of a child change with gender in India. So, it's ethical to abort girls there I take it?Not that is not the alternative.

It is a perfectly fine alternative to both admit the foetus is a baby, and say that the woman has the ultimate right to decide if the baby dies or lives.

Of course that makes it sound very emotional... but to do the opposite, and deny the personhood of the foetus so that the decision is guilt-free, is just as intellectually dishonest as claiming that the mother has no rights over the baby growing inside her own body.Actually babies were often killed in Victorian times and reported as "smothered" when sleeping with an adult. It was quite a social problem. But then they were having a lot of social problems then, and it wasn't just disabled or defective babies that were killed.

I think there are always going to be people that kill their own young, whether by abortions or after the fact. We shouldn't look back on the Spartans, the Victorians, or whoever and think of them as "evil child killers" when we are no different.So shouldn't you be advocating for treatment for the person with Downs, not "treatment" for the parents of said child via abortion.That's right Miowarra, some of us are more sacred than others.

After all, we care more about a handful of Aussies dying in a Ukranian field than the thousands dying in the Middle East.And what if we could screen for adult-onset disabilities Miowarra? Would that be acceptable to terminate for, since they are arguably going to have a worse life and cost more to the public purse than others?Cultures that abort girls don't do so because they consider it a "disability" but because it is rationally an economic weight on them to have a girl child over a boy child. Dowries must be paid, girls don't contribute towards their parents wellbeing in later life, etc.

They have made a choice just as rational and to do with the wellbeing of the parents and family as we here have when we decide to abort disabled babies.

There's no difference between the two.Except welfare of any kind, even for encouraging higher birth rates, does not intend to compensate people for "what they lost". It intends only to push their decision towards what the government program wants them to do.

With nearly every other welfare program the richer you are, the *less* money you get.

That this one is different is an obvious flaw.Except many of us did not support "liberating" them by picking sides and killing the side we don't like.

Most especially if you have any idea of the history of Afghanistan and the West's role in how they got the Taliban in charge in any case.You are arguing about the difference between an ideal and some people's actions.

You may as well say that women aren't fully people because, in many societies, they are not treated as such.

Does the reality of what people do extinguish the ideal?I agree - fixing the system so that people don't think of disabled children as being an insurmountable burden would be the best option.

That's why I will advocate against this current government for neglecting the welfare of the disabled whether through birth or old age.Ahh a good question. Is it ethical for us to ALLOW a woman to carry and raise a child that we know she cannot cope with, because she herself is mentally impaired or has a drastic drug addiction?

Taking the woman's individual right to have babies or no babies when and how she chooses, we can't step in at any point in that scenario and say "No, we won't let you".

So really, it isn't about what's "best for society" but simply what's best for our ideology of individuality.Why?

Isn't abortion primarily about the right of the woman to do what she wants with her body?

It shouldn't matter if what she is aborting is an embryo, a baby or a fully-formed adult.If they truly thought it would be better if they hadn't been born, I think they would be solving that problem themselves and not here to talk about it anymore.

While we make a big deal about Downs because people are born with it, lets remember that a lot of other mental "disorders" that are further along the high-functioning end of the Downs spectrum can be caught in those same tests. And I doubt many of these high-functioning people would want to wipe themselves off the map.

What about all the adult-onset problems which are nonetheless still genetically inherent in the individual and possibly in the future could also be screened for.

What about diseases which are going to heavily impact a person's quality of life and the public purse through repeated operations. Force a person to live with a colostomy bag? Is that such a horrible fate the parents should abort them to prevent it?

What about the genetic component of mental illnesses like depression and bipolar? 50 years from now would the people saying parents should have the right to abort their Downs babies also be saying parents should have the right to abort their babies that have a high likelihood of developing bipolar disorder?There's always adoption, you know.Capitalism doesn't just kill through wars. 

Look into all the environmental disasters caused by profit-seeking, such as chemical spills in India that continue to kill today. 

Asbestos and tobacco that were pushed hard for profit by people that knew they were deadly. 

The US profit-driven healthcare system that leaves people to suffer and die every day. 

Catching up on the heels of tobacco is processed foods, which are set to cause a health crisis but utterly resist any regulation or laws because that 'hinders free enterprise'.

Those are the subtle murders of a capitalist system. Which isn't to say other systems are innocent.

 Simply that why should we get to force democracy and capitalism onto people when it has its own share of problems, and the people involved aren't interested in it?

If Russia invaded us to "save" us from democracy and "enlighten" us with communism would you be like "Ok, you won the war, that's legit, I'll take up your philosophy right away!"???
Exactly. Take a look at our history and you can see the West only in the last couple of hundred years broke away from ethnic and sectarian fighting!

Heck, weren't both Japan and Germany fighting in our last great war over ethnic superiority? 

It quacks like tribalism and walks like tribalism...Well obviously he has to accuse the author of supporting extremist militants because anyone who disagrees with him is unreasonable, and therefore logically can be expected to uphold other unreasonable positions. Like suicide bombers.

Logic!It wasn't price undercutting that he was going to do. It was selling oil for currency other than the USD.

Read up some on the "petrodollar" and why the USD currency - and thus it's debt solvency and economic framework - are held up by regulations that require oil to be traded in USD.Mr. Debunker, do you remember where the "terrorist rebels" in the Vietnam war set up their strongholds? Oh right, it was villages. That the US army then sometimes massacred. Which we internationally condemned.

Do you remember where the French resistance against Hitler hid out? Oh right, in civilian homes.

Do you know or can you cite a SINGLE revolution or lopsided war where the weaker party did not have to rely on civilian support for their structure?

Pretending this is some new phenomenon used solely by Muslims is laughable if you have any education of history and world events beyond Grade 5.Hamas doesn't fire rockets to hit Israelis. They fire rockets because each rocket intercepted by Iron Dome costs Israel about 100k. 

They are trying to hurt Israel in the pocketbook, not the flesh. You think after decades of never making more than a handful of rocket kills, they wouldn't have stopped if there wasn't some reason?

It just doesn't look as good for Israel to say "We bombed and killed Hamas in retaliation for costing us a lot of money".Even if he'd died, while there would have been a power struggle, the systems of power were already in place. The US tore them down and put up new ones that no-one had any trust in.They didn't think a real democracy would be established in Iraq and they didn't want one - harder to rule the place through a puppet if the puppet keeps changing!

Show me any third world dictatorship and I will show you a money, arms and assassination trail leading to a first world nation.Glad to see you believe primarily in the rule of might and conquest, it will certainly be a lens through with the rest of your opinions are given more clarity.You mean, except the American soldiers that just went out and murdered civilians, right?There's no license for bikes because they're not riding around a several tonne weapon.

If you don't think cars are a weapon you're too ignorant of what they are to be driving one.

It's the same way you would never give a big chef's knife to a child or someone who didn't realise just how dangerous a knife is and that it is a weapon as well as a tool.I can imagine the tax burden - probably something like the 40-50% in Nordic countries? And I welcome it. Better than selling off Telstra and other utilities and then being royally screwed over by them.Political parties don't exist to make money so why would they pay a tax? Taxing political parties would just retard the development of new ones.

You're just throwing around these accusations of "non tax-paying" groups as though a political party and a freaking international corporation should have the same % tax burden!And some socialist countries have been great. Cuba had a rocky start but they've done well despite embargos. And let's not get started on the Nordic countries that are the envy of the developed world (except the Libertarians, who I guess enjoy sleeping with one eye open and their finger on the trigger).If you think there is more corruption in unions than in business, you're dead wrong. We just don't talk about it because it's "good for the economy" whereas the union corruption is bad for the economy. 

Two faces for the same crime.They need to quit doing this piecemeal baloney and just privatise the government, sell it off to the highest bidders. If Australians really want their vote so much, they'll buy one during the float!If they voted Labor back in I'd think they were just fooling themselves! And even if they did manage to fumble their way into voting for the party that had most of their best interests aligned, I'd just credit them with being whipped long enough that they were driven by panic to find a solution.

I don't delude myself that I'm not just as self-interested as the rest of the masses; I just don't need to reach breaking point before I bite back.The Republican and Democrat parties have not existed in their current incarnations throughout the entire US history. They were not always typecast as "progressive" and "conservative" but actually are better understood as being "northern" and "southern"; switching places occasionally as their policies changed.Ahh but you see the government has to solve the debt crisis and the age of entitlement without hurting Australian families at all. 

So a tax that would hit the pocketbook of the average Australian is a big no-no. That's the GOOD sort of entitlement, the BAD sort is disabled people begging not to have their payments cut.But we need those taxes to fix the budget emergency! So clearly you like the tax, right?

If you don't, that must mean the budget emergency isn't that important?I know, I love all these scare calls that the big companies will just go to Africa.

Didn't hear about the Chinese mine managers that got murdered in a riot of their own workers?

How about those "Democratic Freedom Republics" that pop up now and then with 10-year-olds armed with machine guns?

International outrage campaigns against slave labour?

Doesn't everyone just *dream* of exploiting Africa?I recall being told by Queenslanders that criticism of Bligh was that she was being too communist, what with all her selling off of resources.

No joke! There were apparently enough people dim enough to be sold a horse with two rear-ends.

I mean if they thought that was what the commies were doing, didn't they think the capitalists would do it 5 times harder?The elderly people will die soon so their votes aren't worth jack!

A clever political play.They do laugh at us, they absolutely do. And so do most of the politicians. Just do some reading into what experienced political journalists give as anecdotal quotes from pollies. They can't give them as official quotes during their career or their career would be over. 

But read what some retired ones have said and you can see that almost the entire political body views the "electorate" as collective stooges and to be pandered to only so far as is required to get their votes.

So *never* form an emotional or trust attachment to a politician or political party, and never self-identify as a "Soandso Voter". That's just giving them a free vote so they don't think they need to work for you any more!The working poor do pay tax, but they're somehow not "genuine" I suppose? 

I guess we become rich as soon as we're off the dole! Hmm then why do all those people on 200k say they're "not rich"?aGuy, you sure have a lot of faith in mining corporations to swallow their line that they'd pull out of Australia if there was a big tax put on them.

Sort of like how the smoking companies swore up and down that plain packaging wouldn't stop take-up rates of smoking amongst the youth. 

I bet you believed that one too.Yes I assume by "underclass" he is referring to all those rich kids who inherited daddy's money or got a trust fund.

Scum of the earth, those bunch.So little more than 1 billion a year?

Pretty sure that's pocket change for a company that big.

Oh thank you m'lord for the penny! Thank you kindly sir! God bless ye!That'd be like making people pass a test on childcare before they become a parent.

The results would be too frightening for the program to continue.They defend them because they're *rich* and beautiful and successful and shouldn't we all want to be like that? Don't we all want the red racing car with the blonde trophy wife and/or buff pool boy in it? Secretly? Deep down?So basically Alfie you are agreeing that the public was taken for a ride by the mining companies who yelled down Labor's original mining tax with scare campaigns?

Glad to see we're all on the same page here.Peter the Lawyer is just as two-faced as any politician, so of course he would be in good company and agree with them.

I have called him out for contradicting himself openly in discussions before.

He just says what he thinks will win the spin, no solid beliefs or morals besides the One True ideology.Mr. Cat, whether it's the states or the nation, Australia is basically giving its minerals away for free. Why bother with small details about which government is doing it? As if they're not run from the top down anyway! This isn't the USA.They didn't realise it when the last financial hit went by... or not all of them anyway.

Sadly, history has shown people need to be practically starving to really fight for their rights. And by then they're a wee tad crazy and bloodthirsty.

That's why any sensible voice on the side of capitalist politics would be trying to get the inequality thing under control and not talk about "entitlement" of the poor. Be rich but don't make others suffer while doing it.

It's just riding that same old horse into battle and we all know how the story ends.I do, they have done a masterful job. Very impressed 10/10. I know an Australian who works for Rio Tinto Human Resources and can't talk enough about how awful the unions are.

Those damn unions, trying to ensure people working in a mine - one of the historically most dangerous industries ever - want first class safety and compensation.

Scoundrels! Oh for the days when we could get those little 10-year-olds to shimmy down the shafts and operate the switches. Those were the days.You are correct rattan - the rusted on vote is the vote that the politician no longer listens to.

By "rusting" yourself onto ANY party - Lib, Lab, Green, you are silencing your voice.

Don't go to a poll not knowing what the actual policies and philosophies of the parties and reps are. Otherwise you may as well send your 10-year-old to pretend to be you and vote for you. You'd probably get a bigger impact on democracy that way.Well he's made a pretty good case for mining companies having a conflict of interest in commenting on the mining tax.

What case can you make for the ABC having a conflict of interest in railing on "big business"? Do they stand to make some money off the failure of big business? Do they perhaps secretly take cuts from "small business"?

Do explain how apparently the voice of the ABC and the voice of a mining corporation are both just following the money!Really? Well other commentors above have claimed the original MRRT had government shoulder some of the burden of failed ventures. Perhaps you should go and confront them full-on about how wrong they are. Since apparently it was just a big cash-grab assuming every venture would be successful.He's not so much advocating the idea of their being a debt crisis as pointing out the inconsistency in LNP's approach to their own "debt crisis narrative" - in reducing taxes, the key way any government gets out of debt.Energy-saving insulation schemes

Creating construction jobs and school infrastructure

Blueprinting ideal formats for school outcomes

Forward-thinking visionary infrastructure goals that would lay the foundation for Australia's success in an information world

Boosting Australia's international reputation and clout

Yes, and?We can't afford stupidity like a national road network. It's a pipe dream, the world will never require roads from city to city, house to house. Why, the common man will never even ride in a car, let alone buy one.Indeed. Why would we want the states to compete with each other for workers and revenue, as though they are rivals or somehow separate entities? 

They're just archaic leftovers from pre-unified Australia. We're a gobsmackingly homogeneous culture with a single language.

The notion that we "have to have" these separate states or state identities is like little children drawing lines in the sandbox.Our Holy Constitution, which shineth light upon the millennia of darkness that encompassed humanity's huddled masses. 

Oh Holy Constitution, unchangeable and unchanging, perfect in it's perfectness and fair to all.

Hark not to the apostates of evil, who spread their lies "It's just a sodding contract", "We don't still follow the Magna Carta do we?" and blind the eyes of the righteous.Why are states "best placed" the deliver services to the people? Because they're those people's governments? Newsflash, local council governments are best placed to know what their local people need, and federal government is best placed to know the overall pulse of the country.

State governments are just piggy in the middle.

Do you honestly think Western Australia's state government is just as "best placed" to service its enormous area and tiny population compared to Victoria's small area, large population state government?

They are both equal? They're not just remnants of "who owned what bit of Australia" before there even was an Australia?honest? After all the lies he told?

Family man? Just like every politician has a wife and two smiling rosy-cheeked children he hardly ever sees, except when he needs a photo op?The taxpayer paid for the society and trust systems speculators operate in and which allows them to take risks without huge personal danger. ie, even if your venture fails or your shares tank, you won't die in a ditch.

That's why part of the income of the risk goes back to the taxpayer.

Having the taxpayer underwrite your loan on top of everything else they provide to you is sheer greed.But the people who invest in homes are never going to want to rent to the people government has to support - drug addicts, hooligans, house trashers. Gov has to find them a roof, private landlords do not.

So why are we "encouraging" investment in housing that won't actually take the problem off the government's hands?And the two of you instantly de-rail the point with meaningless judgement of the people I'm referring to.

I never said drug-addicts had the right to live in someone else's privately owned property. That's the point. Why is the government encouraging people to become landlords with the view it will lift the burden from government, when those landlords will NEVER accept the type of people who rely on social housing?

No, it is not a necessity. Yes, in the case you mentioned you would have to rent at a loss and struggle. That's part of life. You were willing to take the risk of a mortgage so you have to struggle with it.

Negative gearing is intended for investment of business enterprise. Your example is completely bereft of business enterprise.Steven you use the example of a business that needs a grace period in order to become profitable, but why are shares and price speculations included?

They produce nothing, they move money around in meaningless ways and inflate the prices of goods. Why should "speculation" as opposed to "investment" be encouraged by the government?Why are diamonds expensive? Cos they're rare? Nope, because they don't mine too many at one time.

Why are designer dresses expensive? Are they made from the Golden Fleece itself? Nope, they just only make 50 of 'em for the entire world.

Think, people! Scarcity =/= Rarity!WA Ideas you obviously aren't a woman and haven't looked at buying designer dresses.

They may have a slightly higher standard of manufacture, but they are made of the same gross polyesters and plastic-y fabrics as they sell in Target.

It's all smoke and mirrors and false "value".No, AE that is not true. Did you read what I said? Did you read what WA Ideas said?

Diamonds are purposely under-produced to keep the price high. They could mine and manufacture so many diamonds they would be as cheap as rhinestones.

This is NOT an issue of supply and demand. It is ARTIFICIAL SCARCITY.

Same with houses.Because if developers develop less land, the prices for that land is higher.

If they release 3 blocks to 20 prospective buyers, they can charge a motza for them. If they released 20 blocks to the 20 buyers, they would get a pittance in comparison.

Blaming slow government councils fails to answer the crucial question for why anything happens: Who's making money out of this?Clearly it is the case. Do you think price collusions never happen? 

History proves they do. 

Not to mention there is proof of at least one developer releasing less land than they had, Landcom in NSW. They were a government agency, so that is probably one of the reasons the whistle was blown on them. 

The Housing Industry Association has admitted "real estate developers" (but no names) are slow to release land.

The government certainly colludes with developers in order to keep house prices stable, but to think the government is just incompetently dragging its heels and bright, sparky developers are wringing their hands wishing they could do it all faster is a load of bollocks.I've made inquiries into newly-listed houses and told they were bought within days, "sight unseen".

That's what lets you know the current Australian property market is a fool's game.

If someone is so "valuable" people buy it without any assessment whatsoever into its condition, people are being very silly indeed.Capewell if you actually were to comprehend what gd is saying, he writes that he does NOT think AE is one of the super rich.All of those things you mentioned are frivolous extras to life - it doesn't matter if some people are priced out of the market for dog washes or sauces. 

It really, truly matters if people are priced out of the market for a house! How can you make trivial comparisons between luxury items and basic necessities?No, sorry AE darling, but we do not allow supply and demand to fix prices for everything.

Electricity, water, food and other essential services, even how much the doctor can charge you, are strictly controlled by the government.

Sorry but you're wrong.Well, WA Ideas, being able to have a safe investment isn't a guaranteed right either, so you won't cry when negative gearing is removed, right?

And sorry, while I know AE is "technically" correct that housing is not protected right now, I also know that he is incorrect in that it shouldn't be or can't be.

Most of the world doesn't have negative gearing on property. Germany has quite draconian systems in place to ensure house prices do not rise or fall.

The system we have here is not the system we have to accept.Oh yeah, yeah, nobody handed you a job. Nobody handed you a free education that made you employable. Nobody handed you the road network and public transport network that enabled you to work outside the limited area near your home.

You did it all by yourself, sunshine.Because you, AE, claimed that you got where you are completely on your lonesome, your willpower, hard work and self-control. It's been an ongoing narrative in all of your posts.

The point we're making is, everyone else's taxes went into the infrastructure and systems that got you where you are. If you'd been born in Somalia instead you'd have squat - no matter how much "willpower" and "hard work" you did.

And negative gearing was just the icing on that cake, giving you another helping hand up. Cutting your taxes so you paid less back to the gummit and thus: all the rest of us.

Nice and simple: You. Profited. At. Our. Expense.

You are not a special snowflake, you did not "make" your own success.WA Ideas, I think YOU have missed the point.

AE is not rich and happy because he is a hard worker. He's rich and happy, PRIMARILY, because he was born in Australia, the education was free here, his parents weren't drug addicts, he wasn't born disabled, etc. etc. 

His hard work let him rise in a system that was already established by millions of other people. Essentially, he rode easily in the slipstream of those who went before him.

Hence, he is not a "self-made man". He is not entitled to profit off the misfortune of others, for example, playing the housing market while it slips out of the reach of younger generations.Yes, precious AE, *someone* has been shafted that 2 billion and let's see... some kind of investors... maybe by an investment firm doing superannuation for mums and dads... oh look, they got shafted out of their super.

But there are so many faceless people between daddy not having money to retire and Rhinehart having a fancy new boat, so there's certainly no connection between the two, nup, no way. Nothing to see here, folks.Yes it does WA Ideas.... do you know what "share price rise" means? It means the price people ARE PAYING for that share changed. Not what someone "thinks" it is worth. What they are --actually paying--.

For someone to make money (sell a share), someone else has to lose money (buy a share), because no real "product" is exchanging hands (besides the tiny dividends which it seems few people actually buy shares for). The money doesn't come from no-where.

They're buying and selling "hopes" for future price increases.

Now if prices always rose like people want to believe house prices do, there would be no problem with that because all people are "losing" is potential future money, they're not actually running a loss.

But, both shares and house prices are not like that, and people are losing money."genuine investment" is not flipping houses.

If you think the majority of people "investing" in houses are genuine and not flipping, you need to do some more research.

AE might be doing it all fair and above board, but sadly, the majority are not, or we wouldn't be in this mess of inflated house prices.

Why do you think people got into the market that "would never do down"? Because they wanted to earn small profits over the long term?Well then, if all the negative gearing investors are sensible long-term investors, they won't care if the housing prices collapse, will they? After all, it'll just mean more negative gearing for them, and they still get their profit at the end of 25 years!Toc, why should speculating in house prices be a legitimate business activity?

Investing in new houses, sure. But speculating on the price of existing ones? 

Do you know why oil is so expensive. Because price speculation. Didja know that? Every time you fill up at the pump, you're paying a 50% premium on some guy "guessing" that prices would change?

He didn't add value, he didn't get that oil to you faster or better. He did squat except guessing and YOU are paying for it.

Of course we can't do anything about that because international laws create that situation, and we import all our oil.

But Australia's housing market can be perfectly regulated by Australia. Why should I pay more for my house on those same principles?
Oh AE I'm sorry, I didn't know some people were without access to a dictionary or wikipedia.

Let me lay it out for you, courtesy of Investopedia: 

It may sometimes be difficult to distinguish between speculation and investment, and whether an activity qualifies as speculative or investing depends on a number of factors, including the nature of the asset, *the expected duration of the holding period* (emphasis mine), and the amount of leverage. 

For example, while acquiring an additional property (in addition to one's principal residence) with the intention of renting it out would qualify as a bona fide investing activity, buying half a dozen condominiums with minimal down payments for the purpose of "condo-flipping" would undoubtedly be regarded as speculation.Maybe it has, maybe it hasn't. But sticking our fingers in our ears and hoping the problem goes away is guaranteeing the damage will happen.

The biggest flaw with Labor wasn't allowing unwashed boat people to land on our shores or dreaming up a NBN.

It was allowing this rort to continue and ensuring some portion of the population was going to pay for it big time, eventually.Edward, the government is not dragging their feet on releasing land.

The developers are.

Think for a moment. Who benefits from slowly releasing land? Why would government do that when they know their citizens are screaming for lower cost housing?

But do developers benefit by creating artificial scarcity for their product, thus pushing up prices?

Ding, ding, ding, we have a winner! First prize: Not a house!That's right, and it's why we, even the ones who benefited from the housing ponzi scheme in the last couple of decades, should be desperate to get it under control as fast and painlessly as possible.

Continuing to let the problem get worse will mean catastrophe for many people when it collapses under its own weight.Well "mum and dad investor" you may not be greedy, but your actions have priced my generation, and all following ones, out of the housing market.

How does that make you feel? How do you feel knowing the person paying you rent - wasted money for them - desperately wanted to buy their own house but YOU have helped prevent them from doing it?

Ever trouble you when you go to sleep at night?Sorry, Hugh, but all of Australia is not New York or Hong Kong. Maybe you can justify Syndey's stupid prices by comparing them to the most densely populated cities on earth, but Brisbane? Adelaide? Hobart??? Why are they costing a higher % of the average wage than they did a couple of decades ago?

Are you seriously suggesting it's because our entire continental country is so jiving that it's as valuable as space in central London??

Oh, maybe the 5k home buyers grant is responsible for prices tripling over a couple of decades?

Oh, or maybe it's a property bubble fuelled by investors and speculators that has added no real value. 

You know, like what happened in the US and everywhere else?Ahh, Hugh, you are invoking the "Australia is magically different" argument.

Well, nice to know that's the only trick up your sleeve. But no, Australia is not magically different, and our land is not worth 10x as much as other people's land. The government is desperately trying to prevent a housing price collapse, but, keep on believing! Your steadfast faith in Australia "specialness" brings a tear to every battler's eye.How adorable of you to try derailing my arguments by misrepresenting them. Have a cookie.

But no, none of us advocating for negative gearing to be removed do not think we are "owed" a house. We accept that many people will never be able to afford one.

What we DON'T accept is that historically, house prices as a % of the average wage have been fairly stable, and rises and falls have either kept in line with inflation or been minor variations of the market. And yet NOW house prices have leapt to insane % of average wages and people are trying to tell us it's all fair and normal.

No, it's not fair and it's not normal. You can cry about how legal what you're doing is and I won't deny it. But I'm telling you the rage of young generations who can't afford to buy won't keep it legal for long.Karl you really think rent prices will go up once all the young people can afford to buy houses?

Keep dreaming, mate.Bingo! Why sell to your cheap fellow citizens when there are rich Chinese people willing to pay you a premium?

Australians! Who needs em?I don't blame this current government for inaction on this issue. If anything I blame the electorate who will never allow any politician to change things until they start to feel the pinch themselves.

And Abbott has never surprised me and never will. He has lived up to my every expectation of being an entitled, foolish and bigoted hack.Technically, by speculating with our money they are able to offer us bigger interest rates because they can make more profit with the money.

Shame when the profit they're making is by increasing house prices, so interest rates have to fall so those people buying the houses can keep buying them, and thus making the banks money.

And everyone except the banks loses! Huzzah!"theft of my wealth" : what a revealing little phrase there.

You live in our society, we get to thieve your wealth. That's the social contract and as they say, love it or leave it.

You don't have to improve your investment properties! You'll just never find tenants, that's all.No geoff, we don't need to do that.

Do you realise Australia is only one of a handful of countries that allows negative gearing for property as well as business and other investment?

Our system is NOT normal. It is ABNORMAL.Why do you think the only two options are make a profit or fail?

Have you ever encountered that mythical beast, the non-profit organisation? I hear sometimes you can catch a glimpse of one in the deep wilds of Africa.Orion, the houses prices would only go up because of the FHB grant as much as the grant offered.

That doesn't not explain the doubling and tripling in price over the last couple of decades.

I'm sorry to tell you that your friends who bought a unit because they knew their children wouldn't be able to afford one, ARE THE REASON their children can't afford one!

Them and people like them all thinking "ooh this is going to go up, better get one now".No it isn't. It's based on the fact that almost no other country allows negative gearing on property investment like we do.

Maybe there's a reason why??? Strangely I think you can still rent houses in most of the world!

We are not Molly Normal here. It isn't "simply a sensible thing to do".
It doesn't matter. You shouldn't be allowed to invest and speculate on second-hand homes that create no value to the system.

It is simply distorting a market for a *necessity*. 

It's the same reason we don't allow price speculations on water prices.They've been in that pile for a long time. Better read up on your local independent candidates.Darling, you're allowed to invest in something that benefits only you, but when it actually disadvantages the majority of your fellow citizens, well, there's two options there:

1, The government stops you from doing it, or

2, Pitchforks and torches.Yep! Don't worry though Pensioner, these things move in cycles, and the rich can only take advantage of the poor for so long before something snaps.

Like people's necks.MattC and Upnorff you are both right.

And that's precisely why it needs to happen.

If landlords had such a shoddy investment system in place that they can't handle price shocks or compete on something other than raw price and people's desperation for the product, well, they need to get out of the market.

Buying being cheaper than renting should be the norm. Renting should be for when people need flexible living arrangements, are poorer than usual, or want to live in high-density areas like inner cities.

People with the security of owning the roof over their heads will take more economic risks and be more productive than ones who know they are throwing their money away on rent and have no other options.lovewhiteboats, if negative gearing on property is something only "lefties" hate, then why doesn't that great country of conservatives, the USA, have it?

Oh. What? Only about 4 or 5 countries in the WHOLE world have negative gearing on property? What?

Oh it's a financial anomaly and causing inflated house prices everywhere it's been implemented.

Oh those "lefties"!David we can outlaw dirt if we wanted to, and we can certainly outlaw negative gearing on property.

It's not a universal truth. It's not a policy in place in most of the countries on earth.

Negative gearing *on property* is an anomaly.Pete my dear friend. Can I call you friend? I hope so.

Governments are not dragging their feet releasing land. Why would they do that? Are they just incompetent? Maybe.

But think for a minute. Does someone somewhere benefit from land being slowly released? Hmm... you know... I think the real estate developers can charge more for the land when they create artificial scarcity for it... and then blame government departments because, well, who doesn't hate the government? I sure do.

Yes, I think intelligent fellows like yourself will quickly see who is benefiting from slow release of land and thus to blame.We consider inflation on housing a good thing because-Shhhh don't you know this is a good scheme? Get in on it while it's hot, don't ruin it for the rest of us!

Dollar dollar bills, yo!Wait, what? Why should there be negative gearing AND subsidy schemes in place to rent to low-income families?

If people have to be subsidised and guaranteed five different ways before they're willing to help the government out with a tough job, maybe we should just go back to paying our dang taxes and letting the Government do its thing without whining all the time that it's spending our money.

Spending our money subsidising someone else's investment, for instance...The problem is Australia has no clout to impact laws on oil price speculation.

And according to many commentators on this website and other average Australians, we don't care what the rest of the world thinks of us or how much clout we have with them.

So they continue screwing us over, charging us twice the price for things as a kangaroo tax, releasing products and media here a year late, etc. etc.

Well, to be fair we'd have to try pretty dang hard to be "one of the big boys" and actually fight back in the currency wars instead of flail helplessly in the slipstream of other people's decisions. 

Best not to even try, really. Then you won't look bad when you fail.

But did we really have to bend over and take it so gleefully from the US with those terrible trade agreements?Yes, and it's very amusing to see every commentator here claim they sit in the middle and only deviate to one side or the other on logical grounds.

I won't be shy about saying I hold extreme views, and even if some are extremely right and some are extremely left, that doesn't make me lukewarm "on average". 

And pointing to the Middle East and saying "oh those are the real extremists" ignores the fact that every society everywhere has had civil and sectarian wars at some point, and your next-door neighbours would probably be willing to become freedom-fighting-terrorists if the conditions pushed them to it.

We're all dogs a few meals away from being wolves.Gay marriage - the state is already involved and by Australian law they count as de-facto married with equal rights and obligations as "married" married people.

We definitely wouldn't want the state to withdraw that.

But then, how much of our rhetoric on the issue is imported from the USA where they don't have equal rights for de-facto and married couples? (Such as health insurance covering de-facto partners)And that is exactly where the middle ground is, Concerned Citizen. Where nobody is fully pleased.

I think it actually helps for people to always be on their toes and never fully satisfied by what the government is giving them.

If you have no worries or cares in your life you're being coddled from reality, and sooner or later you're going to have a bad time.There's no point actually arguing with him on his opinions, because his posts clearly reveal him to be an egoist who is right simply because he believes he is right.

Facts are not going to dent his iron fortitude of rightness.

Just laugh at him and move on.Here's another person calling themselves the sensible middle while handing out views from only one side of the political camp.

What if I say the "sensible" solution to asylum seekers is to make use of these people economically? Hey, people willing to work for low wage and live where we tell them to in exchange for safety and education? 

See? You can tell if an opinion is true "middle ground" because neither the left nor the right will like it.berational, you are almost trying to construct a "no true scotsman" thing here with your assertions that scientists "cannot" (your words) fall into mental pitfalls if they're doing "real" science with "real" peer reviews.

Being aware and alert of corruption on your own side is the only way to pre-empt decaying trust in the system. As we have seen with the Catholic church, if they had been willing to attack their own who abused children, they would never have suffered such a colossal loss in public trust.

Scientists can't brush away the regular, everyday bias that shows up in reports of every kind and still claim that "science" is "infallible". Because if it's wrong, it will happily own up to it, right? No-one would put their career before the truth, right?And in Egypt they voted in the Muslim Brotherhood. Was that the sensible middle ground?Your gay marriage solution is what's already basically in practice. 

If people don't see de-facto relationships and marriage relationships as equal that's entirely in their own minds and social perception - to the Australian government they are basically the exact same thing. 

That guy living with his girlfriend for several years who refuses to marry her "properly"? For all intents and purposes he already is, she just won't get a diamond out of it.

You already don't need to have a ceremony to get married. You can just "go fill out some forms". 

Really, apart from the wedding cake and big party the only thing gay couples are missing out on is the free name change for one of them.It's so painfully true. So many people I know are unknowingly spouting out the talking points of political parties they claim to hate and oppose, and certainly don't vote for.

Why? Because it hits their emotional buttons. Oh no, people are drowning at sea! Drowning at sea! Obviously whoever claims they care the MOST about those poor people is the one who has the best solution for them! Drowning at sea! 

Meanwhile, more people die on the roads.Everyone has biases. What you need are people willing to front up to what their biases are.

That's not common, because biases are ugly little things, and no-one wants to flash theirs in public.Maybe if solipsism hadn't been shown repeatedly over history to be a social reality, people like me would have more faith in rationality.

Considering every era of human existence has believed in a reality we now find quaint, appalling or naive, do you honestly believe 500 years from now people will still have the same view of reality we have now, and won't look back at us with gentle tut-tuting?

Reality is realising that we don't objectively know what reality is.While his singling out of the gay issue is of note, he is broadly correct that in places where referendums are frequently held, like California, the lobbyists pressing for gay marriage have called the results corrupt and misleading, and want them overturned politically anyway.

Not a good look, even though I agree that they need legal protections for gay couples in the USA.That is not a useful starting point. Most people do NOT want a "better life for all".

Most people couldn't give two hoots if people in Nigeria aren't having a better life, or if the Russians are still basically peasants in thrall to an aristocracy, and we chuckle at the absurd craziness of "those yanks".

Not to mention wanting all those welfare slobs to pull their socks up, and the Aborigines to just "get over it" and stop boozing.

A "better life for all" - only as long as it doesn't cost me anything.

That's the point most people start from."I think rationally, and my opponents wear their pants on their heads" 

Signed, everybody that ever lived."demonstrated yet again"? You mean by "stopping the boats" which was actually just turning back the boats as we have now found, since they haven't actually stopped trying to come over.Every time someone says they want the government to "butt out" I feel compelled to ask "Why, what are you doing that you don't want them to know about?"

It's like saying the police need to stop hanging around.Poorhouses? Really? Why not just send them all to the mines?

The lucid-minded don't have the right to prey on the naive and gullible. Yes, people do need to be protected from themselves.It sounds as though you are already getting to the age where the complexities of the world begin to overwhelm you. Nothing to be ashamed about as we will all be there one day.

However do I sense the thread in your post that you feel families need to provide care to their own elderly rather than relying on tax money to do it for them?

A noble gesture and one I intend to do myself... but beware it becoming a social initiative!

Do you know why we have lower birth-rates than many third world countries? Because we don't use children as old-age insurance. 

Attempts to curtail overpopulation directly conflict with attempts to place much of the burden of caring for the sick, elderly, disabled and needy back onto extended family structures. Because of that key word, "extended".  

Gotta extend it as far as it'll go when you have extra mouths to feed that can't bring in money.It's basically people making money off other people's fears that they need more help and community than they can provide for themselves.

That's simply one of the fears I think we should have a lot of laws and rules in place to prevent predatory practices.Yes, it's just a shame that people couldn't care about it before it became an issue for them personally.

But that applies to nearly every problem that ever exists.Advertising is just a means of communication, which can be used for good or evil. People have been writing graffiti on walls about their services and standing in marketplaces yelling about their products since towns began. All advertising.

And there are plenty of things I own and love that I wouldn't have known about without advertising, including, on my desk right now, a fancy pair of light-therapy glasses made by an Australian university that helps with my sleep problems. How could I know that was a thing without someone telling me?

The problem is that advertisers are always finding ways to slip around the laws dictating what they can and cannot claim.

Educating, consumer backlash and nimble government regulation are all required.Eh, personally spending time in a small community of completely dissimilar people would be hell for me.. there's only so much discussion of reality TV or sports teams I could take.That is exactly the current government attitude and it is repulsive.

I don't currently have any relatives in aged care although I have in the past, and I despair for all those currently in it, based on what I saw.

But the blame can't be completely placed on care home operators - so many families seem to be happy to dump their relatives at them and then try their hardest to believe they are being treated well.Government regulations, glad you asked.That is really the hardest thing, when you reach out to help someone and they don't want to be helped. Whether from fear or self-delusion. 

I think it is still important to always offer help and let them know there is always an option for them if they ever change their minds.

I think a lot of domestic violence and psychological abuse victims think they have no other choice than to accept their situation.I'm very glad the laws and public perception have changed so that this formerly "private" violence is now a public concern.The problem is that in a closer community, you would probably know the offending boyfriend and get on with him fairly well. Which can make it harder to call the cops on him and know he is going to get fined, etc.Helping only women is still helping 50% of the population. They cannot be "part of the problem" unless they are actually encouraging domestic violence, which they are not.How ridiculous.

You may as well say that all the women shelters that don't take children are throwing women with children "under the bus". 

And homeless shelters that focus on men are throwing women "under the bus".

And homeless rehabilitation programs that focus on drug addicts are throwing non-addicts "under the bus".

No-one needs to tackle the whole problem in order to be helping.

And you are going to need some proof that White Ribbon "supress" information and actively discourage authorities from acting on. Simply crying that they don't pay enough attention to men isn't proof that they are conspiring against them.If there were guns easily available the boyfriend would have had a gun. And there wouldn't even have been a few minutes before she died where she was aware people were trying to help her.

Also this is clearly domestic violence even if they weren't living in the same domicile. It's violence against your family and people you are intimate with. 

In fact, the stats have gone up for violence being perpetrated by dating partners rather than by live-in partners. It used to be nominal, now it is about 50/50.

So don't sit in the mindset that two people have to be living in the same house for it to be "domestic" violence.As you stated, much of the domestic abuse against men is psychological in nature, and many people don't even accept or recognise psychological abuse as falling under the umbrella of "domestic violence".

I know someone regularly lied to and demeaned by her partner, and she probably does some demeaning back. But she doesn't think of herself as being in a violent or abusive relationship.

In order for people to fully grasp the depth of the problem of abuse against men, they have to first grasp what a problem psychological abuse is, against both women and men, and many, many children.

At the moment people are mainly only looking at punching and slapping, which happens to women more often.

Hopefully we will be able to go further into more subtle forms of abuse and how widespread they are.Your comment makes it seem as though you also are only interested in the physical injuries men or women suffer from domestic abuse.

Don't you care about all the many more men injured psychologically? 

Letting go of your pet peeve and focusing on the best way to stop all abuse to all genders, physical and mental, is the most productive thing you can do.

Saying "I won't help you until you help me" is a completely counter-productive move of MRA.You are correct Laci! A man killing a woman because she left him is, in his mind, defending or repairing his self-esteem or personal honour and dignity.

It is no different from when a family or entire community do the same thing to someone who "shames" them.

We don't like to see domestic murders as honour killings or vice versa because it shakes up a lot of the comfortable "us vs them" mentality that lets us think "we" are better than "them".There's dehumanisation of domestic violence victims too; people think "if that woman stays with a bloke like that she deserves to get beaten" or "he can't stand up for himself against his wife he's a pussy and needs to grow a backbone".

I see this attitudes often, by people who don't want to feel sympathy and be forced to act.Well I suppose I can't speak for most women since I have always gravitated to scrawny little fellows with sweet faces - no clue why.

But I don't think it is a fact that the strong, muscular men who may partake in extreme sports or otherwise exude some sense of "danger" are always going to be physically abusive. Or even are more likely to be physically abusive.

People are abusive because they want power and control, and a weaker man may want that control even more than a muscular one.

Women are abusive too, in verbal ways, and I know some men who are very ugly inside, despite being normal, short or weak.

I also knew a fellow who dated my sister-in-law and was extremely fit, did some amateur wrestling. He was unkind to her, but only verbally - and that was enough. He never had to raise a hand to her to end their relationship.

It is silly to think that a big, buff man is more likely to be a wife-beater.This is true, their underlying reason for fitness can be a red flag, so use that information. 

Ultimately whether you want your men "dangerous" or as adorable little cuddle-pies, you need to be alert to controlling, manipulative and self-centred behaviours.

With the same being true for men watching out for those things in women.Sometimes a community-style living makes it easier to stop these kind of situations, because everyone knows about it and shames the perpetrator.

But they can also be a hinderance, because if the abuser is charismatic or well-liked publicly, people won't want to turn on them even if they know what they do behind closed doors.

We can see in organisations of every kind - government, charity, educational, religious - people who know the abuser as a friend often find it hard to "ruin their life" by attacking their behaviour.kenoath, without evidence what do you suggest the police should do?

Seriously, tell us what the police should do when two people tell a different story about an event and there is no proof either way.

It's horrible that many crimes go unpunished but unless you have some amazing new way of determining truth and guilt, it's just something we all have to live with.I think that fear of taking the leap away from security is what stops so many people in bad relationships. I wonder if they don't know just how many safety nets there are out there, both government and charity.

But I know from personal experience the fear of losing your job or home or possessions can freeze you against taking actions to improve your life.Straight and cis people certainly do have role models.

Why else do we weep and moan over little girls looking up to Barbie as an example? Why are we upset when Miley Cirus, who seemed to be "such a nice young lady" and an example for other girls suddenly starts basically strip-teasing.

Because they were role models. And there is pressure on those role models to model the right attributes.Lying to protect yourself is still lying - it's just mitigated by greater moral concerns.

There are "worthwhile" lies, just as there are "worthwhile" murders for example in self-defense.His sexuality and actions DO conform to the stereotype of gay men being more sensitive, more fashionable, more gentle, etc.

I see what her point was with this article - when little boys are deciding who to model themselves on they will probably choose a role model who aligns with themselves most closely, including along sexuality. And now the example of Thorpe as a "gentle, fashion concious" straight man is gone.

It's a shame, but obviously not one we are upset at Thorpe for because he had no obligation to remain that role model.This is so true. There are so many sportsmen who abuse women and are caught for it. And surely there are many more who never quite cross the line into it being a crime, but are still taking advantage of willing female bodies and being misogynist. 

But we never take them to task for it until they actually get handcuffed. We should talk more about whether a footballer is encouraging unhealthy attitudes towards women than whether he is or isn't gay.gd, before humans lived in towns and cities they all just worked for the same thing they other guy got, food and shelter, and they weren't lazy about it.yank aren't you aware that Australia's property market is completely different from the rest of the world's, our ridiculously high cost of living is magically different from the rest of the world.

Obviously that can only be true if our economy is magically different as well!phil if the person who takes out a home loan can't repay the money the bank gets to own the house... they aren't exactly losing there as long as the housing market isn't in decline. 

They didn't need to "win" on top of that by making a profit selling the debt.Large government leads to more special interests and unequal outcomes?

Huh, I guess all those small-government feudal systems must have been some kind of equality playpen.I know there was always the saying "It isn't what you know, it's who you know" but I always hoped it was only vaguely applicable to the real world.

But upon entering said real world, it became obvious just how true it really was. Especially in Perth, my goodness.

I think fully half the people or more, who I know, have their jobs through family or friend connections, not throwing their resume into the ring of fair play.Actually Jimmy while Bill Gates may have never stolen anything from your pocket, Microsoft engaging in string after string of practices purposely designed to destroy competition.

For the most part this was purposely making their products not compatible with other products, sometimes they would even sabotage competing programs that were installed on their systems.

They did this with Netscape Navigator when it became a rival to Internet Explorer.

They did it again and again and again, no matter how many times they were fined over it.

Still think he got all his money fair and square?David, wages being cheaper overseas than in Australia does make us uncompetitive, this is true.

However it does not mean the only solution is to lower wages. We could, you know, pay the people in the overseas countries a proper wage as well so they could afford more than beans for their family?They're owed it because if all the poor people died or left the society, no-one would buy the rich people's products and services and they would all be poor.

Also no-one would mow their lawns.

Hence, the rich have to pay it forward and ensure the "masses" are able to live in enough comfort to keep supporting the social structure that made them rich.The problem is progressive react so viscerally to the image of "lifters" and "leaners" when they know firsthand many cases of so-called "lifters" who had no control over their destiny due to ill luck.

So because of their fervour they attack the entire idea of "earning" your way in life or meritocracy.

Of course there is a little of both. You can't be stinking rich without luck, but if you don't work hard it won't happen either. (Unless you inherit or win the lottery... helloooo estate tax laws!)

So both sides are arguing against a strawman.Well we can just keep on top of the loopholes and tricks they are using. Setting up estates or trust funds etc. etc. are legal but they don't have to keep being legal.

And yes they'll always try to find a new loophole so you have to keep tracking them down.

Really it's just like any shady semi-legal activity.

You can't stop it, but you have to try to curtail it.This is correct.

The world is not a true meritocracy, but nor is it all completely luck-based and we can't take pride in our own achievements.

Some people are lazy, and they'll never have much to their name.

But some people are going to have a lot, lot, lot more to their name for the same amount of work as other people have done.

We should try to be fair and acknowledge people's strengths and weaknesses.

We don't need to tax the rich to the brim, but we don't need to punish the poor for being "lazy" either.For true meritocracy there would be no way to pass on your wealth to your children... it would go back to the state or to some charity of your choice, perhaps. But most likely the state.

But rich people wouldn't like that, would they...Well done on misunderstanding the point of Mark James' comment.

Did the person with 500x the wealth as another person do 500x the work?

Yes or No?

Nothing to do with greed or envy, everything to do with "equality" : equal wealth for equal effort.This may be true if it weren't for people like you saying the poor were just narcissists. If they were true narcissists they could take advantage of enough people to not be poor, most likely.

If you don't care about someone else's standard of living vs your own, then you won't mind if people on welfare are able to afford the same things as you, will you?You're right Celarent, we should never debate anything or try to reach consensus amongst different viewpoints.

Back to fighting our ideals at swordpoint, methinks.Yes Frank we would also be concerned about the inequality between a Somali and an Australian.

If the Somali is not receiving a fair wage and that allows us cheap goods, that is an injustice that has to be corrected.

Just as injustices between Australian rich and poor must be corrected.losimpson, Liberal politicians don't have any particular bone to pick with the young - it's simply that the current system, and generational demographic distance, has put the young and old in basically an economic battle with each other.

And there are more old people than young people, which means more votes.

So the pollies will champion the old, at least until they die, then suddenly the once-young's issues will become important again.Arguments are invalidated by worldviews?

Then what are we all doing here?Actually David a lot of immigrants communities will have a very strong sense of social connections between them, giving each others jobs and legs up.Alpo I find it hard to believe that anyone advocating for "small government" really understands the consequences of what would happen in such a scenario.

Unless they have a back-up plan on how to become a crimelord.Well Christianity has been co-opted by the meritocracy viewpoint as well - the appalling "Prosperity Gospel" in the US.

Some people must just be reading the words in the NT and not understanding what they is saying.Big Bob, don't beat around the bush with "some groups". We know what fellas you're talking about amirite? Wink Wink.

Did you ever think that the very people able to immigrate are the ones that had some resources to begin with?

Homeless people don't immigrate.Hey Michael, maybe we are giving our money out to social causes, happily asking for higher taxes for ourselves and reducing our environmental impact. You don't know.

You call out hypocrisy when you see it happening, you don't just throw it around as a accusation like lobbing darts while blindfolded.

That just makes it completely meaningless.Michael, Bill Gates has a lot of big houses. Do you think that means he can't talk about charity and giving back to people, even though he does that too?

Does he have to live in a shack and give away every dime of his billions before he can talk about it?Malcolm the debate is not about which state is best.

It's about which state is currently in existence.So... you don't believe people get by on hard work OR good luck?I guess he should have just given it away for free and eaten out of garbage cans in order for his viewpoint to be legitimate.Taxing people to provide to the needy is taking the incentive out of life?

Dunno why I don't feel so disincentived when I see my tax on the paycheck then.kenj I believe that is exactly the point of this article. To make people think critically about whether our society IS a meritocracy as the conservatives would have us believe (lifters and leaners).

Obviously you believe it is not, and neither do I. 

The people who think it is are going to have to convince us.Indeed - even if we did not harbour any ill will against the Japanese for things they did to us, China and Korea both hate Japan still.

Giving Japan a friendly handshake on the issue of their war soldiers is a slap in the face to China.What? I don't know a single person who would be "offended" if the war between Japan and Australia was not mentioned.

We don't want apologies or reparations from them, we want to leave the past lie and not bring it up.

Tony brought it up.No, Dad, it is not appropriate to talk about that in a meeting with the Japanese PM, because China is going to take any sentence that includes "Japan" and "WWII" in it the wrong way if they possibly can.

Do you realise they are currently both posturing at each other in acts of passive aggression?"giveitarest" the whole POINT of this article is that Tony is a politician and as such he has to consider what China or Korea or other important partners of ours will think of what he has to say.

It's nothing to do with lingering resentment against the Japanese or a feeling that they weren't brave or skilled soldiers.

It's entirely to do with not making China hate us.You're not going to lose any sleep at night over China's outrage?

Funny, I bet Saddam Hussein said the same thing about the US.OK pretty sure that no-one during the war "grasped" that Japan could be the best of friends.

The US was rounding  up any Japanese civilians in their territory!

And the point remains: Why mention it at all? Why not talk about how cool Japan's robots are or how delicious their eel is? Anything but, you know, bringing up the war and giving them any kind of pat on the back for it.And we don't care, Redfish. We only care that they were mentioned when they shouldn't have been, and that's annoyed China no end.

It's like if you have two bickering aunts who hate each other but you're trying to get on both their good sides, and then you purposely compliment one in the earshot of the other.We don't care, harry.

We care that he said *anything* about WWII when it's a known fact that China is still nursing big grudges and pushing against Japan for territory.

And, you know, also propping up our entire economy.Many of their apologies were conditional. They apologised for specific things at specific times, that were proven without doubt and actively campaigned for an apology.

They still claim that only a small portion of the comfort women were forced into the role, and they apologised for that small portion.

That's not a full, proper apology and confrontation of what they did.

Also, they still have the PM go to war shrines that contain the graves of war criminals!

How would it look if our PM went and honoured the grave of Ned Kelly once a year?Pedro this isn't about Japan's continuing culpability to Australians.

It is solely about the political foolishness of praising Japan's WWII soldiers in any capacity, when that is an issue that is guaranteed to raise China's ire.We can forgive, but we can't force China to forgive.

And to mention Japan's war efforts in a good light at all is not a good political play.I agree with the others mfk. 

We have no right to tell China that they must forgive Japan or that they can no longer hate them.

We may think they are doing the wrong thing by that (and I do) but we have to acknowledge it as reality.

And what Tony has just done is to give em a little slappin' in the face for no real reason. There were plenty of other ways he could have praised Japan, because they have had countless achievements before and after the war. 

Picking the war was incredibly foolish.You really think he was basically saying "Those couple of guys, they were great soldiers, but then rest of your chaps were just total crap"?

There's an implicit praise for the ability of Japan to train and nurture such soldiers, which would then spread over their entire armed forces.They could be as brave as honey badgers, but you still shouldn't talk about it when you are reliant on Chinese trade.So Bryan when Rudd called the Chinese "rats" was that just silly, but not earth-shattering?

Or was that a major mistake for our highest elected official?I don't think Japan has any intent to become an Empire again, but they are certainly itching to have full access and control to the same war toys as everyone else.

And why wouldn't they be, with China right alongside them?Yes, actually, I was glad that we had an official apology to the Aboriginals for some of the crimes committed against them.Well if you don't think the problem is up to the current government to fix then obviously it wasn't Labor's problem to fix either.

So glad you agree on that.Well, basically you're saying that nurses want to be paid for the work they do like any other industry, and not accept lower wages for the good of the hospital and the patients.

Not exactly a black-and-white issue there.

But I'm sure regardless of nurses's wage demands, if retirement and aged care village operators were upfront about their costs and dealt honestly with their clients, they would not be subject to so much scrutiny.

The whole way they run their businesses are shonky, and higher wage costs are just a tangent issue.My grandmother only entered an aged care home when she was physically unable to take care of her house.

When that point comes, yes, you are required to either enter one of these facilities or have your family take care of you (but she didn't take up my offer to do so).

Of course, that is precisely the point at which people are most desperate and vulnerable.

Living on your own and only conceding to move into a retirement village with nurses on hand when you NEED the nurses on hand is a plan that's fraught with dangers.

If you know you have no family who will do the cleaning and check your medicines and wash you, better to move into a village earlier rather than later, while you still have choice.

Also, why pour scorn on a community made up of the elderly? If you see young people only hanging out with other young people do you think they are closed-minded?Ah.

Well, I guess as I've never been a proper part of "mainstream life" I wouldn't understand that concern, no.Agreed. I have never fallen prey to a scam or shonky business practices myself, because I am a careful contract reader and researcher.

But I recognise most people are not, and they need protection from themselves and their naivete. 

Just because it's legal right now doesn't mean it should stay legal.In my personal experience the eldery person's house and assets were sold as quickly as possible and probably not for the best price.It's tragic, because people think that the only sort that would operate aged-care and retirement facilities are those that care for the elderly and are compassionate for them.

I have seen enough spruiking of retirement and aged care facilities as great investments to know that is not the case.Is it not in everyone's self-interest to take care of the elderly of our society?

If we only wrote about things we had no self-interest in I think there wouldn't be a lot of communication.

And when it's a far-reaching social issue like this one there's hardly a need to disclose one's own self-interest. "I have parents and/or I know I'm going to get old" is true for everybody.That is a much better option. But it's sad that one had to be extremely researched and prepared to avoid the pitfalls that old and sick people are falling into.

That needs to change.Yes but it really shouldn't be. We don't accept "Buyer Beware" when we're buying medicines or baby foods.

Why should we accept it for aged care?Well that's good, The Owl, but some people DO wish to stay amongst their own age cohort. And if so, we need to ensure these retirement villages are run transparently and are not rorting them.

Talking about the alternatives is all very well and good, but many people won't want them either.This is so true. There's the assumption that all the elderly suddenly in need of nursing care and fit and able to make financial decisions. It has to be proven that they were/are not, usually with effort and expense by relatives.

Or it's assumed the relatives will do it for them, but that's assuming they're not desperate to get Granny out of their hair and wilfully overlooking any objections she has or things that would be red flags if they were considering their own care.

I heard so many stories of "Grandma is just lying about the nursing home" because people didn't want to confront what they'd done to their own flesh and blood.There's been a LOT of talk in investment circles about aged care being a big upcoming market.

Anyone who says there's no money to be made there is either lying or just doesn't understand how to make it.That probably won't really work for exactly the same problem that all the current scams ARE working; because the people concerned are old, sick, unable to make serious financial decisions and don't know who to trust.The intelligent are not entitled to take advantage of the stupid just as the strong are not entitled to take advantage of the weak.Good cop, bad cop.

But at the end of the day they're both still cops.So, basically, government regulation (laws) improved the situation of people being forced to pay a bond?

Good. Let's see some more government regulation to clean up the other areas where there are problems.Nobody cares if there are retirement homes that charge a million dollars a year. 

What has been highlighted here is situations where the elderly client or their family 

a) may have been misled about how certain charges or fee structures would operate and what they would get for that fee, such as listing freely available govt services as part of the services offered by the retirement village/care home, and

b) purposely held over a barrel to get more money out of them in a "legal" way such as the village being the only agent able to sell the home but being slow in selling it as they are still getting upkeep fees from the estate.

That has nothing to do with HOW much is charged.If you are correct then it does sound like the legislation in place is making Aged Care Homes acceptable.

But perhaps it should be extended to Retirement Villages that use a similar bond structure.I have a better idea.

Abolish state governments, have a Federal govt and local Council govts.So... Bligh stalled pay rises for herself, and Newman let them through.

Yep, that looks like one person being sympathetic to the plight of the electorate and one not.Yeah, you wouldn't notice if 50% of your garbage collectors or path and roads maintenance disappeared, would you?

Until you fell in a hole filled with garbage, of course.Yeah if you remove automation and invest less money into something, it will work better!

Logic!So really your problem is not that they are "economic migrants" it's that they're "not the kind of people we want to have around".

Well why didn't you just say so?Snufkin, do you seriously think that this government is going to improve refugee processing in "point of origin" camps or increase the amount we take from those places?

All they are doing is "stopping the boats". That's it. So to pretend that there is some other humane actions taking place elsewhere is self-deceitful.Not just the Sound of Music but look more recently at Pol Pot and how anyone educated or with glasses was on the chopping block; millions of people dead just for being educated.

There are million things that can trigger persecution - they may just have decided to marry someone their family doesn't like and now they are social outcasts. Or they may have unpopular political views.john1, per capita figures do not make us the biggest takers of refugees in the world, even if we hit the top of that scale.

How about per square metre of land? Australia would be so low on the list you could just about find it in the core of the planet.So, Joe Blow, you actually approve and want to encourage more semi-skilled labourers to be imported into Australia to work for lower wages than Australians - thus reducing the chance of employment for legal citizens?

Uhh pretty sure Nauru and PNG are just as bad if not worse than the life they came from. The people there aren't particularly welcoming to the refugees.

And Cambodia? I know it's improved a great deal in the last couple of decades but you are seriously suggesting people who want a better life should be happy to go to Cambodia?"What you refer to as "rights"" - So you don't think there are human rights that everyone should get? And if they aren't getting them they should just stay where they are, lest they pollute the fair society of Australia?

You don't think there's persecution in India? Do the words "untouchable Dalits" mean anything to you?Aussie Sutra, isn't the reason there are so many South Africans in WA now because they migrated here in search of a better life? You know, cos their old country was kind of awful. And they were rich enough to afford to come here?

Sound like "economic migrants" to you?Joe Blow, do you think that no rich white Westerners ever travel for fun to countries where the local people are oppressed and persecuted?

It happens all the time. India is riddled with corruption, poverty, abuse against women and sectarian violence in certain places.

And yet tourists flood in there!Aussie Sutra, I'm glad to see that you think all the recent UK and South African white, English-speaking migrants in WA are a leech on the system that we can ill-afford.

Of course, they are employing people like me and spending money in the economy and paying taxes, but no, you are steadfast in your facts that they are leeches.

And in reference to the above comment about travelling and seeing the world - the point is that in many places the officials are so corrupt you have to bribe them to get ANYthing done, including refugee processing. 

So what is the difference to these people between bribing govt officials to get processed, or bribing people smugglers to bring them across.

It's all going to look the same to them.So Paulh, you would like to see us increasing the amount of "genuine" refugees we take from "genuine" refugee camps?

So what do you say to the fact that Abbott has actually almost HALVED the number of "genuine" refugees we take? 

Does that disgust you also?And no-one has the responsibility to stop and help someone dying by the side of the road.

That doesn't mean we won't judge them for it.And many refugee advocates would be happy to just let them live here temporarily. We do not necessarily want them to have citizenship and welfare rights.

Simply a place to live, be educated and work. Someone can be productive to society without being a citizen.They probably should settle a lot of the refugees in Canberra - maybe that would help make it into a real city, instead of a sort of squatting figment of political fancy.Hey well we can probably support a lot more now that there's those desal plants built.Which makes you think... maybe going home is a worse option than staying in a prison camp? Maybe that's why they fled "home" in the first place?And acts of self-harm by teenagers are designed to draw attention and compassion from their parents and peers.

Do you just slap 'em in the face and assure them they'll never get any attention, so they may as well quit it? 

Or do you think, hey, maybe they have a serious problem here that we should confront?Do you really think most refugee advocates have a "limited" agenda? Most of them probably have fingers in half a dozen humanitarian pies.So Albo it doesn't bother you that these underhanded methods that are explicitly designed to demonise them are being used by our own government?

Any means justify the ends, hey?Yes, John, nobody else can see them, except for the Tasmanian Times. But I guess that probably only exists in Phillip's mind to.

His mind is an amazing thing.Who cares damon? We don't care. We don't want to "re-settle" all of them. We want them housed, clothed, fed, educated and given jobs.

They don't need to be citizens, they don't need to get welfare or voting rights, they don't need to not prove every couple of years that they still have a job.

We aren't asking for a free ride for them, just that we flex the muscle to give them a hand up.Uh... just because depression doesn't manifest the same way in every person doesn't mean that if you have a bunch of depressed people, there isn't going to be some overlap between some of their symptoms.

Plus if you've been in the state to self-harm you know it is NOT a normal mental state and ordinary people cannot just "decide" to do it like deciding what colour shirt to wear this morning.Ahhh Freddie me old Frog, removing our selves as signatories to the refugee convention would certainly solve a few problems.

Like the rest of the world thinking of us as civilised.So Clete you'd be perfectly happy if we let all these refugees in to live in camps or roughshod settlements where we, the taxpayers, would pay for their food, clothing and education?

I'm glad you're on the same page as the rest of us, let's go bring over some boat people and set up a camp with doctors and teachers.John do you think that people who successfully contemplate and commit suicide never publicly threaten?

That's usually their last resort attempt to get help before they do the deed.You might not stay with them but you wouldn't ignore them either.

Unless you were happy to live with the shadow of someone's death over you.bluedog, the people smugglers didn't just grow up out of the ground like mystically planted weeds.

They exist because there is a demand. So no, the people smugglers did not "start" the misery trade. 

That would be whoever is killing or persecuting or economically disadvantaging the refugees to begin with.Ahh nice use of the "core promise" there.

The "core promise" is the one he ends up being able to keep - all the other ones he broke, discarded or was foiled on are "non-core".

Retrospectively, of course.I'm not concerned to see Abbott make such statements about suicidal people. 

It's so plain to see what sort of twisted morality he has that if he made a statement of compassion that would be concerning! It would make me have to rethink my belief in skinchangers!So your support for genuine refugees will lead you to oppose this Government that has lowered our intake of genuine refugees from refugee camps.

Right?Harry, he hasn't repealed the carbon tax yet, so they can't write an article congratulating him for doing it, can they?!Mike, maybe it's because that 20%'s wages are historically lower than they were in the past.

It's true in the USA, that's why they're suddenly pushing for minimum wage increases, because current generations are actually earning *less* spending power compared to a couple generations ago.

Anyone done the numbers on our actual spending power of low wage earners compared to the 50s?APM there is plenty of evidence of torture by the Sri Lankan government even in the last couple of years. You can google it and find it easily.They weren't "persecuted" in Indonesia but Indonesia is not a signatory to the refugee conventions and is under no obligation to shelter them. It also would probably not give them permanent residence. What kind of life is that? They would be "illegal" there on expired visas.

The only reason it let them in was because it thought they were leaving again soon; to Australia.They were taken against their will and forced into an outcome that was not what they wanted.

It's not quite on the level of Somali pirates but it's certainly a shade of gray.Dapsta those student visas usually require they or some sponsor is paying their way.

We are talking more about charity educational visas, so not the same thing as we currently have. That is what he is suggesting.So the rich will leave and be economic migrants somewhere else - just like the boat people, except in a nicer boat.Honest Johnny, if a North Korean dies in their attempts to flee North Korea illegally, would you say that smuggling trade should be shut down to prevent the deaths?There weren't jobs for them. They went and made jobs on farms. There are illegal immigrants today fruit picking and working on farms.

Apparently its too expensive to give them to Australians so there are certainly "jobs for them" if we consider them second-class citizens.Yeah Terry, we will welcome immigrants with open arms - as long as they speak English and have the same culture as us.Even the Germans, during WWII, were demonised. Even those that had been here generations but still lived in German communities and spoke German.

To pretend this current lashing out at "boat people" is not racially based is naive.Well in my experience the most morally void people were also the ones that argued the most fervently that they were perfectly upstanding and moral citizens.

The people who accept their own faults usually are less cruel to others.Ummm pretty sure it's the perpetrators, Johnno. Those who stand by and do nothing are jerks, sure, but they're not worse.I would take a refugee in or sponsor them to live in some kind of community here.

We don't want them suddenly be given a house and welfare. We want them to have to send their kids to our schools and learn our language. We want them to get jobs.You do not think the fact that the water has been "muddied" by one of the most vocal voices says something about the entire movement he is part of?

I'm not opposed to euthanasia for the truly terminal ill. But everywhere it has been put in the guidelines have broadened and broadened.

You don't have to be terminally ill, just chronically ill.

You don't have to be old, you can be young and chronically ill.

Oh you don't even have to be chronically ill just have lowered quality of life.

And now, you don't even have to see a head doctor about your supposed lower quality of life.

I have been suicidal, and if people can't see the similarities between the "crazy" suicidal people and the supposed "logical" suicidal people they are blind.

There are two distinct states but there is also a lot of bleed-through and the error seems to be more and more on the "well let them kill themselves then if they are unhappy" side.And that is the debate I am having with you right now.

I support euthanasia for those who are both terminally ill AND in pain, or for those who not terminally ill but are in pain that there is no cure for.

I will oppose it for any other group on any other grounds. 

So, what is your response to that?Community moral preference has always taken precedence over individual moral preference... 

You either change majority opinion or form your own society.

History has shown those to be the only ways.No, hardly anyone wants the terminally ill to die a horrible death. I fully support euthanasia for ONLY THAT SITUATION. Terminally ill AND in pain. Only that scenario and no others, ever.

We simply have seen the cases that have passed through the Netherlands and Belgium or people who were not terminally ill or even in much pain.

We have seen Nietzsche now give suicide pills to a depressed teenager.

The advocates now have to prove that is not the end result of their proposed laws.Steven, ironically the reason we are more humane in putting down animals is because we don't value their lives as much.

As much as I love my pets, if I know it is going to cost hundreds a day to keep them alive, I am going to rethink keeping them alive - even if they were getting a good quality of life!

When it's our grandma, suddenly we are willing to spend thousands a die to keep her alive, even if she's just sitting in bed.

It's exactly because we value the human more than the animal that we end up inadvertently torturing them with longer, more painful deaths.So it doesn't bother you that many of those 21-year-olds would later recover from their pain and distress and go on to live fulfilling lives, as happens in our current system?

People who commit suicide are not necessarily the ones in the worst circumstances or the most pain - it is more how they can cope with that pain that determines their wish to die.

And often their ability to cope is determined by their peers; their family, friends and society.

Put it this way: We already currently have a higher rate of suicide amongst gay teens than straight teens. So let's say it became legal to get suicide if you could prove you "were really just never going to be happy again". 

And then this legal suicide system killed gay teens at a higher rate than straight teens.

Would you say "That's fine, exactly how it's supposed to work, it's a basic human right"?

Or would you feel like something wasn't quite right here?the yank, I AM one of those people who is living with depression, for over a decade, resistant to a slew of drugs and therapies, and no sign it will ever go away.

If your dark places have made you wish it was ended years ago, why haven't you? Suicide is not illegal, nor is it really that hard.

You long for the day you can do it with dignity? That day is today. You don't need a law changed to do that.

As someone who has "been there" I'm going to guess why: Because you don't really want to die, you just want the pain to stop.

I would be the one to administer the lethal drugs to the "old, frail, terminally ill and in massive pain" patients, but I will fight tooth and nail against euthanasia being extended to anyone beyond them.I realise my first reply to you was probably unnecessarily harsh.

What I mean to say is that for the people who are in such painful struggles against their crippled body or crippled mind, I want us as a society to fight as hard as we can to improve life for them and make their lives meaningful.

And if we say that euthanasia is a valid option for them that undermines that fight.Huboo, taking someone off their life support machine is not the same as assisted suicide in the euthanasia sense.

The person on the life support machine is going to die if they're off it. Bam.

The person who wants assisted suicide is NOT going to die straight away on their own - it is going to be painful and unpleasant even if they get no medical help.

You are confusing the issue.rob1966, I agree everyone knows there is a distinction between euthanasia and murder, but most people are also aware that the line can be blurry and people can use that to their advantage.

For instance, someone already suicidal often needs only a single unkind comment to be pushed over the edge. Was the person who commented at fault? Is only the suicider responsible for their death, even if they may not have killed themselves without that hurtful comment?leafygreens, I think most people who attempt suicide and fail end up being glad they didn't succeed. I would be surprised to see stats that suggested otherwise.

Of course they're not going to all go on to have children and live wonderful beautiful lives - some will struggle their whole life. 

But someone without legs struggles their whole life as well. If they say "This quality of life is not good enough for me, I want to end it" and we say OK, yep, let's help you end it, what message does that send to all the other legless people?

Yes, society thinks that your existence is a poor shadow of the real thing. They're willing to help someone in your exact situation kill themselves.But I am not anti-euthanasia. I am against the broad euthanasia policies that many of the most vocal advocates are pushing.

You are again using the example of the terminally ill person in pain.

But evidence from the countries where euthanasia is legal shows that is not the only person seeking the service, nor receiving it. 

Evidence from Nietzsche's recent actions shows HE does not believe only the terminally ill person in pain should have euthanasia.

I have confronted your scenario: a terminally ill person in pain should be allowed to have euthanasia.

Now confront MY scenario: Should anyone who feels their "quality of life" is not worth living for be allowed to have access to euthanasia? And if yes, do you care how other people in their situation (depressed, disabled, etc) will feel about that?We can indeed start at the point you nominated where our views overlap.

But the way people would find out if a disabled person was allowed access to euthanasia is the same way we discover that the young and non-terminally ill are getting access to it in Belgium now; They will fight the courts for that right and for the law to be changed.

My concern is that if we start at the point you want, it becomes easier for challenges to be mounted against it and pushing "that point" further and further towards those who could reasonably be helped by other means.

You are right that no two people are ever in the same situation. But for the most part there is huge overlap between our human experiences - that overlap is how we relate to and understand each other. And any depressed person who seeks euthanasia, I know that if I heard their account of their life, there would be huge overlap with mine.

You want me to single out those few points of difference (oh they had much worse parents than me, oh they're poorer than me, their medication works even worse than mine) to try and console myself that while HIS life wasn't worth living, mine still is.

But you are not understanding that is not my objection to it. I'm not objecting that some people have horrible lives they want to escape, and there will always be some people who kill themselves.

My objection is we, society, should never sit back and accept that. Just as we "understand" there will always be domestic violence and rape, we should never "accept" that. 

One can understand that their ideal will never be reached, but that doesn't mean they stop reaching for it. That is the essence of hope.

To me and many others, to say "You feel your life is too terrible, so it is socially acceptable to us that you end it" is a way for society to shrug their shoulders and say "Ahh there will always be people like this. We just have to accept it."Exactly. People could fly to some countries to get around child sex or prostitution laws.

That doesn't mean our laws were wrong, just that some people were able to get around them."self-administered euthanasia" is suicide. A lot of people oppose suicide. You have to give evidence of why we should let this suicide go when we try to stop so many others.

"They are dying in a rictus of agony" is an acceptable reason for most people, including me.

"They just feel they have a poor quality of life" is not an acceptable reason because that is EVERY suicidal person's reason."What if they are still living alone after all these years, and still dogged by lonely ugly depression?"

I've had depression for a decade. I know I will probably have it my whole life. In that respect it is not different to another disability like having my legs amputated.

If one person thinks having their legs amputated is too awful to live with, you are happy to give them access to euthanasia?You hardly have to be admitted to a nursing home. You can insist on taking care of yourself or killing yourself before you are admitted to one.

Killing yourself is not really that hard - I don't know why everyone is so upset that they can't get this or that drug. If killing yourself was so hard we would not have amateur teenagers doing it year in, year out.

If a Schizo person can be said to have such a bad life they should get to kill themselves when they aren't dying, can't you say a person with amputated limbs, or a paraplegic, also has such a terrible life they should be able to kill themselves?

And then what do you say to all the other paraplegics who say that scares and worries them that society thinks "those kind of people" have such crappy lives we accept their killing themselves?It is always your right to commit suicide. If you do it yourself then no mourners will be harassed. 

If you are so committed to euthanasia you will kill yourself *before* you become incapable of doing it yourself. The only people who would be "caught" were those who suffered a sudden, catastrophic accident or stroke or something. A small minority.Wouldn't people who believed there was an afterlife be more happy to kill themselves?Bing! Bing! Bing!

A person who is dying and in pain has too horrible a life, they should be allowed to die.

A person who is not dying but in pain has too horrible a life, they should be allowed to die.

A person who is not dying or in physical pain but is in mental pain has too horrible a life, they should be allowed to die.

A person who is not dying and who is in mental pain because they are disabled is having too horrible a life, they should be allowed to die.

= Being disabled is so horrible, you should be allowed to die.The places that have legalised euthanasia already have a lot of grey areas; people who weren't actually dying, teenagers, people who were just chronically depressed.

Everyone seems to think suicide is so hard, but that's only because no-one talks about it. Because we don't want to encourage people to do it, of course.

We've purposely set up a stigma and fear culture around suicide to drive people away from it.

But it's not hard. It's easy to kill yourself, people do it all the time.

Euthanasia breaks down that stigma and fear, which is a big barrier to many people killing themselves.Ahhh dear it's as though you seriously believe the ALP are socialist. 

Well, or you want everyone else to believe that, anyway. 

Right? ;)I don't really care if he is just a rich fool having a lark.

As far as I can tell, that's what all the other politicians are too, except he's just richer than most!

All I care about is what policies are implemented and how successful they are.Grover that is a beautiful example of doublespeak.

An amazing specimen, pure and refined in its essence. I almost want to frame it and hang it on my wall.Alpo if you think reality never changes you have obviously never cracked open a history book.

Do you get it now?Oh not like those "illegal boat people" boogeymen at all, nuh uh, those were SUPER dangerous. I think they were actually going to eat babies. I think some babies did get eaten, I'm not sure, but I'm pretty sure."not a bad cross-section" =/= "genuine cross-section"All politicians have egos. All politicians are loud and aggressive.

I'm pretty sure there's actually a questionnaire you have to fill in before running for office and you must tick the "inflated sense of self-importance and desire to tell everyone about it" in order to be admitted. 

I'm not even saying that to be cruel to politicians, I'm saying that is literally the personality type required to be one."high on celebrity, low on policy" sounds like every politicians dream! I can see why they are all so jealous!In my experience Family First is a somewhat loose coalition of people with wildly different economic beliefs, their only "admission to entry" is a similar social vision for families. Hence the name.

It could never really get up on its feet as a major party for just that reason - they don't have enough internal cohesion beyond the "family" thingy.

They're no different to a sport party or a free marijuana party except they have a more noble "pet issue". (Well, some would debate that.)Yes but every specialist party has a destructive policy.

Sportspeople want unrestricted fishing and hunting.

Sex party wants unrestricted -redacted-.

Marijuana party wants unrestricted cannabis use.

Pirate party wants unrestricted pirating.

If these people could see issues in a holistic manner they wouldn't be part of a special-issue party!Indeed. I have a degree but a lower IQ than my degree-less husband.

I know a lady who got into a Marketing course via an Arts course, all she needed was a portfolio.

She is easily the stupidest person I have ever met, hands down, but she had pretty much an equivalent qualification to me.

Ahhh, reality bites.In some democracies, the only legitimate grounds for being elected were that you owned property and had served in the army.

Oh and spun some good rhetoric of course.

I guess at least that last part hasn't changed.Because FF voters are interested in social issues, not economic ones. So they let through candidates that have economic policies they hate because they support social issues that are key to them.

It's no different to any other special interest party."filthy lucre" haha oh my, one wonders how you can single Palmer out for especial derision amongst all the political elites. Surely you must hate them all with passionate fervour.

Would I be wrong in guessing that "...and let God sort 'em out" would be a portion of whatever policy you think best for the political class in Australia?Yeah, but you wouldn't take in any of the candidates for public housing anyway.

Would you rent to a young bogan couple with a bunch of unruly kids and a mangy dog, and a track record of trashing property?

I doubt it. But the government will find a place for them.Get real, janice. I am part of working couple with no kids. We have never been turned away from a rental and have a great record.

But unlike some people, I am not a heartless leech and recognise that some people are always going to be bogans and they need housing too - and you won't do it, the government has to do it, so stop pretending you are "lifting the load" from the govt.

You will only accept people like me - you will never take the truly pathetic."cute"youngchic - what's wrong with state housing? Oh, what's that? The people that use it are socially undesirable? Well, where do you think all those socially undesirable people go when private investors buy up properties and make the place "respectable" by only renting to nice people?

Do you think they just fall into a hole in the ground and die? Nope, they state housing is just MOVED somewhere else, and we STILL pay for it with our taxes.

The only thing this crazy real estate pricing has done is price many young couples that would have bought out of the market and forcing them to rent to pay money to investors - why do you think new home buyers are at a historic all-time low?Actually, no, 5minutes2midnight, that is not true.

The Australia Bureau of Statistics reports that during 1985 and 1987 when negative gearing was curtailed, rents did not rise any more than is inside normal fluctuation rates. 

In fact there were far higher peaks in the 70s and early 80s, and rentals KEPT rising even after they put negative gearing back in!

Get some facts, please.Janice we don't give a fig for wealthy people getting someone we don't.

We give a fig for the fact that we CANNOT buy a home. We can't - a childless couple working median wage is simply not in a position to own a home. The banks turn you away or put you on predatory 30-year loans that would bankrupt you if anything went wrong.

That's what we care about. YOU are forcing ME to go homeless. I don't care how rich you are. Just stop making me rent when I want to buy!Good, then you are a fine investor. If you aren't rorting the system and won't care if your properties lose value - because the rental is your income stream, not the tax breaks or the capital gains - then there's really nothing wrong with what you're doing.

It's the investors that are relying on property to grow, grow, grow and never fall that are hurting the poor in this country.Please. Conmen are "astute". Bernie Madoff was "astute". Give me simple and honest any day.

I, and millions like me, don't want to "get ahead". I just want to "get a house". I don't care you all have diamond-plated megayachts, I just want a darn house so I don't have to live in fear of being homeless if I lose my job!

Invest in shares, start-up companies, moon landings, whatever else you want if you want to become rich.

Just stop "investing" in keeping people homeless!No-one wants to remove the tax shield on businesses and other productive/speculative endeavours.

It's simple that, surprise-surprise! The current property tax system in Australia is fairly unique in the world. It is not "the way it has to be" and property speculation should not be the same thing as venture/business speculation.Ahh, the consumers are "morons" and the investors are "canny"!

Your viewpoints can always be easily condensed down to just a single sentence.Patriotism is the last refuge of the scoundrel.AE - that viewpoint is exactly why we have government price controls on basic necessities. 

The "smart" are not entitled to take advantage of the "stupid" just as the strong are not entitled to take advantage of the weak.

To think otherwise is anathema to civilised society.I know plenty of people who own small businesses, and most of them are the biggest crooks I know.

I also know plenty of small business owners (and work for some) that I consider to be impeccably honest.

Don't pretend every small business owner is some kind of saint struggling hard to provide for their families and improve society. A good half of you are crooks screwing over the system and everyone else for their own benefit.

We have every right to comment."cute"youngchic, check out an actual graph of rent price rises and falls over the longer period of the 70s to the 90s and you will see that the rent rise during those periods of no negative gearing was utterly normal - in fact, lower than previous rises, and it kept rising after negative gearing was put back in!

So please don't spread that lie any more.And negative gearing on property is pretty much only in existence in Canad(i)a, NZ and Australia.

So it's hardly a central pole of the system, either.Bill, your final piece of advice is basically to try and keep inflating the bubble you acknowledge exists.

History has shown that to be terrible, terrible advice. 

*Unless* you think the bubble is going to get bigger and you can sell them for a profit, before it collapses and takes all the other suckers out.

So, basically, that advice is either silly or predatory.Oh, they'll sell. They just need to lose their job/business/health and need the money, and they'll sell.

What, you think the houses will just lie around derelict going to waste for the next couple hundred years, just because there's a CGT?

No, jimbob, to stop you investing in property we do not have to make the other options more attractive - we just have to make investing in property LESS attractive.

We don't care about your 4%.

We care about having homes that we can call our own.No, the rental market did not "crash". It rose in two cities by a small amount, well in line with historical rises and falls.

It continued rising after negative gearing was reinstated.

In addition, only a handful of countries around the world have negative gearing on property, yet there are healthy rental markets in the US and UK where they don't have it.

Is Australia somehow magically different that every rental property would disintegrate into ashes if negative gearing was removed? Huh? Would we all jump into the sea rather than pay extra rental money? Huh?

Cos in my experience rents keep rising and people keep paying.Indeed, and it's a known fact that renters actually make the whole process more complicated. 

There are plenty of properties lying empty because they exist to create a tax offset for someone, not to provide shelter.

Yeah, it's definitely the immigrants fault for that.Tator, good for you for making some money off the existing system.

That doesn't mean the existing system is a good idea for society.

Negative gearing on property is NOT the norm in most countries. Australia is one of the odd ones that has it. It is not necessary. 

If people aren't willing to take the risk of building a new property for their investment, maybe they don't deserve to make that money.

Making money out of investments is all about risks. If you want risk-free money get a job.AE, making a gain on paper means nothing if they aren't averaging that "value" around on other investments. And the majority of homeowners are not so that "gain" is just the Emperor's New Clothes - some day someone is going to come along and tell them it was invisible all along.

And don't pretend you don't understand how the current situation with older generations squatting ownership of all the housing stock is pricing out the younger generations.

I suppose if the simpletons really need it, I can hand-hold and explain why that is what's happening and how it's happening.Yeah and I bet he's really keen on repairing his slums. What happens when the roof starts leaking. Oh, guess you gotta repair it yourself out of your own pocket.

What makes your cheap-and-nasty "slum landlord" different from state housing? Is it just the puffed-up pride of not being on public handouts? (Oops, we lose billions of tax dollars a year to negative gearing, so I guess you are on public handouts, in a roundabout way!)ronji, we DID pay for it when you were negatively geared.

Billions of dollars of potential tax is taken from the system every year due to negative gearing. That is our nation paying for your profiting."just pay rates on unimproved land" - and what would that get you exactly? Nothing, until you sold it. So you would basically just be speculating on its value rising.

Ahhh predatory speculating on what is a basic requirement of human life - shelter. 

What jolly fun!Also Steven you are very misinformed. Negative gearing does not need to evenly apply to property and other forms of business. In fact, it is only in Australia, NZ and Canada that it does so.

Everywhere else there is no negative gearing on property. So we are in fact the weird ones!And many people sold themselves into slavery voluntarily, for a variety of reasons.

Does that make slavery OK then?Oh good, then you can take responsibility for your losses when you risk your money on ventures. 

Oh, no, wait, we're subsiding that, aren't we?That does seem to make sense doesn't it rusty cairns?

It's almost like the government has some kind of conflict of interest preventing them from taking the rich to task...

I guess maybe electing only rich businesspeople comes around to bite society in the bum eventually.

It's kind of like how a ruling class made up only of landed nobility had a really good system for a person to be landed nobility in!OH really AE?

So the baby born with foetal alcohol syndrome has the same opportunities and ability you do?

The baby born with Downs syndrome? The baby born with Crohns syndrome that will be paying a big chunk of their income for medical fees their whole lives?

The baby born with parents that beat them has the same opportunities?

You are living in a fantasy land.ibast, there will be a reduction in house prices.

People will stop buying houses as investment properties, therefore fewer people trying to buy = lower prices.

I mean this is such simple math. How can people not understand how the market works?Haha, no Zany don't you get it? It's GOOD that new entrants can't afford a home. That means they have to rent one of your properties!

The young are just a bunch of ungrateful bludgers anyway, they deserve to be screwed over by the older generations, and this will never go badly. Young, poor, desperate people have never been known to take what they want by force. Never in human history!"Who in their right mind would continue with a loss making venture any longer than necessary anyway?"

People who are using it to offset the taxes of other profits and income... obviously. Do you not know how this works? I'm sorry but you're out of your depth.I've sent plenty of inquiries to real estate agents about opening days for new properties on the market only to be told it was bought "sight unseen"!

Guess what, a new home owner is NOT going to buy a property sight unseen! Only investors and speculators who care mainly for the land value or don't care if the place is a dump they rent to others do that.

So, we gave up even looking. The only places we can afford are two hours out of the city and would cost us as much in fuel per year as we saved anyway. ie, we still can't really afford them.foolking, I don't know about other states but in WA there are already schemes in place where the govt subsidies landlords who rent their properties out at lower prices for people who are on low wages.jimbob if there is a housing shortage, then why are investors and banks sitting on empty properties?

Look up figures of empty properties and you will soon change your tune about what is causing the "housing shortage".Yup! 

I am in this exact boat! Two-income couple with no kids. Even in that situation, we cannot afford a mortgage in a two-hour radius of our jobs.

And if we did live out in the sticks we would have huge transportation costs.

We also would require both of us to be working to pay off that huge mortgage.

The end result is, we are going to have to choose between a home and children.

Oh, we're such an entitled generation, aren't we?"Australian property is very expensive in comparison with foreign equivalents"

Ahhh, the good old argument that Australia is just magically different from every other country and property market on earth.

It must be all the kangaroos.Nah, there's subsidised low-wage housing in WA. Mostly low-income bogan families using it. And while there are some foreign students, I thought we were trying to court those because they put a lot of money into our universities? They can hardly sleep in the street while they study can they?
No Charles you are wrong.

Only Australia and a handful of other countries give negative gearing  concessions on property like other investments.

WE are the odd ones out, the aberrant ones. It is not some universally acknowledged truth that our tax laws must be set up like this."Investment housing greates housing for people who need/ want to rent."

No, it is a FACT that most investment housing just buys existing houses, it does not "create" new ones.I suggest you do some research into how many properties are left empty by investing landlords and banks.

Then come back and tell us that isn't a symptom of negative gearing existing on properties.

Cheers.Uhh pretty sure Palestine has gotten used to Israel's attempts to kill them too.

The issue isn't magical "preparedness", its that one side has "guns" (ie Nukes) and one side has "sticks". 

So yes, it is entirely the same as the Settlers vs. the Aborigines.We don't live in South America, we live in Australia.

We don't feel guilty about it - we just want it acknowledged. I don't feel guilty about the Germans killing the Jews either despite being German descent, but I want it acknowledged loud and wide that it happened.Are you serious Peter? Just a scroll down the page you said this!

"Keith Windshuttle showed quite convicingly that Reynolds and his fellow leftist historians care more for their own agenda than for impartial history."

You clearly do care for Windshuttle and his book! A lie on the same page, no less!ScotchCarb, you are assuming they see ownership of a created object and ownership of an animal the same way.

These were people who had no livestock - they killed and ate wild animals.

Yes they had a concept of possessions, no they did not have a concept of livestock.

Two very different things.I learned about a lot of the early explorers.

How they were so stupid they walked off into the desert and died.

How they would tie up an aborigine and feed him salt meat until he was desperately dehydrated and willing to lead them to his water hole.

How they would be attacked by tribes that didn't want them coming through their lands, and kill many tribesmen in retaliation.

School children should still be taught about these men. They did terrible things.The difference between our current system and a republic are basically just semantic...Really Peter? Earlier in this discussion thread you said, and I quote, 

"i dont really care about windshuttle or his book. i dont really care about little details of what happened 150 years ago,"

Yet here you are pulling him up as "convincing" facts.

Do you only have two faces you speak out of, or is there third? Perhaps a fourth!So you think "Australia" is just an identity of some people who happen to be living on this country, and not the country itself? 

So if this continent sank into the sea and we all swam to other countries, we would all still be "Australians" and any wars we fought would be for "Australia"?And how are we going to remember not to treat human beings that way if we don't memorialise and remember it?How is it Gillard's fault that the electorate voted in the Greens? Or that some of her underlings didn't fall "into line". I think we would like our politicians to do what the felt was best for their electorate and not simply toe the party line - except when it hurts us instead of helps us, hey?Engaging the middle ground is as easy as conceding that your opponents have some of their views or points correct, even if you disagree with many other (or the majority) of what they say.

Just agreeing with and congratulating one action of your rivals while chastising them for other actions will help. As well as not making remarks about their personal character. It's the appearance that you view your enemies as evil 2D cut-outs that ignites outrage from their supporters.Then maybe all these people wringing their hands about out of control public servants could actually name those particular roles or departments they think are a problem - instead of just saying "Public Servants Bad", which just makes you sound like a lunatic, since those public servants do include all those doctors, nurses, road workers, etc.Well Todd my father is not poor nor struggling, but he now has a voltage meter that monitors their electricity usage every minute, and they toggle absolutely everything in the house to try and maintain a low usage.

Also, there were tax cuts and rebates to the poor people so they could pollute as well. Remember that?I think you have that backwards. The Greens don't get to suggest a piece of legislation and then the other parties vote on it. Rather the Greens are always just voting on other parties legislation.

So, while the Greens may vote for Labour 90% of the time, you have no proof that Labour would vote for the Greens 90% of the time if the situation was reversed.Being a public servant doesn't make you part of a "political class". Most public servants are just doing stuff like monitoring pathways and sidewalks, organising garbage pick-ups and ensuring people don't let their dogs off leashes. They don't have to be any more or less politically inclined than anyone else in the country.And on top of all that, no matter how many times his numbers are disproved, he will continue to fling them out in every successive debate, because he's RIGHT no matter the facts! It's better that people believe his lies and agree with him!Twitter, Facebook, etc. may still be a niche demographic, but if you were to just count those citizens below a certain age threshold it begins to look like a different story.

So even if they're still niche now it is critical to pay attention to them because it is how the younger generation of voters are expressing themselves. Ignore at your own peril.It's true - it's hard to not feel strongly about what Abbott does and says, no matter what side you fall on.

I thought John Howard was a rat but I agreed with many things he did and didn't *hate* him - just thought he was a rat. To be fair I thought Rudd was a rat too.

Abbott is a lot more... difficult to feel neutral about.You think the public have what they voted for? Then why are all these Liberal voters screaming about having been lied to? Are they just a figment of the imagination?

This is more like the family agrees to get a kitten and then Dad goes out and brings home a puppy.The disinterested do not "negate" the votes of the interested. Nor do they sully the political discourse to be infantile - I mean look at the US! They have voluntary voting and the worst political discourse in the world! (Barring those countries that don't have one at all because the are one-party, of course)It's simple really - news stories, or journalists of any stripe, should be prepared to document their articles with references, just like any university paper. 

Make an assertion? Provide a link for evidence of that. Then people can go through and read that piece of evidence and decide for themselves if it stacks up as true.

Not good enough to just say "A report by this mob said". Link us to the report!Yes, and if they say "She said this" they need to provide an exact reference of when it was said. Was it in Question Time? An interview? An interview with who?

Because then you can go and see the context they said it in.  That often takes a lot of the incendiary nature out of exciting quotes, when you realise it was after a big clarification lead-up speech that the reporter just "forgot" to include, or in response to a very specific question.

Not to mention, there is still a lot of reporting that claims independent facts, not just "he said she said". Economic reports are a prime example.You really are a one-trick pony, aren't you Harquebus? Believe it or not, many countries can balance their budget without sterilising their population.

Your pet issue may be very important but trying to shove it into every single discussion, ever, where it doesn't belong, makes you seem like the Men's Rights people. (Another worthy issue that shoots it's own foot off.)Very few articles about indigenous issues will include actual policy recommendations. If they do, they will be airy-fairy ones like "We need to get the opinions of these people and let them help make decisions". 

I guess it's just an area with such a bad track record of success no-one wants to pin themselves down as supporting an idea that may blow up down the line.I seriously doubt the current electorate is any more ignorant than previous generations. We are more highly educated than ever before.

If there is any more ignorance about political topics than in the past, it would only be because people are actively trying to disengage from it, or because there is less information being given to us by political commentators.

Not because people are magically more ignorant than their grandfathers.Keating was certainly foul-mouthed, but there has been swearing and insults in Australian politics from the word "Go" - he was just particularly good at it, so his quips were widely shared.The problem is the "perpetrator" is probably every politician, ever. So unless you want to dissolve the entire system and start from scratch, you are going to have to work with the bullies to lessen their bullying, and only kick out the true die-hards who can't change for love nor money.Oh my, yes. This is probably one of the first times in history, since we lived in communities where we all knew each other, that there is too much information widely shared for leaders to spin narratives and have the public swallow them because there are no alternatives.

Really, maybe we are just at the point where the most charismatic leader wins, and just tries to keep up with what the public wants rather than implementing their own sweeping visions.

Well, maybe not, considering the leader choices we are presented with!Mmm... so are billionaires the middle ground now? Because they seem very well catered for. They're a fringe group statistically - by your logic they should be screaming blue murder but actually they seem to be doing quite nicely in Australia right now.

Are you equating "middle ground" with "what the majority wants" or actually in the middle between ideological camps? Because those two things aren't going to be the same thing.

Your scenario sounds more like some people are freezing and some people are burning but "on average" everyone is warm!GraemeF, as much as I lean to the left, I have to say, if you haven't seen very vitriolic left-leaning rants, it's because you haven't been looking for them.

In the say way that many members of the "right" think that ABC is some bastion of lefties, they can only hold that view by being completely ignorant of all the *actual* lefties out there, some with very extreme views. They make the ABC look like newborn kittens when it comes to pushing left politics.

So I guess you may be correct that those extreme left views make the news less than extreme right views.

But that doesn't mean they don't exist.No, those people are not "extreme left". 

If they're not seriously promoting socialism, not just the Nordic version of it but hardcore, real socialism, they're not extreme left.

We have the extreme right *actually* pushing Libertarian viewpoints and policy wishes in mainstream channels.

So where are all the Anarchists?Agreed. Scapegoating individual navy officers would be the complete backwards thing to do if international laws have been breached. 

We want to go after the decision-makers, not the powerless hand at the end of the arm.Compared to actual extreme leftists, the ABC is a wet puppy.

You can literally see many of them bitching on their own sites about how the ABC never "takes risks" and always "waters down the truth".

You think the ABC is extreme left because you've never actually read the extreme left.

I suggest you do, it will be very eye-opening for you.Technically someone has to pay them, otherwise they're just an aspiring writer.If there was less disagreement in political discourse in previous centuries, it was only because there was less information fed to the public. It's hard to disagree with a viewpoint you don't realise exists.

The 24/7 cycle may have helped, but for the most part it just repeats itself - and anyway the world is 24/7 so there's always fresh news somewhere.

Maybe if news outlets reported more actual world news instead of just wars and suicide bombings, we would have a lot better perspective and understanding of our system and options.

Case in point: Why did nearly no-body mention Iceland just defaulting on all it's debts?If they discourage private debt, spending and investment will go down... that is the opposite of what the "eternal growth" makertmongers want!

They don't tell us what would be good for *us*, they tell us what would be good for *them* and then try to make it sound like it would be good for us too, somehow.

Every single politician ever does it, so until people actually take the maxim "why is this lying liar lying to me?" to heart, we will continue to have people voting against their own interests.It can and does apply today. Any time you see a politician talking about what they believe in, what they want for Australia, what matters to them and the people : WATCH OUT. 

What does this politician propose/vote for? Do I agree with their decisions more often than not? That is the only consideration.

The words that come out of their mouth are lies 99% of the time, so why bother listening?What on earth makes you think that the CBA would provide "knowledgeable and competent advisors" while independent ones would be "young and inexperienced"? 

It seems more commonsense that young new uni leavers would try to attach themselves to a bank to learn, and that once they were older and knew how to do things themselves, would leave to form their own businesses.

Besides, if you're paying fee for service, you would of course try to find a FA that had years of experience. 

And the whole point is that without fee for service the CBA has been "making up costs" elsewhere by selling products that only make THEM money, not the client!Yep. There may be some red tape that needs to be cut, but it will almost always be in place as a result of a redundancy or two departments trying to do the same job - red tape that was put in place for a purpose it is still fulfilling should as a rule, never be removed. Check the money trail of whoever wants it done.Well, maybe if one of the biggest banks around is pulled down and exposed as screwing over their customers, people's belief in being able to "invest their way to richness" will decrease, and less people will be using and abusing our destructive system.

Just a thought.Because they honestly don't care about the electorate in any capacity besides their capacity to vote for their party. To most of our political parties, if you could never be persuaded to vote for them, you'd be better off dead and voting for nobody."It only takes one company to do a job better to induce the whole industry to replicate the behaviour because it can see that it will be left behind otherwise."

If that is true RobP, then why are there still any ISPs in business besides iinet? It was the only company that walked out of discussions with international media companies that would have been unfair to both the ISPs and their customers.

They have proved again and again to have their customers best interests as an important goal, rather than getting into bed with whatever powerful company wants to roll them. 

And yet the market has not shifted to them en masse...But the problem is that people who have poor money and investment sense don't *know* how uninformed and silly they are. 

In fact, in my experience, the less knowledge people have about any subject, the more expert they consider themselves to be about it in a short period of time.

That's the whole reason why regulation exists - to protect idiots from sharks. If we were all well-educated and intelligent, we wouldn't need laws stopping us from hurting ourselves and others.There's nothing stopping us from making refugees have requirements to permanently settle here, just like we do for legal immigrants. That is, they can't access our welfare system unless they have a job or are looking for one. They must send their children to our schools. They must live and work where we tell them to (where there are job shortages).

If we can create jobs for our own bogans, we can create jobs for low-skilled third-worlders. You don't need to speak English to dig a hole. And hey, it would also create jobs for translators to liase between those staff and the Australian ones! Jobs for everyone!Of course, hush, cover your ears. If we don't know what evils our government is doing, we don't have to feel guilty about being complicit in it.

Husssssh.And I learned, big joe, that operational secrecy is at least half the time in place not to innocently protect the nation's interests but to enable evil acts to take place. 

I guess you just prefer some evil acts slip through as long as our interests are taken care of.

I do not.You don't have to be a cultural relativist or not want refugees to integrate, in order to support allowing them to come here.

I am perfectly happy for the government to impose strict guidelines and practices on refugees in our care, including working and living where we say, learning our language and educating their children to live in our culture. But taking care of their basic needs at the same time. If they find this situation preferable to their home countries they will come here, if they find that culturally unacceptable they will go home.

No violent coercion or chance of drownings involved.Richard how do you know the deaths have stopped? There is operational silence! They could be torpedoing every refugee boat that enters our waters and you wouldn't know!

That is the whole point of why operational silence is bad! What are they doing out there that they can't tell us about it? Just turning boats back? They were doing that before and telling us about it just fine.So you say the smugglers don't care about putting their clients in a rickety boat during monsoons, but they'll stop sending them if those boats get turned back?

Nuh uh, they'd send boats they knew 100% would be turned back, as long as people would pay them to get on it. 

And while our government is being secretive about what happens to said boats, people may feel they can take the chance. After all they took the chance when they KNEW our navy was patrolling to turn them around. Why wouldn't they take the chance when they don't know what's going on at all?It will never sink in because they do not want these filthy "mongrel" people here and know full well it is immoral of them to want that.

They must maintain the cognitive dissonance that there are reasons that their immoral desires are actually right and correct.If 5 or 6 boats are small potatoes, why bother stopping them at all?Yup, we must have a scapegoat "sin eater" that we punish for our collective sins to show how good we are by contrast. Just as the adulteress is stoned to death to show how morally outraged her upstanding neighbours are.So why does the Business Council oppose minimum wage rises then? Not because it suits their interests??

And you seriously are happy to be perfect pals with a country that is still torturing its own citizens, as you can read in several of the links helpfully provided in the article?

How upstanding of you.Good to see you straight up admitting you want to withdraw from pacts of agreed morality. 

Next up, the social agreement of not stabbing other people in the neck when they spill a drink on you. I look forward to the withdrawal from this agreement.Settle them in temporary shelters awaiting the yearly quota reset, and then processing them as all the others. Not holding them indefinitely, not turning them back around.Then Freddy, why don't Liberal supporters complain that their own party is ignoring the plane arrivals? Why don't they ask Tony why he's not "Stopping the Planes"? Why did we not get a blow-by-blow of how many refugees arrived by plane every week?Just as the US government eventually released the documents that showed they purposely experimented on black men with syphillis, and ignored that their families would be infected as well by not telling them in time.

But at least we knew in the end, right?Marilyn, if a refugee is in a country that didn't sign the act and has no laws about refugees then they do not count as protected and can move on to a country that did sign it, ie, us.It wasn't so long ago that Australia had a blatant "White Australia" policy. Well, the policy is still clearly in place, it's just not so blatant.And watch them not respond to you now, James... what excuse can they give for attacking the messenger instead of the message?You could just as easily say that it is socialists that forced people to live together without attacking each other, too. The same way Libertarians claim that taxation is stealing by the government. Everyone can call one thing something else.

At the end of the day, the majority will get their way even if it involves forcing others, and the majority may want more socialism than we currently have.You talk about "pure" individualism as other people speak of "pure" communism or "pure" free markets. It will never happen and you know it.

The individual's choices will conflict with other individual's choices and either the majority get to decide who wins out, or they'll fight over it.

That's humanity, end of story.The CBA has only agreed to compensate and apologise because they were fought against so hard. Same way the union corruption was only exposed because it was fought against so hard.

Your attempts to differentiate the two and say "Oh well the CBA admitted they were naughty so that's OK" are telling. If the union leaders had stepped up as soon as the corruption was exposed and said "Oh we're sorry, we won't do it again" would you believe them and say a RC wasn't warranted?Yeah but how well did telling them to eat cake work out? Saying the people won't revolt is like saying the huge dam won't break because of one or two leaks.Yes, every philosophy tries to close it's eyes against the damage it causes itself. And every philosophy causes some damage to someone, somewhere.

The current Liberal philosophy is just very damaging to many people, that's what sets it apart.I am well aware that the long-standing philosophy of the Liberal party was always damaging. 

And by "closing their eyes" that is precisely what I mean, that they engage in self-delusion and cognitive dissonance so that they don't have to confront the truth.

Feminists don't want to accept that women in the workforce has created a crueller dual-income system that makes parenting harder. 

Libertarians don't want to accept that lower government regulation always leads to more abuses by individuals in society.

And the Liberal party don't want to accept that they're a bunch of scumbags. Same ole', same ole'.I only recall one story being published on the book by Thomas Piketty about wealth inequality, which is arguably far more important than the book you just spoke about.So Dunlop's mantras are unwelcome while Toby's far more simplistic mantras are just fine?But ynotbbb don't you see that nobody sees themselves as a "leaner"? You'd have to dig up the most bogany bogan to possibly admit that, and even then they'd have some excuse as to why they can't lift with the others.

No-one, I repeat no-one, wakes up the morning and thinks "ahhh... looking forward to another day of pathetic suckling at the public teat!"Firthy, the left knows full well that people need to work, and they can't be shackled with too much tax.

However they disagree about how much is too much. Nordic countries have super high tax rates and, amazingly, their country is not being evacuated like a drowning ship.

So where is your evidence that higher tax rates would cause an implosion of our society?Paul I'm glad your experience with WorkChoices was good, but the actual data, that I perused while in university, was that for the majority of workers it was not.Hah! A nice rebuttal to finding that your own side stinks as much as your opponents. Similar to Laborites deciding that unions as well as businesses should be barred from making political donations.

Hopefully both sides will learn something from being forced to eat humble pie.It is amazing how many Liberal voters will confess to being fooled. Maybe I am just more cynical, more well-read, more suspicious, but it was obvious from day 1 what their every true desire and goal was.

I wonder if this isn't in part due to many people not having a good grounding in philosophies. Every person has a philosophy and when you know most of them and can identify which one a person follows, you will have a pretty good ability to predict their other beliefs and choices.

So it didn't matter to me what Abbott and Co. said; I could see their underlying philosophy.

Maybe we should teach comparative philosophy in schools again.Just no practice in being objective and creating distance from your own beliefs and practices so you can evaluate them dispassionately. 

I'm not going to point fingers at one political side doing this more than others - I find it happens on both sides.

There are plenty of people who will defend scoundrels because the scoundrels are supporters of their pet issues.And of course you need "feet on the ground" in the ranks to report on these practices, and those people need to be part of a wider organisation that can give them voice and support... like some kind of... organised labour movement...Yes I know Michael. But strangely when people call for a royal commission against banks they don't demand banks be abolished, yet there were plenty of calls for unions to be abolished and claims they were no longer needed.Is it not criminal or even punishable to give advice and pretend you are a professional that knows what you are talking about when you are not truly qualified?

I know bank tellers, and I like all of them dearly. But I have heard some of them talk about the practices of selling insurance and other financial products, and it makes me very uncomfortable and unhappy to know they are involved in such practices. They are not qualified. One, who I don't even think did it, did attend Uni but for social sciences. The other simply joined as a bank teller in her youth and worked her way up inside the bank.

Yet these people can sell you insurance and give you advice for financial products?Who is to say he made a gain? He could have bought them when the market was high for long-term dividends. 

Don't make accusatory assumptions because you don't like someone else's moralistic actions.Jimmy you are probably deciding that statistic based on a certain definition of abused. Certainly it is rare for people to be actually raped or stripped or forced to perform an act, but gropings, fondlings and "suggestions" to gullible young girls that said young girl is able to avoid, also count as abuse.

3 girls in my family, 2 that I know of had one of the above occur to them pre-teenage years. The other was taken advantage of later in life but had her own role to play in it. Not great odds.Well actually, we do have a very similar case to "he cured cancer but he's a pedophile" - a lot of experiments done by Japanese and German doctors and scientists during WWII had some very valuable and un-reproducable data on what happens to humans under, shall we say, stressful circumstances.

Eventually it was decided to use the research despite knowing full well how many people died to get it and how they died. A lot of people still disagree with this decision. 

So, yes there would be people who would say "I don't want my cancer cured by that man".The article is talking about one man, but you have latched onto the phrase "certain men used this power" out of a whole article, in order to have a go at it.

You do realise your constant knee-jerk "this is always about men's rights" on every article, ever, makes you look somewhat insane, don't you?The definitions by which rape are judged is also creeping. 

I take it you are then of the mindset that if a woman had a few drinks and went out looking for a good time, she can't claim the fellow coerced her into it?There is a difference between outrage at a work of art and outrage at the crimes of an artist, which then leads us to view their work with disdain.

If I paint a picture of a mutilated corpse, people might object to that being hung in a public gallery. There is no crime here. No-one is hurt and people are objecting a depiction, not an act.

If I paint pictures of beautiful flowers and everyone wants one, but then I go out and murder someone and mutilate their corpse, people are probably also going to want my paintings to not be hung in a public gallery, but for a very different reason.Frangi, modern athletes have their crimes exposed and continue playing. Or for every one barred from playing, there are many fans saying it shouldn't be so, because they're such a good athlete, even if they did do a bit of raping.

Wheras if Woody Allen was actually convicted of child abuse, I doubt anyone would want to pay money to go see any new movies he made.

But people are willing to pay money to watch a rapist kick a ball around.Maybe not the clubs, unless they knew about it and hid it, but certainly the players. Stripped of awards, no future career, if they love the sport that much they'll keep doing it as a hobby even while they find some drudge job that will hire even someone with a criminal conviction.Well considering his family were adamantly denying he did anything wrong and even claiming his victims were lying... do they really need our support to heal more than the victims do? Shunning his work helps the victims feel socially vindicated.Meh, maybe. There are people willing to buy prisoner (outsider) art simply because of who made it, but it's not really that big a market compared to more acceptable art.
Wow... really? The innocent investors will be stripped of their millions. The victims of abuse need to suck it up and accept that these paintings will continue to be displayed and celebrated because otherwise poor investors will lose out.Todd, saying there are signs of improvement in Greece is like saying the person in full body cast is taking solid food again. And then comparing that to someone else's (Australia) 2 inch scar taking a long time to heal.No problem internally with the Australian economy that is within the RBA's power to fix. We are having a currency war problem. That is not the fault of any government except overseas ones.Sydney's real estate is the most expensive in the world, you don't think those potential profits on over-inflated building prices (I'm betting commercial as well as private real estate is in high demand) are what is driving the construction boom?

So your "boom" is in fact, resting on a bubble.Stopping the "wrong people from borrowing too much" could just as easily be a matter of legislation on banking practices, rather than cutting hard at people's hip pockets so they don't feel they can spend or buy as much.Yup. I would rather a thousand businesses died than one hundred people due to starvation, no heating, no access to higher healthcare or mental help.Indeed... punishments abound for individuals but no punishments for businesses. The poor dears must be protected or else they will "fail" but if people are struggling they just need to try harder.

Well how about this, if your business can't handle more tax or higher wages, TRY HARDER.Clete, the mining companies can get off the gravy train before any people with chronic back pain can, thank you.Not entirely true. You can change your super to be held in cash only. My own father did this pre-GFC and his super was not impacted by it. But he is a very cautious man by nature and so has never been willing to take risky investments.Denise, I sympathize that you want us to listen to your opinion, but this can't be about every individual who wants to have an opinion. This country has to be about everyone, including the people who can't work.No it isn't. It's only irrational if the circumstances have nothing to do with your disability. 

You are talking like all those people who say "Look, just because that mob of men were yelling at you to take off your top, it wasn't discrimination because you were a woman. I'm sure they do it to blokes as well!"I know, black people in 40s America had a persecution complex too, just because they couldn't get a mortgage. 

It was thoughtless of them to whip up a frenzy of public opinion to change that issue, the problem was clearly only with themselves.Thelma, there are businesses that cheat on their taxes too - do we assume ALL businesses are tax cheats unless they prove otherwise? No, we do some checking where we can, we investigate reports, we do some random audits. But on the whole we accept some cheating as part of the cost of the system.

Same with pensions.The degree gives you theory you need just as much as you need experience though.

The companies who can afford graduate programs want those with the very best grades - does that sound like they didn't value the degree?

Most other positions beg for both a degree and experience - oh but they also want you to be young and fresh enough that you won't demand much of a salary.

Now who here looks like they are shoving responsibilities for training employees onto others?It's clearly simply something to keep them in the mindset of "I must get up every morning and go to work for someone else".Are they too nice to say no? Or do they just realise it doesn't really matter much if the person turns up or not, in the grand scheme of things? 

Oh no, a few hours work sorting shelves (that may have been improperly sorted) was missed!

For that, the perpetrator must be punished with no money for food this week.

And this article has demonstrated that those people must be a tiny minority - so why talk about them so much? 

It's like trying to purge your house of Daddy Long Legs spiders because you just can't stand spiders.

It's counter-productive because other spiders or insects will take their place. It's expensive and time-consuming. It's foolish because they do nothing to harm you. It could possibly poison your own pets if you overdo it.

Focus on the red-backs and ignore the daddy long-legs. That's what "true" bludgers are - they are daddy long-legs who don't really matter, even if they are somewhat distasteful to live alongside.They could thumb a lift? Seriously? So if some 19-year-old girl told you she was going to thumb a lift across the country to the mining towns you would be like "good idea. Nothing bad can happen here!"??

Astounding.So Jimmy, you are saying our young people and graduates should all go overseas where there are better opportunities.

Alright, fair enough. Just don't complain when there are too few taxpayers in the future to pay for your peer's retirement pensions.No they will not move when their welfare is cut. They will move in with their parents (which they are doing!) They will become homeless (which they are doing!) and they may turn to crime or welfare fraud.

Why would they leave their entire family and everyone they know - at their own expense - on the possibility of a job? Not the assurance of a job, the possibility. You have to get people at starvation point to make them do that. Real nice of you.Exactly - he's alright, so the fact that he may have put someone else out of work with his more sophisticated and higher paying job is not important.

That person clearly didn't try hard enough.So you feel in your situation automation helped. Do you deny that there are many industries where automation has obliterated jobs? Been to a Woolworths recently? Noticed how there used to be about 6 front of store clerks and now there are two to three? 

Seen any heavy manufacturing industries having men pour metal and shape metal by hand anymore? Sure there are some niche ones where making the machines would not be economical, but economies of scale have made automation possible and fruitful.

Automation, as a whole, puts people out of jobs.Maybe we could pay addicts and the true "bludgers" a generous lifelong pension for getting sterilised and not passing their habits on to a new generation.

I bet it would get more takers than would make most people (including myself) comfortable.

Of course, imagine having to prove you are a "real" bludger or addict to avoid rorting of that pension by people who just don't want to have kids!I know two people who work only partially for their own fathers, and probably cash-in-hand. If their fathers didn't own their own businesses, they probably wouldn't have jobs. They're fit young men, one of them has a university degree, the other is a father and husband. But if not for the fate of fathers with businesses, they would both be on welfare.

And you know what? That's fine. Because no-one else would employ these two men. Both have mental issues that, if you just knew them as a casual friend, you would not know exist. Maybe they have both made their condition worse by not seeking medical help or trying to educate themselves. Maybe not. Maybe their parents messed them up. Maybe their genetics did.

Your anecdote says people who could work don't. My anecdote says usually, there is probably some reason under the surface you can't see.

Because who is going to tell you they once drank bleach? 

Who is going to tell you they can't pay attention to tasks well and never will be able to?

Who is going to tell you that they can't stand interacting with other people and would need years of therapy to manage just going into an office every day?

Who is going to tell you they need to take 8 pills a day just to walk around and look normal? (that one is me - but I do work, for now.)

When you say "Why aren't you working?" they won't tell you any of those things.

That doesn't mean they aren't there.
So you don't dispute that this article is full of facts... but you just don't like what they say, so taxes shouldn't pay for it?

Good to know, can now disregard your opinions.You make the clear and obvious point that these true bludgers are shuttling all that free money straight back into the economy. They're not saving it up or putting it in Swiss bank accounts - they're shoring up our own jobs!It's not just that, but remember without our lifetimes a lot of those school-leavers were women, who were only in the workforce for a decade or so until they had children. And then they didn't have to be counted as "unemployed".

It's both those things you have identified and others, like easy visas for foreign nationals, swirling together to create a maelstrom of bad circumstances for today's youth.

And none of those actions was undertaken by today's youth themselves.Actually the retired are the most capable of moving out of any group of unemployed.

Interestingly, youth are called job snobs if they refuse to move to some hellhole town to work.

But when the suggestion is made that the family home be counted against pensions and thus retirees be forced to move to where it is affordable for them to do so, there is a huge hue and cry about how unfair and cruel that is.

Enormous double standards.So? The employee should happily starve for the greater good of the employer? If the employer can't afford it maybe they need to restructure their business so they can.

Oh, no, better to blame the young and poor for just not trying hard enough. Don't blame businesses for not trying hard enough as well.So basically you think every 18-year-old that leaves school has to create their own job?

I went to a mentorship program while in Uni and mentored under a very nice chap who was head of a non-profit. He told me to call the heads of companies and tell them I wanted to work for them, even if there were no job postings - just like you have suggested.

I didn't even get past their secretaries. I got a job through Seek.Indeed. It amazes me how so many people can not look at the history of labour and realise that we are in a very rare and precious state of rights for the masses. And we need to protect this precious state, not squander or abuse it.

Giving some people "too many rights" is the better alternative than giving some people "not enough rights".If Governments don't solve our problems, what are they there for?Yup. And Woolies and Coles and all the rest of the retailers employ only the very youngest they can. And of course, then they whine and complain about how lazy and unproductive they are.

Of course they would rather stab out their own eyes then roster on their experienced older staff to weekend and busy shifts when award rates are high.

But they feel entitled to complain about the poor quality of the workers they do employ and roster on. And they think clearly the solution is to *force* those older workers to work on the weekend for no extra pay!Not even worth replying to and antagonising them in this thread. If they are your allies here, keep them your allies here, don't drive them away because they're also your enemies elsewhere.

Yes but even if you don't ignore the artist's crimes, you can't ignore the power and quality of their artwork either. It's the same with considering the validity of an argument put forward by someone whom you morally despise. Do you let that colour your view of facts and arguments they present?

All art is just communication. It's a personal choice to cut off all communication with "undesirable" people or to let them speak to you even though you know what they have done.I believe Godwin's law is only provoked if you accuse the opposing party of being like Nazis, not simply by bringing them up as a neutral example.You don't have to personally respect someone to agree with some of their views or to find value in some of their output. If you only value the output and views of people you 100% respect, you will find yourself amazingly isolated...

Even the most hardened criminals have something they can tell us, even if it's not what they think it is. 

And if you can't appreciate any art that is made by artists whose values you don't share, how can you appreciate any art or literature before the modern day? Even the greatest Greek philosophers were often unrepentant misogynists. Just means you listen to their philosophy of shape and numbers, and not their philosophy about women.What about murderers? Surely that is a time we should dump the work as well. 

What about those who provoke social disharmony, which could have led to suicides or murders?I could wear his sweater. It's just a sweater. But I wouldn't buy or sell it assuming it had some value due to his infamy. There's the difference. 

You can't fully separate the artist from the art (though some postmodern theories about the "text" do try very hard) but  you don't have to assign any greater or lesser value to it because of the artist.

Simply put, I wouldn't hang the artwork of the most saintly person if it didn't appeal to me, and I would hang the work of a murderer if I thought it spoke deeply to me. 

I've not known many saintly people to paint anyway...They're not being valued on quality. He was not a very good painter, and probably some frustration in that path could explain some of his later rage at the world. (Artists do love to rage at the world).

They are being sold almost entirely on his infamy, it's just such a strong infamy that it's keeping away most buyers. I think they will only appreciate in price as we get further and further away from living memories of his legacy. I don't think they should be sold for a profit at all.You are assuming the value of a painting is only something that can be economically decided. Most art lovers assign values to works on a personal level. Sometimes that expresses itself economically as everyone values the same painting - but usually the price is decided by people who are just trading on other people's regard for it.

If you truly love an artwork then having a copy of it doesn't diminish your enjoyment or value of it, even if you never get to see the original.This is probably quite true. Maybe the reason we excuse many other famous artists their crimes is because they never tried to whitewash them.@Ray "I can say, having lived through those days of the 60s, 70s and even 80s, that they were different times, when such acts that Rolf is convicted of today were regarded as mere misdemeanours or breaches of sexual etiquette".

Not from the perspective of victims. Have you listened to their testimony? They went through this in the 60's, 70's and 80's and it was trauma and violation to them. These were criminal acts, not 'misdemeanors' or 'breaches of etiquette'. What an ignorant comment.Wow zero emissions means zero unemployment? I wonder how hundreds of thousands of years of humans managed without knowing this!Does it really matter what they call it when we all know what they are talking about? They could call it "bad gases" for all it matters.Bahbet you have quite misunderstood APM's post. He's with you on the religion-hating, don't worry.One man's "sensible measures" is another man's "draconian policies"...Centrist, people live on the outskirts of town because that's all they can afford. As a Gen Y, we are told that we are uppity and "want it all" if we want don't want to live in the newly-developed suburbs in what was once total rural backwaters. It's only 500k for a 1-room studio apartment near your job with kitchen, bathroom and bedroom all in the one area. What are you complaining about? Have you seen how they live in China? So entitled!Worldwide population is already projected to decline in the future. There, you don't have to worry anymore!When the huge demographic of older people in first world countries finally die off, and the already projected decline in birthrates in third world countries due to increased living standards comes into play, we will have population decline without anyone cutting out anyone else's bits. So stay calm.What exactly is wrong with a centralised world government? A country is just a centralised government of counties. A county is just a centralised government of towns and cities.

"Countries" are just lines on a map.Rabbithole, they can bury the nuclear waste of the entire world in "our backyard". Have you not noticed 80+% of Australia is uninhabitable desert?Uhhh... China? They had a pretty clear population control policy.At least after that peak it is set to decline. There's no sign that after reaching two degrees higher, temps will start to go down again.An ice age would probably be good news for us here in Australia. Why would you want to stop that?I have a crappy old TV. I replace my phone when it breaks. I don't drive a car. Hooray my opinion matters to you now! And my opinion is... you're wrong.How was it incompetent?I hate those inefficient and anti-renewable roads and bridges. Where I go, I make my own roads!Yeah, they never bother to ask the young which problem they'd like to inherit. I'd rather have a huge debt then a decaying ecosystem.Well actually most of the apocalypse stuff in Christianity came from adding in the book of Revelations. Ignore that and it's actually fairly light on end-times. Can't think of many Eastern religions that have much to say about it either.

Also environmentalists are not looking forward to the apocalypse as inevitable. They are trying to avoid it. That's quite a big difference in outlook.Yeah... he should have mentioned the total lack of honesty we can expect from this current government, considering their track record.Well the waste products aren't "ever-lasting". I mean that's some nice human-centric hyperbole but they do have lifespans of radiation. 

And the sun is deadly too. The sun is nuclear. We're just far enough away from it that we feel comfortable using it. Put a nuclear power plant in Woop-Woop and most people would feel comfortably distant enough from that too.Ah but you see, they, as powerful and rich members of society, don't fear warfare and deprivation like the rest of us. They have pretty good safety buffers in place to prevent them feeling the effects. Ever been to South Africa? The rich can stay comfy even in a warzone...I don't think it's OK. The entire article is snide, which is acceptable if it is about shady politics or dealings, but this is just snide for Palmer being fat, successful and possibly stupid all at the same time. And we just don't like seeing those three together, now, do we?In this case where he was actually forbidden from speaking wouldn't that count as "suppressed"? What else possibly could if not that?Actually in many cultures men could and would be "honour" killed as well - that just seemed to drop off while the killing of women remained.

For instance, because of the tribal culture, a crime committed by someone in your tribe or family was a reflection on ALL of you. Think of how we would consider a wife who stayed loyal to her murdering husband. So the entire family is seen in that light of being loyal to a murderer unless they
a) turn him over to be killed 
b) kill him themselves

In fact killing him themselves was more honorable, because it showed how much they rejected him. Just turning him over makes it seem like you're reluctant to see him punished.

This existed in Viking and other Germanic cultures as well but was replaced by "blood money".Zing if you think the only purpose of debating an idea is to spread it as potentially valid you are lacking in an education. People debate most viciously those ideas they want most to kill. Yes once everyone is agreed there's no debate. But everyone is not agreed here. There's our culture and there's their culture, and maybe the two cultures should have a debate!Yes, actually, men in many cultures could be killed for honour. If they ruined the family's honour then it could only be restored by killing them.

However as the Western legal system moved in and replaced the need for "family justice" those ideas faded away. But the Western legal system never tackled their other ideas of dishonour like cheating on your husband or marrying some lowlife. Obviously because they didn't think those things needed punishing. But that gap left women still being killed and men not. 

So, yes, a debate on whether or not they should put in some kind of "slap on the wrist" punishment for those things into the law so that tribal law is not relied upon, would be a good debate! 

Of course maybe both would still happen... who knows? We don't know, because no-one is talking about it except to say "how wrong! Stop it!"sdrawkcaB, I hate to agree with Zing but he's right, you're basically saying you're gonna break the law if you don't like it. Pretty sure all criminals don't like the law. Therefore...Exactly. When a man kills a woman for leaving him and hurting his self-esteem, that is a form of honour killing. But because his family wasn't involved, we just go "oh he was a bad man". 

Maybe he is a bad man. But maybe we should also confront the tatters of honour that are left in our society and how they are often used to drape whatever monstrosity people wish.

Honour is a critical social principle but because it was also a much abused one, it's almost entirely been ignored in Western thought recently.Yes, yes it is. Shame too many people are (wilfully?) blind to its magnificent eye-melting grandness.Those both sound just as dangerous as his topic, if not moreso. If that first one is correct then the honour killings or the baby trafficking don't really matter in the grand scheme of things.

Much more dangerous a view.Brian, if you are one of the "many" Australians that never say or do racist acts, then why would you feel included in the statement that "racism is still alive and well in Australia"? It obviously doesn't include you, right?

Besides, your conduct would be at odds with those around you so you'd be more easily able to see their racism in play.

Everyone is a little bit racist, and if you don't think you are, it means you can't see your racism. That should be a big red flag.Turtle, the statement that sharks are alive and well, and present a threat to surfers, is technically correct. It is also correct that it is a very SMALL threat to surfers. However, the surfer that encounters the shark feels like it was rather a big deal.

The same with racism and racist acts.Zaphod, I would ask the people concerned that question: the refugees. Do they prefer the risk of dying at sea to NOT taking the risk ie not coming over here?

It's not my life at stake so what right do I have to tell them what is preferable in their own lives?

After all, don't we all support euthanasia now? If people have a right to kill themselves via injection surely they have a right to kill themselves via leaky boat, if they want to.That while she continues to have racist acts perpetrated against her, she won't trust the average Australian to not be a racist.

His point is that until society changes, this woman's reaction to society will not change.Stella, I appreciate your efforts but you will have no impact on people whose prejudices are as deeply entrenched as our friend here. 

I mean, wanting to restrict adult male immigration from African nations? Because the black men are harassing our women? No-one else is getting shades of 'Hey, where the white women at?' from this?

Nearly all sexual attacks against women are perpetrated by men. Therefore, we should rid society of men to stop these attacks. Same silly logic.That's RIGHT, STB!

I too have noticed a spread of toxic cultures inside our lovely land. 

Americans, for instance. Their hell-bent profit gouging capitalist systems have made a mockery of the fair go.

And the British! Their class systems and belief in the deserving and undeserving poor have ruined our egalitarian society.

These cultural malaises can hopefully be cured before it's too late for beautiful Australia.A lot of people will point out that some Asian societies are quite racist.

And they are.

But so are Australians. C'est la vie.So if a young white man is denied a job because he is white, that doesn't matter?Why do they need to point out that their friend at work is a migrant or a different ethnic group at all?

I work for (white, English) immigrants and I rarely bring up their ethnic background, unless referencing their past experiences in the UK.

I don't start all my stories with "so then my British boss says..."Or maybe nobody wanted to be seen remaining sitting down in the cafe and therefore be seen to be OK with the public shaming of the racist act.

If an individual was the only person to witness the racism, and nobody else would know they were condoning it if they sat back down, how many people do you think would still have walked out? And how many would have sat down and not wanted to cause a scene?While I agree that there is always going to be some racist and even sexist and ageist and whatnot banter between people in an innocent setting, unfortunately the people who actually have real prejudices often see this as agreement with their viewpoints.

The same way most men would never rape, but when they joke about a drunk girl, the few amongst them that WOULD rape see it as confirmation that everyone thinks the same way they do.

So basically, you have to know the other person doesn't have prejudices for the banter to be funny. Racist jokes with my father-in-law, for example, are not very funny at all.Ah so it's OK if Australians are drunk, racist sexists... as long as they're not AS drunk, AS racist or AS sexist as the next person.

Whew, hope none of the other countries raise the bar on us.In other words, I won't listen to complaints or tidy up my lawn until the neighbour's much messier lawn is put in order.

So this is why Australians won't support clean energy initiatives and a carbon price.

No fair making us do it first!Yes, it is.

Saying "the cafe owner said something racist" is factual.

Saying "the Chinese immigrant cafe owner said something racist" is bringing up race where it didn't really need to be stated.

What does it matter what race the racist is? Unless we want to paint a certain race in a certain light...I had to admit, despite being as ethnically white as mayonnaise, I still have more trouble understanding thick English and Scottish accents than the Indian/Asian/African versions of English.

As soon as I hear that Scottish burr I panic: "I hope I guess at least half of what he says correctly".

Funnily though, no-one ever wants the English and Scottish denied customer service jobs because their English is unintelligible.I can't even think of any recent examples of the latter in Australian politics. The former has been running riot, though.But he's a right-wing pollie! The ABC were just including him to try and overcome their alleged left-wing bias!

How could they know he was going to say something enjoyably newsworthy?I doubt it will hurt either Palmer personally or the party.

As far as I can tell, most people elected him for the amusement value, and he is sure giving us our money's worth.How could the moderators of the Drum know the gender of the contributors? Even amongst those that have said their gender publicly, well, they could be lying.

And I do believe that women are being targeted more than men; this seems to be a fact brought out by a view of all the platforms, such as twitter, facebook and just using mobile phones, etc. 

Obviously it would also be disturbing if men were being targeted more than women. But they're not. So right now, there IS a gender swing towards being bullied, and it swings towards women.By definition, the anonymity of the internet trolls means that they're, well, anonymous.Congratulations on missing a lot of the point.

Much online bullying takes place against people who have no or little social media presence.

In fact, the less social media presence you have, the EASIER it is for someone to impersonate you and thus smear your reputation by pretending to be you!And so when someone else creates an account in your name and starts posting horrible rubbish about you?

Do you just "not log on" even after many of your real-life friends have expressed concern about all the horrid things "you" are saying on facebook? When you try to get a job and your employer finds "your" profile?But for a lot of people, if you have any sort of public presence whatsoever, people can exploit you online without you even having an account.

Say you're a Family Court Judge. Say you make a ruling someone hates.

Now say they create a twitter account in your name, make it look "official" (as much as twitter can) and start posting racist rubbish?

You don't think that's a problem?What? You think the Talmud story said Ishmael went on to found Islam? Methinks you need to read it again.You're using the same word "creationist" for two different viewpoints, and you know you're doing it. Tricky, tricky.So people from an opposing ideology can decide whether someone from another ideology actually subscribes to it?

I thought this was the age when we were all allowed to "self-identify".tom the (alleged) accountant, if you can see that people are so addicted to cigarettes that they would rather go without FOOD than smokes, what do you think would happen if they were given a basics card that prevented them from buying them?

Crimes, you say? My goodness me!Marty, do you know who they make money for though?

Do some reading about who owns a lot of the pubs and so forth with slot machines in them...

I'll give you a hint. Major supermarket chains. Big corporations. Not Mum'n'Dad small business owners.Oh because big promises made in Indian politics never go wrong, get derailed, are hamstrung by corruption or simply fizzle out into nothingness...

I think I'll put my bets on a less sickly horse.Hey, maybe if they don't want to contribute, you'll never get anything good out of them no matter how hard you whip them. So they become, by default, the least able to contribute.

Who really cares? Is this all about the "deserving" versus the "undeserving" poor to you?Well I'm pretty "left" and I've never watched a slaughterhouse video, never seen pictures of dead children or refugee centres. I have read wikileaks documents but that's not visual...

And I haven't and won't watch this execution video. Don't know what you're going on about.Yeah Hamas needs to set up shop in a specially marked and coloured building that says "BOMB US HERE!" and not try to hide where they can't be killed.

While we're at it, let's criticise the French Resistance during WWII for hiding themselves amongst the civilians and likely causing some civilian deaths.No, Team Australia makes the already self-identifying Aussies think it's a good idea.

You know what would be the best way to make young Muslim Australians feel loyal to Australia?

I don't know - why don't you ask them? No-one seems to be doing that. Just telling them to feel loyal, feel loyal, but not make any effort to give them a reason to.I don't have much of an opinion on Obama (he's not my leader), but I also am glad to see him refuse to get fully involved in a war. Shame he still does the drones.

He's at least trying something somewhat new; that's a change!"Refusing to see the world as it is" is not bigotry. It's naivety, maybe willful ignorance? But not bigotry.

Don't respond to a criticism by just throwing it back willy-nilly. It just makes you look silly.That's a bit of hyperbole Sea Monster when you say a vaginal ultrasound is like a "legal requirement to rape"...

Nearly every woman is recommended, nay, constantly reminded, to get their pap smears, which involves a speculum and is MUCH more painful than a vaginal ultrasound (I have had both).

Is that a medical requirement to rape?

Don't dilute your argument, which I mostly agree with, by coming up with ridiculous phrases.Islam is not A culture. It contains many cultures, some of them distinct from the others and some blended. And while it does have a somewhat ominous shadow of Arab culture over it, it has been successfully filtered out in many locations.

The whole FGM thing does not occur in Arabia - that's Africa, where it happens amongst every religious group. THAT'S a culture.

You only display your ignorance by trying to equate the whole of Islam with a single sub-culture.Sorry, whogoesthere, I'm a white Aussie-born and I have to disagree with you there; Australians are indeed racists. Maybe not "nasty" racists.

But we're racists. Hey, I'm not discounting myself from that! I have to struggle to overcome some of my own prejudices.All ideology leads to violence, except self-destructive pacifism. Don't delude yourself.

Humans are built on a colossal bone mountain of conflict, from their earliest origins.Actually the Spanish Inquisition wasn't as violent as it's often portrayed - there were other Inquisitions which were worse, and people tend to lump them all together as one organisation.

Not saying they were kittens and sunshine, but they weren't burning witches.That's what the article is saying, EMH. Their actions are designed to disgust and strike fear into you, so that you cry louder for military intervention.

Then when the bombs drop on the local population as "collateral damage", a fresh hatred of the US springs up in the soil, and more foreign hearts turn to anti-US causes.

Like ISIL.Having certain ethnic Australian who visit their home country being put on a terror watchlist is hardly something that is only of interest to "certain ideologies".

Remember, first they came for the communists, but I didn't speak out, because I wasn't a communist...They only way they would "get tired" is if we not only killed their leaders but actually suppressed their people to the point of taking over their country fully and making them like a colony.

I cannot think of a single example in history where a hostile population to a large power was "made tired" except by either complete annihilation or violent conquest and suppression. 

Killing their leaders simply spawns more leaders.Um, I think in reply to your last question the answer is "both"?

They want US intervention so that more of the ME comes to hate the US. Why give that to them?I hardly think even a sizeable but still clearly minority group represents a "complete" infiltration. Is the USA completely infiltrated by Latinos?People like pictures, therefore pictures sell more stories.

Even unrelated pictures are better than nothing. Check how many images on news articles you read are provided by Imagestock or a similar source. On some sites the vast majority are stock photos, the ABC is probably a bit better about supplying their own photographs but they still use stock images.Yes but if the ABC ceased using images except where strictly necessary, fewer eyes would visit the page and thus read our clearly genius musings. 

Subliminal techniques to get attention are not only used for evil purposes - crowd control in big areas like airports and malls require it.Oh Peter, I remember being in Arabia during the 90s, and the Mudjahadeen had training camps we passed by. All inside a country supported and filled with US military. A lot of them probably turned into Al Qaeda later on...

Oh and if you want to preserve any shred of innocence don't look into WHO it was that killed the Afghani resistance leaders against the Taliban in the first place...Well early reports said he was kidnapped by Syrian government forces, but now I can't find that claim anywhere but Al Jazeera, not exactly a bastion of facts.Yes, I saw it on the BBC first and at that time (maybe some time after the story broke) they were using a former photograph of him, and not anything of the video.

Come to the ABC and they have a big frame from it. A bit disappointing.Some people are deranged. This happens in all societies and different groups have different ways of dealing with it. The fact that young men can cause a lot of trouble if they are not mentally well has been long recognised and was one reason why many old societies had a requirement to serve in the army to keep them busy and provide social structure.

Maximilien Robespierre had a lot of people murdered, and eventually met a bloody end himself. Can we really view him as that different from ISIL, killing and dying for a cause?

It is precisely because the elderly are the most vulnerable that nothing has been done here to help them. They have weak voices.

Other vulnerable groups that not enough is done to help include the homeless. Weak voices and frankly, they're somewhat smelly and we don't want them around. Oh, maybe they have that in common with the elderly?

To me, the entire aged-care industry has been tarred with a black brush and unless I die before them, I will be taking care of my parents myself. There is going to need to be a LOT of regulation and oversight before I would hand over two of my most precious people to a relatively anonymous and profit-driven system.10 years is a reasonable average for the current crop of elderly people. I think estimates are that most will die mid-80s. So I would support it perhaps going up to 15 or 20 years.

I have not done any analysis of whether increased medical costs near the end of life actually outweigh reduced living expenses such as holidays and outings and new clothes.

I also agree that more of the money needs to be tax-free. Perhaps 500k, in keeping with the national average. Obviously those with a million dollar home are a little disadvantaged, but only a little. They do have a million dollars.

And as for family emergencies, well... unless it's their own medical emergency, why would they be paying for it? And if it is their own medical costs, doesn't their own medical insurance or the public system cover a lot of that? Yes, I know some people may go a couple years in pain needing a hip replacement or something, but that's probably already happening now too. 

And this scheme, with more generous tweaks, would really help with housing availability.I think raising the pension age was necessary. The population is living longer and the system cannot support people retired for as long as their working life.

But the good news is medical treatments and advances are making our older years more comfortable and active than previous generations had.Well, OUB, I'm glad you have some pride, but it is apparent that not everyone does. As it is acknowledged that some people purposely arrange their financial affairs so that they can draw at least a minimal pension and get the equivalent health care cards, as well as having some super and a fat asset in the form of a house.I doubt it's much harder than dealing with any other customer. I've dealt with the broad public - they're pretty dim. And some days I do pretty dim things and need to be guided by hand. Just recently I couldn't for the life of me reset my own credit card pin.

I'm fairly sure anyone operating a care home would be planning and have staff on hand to deal with dementia cases. If they didn't and had to close up, well, they weren't very good at that business.

Not the customer's fault.Amazingly, a large part of activism for any cause is awareness, which is what he is doing right now.

Also, you have no idea if he is not also doing the above. Suggesting he does is fine. Suggesting he doesn't is spurious."Moving house should be a choice, not a requirement." 

Would you say the same for young people struggling to find a job? Isn't moving a requirement for them? Oh I guess they don't have enough accumulated memories, so too bad.Don, he is talking about people who do want or need to move out of their home and into other living arrangements.

And any suggestion that social policies should be put in place to *encourage* that is due to their being an apparent housing shortage, not because anyone hates seeing the elderly living in nice houses.Too bad to infertile couples. They do not have the right to have a child. If they want to go ahead and have one, they have to be prepared for the unpleasant, awkward and difficult battles ahead.If there is some ability for people to know their true genetic parents then, yes, they should. Regardless of the awkwardness for adults. Genetics are becoming a larger part of our lives every year.I doubt she thinks the legal rights of the donors are "not important" but simply "less important" than the child to know their own genetic background. Sure, you can have them just do a gene test and give the child the blind results, that's something. But most people also want to know what the ethnic background and family story was - not just the donor but who were his parents? His grandparents? People all love to know who they are and where they come from.

So, to turn the question onto you, why is the donor's rights more important than the child's rights?

It was obvious to me even a decade ago that this was what would happen in the future with all the test-tube babies. People were simply arrogant to think the children would grow up happily accepting the situation of having a permanent blank "?" hanging in the air over their own origin.Isn't knowing your personal bloodline history also something many people want? It isn't a "right", but you will find it is something nearly every person strives for, if given the chance. 

I think it would be the odd person out who was happy to not know whom their parents were, what ethnicity they were from, how their family came to put them where they were.Well, fine then. It's not like more sophisticated techniques won't be developed in the future anyway to make even infertile men able to have genetic children.

Maybe we should consign this social experiment to the dustbin, just like poorhouses and forced removal of babies from young, single mothers.There is no right to financial support under current law after reaching 18 years of age.

There is no legal framework to support this silly assertion that an adult donor child could request financial support.It is of course not a human right. It is simply a legal right based on the laws of the time.

We do discourage retrospective laws, so I can understand there not wanting to be a blanket forcing of the data to the public. 

However, from now on out, there should be no more privacy protections for donors.

Maybe people should think a bit more about the future before splashing out their genetic material to make children, whether they will be the parents or not.I'm not a man, but it was obvious to me many years ago that this would be the end result - no-one is going to be happy to sit back and be told "you will never know your complete origins". 

If parents can't bear the thought of their child learning about and wanting to have their genetic parent(s) in their life, they should not have the child. Your desire for children never trumps the child's right to their own self-determination.Well, if donor-created children don't want a world where they are denied what they see as justice, I can understand why they would push forward legal motions that would reduce the number of them born.

Ultimately it's not your decision to make about whether donor children are a "good" or "bad" thing, is it? It's theirs.Maybe people will have to give up their dreams of genetically related children - oh, too bad. There are plenty of foster children that need time and attention.You know, knowing the father's identity is a different thing from having contact with him.

If they tried to contact him, and the father refused, and they persisted, he would be able to get a restraining order against them, just like any other two people in the country.Exactly. The goal of the parents for a genetic child and the goal of the donor for some easy money were infinitely more selfish than a person wanting to know their own origins.How are you "liable" to be contacted by anyone? If you have an adult child you want to cut contact with, it's as simple as taking out a restraining order.

There's no law that prevents you from refusing contact with one of your own blood relatives, once the child is an adult.

And even if their child was still under 18, I do not believe there is any legal framework in place that lets said child come to their genetic parents for financial support.

You don't hear it happening of couples that gave their child up for adoption - why do you think it would happen to sperm donors?Oh, how bold of you to tell someone who they can and can't consider their own parents!

Maybe if the man who raised her was not "enough" for her to consider as her only father, he only has himself to blame? I don't think it would be so, but why do you assume the person at fault here is the child?As I said earlier, knowing the identity of their donor is not the same as meeting them. Maybe the child themselves doesn't actually want to contact or meet them, just know who they are.

You don't know. People are just making up the most inflammatory things like "men being forced to be in the life of a donor child!" "men being forced to pay for the support of a donor child!" that have NO legal precedent in Australia whatsoever.Children you've given money to and children you've helped give LIFE to are not the same thing.The real red flag for men a couple of decades ago should have been that their donations were not solicited as charity but for money. 

Women (in Australia) cannot give up their uterus to bring a child into the world for money, but men could. 

Clearly, they should be considered in the same way, and maybe then the men who donated their sperm, knowing who the couple that would use it were, would make including all the people involved in the birth in the child's life, that much easier.Well you aren't in their position so how would you know what it's like? You are saying what they "should" feel about their sperm donor - you have no right to tell them what they should think and feel.Are you an adopted/donor child? Then you can have a say on whether it is the right thing for them to know about their origins.

If you aren't one, you're like a man telling a woman what their rights should be in society.I do empathise with their right to privacy. I just feel the rights of someone else to have some basis for their whole genetic existence trumps that.

I would not explicitly support an overturning of the previous privacy contracts. But they should be banned from being taken out in the future. 

If it turns out no men want to donate if they have to actually be aware of the people they create, then obviously it wasn't a very good system, was it?I agree that retrospective legislation is, in general, a bad thing. It's unfortunate when injustices happened in the past and can't be legally redressed, but it's life.

What we can do is prevent any future injustices.But they have the right to look now. The privacy of the parents is not protected over the child's wishes.I'm sure she has considered that, and maybe she thinks that would be a good thing? A world with fewer children that know at some point in their creation, someone "disowned" them?

Isn't that the reason we support abortion now instead of just letting the woman have the unwanted baby and then putting it up for adoption? Because we don't want "unwanted" children? Maybe the parents wanted them but the genetic father didn't. You think that won't affect them?Right, people should never be called up to answer for their choices that impacted the lives of other people, including their own children.Probably she would not like that at all. Probably then she should not have children via that method. No-one has the right to have children, let alone genetic children.

If nature didn't provide you with working equipment, too bad. Some people are born without arms. Be thankful for what you do have.Have to agree. The "states" are arbitrary lines in the sand and not ordered based on where government was most needed or wanted or anything of the sort.

However, I'm not sure that removing state governments and moving their burdens on to the federal one, with local councils becoming more powerful, would remove corruption outright. It would probably shift it down even further to the local level.

I agree with the author of the article - we need laws that provide harsher punishments and jail time for corruption, not to legalise it.The politicians would go to the nicest jails anyway. The point would be to publicly humiliate and debase them, and the threat of that would stop them from making or taking bribes.I'd support that scenario. Strip them of their privileges and maybe more of them would tread carefully.Not like Palmer, who could have used his own money to run. He would never lie to us!It wouldn't upset the pollies. It would make them HAPPIER. If they only have to court the people who are interested enough in politics to vote they can really stick to the rhetoric and don't have to worry about offending people (that wouldn't have voted for them anyway).

See the USA to view where non-compulsory voting takes us.Oooh that would be beautiful. Want your party to have $50? Got to give them all $50. That would be music to my ears.There is an internal consistency to the idea that white women don't need feminism any more, but subjugated women in other countries do.

Without agreeing with it, one can't deny there is a consistent logic behind the idea that feminism is meant to remove violence and discrimination against women, and that it's role is diminished in the West now that those things aren't a big part of our society any more.

Of course to make complete sense we would have to think that human rights and social causes were also "done" in the West too.I don't have foxtel but I would certainly hope that if someone made an emergency call on my behalf that they would send someone out without having to conduct a skype interview or find reassurance of my plight in my twitter feed first.

Prank calls can be penalised, lost lives can't be replaced.Pete I seem to recall some other stated aims they had, such as no big new taxes, no changes to pensions or medicare or university fees...


Hmm, they don't seem on target to meet THOSE aims.Whitey if you think that the only media alternatives to the ABC are the Murdoch press you are very, very poorly read.

There are tons of other sites and blogs, as well as international sources.This is my main concern as well. I've known people who have indeed, when they became paralysed, decided their life wasn't worth living. That's sad.

The problem is they then extrapolate and assume that every other paralysed person's life isn't worth living.

We should instil joy and happiness into even the most difficult lives, not brush them away as hopeless and worthless.Generality the article claims research shows most people who end their lives don't do so because of pain, but because of loss of autonomy and dignity. There are definitely people who live with pain until the day they die.

But my own anecdotal experience with someone who pushed the doctors into giving them more drugs than they could handle, and thus ending their life, was also not about pain. It was about loss of bodily function, dignity, and the fact that people now only saw them with pity and not the respect they felt they deserved.

Sure, if that's a reason to want to end your life, encourage the doctors to dose you up with more painkillers than your body can handle.

But don't make it so socially acceptable that others are expected to do the same.My own grandmother was hustled into a care facility by her family, who didn't want to take care of her. She didn't want to leave her house, but it was going to cost a lot to hire someone to help her with her day-to-day tasks.

They told her it was just how the world was today, what old people were expected to do. They couldn't expect their kids to take care of them, like she had taken care of her own parents.

Now replace "care home" with "assisted suicide" and the horror begins.If there was no insurance, instead of someone profiting off misfortune we would just be allowing said misfortune to play out in misery and death for those involved.

Isn't every profit made off Viagra a profit made on the back of some man's misery and misfortune?

Isn't every profit made off dentistry a profit made from someone's pain?Okay, well, nice notion, but no unless the nuclear war happens, humanity isn't going to return to a non-material value system any time soon.

And while I quite agree that the monetisation of human life is a plague on our species, making it easier for us to legally kill each other is not a step in the right direction away from that.

Encouraging people to value their family members and care for them even when they get old or sick, instead of pushing them off into hospitals and then "wishing they weren't a burden", is a far better way to pursue a healthy society.muzz, the article shows too instances where people were, while not "forced" into euthanasia, they were given few other options. Their insurance companies refused to pay for treatment to make them better or even live as long as they could.

Instead they were reminded it was always an option to kill themselves.

To me that is morally repugnant.I've also experienced both astounding empathy and astounding lack of empathy in medical professionals. From all levels, down from nurses who wouldn't even give me a glass of water, to professionals who wouldn't treat a simple problem because they didn't like that I'd come to them *telling* them what my problem was instead of helplessly floundering and begging for their wisdom. (And yes, it was what I said it was, because when another doctor treated it as that it went away).

I too have very little trust in the medical profession as a whole to have the appropriate respect and compassion for human life.You mean besides evidence, like the insurance companies deciding death was better than treatment for their clients?

Or that most people euthanising themselves aren't even in pain, but just feel that life with disability isn't life worth living?Exactly. As soon as we say "This person living for another year isn't worth feeding 50 African children for a year" then what's stopping us from saying "Feeding an Australian person for a year isn't worth feeding 25 African children for a year".

If your last year isn't worth so much, why was your second-last year worth? The one before that? Your first year?

We as Australians have massively more resources spent on us than most human beings. If we don't deserve to have that spent on us in our last years of life, we don't deserve it at any point.That is what I was saying Mark, when I said that if we don't deserve the money spent on us in our last year we don't deserve the money spent on us now either.

If the high cost to keep the old alive is something we are not willing to bear, we should frame euthanasia and public policy in that light. We should not pretend it is about "dignity in death". 

To those who say "The resources spent on keeping an old man alive for two more years are not worth it", I say "The resources spent keeping a baby with heart defects alive for two years are not worth it. The resources spent keeping children with cancer alive for two more years are not worth it. The resources spent keeping the family dog alive once he gets sick is not worth it." 

Things are only worth it if you believe they are worth it. They have no intrinsic worth. And Stella's article highlights that when we collectively decide that a life lived with disability, or without autonomy or "dignity" are not worth it, we are making a judgement about the life of ALL disabled people, not just the ones who now wish to die."Currently doctors do everything they can think of, in fear of litigation if they aren't seen to have done everything available."

Hmm, well that hasn't been my experience. Not with myself, nor with my grandparent's deaths (two of which were medication overdoses or complications), nor with my husband's chronic illness as a child.

*Some* doctors do everything they can, probably not because of fear of litigation but because they want to help. Others just do whatever is recommended by the playbook then wash their hands of the matter.Considering we even see evidence now and then of nurses abusing patients in nursing homes and mental health care situations, I don't understand how anyone can still believe that a patient couldn't sometimes be neglected for days on end.

It happens, OK? Sometimes you get a nurse who is like a fairy godmother, thinking of your needs even before you do. And sometimes you get the wicked witch, who seems to even enjoy your suffering.Hah! What a load of rubbish if you think patients are always taken care of and checked that they've eaten and are OK!

I have been in a hospital where one nurse would not bring me water, did not properly re-insert my IV that was feeding me liquids - would not even help me get out of the bed so I could go to the bathroom on my own.

Please, spare us this pious nonsense that nurses and doctors are never negligent or disinterested in their patients."Perhaps a life well lived deserves more medical treatment than one that has chosen to harm others."

Judging whose lives are worth more than others, are we?

Preeeetty sure that's what this article is about.You can already die with dignity. Just ask for no intravenous fluids, request morphine until you pass out and bob's your uncle. You'll be dead soon.

Meanwhile someone who "doesn't want to be a burden" and whose family is nudging them in the direction of assisted suicide will feel pressured into doing so, making their last time alive a time of despair, self-loathing and resentment.

Is that "dignity"?And those people in their 80's and 90's would have had to consent to those treatments. Why is their consent to that somehow worse than them consenting to an early death?

Do you think they were coerced into consenting to those invasive treatments, and that is bad?

Hmm, so it wouldn't be bad if they were coerced into euthanasia instead?I left a hospital early because of how poorly I was treated, and I'm grateful that I was able to. 

I don't even mind being in hospital - in fact I secretly enjoy it - but if I had had to stay there longer because I was not allowed to go home, I would have felt trapped and begun to despair.

The nurses were just that bad.Actually it was a private hospital NN. I have high level health cover for hospitals. But next time I will be going public instead. That private hospital was hellish.Exactly. Once the doctor has decided the patient is better off dead, they will not give other options. They will not have any enthusiasm for listening to alternatives. They will discourage further treatment.

And the patient who wants to cling to life as long as they can will shrivel up in the face of this and die inside.Ugh. Yes, I do think you are a horrible person for having said that. 'People', huh?

Maybe instead of deciding who is a person based on whether they are self-aware we should base it on whether they have a shred of compassion.

Why do you need the right to seek assistance?

You can already kill yourself. It's legal, it's possible, people do it *all* the time.

You have that right already. Why do we have to make it legal and acceptable and normal so that others feel pushed down that path?People can already die if they want to. It's not hard. You don't need a law telling you you can do it.We need to confront ageism as a big problem in our society. It is huge, invasive and considered normal and acceptable.

To be old is not a flaw. It does not make you a boring, worthless, "faded", or stupid person.

No wonder people who have lived their lives believing the old aren't worth listening to or being with find themselves in despair when they become old themselves.From the article: "And so when people ask me why I am opposed to legalising assisted suicide"

Of course being opposed to legalising it is not the same as being opposed to suicide or assisted suicide itself.And we can make those currently legal tax avoidance schemes illegal.

Thus we increase our tax revenue without actually increasing taxes.

And no, they won't leave in droves. We have money.Sorry, but they are. Why are so many companies incorporated in Ireland, or other backwaters whose only economic input is letting big firms crash there for relatively a pittance in tax?You know what they say! "Privatise the profits, socialise the losses"!At least Abbott is providing a lot to the nation in the form of knee-slaps and howls of laughter.Those Australians whose incomes are based on coal mining are just luddites. It doesn't matter how many machines you smash or how you howl against progress. Time and society will move on, and you need to run to keep up.That's because the leader of Russia doesn't finance his political party.The Vietnamese could have settled in Indonesia instead of Australia. Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, lots of little countries all over the place they could have gone to.

But they wanted a better life in Australia.They still have to have had some kind of threat or persecution made against them before they can get their free flight. Or even their non-free flight. I'm sure a lot of them would pay for their own flight if they could travel without all the documents that are necessary for it. There's lots of Australians who don't even have a passport or ID, but they're still people.Fine then grant, I hope the anti-refugee ilk start to admit that they don't want refugees here because you think it is an economically unsound position. But for goodness sake stop the bleating about caring if they drown or not. If they'd been lined up and shot in their home country most Australians wouldn't give a fig. So I can't believe we're suddenly shedding tears when they drown in waters considered to be ours.He's right Helvi, I guess the majority of Australians are just un-compassionate and selfish.So they're not your problem, they're some third world country's problem? 

Let's just strain the system of already struggling countries, yeah, that'll work. It won't cause further social collapses and even more refugees. It won't cause ethnic tensions and genocides that can be blamed on us.

Nopsey doodle!whogoesthere I would call your position being a "goodie" IF and only IF, you had made as much noise about increasing our refugee intake as you had about stopping the boats.

And if you were just as upset that the LNP were NOT actually increasing our "legal" refugee intake as you were about the fact that Labor "spread the welcome mat" for the boat people in the first place.

If I saw anywhere near the same level of noise and anger over Australia's lacklustre refugee intake as I did about the "boat people", I would have much more confidence and faith in our country.

But the truth is, once people are silent about the boats, they're silent about refugees altogether.Then how about we complain to our politicians as much about our low legal refugee intake as people did about the boat refugees?

Let's just vote out our leaders if they don't increase the legal refugee intake. It's just as sensible as voting them out because of boat people.We have tons of laws based on people being ashamed.

We have funding of Aboriginal social programs because we're ashamed of how we treated them in the past. We shut down asylums because we were ashamed of how they treated their patients.

And on and on. I could name a hundred examples.Exactly. Our population cap is 13 million probably based on no environmental degradation and current technology and all of us consuming as much as we currently do and living the lifestyles we currently do.

I bet if we all stopped eating meat we could double that population cap.Yes but our government has no plans to implement any lottery system or even increase our intake of legal refugees.

So all the talk about "Stopping the boats is harsh but will lead to better outcomes" is rubbish. There will be no better outcomes for these people. The quota of people we take legally will not increase. 

They will live in poverty and desperation forever. Hail Australia!Ah well, we can't solve it. No point increasing our intake to 100,000 as it's all meaningless in the end.

Wash my hands of these poor people having their throats cut and just got back to watching the footy.Tsk, those gay Indians cynically abuse our status on the refugee convention to try and live a lifestyle as an open homosexual. I guess they should just suck it up, get a sham marriage and live a life of secrecy and shame. 

Not my or Australia's problem, mate.
Except the potential murderer in this case was not one individual that could be avoided by moving away from them, but a network that has tentacles throughout the entire country.

And yes once you've stopped driving the trucks they target, they *may* forget about you. Or they may forever keep you on their list of troublemakers that they can use as "public examples" when they want to put pressure on the locals.There are plenty of people who move away from their psychotic ex-partners and are still tracked down by them. I wouldn't say it was unreasonable for someone to leave their country to get away. 

To claim refugee status may be stretching it, but considering a taxi driver is not a profession that would get accepted on many country's acceptable immigration list, maybe he didn't have many other options.

If a poor, unskilled woman in Australia was so stalked by her ex-partner she felt she had to leave the country, but no other country wanted to let her legally immigrate because she was unskilled, would you expect her to just sit and wait for her murder to happen?You mean those genuine refugees in genuine refugee camps that we take pitifully few of every year? And that the government has no plans to increase the intake of?I'd like to do that Andy, but considering how Australia ranks 69th in the world for taking refugees per capita and 49th in the world for total numerical intake, it would be a very, very long post...firthy maybe a better way to discourage queue-jumpers would be by speeding up the queue.

We take a pitifully small amount of "legal" refugees, about 20k. Considering how many people we immigrate just on work visas or because they're skilled people looking for a better life than the one they left behind (oh, economic migrants!), that's nothing.Well you know once the big players have done all the work then Australia won't need to anyway, will it?Our carbon tax was quite small and didn't require California to go first either, so I don't see your point.Basically, people have it so good right now they forget that it wasn't always thus.the yank is right. If you think metadata will help governments catch big crooks, you're quite wrong. They will stay ahead of the curve.

The everyday person who voices their complaints in the wrong place, however... and then that's tied to who they're friends with and where they've travelled recently and uh oh..Well I wasn't part of the exercise but I did study marketing in university which included statistics, surveys, samples and market data and so forth.

Questions are just as likely to allow you to agree to everything as they are to require you to only agree to one of several options. Especially for physical surveys (as opposed to online) which can't force the user to answer in a particular format.

That's usually desirable because you frame the questions to get a very specific set of data out of. Not necessarily "the answer you want", but the exact response to a certain perspective. That may mean seeing how many opposing viewpoints people simultaneously agree with.The point is that if the format of the questions and your inability to reconcile the mathematics is the most troubling part of this whole discussion for you, you probably would be better off not taking part.It does not invalidate the conclusions that can be drawn from the data. They would have gotten exactly the data they wanted to see, even if it seemed contradictory. 

And don't worry, you're not so important that I pay attention to you; the only thing I look out for is when silly people say silly things.But that's exactly the point: they don't want to see the blind percentage of people that support national service. They want to see what aspects of national service appeal to people and what aspects deter them. 

And of course all the questions are going to be skewed on *any* survey because they want the respondent to think about the question in a certain way.It is predicted to decline after reaching a certain peak. China and India being the major declines, some richer African countries increasing but overall decline.Keith if we are concerned about population as the main contributor to climate change, then the most responsible thing for us as Australians to do is to give up our superior living standards.

Stop living in sprawling cities and driving hours to and from work in a solo car. Stop buying food imported from around the world or even other states. Stop buying all the seafood that is depleting the oceans. Stop wearing cheap clothes derived from plastic products and sewn in polluting Chinese factories. Stop buying cheap electronics.

So, are you happy to live like people did several generations ago?

Only when we're willing to do that can we dictate what other, poorer countries should be doing about their overpopulation.Precisely. The problem isn't so many humans per se, it's so many humans living a modern lifestyle. (of course without the modern advances there couldn't even be this many humans so it's chicken and egg).

But the onus isn't on Indians and Africans to have less babies. It's on Americans, Europeans and Australians to consume less "things", drive fewer distances and use less power.Nah, how about just lowering consumption rates in the first world, then we don't have to kill anybody.

Sew your own clothes, cook your own food, don't drive very far and don't use much electricity.

Of course that would be a big dent in our economy... but it'd also make our carbon footprint shrink an enormous amount.Exactly. People are going to resist being sterilised; but they may accept that all the nice things we can afford now are suddenly unaffordable, and that they have to go back to making their own clothes, food and living very locally. You can even make those things sound quaint and desirable. Sterilisation, not so much. That denies a biological imperative.

No-one has a biological imperative to buy new curtains.So Dave even if Australian turned off our immigration spigot we still wouldn't have done enough to reduce our emissions. 

What next? The fact is we have to give up some of our wealth, some of our lifestyle, even possibly some of our social freedoms.

We, the rich (and yes anyone reading this is rich compared to most of the world) need to not use so much. We need to be less rich.The consumer does have to limit consumption though. Either voluntarily or punitively.

Of course, the very richest need to lower theirs by the most. They can't expect us proles to go back to the living standards from a few generations ago while they stay swimming in cream. It's all or nothing.Yeah, let's just be happy with being a mediocre backwater. New Zealand is more progressive than us, Iceland more economically daring, Scotland more politically bold. All tiny countries, but somehow Australia is tiny not just in population but also in imagination.Oh so was he just having a laugh when he spoke about shirtfronting Putin then, was he? 

Just having a laugh about putting pressure on someone with nukes, who may have supplied weapons that killed Australians.

Sounds like a good topic of humour to me.The article is so floppsy. It says she would vote against her party if laws were presented that criminalised the purchase of sex work. Note that wording. The *purchase* of sex work, not sex work itself.

So she would never vote to ban brothels or prostitutes. The Swedish model allows prostitutes to advertise openly, speak to police openly and attend doctors clinics being open about their profession. She would only vote against the Greens on the very unlikely circumstance that a Swedish-model law was being debated. 

Australia has mainly settled down with prostitution being legal and merely trying to clean up the fallout. There's no heavy push from either side of politics to have another look at our prostitution laws.

It's like knowing a candidate would vote against their party on the slim chance that someone was trying to introduce a law about banning international space flight. Possible? Yes. Probable? No.Actually Anita the Swedish model is implemented differently in the different countries it has been tried in. I believe in some it certainly is legal to advertise; it's just possibly not the wisest business move.I believe this article is simply a dig at the Greens, implying that they are not as ideologically pure as they always claim to be. That they are indulging in supporting politicians who dilute the Greens values simply because, well, they will win.

Perhaps, but as others have pointed out, that is how political parties operate and how they win. If the Greens are not prepared to compromise on any issue, nor give any issue the backseat while more important issues are played with, they will never achieve real political power.How is this contempt for sex workers? The laws she supports (which will never even be debated in Australia) place no restrictions on sex workers nor do they criminalise any of their activities.Sarah where are you getting these lines that the Swedish model targets landlords or independents? It targets people who buy sex *only*. If the landlord isn't buying it, they won't be arrested. If your independent isn't buying it, they won't be arrested.

The major gripes against the Swedish model I have seen is that it's misguided: that it claims to lower sex work but *may* just be pushing it underground. May.

None of this alarmist nonsense. You are perhaps thinking of the laws in the UK which are NOT the Swedish model. They ban the advertising of sex work and they ban brothels. That is not the Swedish model.You realise that under the Nordic model, any damage done to the sex worker can be reported straight to the police with no penalty to the sex worker?

So just as if it was all completely legal the John knows anything wrong he does will go to the police.

You can argue that it creates circumstances where it is slightly more likely said John will do a bad thing.

Perhaps. But even with legal brothels there is demand for shady services outside them, and girls willing to meet that demand. Even full legalisation doesn't prevent there from being dangers.Just thinking, maybe sex worker advocacy organisations that want to be taken as seriously as other industries shouldn't use euphemisms for their names. We don't have a "Tradie Blokes Group" why have a "Vixen Collective"? Just call it what it is, that will make people take it more seriously.Exactly. This piece is attempting to destablise her from below by causing ideological friction with her supporters.

Greens voters, let it pass; what she can win you if she's elected is more than what you'd get if she lost.Because the brick layer's assistant doesn't really have a significant chance of getting a disease every single day he goes to work, and the amount of people bricklaying to support their drug habit is probably is not that high.Actually said secular creation myth could be said to be a universal black hole that, after compacting everything in existence, exploded again. 

Of course, that means there was a universe before this one. And before that one. And on on and on without beginning?To be fair, Russian media does plenty of censorship and spin themselves.You know Todd it doesn't have to be either/or reason: It can be both.

And tobacco did not under-invest in lobbying. It simply ran out of things to say that people would believe. It is still going strong in third world countries where people are not educated enough about the effects of smoking, nor do they expect to live long lives that would have been unnecessarily interrupted by said lung cancer.

I would be surprised if wine is to blame for more social devastation than beer but I suppose whatever grog is cheapest is the one that alcoholics will go for.

In that you are correct that the government is banking on more money coming in from wine subsidies than it costs it in public health and law expenditures. Maybe it's done the calculations wrong?Ah J.T you seem to know some history but be ignoring much of it at the same time.

The USA would not have had its immense prosperity, political power and military might had it not changed its non-interventionist policy. It was keeping its own people relatively fed and happy, sure, but without access to foreign markets, foreign resources, money and workers it would never have become such a superpower.

So to say that they did so in error seems to conflict with your idea that if they hadn't done it, they would be more prosperous than they are now.That part of the theory is indeed, meant to be a load of bollocks. It is presenting a possibility which we know may exist, in theory, but it unlikely to. In the same way that a comet may strike our planet tomorrow, in theory, but is unlikely to.Well obviously it can't while this government is cutting red tape. But it *can* be. We don't need to just accept it as a fact of life, as this article implies.The carbon tax was also a punitive tax like the tobacco excise.Climate change effects everyone... and farmers do a nice share of carbon usage on their way to produce crops.

Maybe the coal miners just need to be taxed heavily instead of all of us? Oh wait, someone floated that idea at one point, didn't they...?It doesn't matter if the lobbying is defensive or offensive; it breaches the rules of a free market, which i thought we were all going for.

It bends us one step close to monopolies or their ilk. It represents the interests of businesses are paramount over the interests of private citizens.I was being facetious. People calling for lower regulation always claim it is in the name of the free market. But really, it's just their individual convenience they are after.Bruce I'm not sure there's 50 unique ways to say "money".duck can you take care of yourself just fine if cut off from society? If dumped in the woods, can you take care of yourself?

No? Then you are leaning on one of society's crutches. That's not a bad thing; we all do, in different ways, to a lesser or greater extent. That is actually our *strength* as a species that we can bear a joint burden and reduce each individual's need to be autonomous.

Don't mistake that strength for a weakness.

We have to take care of society because society takes care of us all.clete the local government stated no-one would have been evicted. That was the claim of the minister who stepped in. Why do you believe one pollie over other pollies?

Especially since the rezoning is going to enrich one of the minister's business buddies...Why don't you do it then, Bulldust, since you are so sure in the face of other people's studies?So, reaver, when conmen went from house to house strong-arming people into buying things, the government shouldn't have made laws about cooling-off periods and product returns to mitigate the harmful effects of those strategies?

When financial advisers give advice that benefits them just as much or more than their client, the government shouldn't make laws that try to prevent them doing that?

When people speed so fast they can't stop in time when people cross the road, the government shouldn't make laws limiting the speed on roads?

etc. etc. etc.Lasers being pointed at planes has nothing to do with terrorism. It has to do with visual problems for pilots, especially of low-flying craft like helicopters. I suggest you look up what the laser can look like to a pilot if it coming from in front of them.Yes, I think it's a shame that courses on politics in school seemed to focus just on history of politics and government and not how the current one works or what all its little quirks and tricks are.

Also I don't believe said course was mandatory. Shocking!The point, Alpo, is that lobbying is not just "presenting your case". It's "presenting your case while plying said politician with champagne and assuring him he'll have a job with your corporation once he retires, as long as he passes this or that law".

So if people can't be responsible enough to do lobbying properly, perhaps it should be banned.

That might mean politicians have to make their own decisions though, and that would be haaaaard.His point was to stir up people's indignations against regulations, so they strip back the red tape for businesses. Of course he's not going to point out the very real good regulations do as well.

Nor will he give airtime to possibilities of reducing or banning lobbying that comes as a result of regulation.

No, he will only tell us that regulation has made the system sticky with dirty money, and leave us to assume that maybe regulation is the bad guy here.And I'm sure all those powerful people with possession of society's assets would just give it all up if laws were reduced. Yes indeedy.Thank you Bindi, for giving voice to thousands of years of human experience. All of which carries more weight than anything Chris or his libertarian ilk can say.

We *know* you people who want few laws and fewer regulations. We know you because we have seen you in the past, because stories are still written about your kind and what they did.

As long as we pay heed to history, we won't fall for your sweet talks about "true freedoms" or the "inherent fallibility of governments".Helvi as a child I also had good eating habits, little access to sweets (as I lived in a compound in Arabia and had little pocket money) and with lots of physical activity.

As soon as I got to Australia, that all changed. Suddenly there was sugar *everywhere*. I had never experienced such a thing before. There was *junk food*, crisps and biscuits and deep-fried everything. And I was a teenager and then adult with my own money making my own choices.

I am writing to advise you that denying your children access to some things does not mean they won't take to them later in life. It may mean they keep avoiding them; it may mean they cannot keep away from them. Which they do may be in a large part dependant on how easily they are led by addictions.

People with any indulgence addiction (as opposed to direct chemical addiction) shouldn't be treated with scorn or hatred. Yes, they're weak - but so is everyone, about something in particular. Maybe not something that shows as visibly as weakness to food does.It is becoming more and more clear that the body directly tries to resist dieting and then "repair" the body after it has dieted.

Yes you can say people just need to change their eating patterns for life, but when that eating pattern is at odds with everyone else's, that's going to be a cause for embarrassment and unhappiness for them. 

What if they can never eat out again because they don't know the kilojoules of a restaurant meal? If when eating at a friends place they constantly have to turn down anything but the steamed vegetables? (You can't just go vegetarian either, there are pleeenty of unhealthy vegetarian foods) If they simply have to *go hungry* while watching others eat?

We don't look down on smokers getting chemical help through the patch, or alcoholics getting treatment plans in institutions. Why would we expect dieters to "go it alone"?You are not the kind of person I am referring to. You say you have never had a problem with your weight so you clearly don't count calories.

Someone who has had a weight problem, in order to control it they may be counting calories for the rest of their lives. And no, you can't just go to a restaurant or friend's house and "eat right" because for that kind of person eating "right" isn't even right.DeepFritz did you know that the responses of the brain to food actually changes when the stomach is banded or sleeved? Making the stomach physically smaller actually changes the way the brain responds to the food you eat. The same effect is not reached by simply eating a smaller amount of food - if the food does not touch the top of the stomach, some signals are never sent to the brain.

This should tell you that banding or sleeving is not just about preventing a glutton from eating too much, but about re-wiring the way their body and digestive system interact to some degree.See, we're allowed to have sympathy for anorexics because they're still borderline attractive - but for fat people we can have nothing but contempt, because we don't like the sight of them.Some medical professionals certainly do their bit. My father had a GP who never could see him without telling him he needed to lose weight. Now he has lost the weight and is able to go in without being badgered. Of course it was in his best interest. However, it also often overrides any concern about other conditions.

Case in point: Being overweight, and needing to go to a number of specialists for this and that, every single one I see has to be assured I don't have diabetes before they'll consider treating my actual problem. And no, it's not good enough that I just say "4 other doctors have tested me for diabetes and I don't have it". No, I must have the sugar-resistance test and blood tests and samples and all sorts of other bother every single time I meet a new doctor. 

I'm glad they're so vigilant against the spectre of diabetes but maybe they could also, you know, take me seriously when I talk about my actual symptoms? (Which by the way, aren't any that you get with diabetes!)The best thing I've found with a food addiction, before you are ready to tackle it head-on is to do substitution. Since it is really the act of eating and the endorphins you get from your comforting "hit" that make you feel better. Fruit can replace sweets and cheese replace crackers, etc.Unfortunately sdrawkcaB, Australians - and especially young Australians - are being pushed into smaller and smaller domiciles, which means the most they'll be able to grow is a herb garden, and maybe a single tomato plant that gives them a salad a couple of times a year.I take comfort in the fact that the person I have overheard the loudest unpleasant comment from, is also someone who has in just a few years turned their skin into a wrinkled brown canvas from outdoors exercise being her major hobby.

Yes, I shall be blobby, and *you* shall have cancer.

Everyone has a flaw, some of them are just more socially acceptable to make fun of.It prevents them from eating as much - and this can require them to give up some of their "hits". But you actually need counselling or psychological support to cut out the addiction itself. And so far from what I have seen there are very few professionals willing to take that very seriously. Just like there are only a handful of professionals working with sex addiction, porn addiction, exercise addiction, shopping addiction, etc.

Because they're not a 'real' (chemical) addiction, you're told to either cold turkey it or talk about your childhood problems instead. (Which it very well may come from - I had one psychologist tell me that having an extreme comfort response from food is determined in your first few years of life).ScottyA, I can tell you have never asked a doctor for lap band surgery because they do indeed require you to both diet first, to prove you can stick to the after-surgery diet, and talk to a psychologist to see whether you have a mental problem that you are "self-medicating" with food or some other business. Of course you can lie your way through that but the check is in place.

They don't simply put you under the knife just based on your request.

And also, the complications from lap band surgery can be terrible, worse even than the permanent sleeving; a lot of people will prefer the alternatives even if they are in the position to need it.It is actually interesting how often diabetes is positively affected by gastric-restricting surgeries. The lap band is the least-intrusive of all of these. Check out some info on the roux-en-y and the unexpected effects it has on diabetes and other co-morbidities. 

The problem of course, is that they're not quite sure why it happens, the surgery is relatively new and carries the general risks of surgery (such as death).

So to all the people tut-tutting the fatties for wanting surgery on the public purse, think with your wallet instead and realise you will pay less in the long run when these people shed other health problems as a result.ChrisL, surely you can not expect every commenter to have actually *read* the article, let alone comprehended it! Why it would reduce the number of people available to comment down to merely two or three, and that wouldn't make for a lively discussion would it?Surely then Peter, you should be calling for all businesses to have the same level of lax regulation as the unions have, since you usually "abhor regulation"?There's few laws passed that have been beneficial to union members and not other workers as well. Unions tend to improve working standards across the board, even for those who aren't members of them.

Businesses, on the other hand, donate so that something can be done to help them and only them - they don't want their competitors helped!The article clearly outlined how the corruption that was "discovered" was mostly already known about - and even fined for. And the other sorts of "corruption" were basically the unions doing their job, and the RC tried to spin it to look bad ie by training new employees they were making it harder for existing employees to compete. And other such nonsense.Well Craig you are right that at one point some student unions were not negotiable - but those days seem to be gone. I stopped paying mine halfway through university.

And please cite which workplaces are so union-unfriendly that you will actually get fired for not joining one. Unless you mean you just get the cold shoulder from your workmates, which is hardly preventing you from having the choice.Sorry Alpha are all governments we elect expected to have RCs running all the time? I thought they were just for special occasions, my mistake.

And this union corruption it has uncovered doesn't appear to be worth the expense.gnome the problem is that most people are against union corruption say that they do, indeed, want the unions either broken up or shackled.

Perhaps if all the people against union corruption were very clear that they did indeed support unions right to exist and exert influence for their members, but believed they needed better policing, then the issue wouldn't become so politically charged so quickly.So are you saying you want more government regulation and control of unions? Hmm, I hope you're happy to accept more regulation and control of business and industry along with that.I like the sound of that! Unfortunately I can see a problem with an overlap of findings, as detailed in the report where a fine has already been paid for one of the instances of corruption they uncovered. Surely there are laws that prevent people being punished twice for the same crime?Here's how it works Bev. The union bargains on behalf of all the employees in the shop (or even the industry). So a lot of them realise that, hey, I don't have to pay dues to this union and I still get all the holiday pay, lunch breaks, health and safety regulations, wage rises and stipulated minimum hours as the ones that *do* pay the dues. Well, I'll just take those silly buggers for a ride!

How many workers do you know who don't join the union and then refuse all the perks that the union bargained for? That say "No, I will come in on Sat/Sun and you don't have to pay me extra." "No I won't ever take a lunch or tea break." "No you don't have to give me a certain amount of hours a week, I'll just cope."

Of course, if all the unions disappeared tomorrow and the benefits along with them, a vast majority of the workers happily realise they had taken them for granted.We still see factory workers in India working in buildings that should be condemned (and sometimes collapse or burn down), working for less than a living wage, working without job security or recompense for injuries suffered on the job.

India is the site of a catastrophic chemical spill which has caused thousands of people to die or suffer or be born with defects, and no company has ever paid compensation, because they have slipped through the law loopholes. That's a Western company by the way, run by rich white people. They're the ones happy to let poor people be burned and poisoned by chemicals and shun their responsibility.

People who think humankind has moved beyond the exploitation seen in Industrial Europe are sadly mistaken. 

There are horrible people amongst us, and the laws we have should be cherished in that they prevent them exploiting us as much as they'd like.yen, the point is that it was feminism which won women all the rights they now have the same as men. Without feminism they would be denied some rights. 

So, even if one were to think that feminism's role is over, you can't deny it was an important movement in the past. And considering how much it was dismissed and attacked in the past, and how bitter people still are against it in the present, I would say there is some way to go before feminism dissolves into obsolescence.How on earth do you figure that women "passive aggressively" deny men access to bringing up their own children?

Most families have the woman do it instead of the man precisely because he earns more than she does! So if anything, it is the system which pays men more, that is denying access to men being able to raise their own children.gd you clearly have no real knowledge of anthropology. Check out what sort of work women did in hunter-gatherer societies. We're talking about all day labour, first getting water, which has to be done constantly. Then grinding. There's nearly always something that needs grinding down to powder, whether it's grain, plantains or beans. Rice needs to be husked, crops need to be harvested. And women did a lot of harvesting. As soon as a crop is in it needs to be prepped for storage - maybe pickling, maybe smoking, maybe drying. Leathers need to be cured, wool and cloths need to be turned into thread, then woven into cloth, then sewn into clothes.

Believe me, a woman at home pre-industrialisation was not sitting around having a good time.Well don't worry Forrest, the mind-readers of the left are kept in good company by the mind-readers of the right, who assume that everyone left-wing wants to destabilise capitalism and plunge society into anarchy and decadence.But Mark, the price of freedom, equal rights, voting rights, universal education and workplace rights is eternal vigilance.

Letting down our guard and saying that those things don't need to be watched over and ceaselessly reviewed to ensure they are still operating correctly, is a great way to lose them.backatya the point of quotas is not to artificially promote females over better-qualified males. 

It is a mechanism introduced to counteract the bias of men in power to promote men over women. The quota denies them the right to play out their biases in their hiring decisions.

Of course eventually those biases will disappear, and then so will quotas. But while we still have men who simply can't believe a woman can do this or that job, quotas will be with us.Gag. Living under Libertarians couldn't be much worse than living under Authoritarians. I mean, it wouldn't be the state screwing you over but you're still screwed.Precisely. All the people who are super happy we "stopped the boats" must realise they are in the same camp as this chap, and the other ones who want to "cleanse" Europe of the Roma.Actually the reason few people take the middle ground is because it wins you no friends, and makes you many enemies. (For instance, I bet there's not a single commenter on the ABC who thinks I've never talked some pure garbage.)

Taking the middle ground usually doesn't mean adopting some artificial between right and wrong, standing on the grey space and saying "well it's close enough to both of you". 

Usually it means not sticking to one ideological narrative. It means being willing to compromise and change things piecemeal if it keeps others happy.

It means being willing to accept that you could be wrong."the only island of stability and decency in the ME"

Wow Terry, that's an amazingly uneducated and, dare I say it, bigoted view. What has Lebanon or Turkey ever done indecently to you? 

Is Dubai so terrible unstable? Or are they just indecent? And if they're so indecent, why do we do so very much business with them?I don't need your license to talk about boat people. I can't believe you can honestly believe that tripe about welcoming people while we're interring people in detention camps that try to come here.

Maybe Kover has come here for some tips, but I think they're not the kind you're hoping for.Yes I love this article's opening up by reminding us how bad Russia is, because they armed rebels who later killed innocents (not at all like the USA arming Al Qaeda) and prevented democracy in Ukraine (although actually that may have also been the US, and the US certainly has done the same thing in the past).

It's so simplistic it's like reading a children's story.Well the article is so full of holes, it's difficult to take it seriously.

I mean look at that parting shot, implying the "importance" of a country internationally is based on how ethical and upstanding it is. Oh so why is Saudi Arabia still so important to us? We still have an embassy with them. 

And what about Greenland? We have no embassy there. Are they unethical?

This article is about an important topic, but it itself is a joke."to food, to medicine, to housing, to education."

"We could provide all the things you suggest to every Australian (actually, I thought we already did, at least in urban areas)"

Nope to housing. Nope to food (there's charity food banks but if you're a child and your parents don't buy you food the government doesn't supply it). Nope to medicine, we give subsidies but if you're really poor you still can't afford medication for a mental health problem, trust me it's expensive). Education? Yes I suppose we do provide that.

Unfortunately education doesn't stop being who have been harmed by society, their families or the system from being resentful and vengeful.

I know university educated people who would love nothing more than to be able to exact revenge on someone or other.Would she be jailed for giving the baby alcohol after it's born? At least she'd have the baby taken away from her.

Why should it not apply to before the baby is born? Is anything done to a baby still in its mums tum a complete legal blackout? 

So if I give a pregnant woman an abortive medicine without her knowledge and the baby is miscarried, I've committed no crime in your books?How is that an extremist fantasy hypothesis? There are real cases of men purposely causing their partners to miscarry because they don't want the child to be born.

Normally these include physical assault, which is a separate crime.

The point I'm making is if there was no harm done to the woman, what was the crime?"If you terminate a woman's pregnancy without her consent, then of course you've committed a crime - you have no right to end what is only hers to end."

That is not a legal right nor a crime.

If I have damaged her physically I have committed a crime. I have probably damaged her psychologically, you could get me on that.

But there is no crime itself in causing a child to miscarry without the woman's knowledge, unless I hurt her in the process.OK in that case Curious, we must rename the two sides in the debate over capital punishment "anti-murder" and "pro-choice". Because obviously the people who want capital punishment don't want to pressure the government to kill anyone. They just want the government to have that option, you know?I agree, her statements like "no mother" "no reasonable person" are a furphy. Obviously since babies are being born with FAS, there are mothers doing it.

So don't use this "no mother" business.I think you added a very relevant comment to the debate, for what it's worth.

I personally think males should be able to register their refusal to continue with a pregnancy with the government, which thereafter ensures they are not chased for child support for that child BUT also that they may not have any contact or legal guardianship of that child.

It's only fair.You don't have to prevent the child meeting their father once they are an adult. The father just gets no legal recognition or guardianship, nor the right to contact the child themselves.

The child, once an adult, can have a relationship with the man that wanted them not to be born if that is their choice.Oh so now it's a "child" whereas if the woman doesn't want to go through with the pregnancy it's a "foetus".

Interesting.JB said "Of course, that is potentially devistating for the child"If women don't want to get pregnant, they should refrain from having sex with men.

There, I just solved the abortion debate using your logic.If men don't have a choice in the conception of a child because they were raped (either through force or statutory rape) are they absolved of their legal obligations to support that genetic child?Don't have unprotected sex with a man if you're not willing to have a child with him.It is reasonable that the state expect the mother to compensate for the care of a child she has inflicted damage on, even without meaning to.

I say this as someone who has clinical depression and is aware of the impacts it could have on any children I have. 

There is not money enough for the government to step in when people knowingly take on risk. And I'm sorry but nobody is ignorant of the effects of alcohol on foetuses any more.Now even women past child-bearing age can't make decisions on behalf of other women?

So is it the onset of menopause that causes this divorce from womanhood, or an actual age limit?

I assume transexual women are not even invited to the party in the first place, right?Oh so because stupid people can't tell the difference between an elephant or a human foetus, they are the same thing.

Please tell me this is not the actual argument you are trying to make here.

DNA tells us they are very much a different thing. Or do the uneducated get to decide everything for us now?Oh so because stupid people can't tell the difference between an elephant or a human foetus, they are the same thing.

DNA tells us they are very much a different thing. Or do the uneducated get to decide everything for us now?

The foetus does not undergo a "genetic" change from a zygote to a human. It goes from being a collection of human cells that don't look like a human and are not independently viable, into a collection of human cells that fulfil both those criteria.

This isn't about the embryo not being "human". It is about it not having "personhood". You are making the classic mistake of trying to dehumanise the subject so we don't have to take seriously the discussion about personhood.

For the record, I don't agree that an embryo has personhood from the moment of conception or something like that.

I'm simply pointing out your arguments are very flawed.Oh I see so your original slur against "women past child-bearing age" (as though they lose some essential part of womanhood or their thinking brain) was actually meant as a slur against religious people.

Thanks for clearing that up. I enjoy arguing ethics with people who are happy to air their bigotry. It makes everything much simpler.
Oh I see so your original slur against "women past child-bearing age" (as though they lose some essential part of womanhood or their thinking brain) was actually meant as a slur against religious people.

Thanks for clearing that up. Glad to know people on both sides of the political spectrum can be riddled with prejudices.Does being overweight make the baby be born with a lifelong disorder?

Not that i know of. Feel free to enlighten me otherwise.If a male with drug or alcohol problems begins to negatively impact their child, there are legal repercussions to that. I hardly think you can provide evidence that there aren't.

The only difference is that the woman can negatively impact the child earlier than the man can.Precisely. I'm sure there are plenty of people who would protest abortion even if it was necessary medically, but the majority of abortions are not medically necessary and that is what sours the debate for so many who would otherwise whole-heartedly agree with the pro-abortion campaign.Julie, correct me if I'm wrong, but heavy drinking prior to conception may have some impact on the baby, but if all alcohol was stopped as soon as the mother was aware of pregnancy there is unlikely to be serious FAS. After all, we know that women can have a "tipple" while pregnant and not have a problem.

In addition I'm sure that if a baby was born with FAS and the mother had never touched a drop but the father was an alcoholic, the state would sue him for costs of childcare instead.

Finally, if a woman is an alcohol addict and still chooses to get pregnant, I put to you that this woman is an unfit mother. The child should at least be taken from her. Same as a drug addict of any stripe.

I'm on some heavy-duty medications right now. If I go get pregnant and my baby is born with problems, is that not my fault?CJ I don't believe this was about banning women from drinking while pregnant but rather, the state being allowed to sue her for damages when a baby was born with a problem she caused.

She can do whatever she likes, but she has to pay for it.

That is the essence of the situation.It's okay harvey, mate, because we're all Aussies here, and you can trust an Aussie. Right, mate?You won't be able to convince True Liberal of the benevolence of Labor. He's a libertarian, so all that stuff about people being forced to be nice to each other by the government is anathema to him. People should be free to sort that out by themselves, dontcha know?ISIS is not going to do anything to you Bear, rest easy at night.

Your next door neighbour, however, maybe you should be worried about him. He actually has access to your person.

Think critically about why politicians are interested in talking about a crisis.

Remember they speak nothing unless it benefits them in some way. Sometimes it also benefits us, the electorate. 

Do try to discern the difference.You may be right about a "secret" society but I think it won't really be so secret.

I wouldn't be surprised if the younger citizens simply skip the official government press releases and legal press and go straight to sites like wikileaks, and overseas sources that can report on Australian news without legal restrictions.

I know I certainly have.

Of course I'm sure the government will then put everyone who visits such sites on watchlists, or make new laws that prohibit us from doing so legally.

But the underground tends to stay a step ahead of its pursuers.I believe he knows exactly what he's doing. And if he's just a figurehead, perhaps some investigative journalism is needed to get names on who actually formulates government policy and decides political appointments, for both parties.Don't count on Labor to speak up against this continuing abuse of civil liberties. They are going to be only to happy to inherit all the powers from the Liberals in due time.

Remember they wanted to filter the entire internet.Perhaps you prefer the alternative: There are clever people working for government but the people in charge are morons, and have no idea what they are doing or what laws they are passing.

It has a certain appeal...Oh of course, lies to the populace are acceptable because Mummy and Daddy know whats best for us and will never lead us astray.

And conservatives like to bleat about a Nanny government.

Well this is clearly a Daddy government. Unlike Nanny, he's willing to issue spankings...Ho ho ho. You think common sense comes into play when the law is applied? I think there are many victims of the law who would disagree with you. 

Also, are you completely oblivious to how governments pressure news outlets? It can be as simple as threatening to refuse interviews or press releases, which significantly hinders their ability to compete on political news.

This law is just the icing on the cake that allows them to make actual legal attacks on media outlets. Even if the case is thrown out, the battle has cost money and the threat to all other journalists is clear.Forrest, simple test of whether this new law is acceptable:

Are you happy for Labor to inherit these powers? What about the Greens?

No disclosure of whatever the Greens decide to set ASIO to doing.The FBI is probably not false flagging anything. They are just incompetent and don't seem to recognise risks properly. Also there seems to be too much protection of their "assets", normally people they trained to do their dirty work and now are attacking the US government.

The FBI agent that was secretly training Al Qaeda terrorists seems to have gotten a new life after spilling the beans to his superiors... talk about justice...Good thing the only ticket price is access to a TV or the internet. Who said there's no quality entertainment around any more?This is a very important point and one the people who are already well aware of Abbott's problems need to discuss.

Labor is not a suitable alternative to this group. They will happily accept and powers the Liberals strong-arm out of the populace.

I'm not sure the Greens are a suitable replacement either. They have a strong ideology and might like some powers to get their way.

There needs to be a really serious groundswell in the Australian voting public to get to know who you are voting for, to vote for independents and to be proud to admit to not being a slavish follower of any particular faction.

Factionalism is the essence of divide and conquer.Well the ABC mods won't let me paste the section here for you. So obviously there is some reason it can't appear on their website. However the comlaw website will serve it up to you with a quick google search!

And it says basically exactly what was reported here.You do know there have already been media blackouts on very recent cases of Australian corruption, don't you? 

But you *trust* this government.The lollipop people are not there to really tell traffic when to stay or go (except in places where there are no traffic lights).

They are also there to boost the confidence of the children in crossing the road and provide a more visible barrier for drivers.

People run red lights, don't pretend traffic lights are a magic barrier that prevents cars going through them. If someone willing to run a red light doesn't see a child... well...

An adult in reflective gear is harder to miss.LK it's clearly been discussed that the unemployed could have access to a basic government wage. They would not struggle to feed their families or clothe them.Pilots are already mostly replaced - they still remain for human confidence. 

I'd say doctors will remain but not so much because a machine can't diagnose and make treatment decisions, but because sometimes it requires judgement and personal interaction to squeeze all the information out of a sick person. 

The sick person doesn't know what the relevant data they need to input to get a good diagnosis is. The computer would probably have to ask a lot more questions before it could jump to answers.

That being said, I have interacted with some doctors that were worse than a computer.A shared ownership of the public resources that create all the wealth could work. Some kind of citizenship buy-in where you do your share of the work required nationally, and in return you draw your national wage. 

If someone puts in more work than the minimum required of them, they get a higher wage, up to a certain cap. That allows driven people or talented people to be motivated to do better, but doesn't disenfranchise everyone else.

That's a nice idea except it interferes with decision-making, as if everything is owned by "the people" then poor decisions can be claimed to hurt everyone and not just the business operator.Agreed. It's not really the maths whizzes getting rich most of the time. It's the people who were canny enough to exploit them.

As it has long been with inventions and innovations of all kinds.Ugh, good gracious no. We don't need to develop any kind of rich person "carry my bags for me, peon" mentality.

Not to mention tipping in restaurants has led to a huge culture of sexual harassment of female serving staff who have to tolerate it to get their wage for that night.I've tackled maths multiple times, even on university level, and lost. Guess I'm doomed for the scrapheap of humanity.Pop if you claim expenses for your voluntary work you are being paid, that's not voluntary. It's for PR purposes. Can't you see the difference?Yes it would have been much better if people could have continued to employ Aborigines at legally lower wages, cementing their role as second-class citizens, wouldn't it?I didn't see your posts to all your fellow Liberals reminding them not to be rude. So I'm just going to ignore that part of your post.

I'm not really concerned with your interpretation of Keith's words. Only what he actually said. He said that wage rights put them out of a job and this "led to a social disaster".

The implication is that if they'd continued to be "viable" for employment by being legally second-class employees, it would have saved so many lives.

Just, you know, at the cost of their personal autonomy and dignity.scupundi on Sept 1st 2013 on ABC Insider Tony Abbott said: 

I want to give people this absolute assurance, no cuts to education, no cuts to health, no changes to pensions and no changes to the GST.Forrest it may come as a surprise to you but I didn't mention the federation, nor am I interested in it.

I am interested only in what Abbott promised, and then what he actually did.Yeah, like all those calls for RCs on the individual conduct of Labor politicians in the far past. That was some mature rational debate on the part of the Liberal party.

They certainly discussed politics strictly and without ad hominem attacks.Because it's pointless to have a limited debate about one part of a larger system and then claim it was mature and reached a reasonable conclusion.

If a ship is sinking and someone says "we must have a mature debate about the role of the propellers in this crisis, and no other portion of the boat may be mentioned" well, what good is that?Oh glad to know that, I suppose that means that you were dismayed at the foolish scare tactics undertaken by the Liberal government and mining companies when the first mining tax was announced.

That kind of activity certainly stifled any ability to have a "mature debate" about it. 

I'm glad reasonable thinkers can agree that it was a terrible show of immaturity by the corporations and Liberal politicians who thought they could jump on the back of the controversy to get some free air time.Terry you are going to have to provide some proof for this implication you keep making that it was Whitlams decision makers who decided Aborigines should stay in remote locations.

Everything I have read is that Aborigines made that decision themselves. Please point out to me some notable person or piece of legislation or public discourse where white people in power told the Aborigines to stay on their native land when the Aborigines were open to moving away.

Additionally, you claim we need to allow all people to be treated the same regardless of race, but then you say it is a shame that Aborigines were no longer able to legally be paid lower wages than white Australian workers.

So when the jobs were mechanised, they were priced out a job.

Excuse me?? How can races be treated the same regardless of race if one can be legally paid less than another?

DO explain it to me!Oh so because the government "encouraged" something, they are wholly to blame for it, and the individual decisions of the Aborigines have no bearing. What a lovely stripping of autonomy there.

You said: "I would actually go so far as to believe it was thought better that Aborigines not join the work-force as this might damage their links to their culture."

Once again, I highly doubt that it was some white bureaucrats who were so concerned about Aboriginal culture and the actual Aboriginals didn't care so much. But they were just coerced into caring about their culture by the Whitlam government, you know?

I am not disputing your version of events and the effect of equal wage laws part to play, but laying the "blame" on the government for doing the right thing and giving them choice is ludicrous. It was an unfortunate set of circumstances, and if you want to blame someone for it, blame whoever put in discriminatory wage laws in the first place.

"Only when we once again treat all Australians equally will we have a chance to lift those who currently suffer"

I guess giving Aboriginals autonomy isn't treating them equally, then?

Are you agitating for less benefits and subsidies for them? I'm curious. 
I didn't realise that if only the ABC Drum comments because mature, all the political discourse in the country would change and our problems would magically be solved.

Even if all of us here somehow became of a single mind on an issue, it wouldn't matter a fig if certain politicians are unwilling to field ideas except those they've put on the table.The analogy included the line "fear of immigrants". If you think the media scare campaigns around boat people has not caused a fear of immigrants, you must not be talking to any Australians.

So many reasonable minded people drank all the hype juice about "economic migrants" "flooding" Australia on their "illegal boats" that would "take our jerbs" and "bring their misogyny with them". 

We have so much home-grown misogyny here, I would have thought the two would have liked to meet up, share ideas on oppressing women. Could be a fun partnership.There was just so much more money in divorce cases when fault had to be proved, detectives hired and court cases heard, wasn't there?

The fact that people may want to separate even when they still hold some residual fondness for each other and don't want to air all their dirty laundry in public just makes a lawyer swoon from the thought of lost billable hours.So Steve I assume the appropriate form of speech for a politician's funeral is not to talk about what they did or whether it was good for the nation or not?

Wow the people who did Thatcher's orations need some serious admonition.Do you disagree with what he said about Whitlam's reforms making self-determination and life better for Aboriginal people?

If not, why?

You are playing the man and not the ball. I don't care what you think of Pearson, tell me why what he said was wrong.Exactly. When Labor tries to get revenge for how they were treated, they are portrayed as morally lacking.

The fact that the Liberals were immoral in the first place is apparently not important.

No, only equations to children crying "He started it!" are relevant, as though no adult has ever tried to lay initial blame during a crisis.

No, never. We always try to delicately screen whoever was at fault and treat the parties equally. Also, while I'm dreaming, we give every affronted person a free pony.How is it "mudslinging" to describe someone's past actions in an honest light, even if those actions were bad?

Is it mudslinging to say that someone has beaten their wife in the past, if it's true?Isn't a slightly bleaker economic output under Labor preferable to foolish wars under Liberal governments?

Or is Australians making ends meet more important than Iraqi citizens lying in their graves?He'd still be remembered for trying.

And sorry but you don't get credit for keeping a ball rolling. That's easy. Setting it going in motion is the hard part.Oh because they had so much access to modernity living on reserves where they couldn't make many choices without oversight, right?But it sounds so efficient! That's the problem with the public service, right? Lack of efficiency?Haha, as if Labor is any better than the Liberals when it comes to shameless power grabs.What?

Pretty sure when said terrorist appealed for benefits he had a legitimate claim.

I know the procedure for getting a disability pension is complex and odious, but as far as I'm aware it doesn't include a question to the tune of "Are you a terrorist?"Nah, they don't have nukes, mate. The worst they can do is come round to our house and execute us individually. You can't expect any Australian to put in that kind of effort to a genocide.You've mentioned a couple of radical feminists, although I would disagree with you about their radicalness; there are way, way more radical feminists out there. Those are just the loud ones.

Secondly, some of those have only gotten "big press" in certain circles on the internet. So what? Other feminists get bigger press in other circles. I bet you just don't go them. I've never even heard of Gail Dines. Some "big press".

Just as with any other group of people, we should ask ourselves if the people talking really represent the group or if they're just attention-seekers.

I'm sure you wouldn't like any group you were involved with being characterised by your loudest and most inflammatory members.To be honest I'm not sure who Watson is either, but the name seemed familiar. And Suey Park was clearly a rather unstable person not affiliated with many others. Such "notable feminists"!

I hope no-one considers me as talking on behalf of any particular group, as I doubt I'd fit in anywhere.

I hate error more than I love truth.In feminist circles, one must indeed consider the feelings of other people in the debate, at least other women in the debate.

Although stated in more complex terms than that, it's a truism.It's here because Girls is a popular show, even here. It therefore has some relevance to an Australian audience.Sorry, did you comment on all the articles today about racehorses dying with the same diatribe?

Why was that important? Why does anyone even care about a race, let alone drama surrounding it?

Why does the ABC run stories about some murder, or a car crash? It really has no impact on the lives of 99.99% of us.
To be perfectly honest, I think the article was tripe just as much as you do, but for different reasons. 

However that's no call for the topic not to be talked about on the ABC. If there are social justice debates about popular celebrities, why is this not the forum for that?So it's OK to practice "kissing" someone who is not interested and thus needs to be blackmailed into it?

I could relate a story about my youth about forcing others into kissing me, and receiving a punishment which was justly deserved. But I'm not as much of an exhibitionist as Lenah, I suppose.I've heard stories of little girls placing things inside their vaginas before. Usually they are the ones telling that story though and others only found out if they complained of discomfort.

The fact that her "exploration" of her infant sister coincided with said infant doing that behaviour is very coincidental... not to mention I'm not sure a 1 year old has that dexterity to place objects there? I have to admit I can't discern the age of children until they're about 8.I don't think they want her to stop speaking. I think they want her to use her popularity and privilege, her "platform" if you will, and pull them up onto it with her and give them agency to speak as well.

Now, obviously Lenah has no obligation to do so. However I can see why in the politics of feminism, which pitches itself very much as a "women for all women" camp, people could make that sort of request.

The demand that "you must give me space to speak" is always a bit tenuous. I'd like to think that we'd give each other space, but history has shown it usually has to be fought for.I agree with you that people in a position of privilege are often told to be quiet during debates like this, Terry.

But I think this is a phenomena with two causes. One is, as you say, that the minority wants their voice and only their voice to be heard, and any attempts to silence the opposition are embraced.

But another bigger reason is that a lot of people who aren't involved in the minority group, in this instance feminist philosophy and politics, don't understand a lot of the theories, or backstory, or experiences of the minority.

So when they barge in and say something, it's usually something clueless. Surely at some point you've been part of some special-interest group that found it was always fielding the same ignorant questions from outsiders?

Hence, they are often told to just stop talking. Obviously instead they should be educated so they can make a more informed comment, but people on the internet are pretty lazy. Being angry is much more fun.Are they allowed to take out those desires or questions on other children though? I had an under-16 year old attempt to do so to me. I ran away, but if I hadn't immediately left the situation it could have turned into abuse.

Don't minimise the harm children can do to each other, even in ignorance.No, what she's saying is this:

- White and black feminists have a history of conflict between them when white women talk like women's problems are solved as soon as white women's problems are solved.

- Black feminists have a historical problem with Lenah, deserved or not. (I think, only area I am not clear on)

- Lenah is criticised in the media.

- Many feminists rise up in support of her.

- Black feminists opine that a black woman wouldn't be supported for revealing a similar history (to say nothing of a man, I suppose).

- This is therefore another chip on the shoulder of black feminists against Lenah.

- Article suggests her supporters should take the concerns of black feminists into account and not be so strident.

That seems like a logical progression to me, even though I don't support any particular party in the drama.I don't disagree with you. As I said I don't support either party in this debate. I'm just explaining what the story the article is relating is, as several people seem to have trouble following it.

There are black feminists who will happily put race ahead of gender. They are both just arbitrary markers for prejudice, anyway. 
If she had been a boy doing those things to her younger sister, would we have said it was sexual abuse?

I think we would. Do I think it's something she should be charged for? No, not unless her sister wants to.

She seems to be a little self-aware that she shouldn't have done it, so I suppose both that and the original acts reflect on her character.

I don't think the fact that the criticism was brought up by her political rivals is too relevant. A lot of criticism of the private lives of conservatives is brought up by their political rivals.

That's politics.It's not the act at 7 which is so concerning but the manipulation of someone else to kiss her.

And as someone who was almost abused as a child by another "legal" child, I will disagree with you that it is somehow not analogous to real abuse, whatever that is.So if you're not talking about abuse when you talk about "sexual activity between an adult and a child" what are you talking about?

And if you are talking about abuse, then you're saying that what happens between children is not abuse. Hence, not "real abuse".

Do try to explain to me what you meant otherwise, hmm? Maybe just "non-consensual games"? "Forced actions with lifelong consequences that don't really matter to Orion"?

It may not legally be the "same thing" but for all intents and purposes the act, and the impact on the victim, can be exactly the same. You are not the final arbiter who gets to say otherwise.A child doesn't need another child to explore their sexuality, nor is it acceptable or normal for them to force another child into doing their bidding.

Whether it is for sexual experimentation or to always be the one playing the bad guy in video games, it's exploitative behaviour. 

When it's sexually exploitative behaviour it can have a profound impact on the victimised child. In the case of her sister it didn't seem to. That's fine. I've read accounts of girls who've had sex underage with their friend's fathers and don't feel they were scarred by it later in life. Good for them, but not everyone is so lucky.

It doesn't matter what the intent was or whether it was illegal. If it happens, we should discourage it. We should tell children not to do things to other children that they don't want, and we certainly shouldn't laud this public description of someone's actions as being "normal" or acceptable.No I am also alluding to the acts mentioned in the article - not the one when she was 7, but the one when she was 12 or so and blackmailing her sister into intimately kissing her.

A 12 year old knows the difference between right and wrong, and knows when someone else is uncomfortable. They can also recollect their experiences fairly accurately, although with many mistakes I'm sure. However the brief quote attributed to Lenah implies she got these kisses more than once - a series of memories about them is more likely to be accurate.

My point remains; she was not legally an adult at that time but she committed an act that was sexual harassment. If a man did it we would see it as a "warning sign" for their future interactions with women.

But a lot of people seem to think that if a woman does it, it's just "experimental". 

It can be both experimental and abusive!Yeah I agree, I've listened to people who've owned shares in racehorses. They do it as an investment and maybe they "like horses" but in the "like watching them from the comfort of air-conditioning" way.I've also seen people fight against human-caused climate change simply because of ideological reasons: they can't stand for the "hippies" to win in any way.

They'll concede it's warming, OK, but it's probably not our fault. Or if it is, well, we can't do anything about it.

Anything to stop the hippies from being right!John the Chinese projects in Africa will end up like all other infrastructure built there by foreigners who don't pass their expertise on: in a shambles. The Chinese are happy to build all that infrastructure because it will service their mines. They hardly care about the poor Africans.

Not to mention, these coal-fired power plants, what coal is fed to them? Oh, the stuff mined by the Chinese? And how much will they be selling it to the African governments for, pray tell?

The most logical assumption when anyone goes into Africa to "profit both themselves and the natives" is that they're going to exploit it dry. History has shown us this much.That it's getting warmer, even if we didn't cause it. So what? Humans regularly solve problems they didn't cause."picking the least useless"

Did you review the policies and histories of all the independent parties then, and find them more useless than the big three?

Or was that too hard, and you just decided to put your mark near something that was comfortingly familiar?Extinctions happen every day but the rate of species extinctions is speeding up. If they happen very frequently it becomes and extinction event.

We could easily be heading for one if we don't manage our wildlife, and their habitats, well.AE as far as I know, we didn't elect you. So how are we holding you accountable for what you say? How are we holding me accountable?

It's people talking that drives public opinion, and thus political action. Whether the climate crisis is proved true or false, nobody who pushed the alternative camp, and potentially caused a lot of damage, will be held accountable.

That's what he's talking about, not government officials.So SueB are you saying we shouldn't stop climate change (smoking) in Australia because we can't stop it in China and India?

Believe it or not, other countries will be more inclined to make an effort if they can see it has been successful elsewhere.

And for the record there are government initiatives to stop smoking in many developing countries. Guess who stops them a lot of the time?

10 points if you guessed cashed-up corporations selling cigarettes.I think he meant buy a condo in Asia as an investment property, not to live in. Although more retirees will be moving overseas, methinks, as the cost of living in Australia is too high for people retiring without proper pensions or super.

And the laws for buying foreign real estate can be complex - its not an easy investment option.Don't worry, we can export skilled labourers from third world hellholes instead. They'll probably out-perform the native Aussies, too. So how about a swap? All the low-skilled Aussies can go live in Cambodia and Vietnam and farm rice, and all the clever people from there can come here and live the high life.

Nationalism isn't a factor in profiteering, right?There's a *lot* of Chinese people and they form groups to buy investment properties with. They can make this bubble kick on for a long time.I've also seen tons of undeveloped blocks throughout Perth suburbs, in every price bracket. The outer ones are being churned up into estates at speed, but there's still empty plots around the place!

Not to mention the few places they have bothered to build high-density housing, such as near Joondalup, the quality of the apartment complexes are shocking. Buying an apartment is already riskier than buying a house because if the building gets knocked down you own nothing - not an inch of the land.

When the apartment has cracks in the ceilings, kitchen benches that slope, water pipes that burst and electrical wiring that's full of faults, well... who would want to live there?Did you miss the part about the house price to income ratio doubling over the last couple decades?Ah but brewster, so many property spruikers tell us that ALL of Australia's property is worth being up to 6 times the median income! 

Yes indeed I have had people tell me that even in Perth, Cairns or that charming hellhole, Adelaide, that the quality of life and business opportunities must be as good as Hong Kong and Paris - other cities where the property costs far more than the average person can afford.

So I guess that makes sense, right?Interest-only loans are a cancer on society. I can't believe how common they have become, and how shamelessly they are promoted to the young and poor - typically the more financially ignorant groups.

It's like payday loans, but from big banks, who should be held to higher standards than Cash Converters.There are already tons of ways housing can be made cheaper. Most houses today are built with materials that are mass-produced, hence why all the houses look identical.

Secondly, there is such a thing as pre-fabricated houses where the "pieces" of the house are put together in a factory and simply set up like a gingerbread house on the site. This has taken off in a big way in the USA.

However in Australia we don't have the same economies of scale that make it affordable, and as jim said, the real problem isn't the cost of the house, it's the land.Bread and circuses.There have been very inner members of the US republican party who have admitted that their "small government" rhetoric is just a farce. They have no intent of actually curtailing their own powers once in office. They simply are trying to appeal to the public sentiment of the day.

The Australian parties are starting to take leaves out of their playbook. We need to say no to empty ideology which has no grounding in reality."Western governments are grappling with the issue of terrorism."

Wut? I'm sorry, since when did we have a terrorist attack in Australia? What "issue of terrorism"?

It's so not our problem it isn't funny.

Are we also grappling with the issue of ice loss in Greenland and the sad decline of the indigenous way of life there?

Because that's just as relevant to us as Middle Eastern terrorism is.

And don't bother pulling out the "wah wah its the right thing to do" card, because last I checked, our government hadn't sent any troops to free the girls captured by Boko Haram, nor sent any troops to help combat the drug cartels that are ravaging Mexico. It would only be the right thing to do, you know.Terry you can choose to interact with businesses. You can't choose whether to interact or not with your own government.

There has been work done that shows that if the British government at the time of the American Independence war had access to metadata, they could have eliminated the major players before the war even started.

That should scare you. No government should be so powerful they can nip their opponents in the bud, because you have no guarantee your government is benign.Exactly! Good grief it's not like the governments of the world have been blind up until the digital age on who their enemies are. Spies are a thing, you know.

As much as world leaders and newspapers pretend to be "oh so shocked" when one country is caught spying on another, the fact is they're all doing it, we're doing it, everybody's doing it!

And it's far preferable to metadata.Many can and will debate the virtues of some of the West's latest ideological toys, like individualism, but consumerism is so clearly a poison.

Industrialisation and economies of scale can provide us with the necessities of life for an affordable price, but there's not a lot of jobs in it anymore. So everyone needs a new job, making "stuff" and doing "stuff", just to keep people busy and money circulating. And petrochemicals, let's not forget the brisk circulation of those.

We should be advanced enough to provide for our societies with less resource drain, not more.

I don't think there are many viable alternatives to capitalism, but the system really needs a lot of checks and balances.I'd rather the government tell me what to say than know what I was really thinking. 

I should have thought that was rather obvious. It's where the term "lip service" originated, and it's far less insidious than the ability to prosecute for "thought crimes".Snowden has leaked government data... that is not "private" data as in it is not privately owned. 

You seem to think that people who are against metadata are against any kind of civil monitoring or espionage at all. We're not. Espionage is a fact of life and is required. CCTV in public places is usually required. 

It's the same as accepting that weapons are a fact of life and required, and yet still being against nuclear weapons.

Metadata is the nuclear weapon against privacy.I agree, and it's why I won't be voting Labor any time soon either. They showed their true colours with their attempt at internet filters, and sympathy for US corporations to come and attack our citizens.

And then they dare talk to us about nationalism and patriotism.You would be surprised how much government service is in the hand of "mercenaries" aka contractors, here and in the USA. Although it's a bigger problem in the USA.

They do it cheaper because they do it nasty. Whenever people bleat about private business working so much more efficiently than governments, what they are omitting is that it's by cutting every corner possible.I also love the fact that the "nothing to hide, nothing to fear" people clearly haven't thought about whether their partner, parents, children or siblings perhaps have something to hide. The government will come after everyone related if they have to.

Or that in the digital age it is oh-so-easy to put your fingerprints all over something dirty and implicate you in something.

Oh, didn't know it was your credit card that booked a seat for a terrorist on a flight? 

Too bad sir, you're coming with us anyway...Do you seriously believe there haven't been terrorist attacks in Australia because our police and security forces are just doing their job so much better than the American ones are? You really think ASIO is head-and-shoulders above the FBI and CIA?

You're dreaming.

Maybe there's been no terrorist attacks in Antarctica because the Antarctic police are just doing their jobs so well?Yes I believe he's saying he wants referendums to be used on non-constitutional matters, as they are in other countries.But he'd also see the USA as expansionist and fascist when it serves their interests to install a fascist dictator.

When we are getting more reports of Iraqi police and army personnel, or Shiite militias, massacring Sunni civilians, it becomes obvious that there is no "good guy". And I don't think the war in Spain had a clear "good guy" either.

Let's not forget that at the turn of the century there were many terrorist Anarchists who set off bombs and killed civilians just as Jihadi terrorists do today.

And Orwell was broadly in support of Anarchists, although possibly not all of their methods...So Zing, was that your conservative admission that you find it acceptable for the USA to support dictatorships, as long as it "suits their interests" and assumedly ours as well.

I'm sure if the USA was our enemy instead of our ally, you wouldn't be able to decry their evil practices fast enough.Zing feel free to Google it. You can indeed find pictures of McCain posing in front of a group with ISIL's black flag behind them. And plenty of sources verifying them as real.

And also yes, the USA has almost certainly been supplying ISIL when it started, just as it supplied Saddam (when he was anti-Iran), Al Qaeda and the Taliban...

Sorry to burst your little worldview there....Seriously Zing? There are articles here on the ABC that have quotes from seniors US politicians and staff saying they are arming the Syrian rebels. And ISIL were part of the Syrian rebel groups.

Just because they changed their name and became "evil" doesn't mean they were different people before. The USA most assuredly gave them at least air support, probably weapons.Not like the right-wings huh? Who proudly supported Assad's opposition until, you know, they became one of the most notorious terrorist groups.

Except for all those other notorious terrorist groups that the USA also funded and helped form.Dapsta I know this may be difficult for you to believe, but some people are capable of being opposed to *both* sides of a conflict.

Some of us can smell in the air the blood as soon as the USA cheerfully proclaims that they're aiding another besieged minority by arming them.

Oh but the Kurds are so nice, and oppressed, they'll be our friends after the war, and they won't commit any massacres or string out the war for nationalistic reasons.

Haha, I would laugh if it were funny.Actually it does not make you a supporter of the status quo. Would you say that someone who does not actively donate to the crisis' in Africa is "supporting the status quo" of that continent? If you're not working against female genital mutilation are you "supporting the status quo" of that practice?

Tell me more about your charity work and activism against FGM.

There are too many things in life for everyone to take part in everything. We divide our time based on what is most important.

And continuing the bloodshed in the Middle East (and the USA is most certainly continuing it, not finishing it, believe you me), is simply not that high on my To Do list.Yes, they hijacked the Federal Reserve and have unlimited power to print money to conduct their wars. It's time American take the bank back for the people so they don't have to pay interests to the mafia scam that is ruining the world.

 It's rather funny seeing politically right leaning calling people who are critical of Western powers policy in this war as leftist and supporters of terrorists like IS. Ron Paul, Paul Craig Roberts, Gerald Celente are critical of the policy and they are not leftist; being just, anti-subservient to the power of control and exploitation is being anti-*rsehole, it has nothing to do with being leftist or support terrorism. If it isn't a deliberate distortion to attack people to submit to their control than it is a sad illogical form of reasoning.

The power establishment, Truman, Rockefeller omitted history of Islamic civilization out of curriculum and give an illusion of a supreme Western civilization history in academia in order to keep their power in control and continue to divide and conquer. Many people don't know that Arab, Islamic empire preceded Western. They were very tolerant towards other religion and culture, value knowledge. Our number script come from old Arabic script, the Renaissance that bring mathematics, science, philosophy ect to the West that has made it powerful today come from translation of texts from Arabic. By omitting Islamic empire out of studies, they allow for hateful disinformation against Muslim to be spread around. They pick a particular brand of Islam, and particular time when the Islamic ruling power was corrupt or tyrannical and say that all Muslims are like that. We don't say Constantine, Charlemagne who killed millions of non-Christians and forced people to convert, and the current extreme of Christian Zionist who want to destroy Muslims and create Armageddon and destroy all non-Christians, the IRA terrorists, as representing Christianity. Nor the Jews who brought terrorism to ME, the bombing of King David hotel and the bus etc as a Jewish trait, I'll bet they'd keep on bombing if Israel was not created.

Wahhabi sect was created by British agents in 1750 to destabilize the Ottoman empire. Please read more on history of terrorism by David Livingstone and Christian Zionism by Stephen Sizer to get a more complete view of what's going on.Well perhaps I will have to change my username if there is another "Ann" running around. Oh well I can be very creative.

And nobody in either side of this debate cares about US Federal Reserve conspiracy theories.Normally you have to pay good money to see such skilled acrobatics, so we should be thankful that the display is so public. 

Although I must admit my disappointment that the audience seems so ready to be dazzled and "not believe their eyes".Ah but Peter I bet you would think our brave young men and women who go over there to fight such evils as ISIS should be honoured and medalled instead of executed, yes?

Right up until the point the group they fought with turns out to be just as happy to resort to terrorism and massacres, anyway.

Since there's never been a single army on earth that hasn't done both of those things at some point.So Zing are you saying that no-body in ISIL has uniforms, therefore they are all war criminals?

Except that, you know, we haven't actually declared *war* on them yet, so I'm pretty sure that makes us war criminals as well.

Especially if we've just decided to reclassify all of ISIL as civilians, as you have, and therefore we are bombing civilians without declaring war on anyone.

Oh dear!The problem, Curious, is that when the West intervenes before they are asked to, they essentially "pick winners", and even the winners find that process distasteful, and harbour resentment.

And before you say "Iraq asked us back this time!" Remember who it was that destabilised their country in the first place so they had no proper army.

Also remember that the Iraqi army is, according to reports, also massacring civilians.

That's who we're going to go rescue, is it?So OUB if you are so dramatically opposed to genocides and rape warfare...

What have you done to stop Boko Haram in Nigeria? Or the Mexican cartels who also wipe out villages and kidnap women to use as sex slaves?

You claim that because Noah's Ark doesn't wish to get involved in the Middle East he is "OK" with those tragedies occurring.

Tell me: do you want Australia to get involved in the Mexican drug war? Or to send troops to Nigeria? Because obviously if you don't want us to spend money to stop those tragedies you are "okay" with them. Right?

Surely it's not just "not your problem" or bigger than you can deal with? Right?The USA was complicit in aiding the Taliban's rise by assassinating the leader of the main opposition group. Because he wanted to play ball with the Russians instead of them.

That's the point. The people we go to "defend from evil" today, will be tomorrow's evil that needs defeating.Orwell was on the side of the anarchists, who were perfectly happy to blow up civilians now and then if it suited their purposes. Check some history on the Anarchist movement if you don't believe me.

Not to say that Orwell supported that... just that he was hardly fighting on the side of angels.So Rose despite conceding that the West collectively, and the USA most recently, have indeed meddled in the Middle East, supported puppet leaders, suppressed the will of the people and exploited their resources, they are somehow still not as bad as Franco's fascism? Not worth fighting against?

I challenge you, that if it was your country the USA had done all this to, you would be fighting against them as well, even if you had to join up to an unsavoury ideological group to do so.Well first of all, I don't believe that many, if any, of the past Caliphates operated in the way described. They were if anything more about the authority of the Caliph than "the State".

Secondly, even if this current Caliphate intends to operate in a fascist way, we have to ask - is it currently operating that way? Is it really working towards the best interests of the "state" over individual groups? Or is it working for the best interests of individual groups (like ISIL!) over the interests of the whole state?

It doesn't matter what they "intend" to become; what matters is what they really are. Actions speak louder than words.

And their actions say they are a brutal, oppressive and dictatorial group but not, at present, fascists.You think the Anarchist factions weren't part of the Left? Oh, sorry, were they hand-in-hand with the conservative Right then?

The Anarchists are just further along the spectrum of "leftness" than Communism, and they were just as "angry activist" than the Communists.

Maybe you'd like to look up all the terrorist Anarchist bombings that took place in the turn of the century? The many assassinations of royalty that Anarchists undertook (and eventually led to World War)?

You think that's a "centrist" group focused on "personal freedoms"?

Ho ho ho ho.You are correct that Anarchy and Libertarianism meet at either end of the political spectrum circle.

But Anarchy is definitely of the left, not the right, because it has a disdain for capitalism where Libertarianism embraces it.

As other political commentators have pointed out, both left and right wing ideologies want to control people to some extent - the only different is whether they want to control people economically or morally.ISIL are not fascists. Perhaps they are proto-fascists but they do not have a state to run, so they cannot be ideologically all about the interests of the state.

In addition, it's pretty clear that they don't like any other ethnic or religious group, despite what such groups could offer the state. So, again, they don't care for the state over all else.

They are barbarians, but not fascists.The vikings were beaten back and then converted. They didn't settle down on their own. You'd be very wrong if you think there was some innate, genetic component that allowed all the European tribes to get on with each other just based on reason and common good. 

Even Catholicism couldn't fully hold them back from fighting each other; they just had to come up with better excuses and install "their man" as pope. But Catholicism *did* give them a mutual bond in the face of all the other tribes around, who weren't Catholic and thus were clearly in need of a good conquering.While I view Saudi Arabia as being one of the main stirrers in the Middle Eastern hornet's nest, I find your comment interesting. Are you implying that because they are rich and enjoyed the USA's protection, the Saudis cannot legitimately be opposed to them now?

You do realise that many Saudis really hate their monarchy, who are supported by the USA. They have no legitimate means of protest against them, nor do they probably want to attack their own if they don't have to. Attacking the USA is the easy proxy for their own government.Thanks, Peter.   You'll always be outnumbered on this site, but I am with you.Alfie we shall have a mature debate with Abbott the minute he proves himself capable of having one.

At present there has not been a single time he has opened his mouth that I have not cringed or been flabbergasted that anyone could be so dim. (Or at least pretend to be in order to win votes)

Shall I have a "mature debate about taxes" with a dog next? I'm sure the dog would have more meaningful things to say.The shills for the Liberal party are capable of feats of contortionism that would be the star attraction in any Cirque du Soleil performance.

Hence why Labor taxes are bad, but Liberal taxes are good, and taxing the poor is best of all, but we love the poor truly! And we agree not to pollute, and to do so we'll give money to the biggest polluters, and we will liberate the country from the shackles of the nanny state by not reducing government oversight even one iota.I recall Labor attempting to make reasonable arguments to the public many times. They gave proper reasons for the mining tax, the carbon tax and the NBN. But people preferred to listen to the bleatings of the Liberals time and again.

How is that Labor's fault?So to be a real leader, does he have to master the three-word slogan? That he can repeat without context during every TV interview, regardless of what the question he was asked was.

Is that how we'll know he is finally leadership material?So you'd rather the Greens remain ineffective and resigned to the margins of political discourse than give them any real power - since power can corrupt.

An interesting failsafe to prevent your mob from becoming the next bunch of Machiavellian princes, but ultimately without any real point. Just a lot of sound and fury.I would happily replace our coal power plants with nuclear. We are the best suited country in the world to deal with nuclear waste. There is a whole lot of nothing out there. I bet the Simpson desert has places people haven't even been yet.

It will be a good day when the Greens accept nuclear power as the lesser of two evils, and worth using as a stop-gap while we try to work out better power generation methods.Scraping the NBN will be an albatross around the neck of the Liberal party long into the future. 

Only a simpleton could not see that the internet is going to become completely indispensable for jobs in the next few decades and beyond. 

Cutting it back and giving it over to a predatory monopoly has had the same effect as shooting the future Australian economy in the kneecaps."Free markets" is just Anarchism for people in expensive suits; ideas that sound nice and work in theory, but only in theory. They disappear like morning dew the moment they are exposed to the harsh sunlight of reality .Better get out your hoedown decorations!Abbott has so many policies that are going to haunt him until his dying day that he may as well contract the Ghostbusters as a permanent security outfit.Too bad. If they can't compete in the water market then perhaps they should get out of it.

I for one won't cry if the government takes it over.So Gregory, are you saying that a beautiful person has to accept unwanted attention as their "lot"?

Should maimed or very ugly people accept stares and giggles and whispers as their "lot" too?

Should old balding men accept sneers from young women as their "lot"?The point of the video is the compression of all the incidents - every individual man in this video thought his singular cat-call or offense wasn't "too bad", but the cumulative effect of them on a woman as she goes about her daily life is like a blade on a whetstone.

One stroke does nothing, a hundred strokes makes an indelible mark.

The point is to make men realise that their "innocent" greeting to a beautiful woman who is just walking past is, to the woman, just another scrape of the whetstone.Amazingly Jimmy, men have been having sex and having kids long before there was an economy.

In fact if you're going to go the route of claiming these men are "beta" males acting out because they are sexually excluded, then nature dictates its the job of the alpha males to slap them back into line and stop them harassing the females.

Either way the ball is in your court, males.Edward, do you honestly believe that it is appropriate to "make the first move" in a relationship with a strange woman who is walking down the street, obviously avoiding eye contact?

And even if you answer in the affirmative, do you think that beautiful woman is so stupid that she doesn't realise the only reason you singled her out for attention is because she is beautiful?

Just because she's attractive doesn't mean she has to settle for a shallow man. All beauty fades.Ken Gee, this cat-call problem is exactly the same mindset in New York or in Cairo. The difference is what men think they can get away with.

A man in NY or Sydney knows that he isn't socially allowed to grope a woman's bottom in public - his friends won't slap him on the back and laugh about that. But they will for him yelling out to her.

In Cairo the man's friends will laugh about the bottom grope, so the grope happens.

In both cases it is all about what men feel they are "allowed" to inflict on women.Well Andrew if you find the disregard of the current poor for the fortunes of the more wealthy to be so repugnant, I'm sure you must be equally repulsed by the disregard for the poor shown by those who do currently have a house. (I've got mine, Jack)

You admit you could only buy a blah house on 100k - what about all the rest of us on 40k? 

Just look at the comments on any thread about housing bubbles - or simply have a chat with anyone in the older age cohort - and you will see complete contempt for the young not being able to afford a home. It's all the young people's personal fault, you see, not a perfect storm of circumstances that have unwittingly conspired against them. No compassion for those bludgers who are spending all their money on new iphones (really? all of it? They must have like 50 of them then)

People who are shown no compassion rarely develop it for others.You could get a healthy interest rate for your savings account in the 80s as well. Now you'll be lucky to get one that even keeps pace with inflation.Actually Scotty, quite a few simulators have shown that young people are better off renting than buying in the current market. Yes, over the course of their entire lifetime.

Of course that's assuming the market does not change, which it will. But if prices go up from here, it'll herald all the young Aussies moving overseas. 

I suggest you learn Mandarin.Many long-term mortgages were taken out in the past, probably before mortgage insurance was so mandatory. Besides, it's not like we didn't see insurance companies crumble in the last crisis.Jobs could have far more easily been created in suburban and rural Australia with the NBN. That was its explicit point for existing. This current government gutted it and the hopes of many Australians to join the online economy whilst living in an affordable area.The NBN was clearly about job creation in the future economy, which will be largely service-based, and mostly done online. When you can work online, there becomes little reason for people to commute to large cities. They can work from home or in satellite offices. This was the genius of the NBN; you could be anywhere in semi-rural Australia and still working at your corporate job.

However if you have a satellite connection you won't be able to access any online servers well enough to do video conferences, edit documents in real time with people across the world, etc.

And the individual will never be able to afford fibre to their semi-rural home.

But thanks to the Liberals we are doomed to continue squashing ourselves like rats into the even more densely packed cities.Rae, actually the NBN would make it easier for your neighbours to get paid technical help. Once you have a high-speed connection it becomes possible for the technician to remotely access your computer and fix the problem by looking at your screen himself.

At lower connections that is simply impossible - it'd be like trying to work in stop-motion photography speed.

Only hardware problems would require an on-site visit.Rae, the problem is that your neighbour is unfortunately going to have to simply stop using Telstra, if Telstra does not serve their needs. 

Or they're going to need to get a laptop.

I know you will never really use the NBN, but young people will be working online. It frees up much city space if people whose job is 100% online no longer live in the city. But without the NBN how can they move to places with bad internet speeds and coverage?Civil unrest requires people to go hungry or people being killed, basically. Thus we are still a ways off from it in Australia, but if the pressure doesn't ease up more and more people will be close to the line.You've admitted elsewhere in the thread that your first property was bought in the 80s. 

Were you absent for all of the previous news articles talking about how house prices since the 90s or indeed the 00s have been completely out of step with inflation and at a historically high unaffordability level?

Your experiences in the 80s have no bearing on what is happening today, Grandpa.So Jimmy, you think it is all swell that your daughter can save $1000 a month. (Probably living in a share home situation, eating ramen noodles).

Judging the median home price to be about $550k (but of course it's really more in Sydney), that would take her 45 years to pay off a mortgage for a basic home.

Oh, but you say, eventually she'd get a higher paying job! Yes but eventually she'd probably also have children, a huge expense, and possibly a stall in her career. And she'd probably need a new car at some point too. Another big expense.

But let's be generous and say it would only take 35 years. 35 years to pay off a bog-standard house, while also forgoing any overseas travel, parties, booze, nice clothes or any luxuries.

Why, by the time she's 50-odd she may just be able to start thinking about treating herself nice! Shame she'll be far out of the age range that gets any nice clothes made for them. Oh well, at least she'll have an overpriced house, right? 

Better hope the market doesn't crash after your daughter takes out her exorbitant mortgage.Sigh, Jimmy, why do you need to have such tunnel-vision? Why do you insist on interpreting my realist outlook as "wishing doom and gloom"? 

Do people who sell security systems wish doom and gloom on their clients?

A shame you can't take this less personally. But moving on. You seem to have already taken solace in the fact that your daughter is not "stupid" enough to buy a house. So clearly you do believe that it is "stupid" to buy a house in the current economic climate, and by default I suppose, that all the young people who do still want to buy homes are "stupid".  Talk about a positive outlook.

Don't worry - I don't intend to buy a house either. But nor do I see any reason to be pleased about the few young people who are able to do well in what is a hostile environment. 

I'd rather change the environment.Ulcers are caused by bacteria, not stress.

You know very well that your daughter cannot live where you are and get a proper job. And even if she or one or two others could, the rest could not. Until the NBN exists or many companies go open offices in the sticks, young people are stuck living in major cities.

I placed no words in your mouth. You used the word "stupid" to describe people who actually wished to be able to purchase a house in the city they work in. No word-twisting on my behalf required!

Your comment about "the choices young people make" is simply utterly irrelevant at a time when the house price to income ratio is at a historical high.

Perhaps I sound combative because the entire thrust of your argument was that young people couldn't buy a house this generation because of poor decisions or personal failings, instead of, you know, economic conditions.

I guess people *do* get combative when you say they'll fail to achieve stability in life because they just don't deserve it, huh? Funny that.

If you want to get young people on your side, I suggest expressing empathy for their position instead of trying to tell them to pull themselves up by their bootstraps.You're missing my point DangerMouse. I'm saying that indeed, this is an impressive effort. However it only continues to look rosy if everything goes right - if her income keeps increasing, if she enters a dual-income household, if she doesn't have too many kids, no-one in the family develops a major medical conditions, etc. etc.

If the only people that can succeed are the ones that are trying very, very hard AND happen to be lucky, then the threshold for success is too high.

But people like Jimmy seem to think that because he's OK and his daughter is OK, everything is just fine.

I'm thinking of all the people who will never earn more than 50k, who may be single mothers for part of their lives, who have chronic medical conditions.

Don't they deserve to own a house eventually too?Oh well if it doesn't work we don't need it then, do we? Best to be rid of it.Sorry AE but there are few if any sustainability features baked into homes, and it would only be new homes, so that can hardly explain the high price of old homes.

You've basically just given another spin to the tired old "but houses these days have inside toilets so that's worth an extra 200k!"A bubble is a bubble. You're now just splitting hairs about when the bubble will actually pop and they'll become "officially" overpriced.No, but people will move to outback NSW if there is fibre internet there and they can work from home, because their job is online.

My job is online. Technically I could do it from home, but its a small company and we like being able to interact. But jobs like mine are going to become more and more common.

We can decrease the density in the cities if the people with online-only jobs can move out to the country and still be able to access the internet at a good enough speed to do their jobs.Don't worry though Andrew. It won't get to that point. Once the majority of post-boomers wake up to the fact that they will be expected to work until they're dead, there'll be a riot.Sorry, but the first home buyers do not expect to move into a McMansion; the majority of them just want a house that is not falling apart. Gen Y isn't the one building all the McMansions - that'd be the boomers and the generation trailing them.

Yes, the renovation boom made everyone think they could turn a profit when they sold their house. But for the people trying to enter the market now, nothing is more frustrating than seeing a listing that has "new paint" or "new carpets" and knowing that several hundred dollar job has jacked up the price by 10 grand.

I'll take trashy lino and walls that need repainting if I can have a decently priced house, please.I don't even live in Sydney, so your argument is irrelevant. And no, I don't want to live inner city in any city that I live in. 30 minute commute from the city would be nice."However I suspect you would want to buy at Bellevue Hill for this price, Ann."

This is not a valid argument in a debate. It is an implied insult that I am agitating for something "better than I deserve" at a price that I can afford.

I am not doing any such thing, and not even in a position to do any such thing because I don't live in the relevant city.

There is also no requirement for me to be pleasant in order for my viewpoint to be correct. This is the internet, put on your big boy pants.You are correct then. Nobody should see their house as a profit-making machine. If you improve it a little it should be to avoid having to discount it because it was in shoddy condition, not to get a profit on it. Of course prices should still rise with inflation.Glad to see you support the NBN, Jimmy. We need more right-headed thinkers like you who realise the future is in an online marketplace, and the state must support the infrastructure to accomplish that for all Australians.Are you suggesting that something cannot be a factor in the growth of a market, without also being the *only* factor in that market?

Logical fallacy, try again next time.Once again, you are over-simplifying the issue. I'm sure you can do better.

No-one is saying having a rental market is a bad thing. We are saying having a situation where 50% of the population is trapped in the rental market is a bad thing.

The article states the 65+ age bracket has 82% home ownership, and that the younger one will not achieve this.

Nothing to do with renting being "bad" inherently.Sure, sit on your house because you refuse to sell until the price goes up again. Then, you'll die eventually and the state will reclaim most of its value in estate taxes.Good luck with your child AE, I'm sure that you can give him enough education to overcome the highest house price to income ratio in Australian history. 

More education, that'll be the ticket! Just 70k from your friendly local unregulated university.

Cheers.Germany now also has quite a lot of systems in place to prevent house prices rising much above inflation at all. It's quite a good system, no different to artificially maintaining the prices of other essential goods and services."There has never been a time in Australia's history where everybody could afford to buy a house, even if they wanted to."

From the article: Among over 65s home ownership rates remain high, at 82 per cent. 

82% sounds awful close to nearly everybody being able to afford a house. You won't get 82% for the post-boomer generations, believe me.sleepykarly, just because the rot might set back in again some time down the track is no reason not to get out the Dettol right now. Most things in life don't get done and stay done - they need to be done and done again. Keeping the political structure sound and fair is just another one of them, like cleaning your gutters or mopping the floor.I think you're exactly right phil. A lot of various groups used 9/11 for their own financial or political purposes, and some people can't seem to realise that doesn't mean they orchestrated it. Some people are just vultures looking forward to each new carnage.Any port in a storm.

Want people to not sail into such a dodgy port? Try to calm the storm down instead then.

Heck, if we got a nice, stable government that was kind to the populace, support for ideological firebrands would dry up.

Why can't we try that?7 out of 10 people in a blind taste test could not discern the difference between a Labor and a Liberal policy.I doubt it'll be as long as two generations. We're already seeing riots in the USA, amongst some of the poorest minority groups. That'll start to scale up.

I'm sure Applaudanum will also be one of the first who, when the young do "put down their devices" and start doing "something", brands them hooligans and anti-social cancers to society.I agree with all the points you've raised Terry. But for those changes to take place the current politicians - the rich and entrenched in privilege - will have to give up that privilege willingly. 

Not likely.

Revolutions do lead to more tears before they lead to better solutions, but sadly they're more reliable than rich people giving up their riches without coercion.Anarchism is still a rubbish system that only works in small communities. The Amish way of life works in small communities - that doesn't mean it'll be any good for the rest of us.

Democracy is still what most people want - certainly not libertarianism - but sometimes people take up anarchy on the path to democracy.Even if you vote for a dodgy politician Mulky, you will still make a difference if that dodgy politician is not from the Lab/Lib camp. Why? Because it will start to send the message to politicians that they can get elected without entering one of the two soul-crushing major parties.

Then our young hopefuls will take a turn at running, where before they would have decided to take up a more noble and self-fulfilling career than politics. Like sewerage disposal."which did harm to the populous"

Is the populous just three people now? I think it's been helpful to most of the people involved - created jobs and lowered heating bills.Graham, that's fair then. I will expect Peris to pay back the taxpayer money she owes at the exact same time that Abbott is chased for and pays back all the money he claims for his "charity" events and attending people's weddings.

Thanks.No, it's like saying a batsman that's going to play against Indian isn't suitable because he's a known racist against Indians. And we don't want to encourage that sort of thing.So you really have no idea of how a high mortality rate amongst young people impacts population growth? There have been so many studies and so much data...

Let me make it super simple for you. When disease is rampant and people regularly die young, families are big. They have to be, in order to get enough adults making it through the gauntlet to reproduce themselves.

When medicine and sanitation are introduced, the first couple of generations continue to be large, but then when they don't die off quickly, people soon get the idea that they don't need to have as many babies - 10 babies now means 10 mouths instead of 5, because deaths have been reduced.

This leads to a population peak (which we are out now) but then a dive (which is projected for the future).

Helping poverty-stricken countries to reduce their mortality rate for the young will actually help with population control in the long run."prove you are worth the investment"

Yeah, I guess saving the lives of all those poor people isn't worth it, right?So basically Good Grief, unless a fantasy organisation exists in which everyone involved works for free and covers most of their own expenses, you won't give a cent of your money to help poor people dying of treatable diseases.

If you really cared about their lives, it would be worth even the 30c per dollar that was spent to help them.

If you think the overheads of charity organisations are too high - and I can assure you that many aren't, and you can easily find out because they are independently audited - then why don't you start up one yourself and see how easy it is to run?Do you really have to swallow every scare pill the ebola hysteria feeds you? It's not going to cause an epidemic here, the conditions aren't right for it. It's no danger to us, even if a few aid workers come back with it.Tuberculosis can be immunised against, although I believe the immunisation can have bad side-effects.

Still, what is the cost-benefit analysis for making the immunisation cheap and widespread throughout SE Asia?Throughout human history it has pretty much always been the company or workplace's job to train their employees to do the work. It's only been in the last couple hundred years, courtesy of universal education (a socialist initiative) that has led to the individual taking that burden onto themselves instead.And of course, both Realist and AE are old, and don't realise that such opportunities don't exist anymore.

Why, you should just listen to your grandpa here tell you how easy it is to shine shoes in the street, and how you can build up work ethic that way!The fact that he's been championing the political parties that have the most punitive policies for the lower economic classes?The ABC is a publicly owned company - the point of regulations that prevent media companies growing large is to prevent private interests gaining a stranglehold on the media ala Murdoch. The ABC is not a private interest.Yeah, Northern Europe is so un-innovative and the citizens so irresponsible.Ahh so despite the fact that Australia does not have the same level of socialism that Scandinavia does, we're making the argument that Australians are somehow culturally "different", dare we say "inferior", and can barely deal with the amount of socialism we have now.

Heavens forbid we have more! No, no, Australians are yobbos, and drunks. They will never be mature enough to deal with proper big-boy politics like the Europeans.

And yet despite now admitting that Australians aren't "proper" mature and responsible people, we're going to continue to criticise them for not being mature and responsible enough to get a job and buy a house.

Airtight logic there.Murray "all the net tax" is not "all the tax". Yes, we can concede that many lower-income earners only just pay their way or not even that. But that is a requirement of the system.

Consider pre-democratic models; the wealthy "owned" some of the poor or the land they worked on, but they were still responsible for paying for all the infrastructure and developments on it.

You can't be rich in a society and not pay a larger share towards the upkeep of that society. That is simply an unsustainable model. I don't care if you find that ideologically offensive - it is just true.He undermined democracy by supporting liars - known, admitted liars - and mud-slinging against their enemies. Basically he was happy enough to print all this rubbish to convince Australian voters that Labor was so, so terrible, it didn't even matter if their opponents were lying, they were still preferable - And that's how we got this government.Actually as a Lefty I was screaming as much as I could about the 457 visas that even Labor was happy to support. But now that this current lot of bozos is in, there's so many more things to complain about.Right, harry, right... The leftists can only think in three-word slogans, and that's why all the Greens and Labor campaigns are made like that, right?

Oh no, wait, that's just an Abbott thing. You know, conservative, right-wing Abbott.

But do keep trying to pretend the people who voted for him have more than two brain cells to rub together."but I don't see armies of organised Australian youth taking to the streets."

Yet.The government did indeed bailout our major banks by effectively guaranteeing their debts to ordinary savers. Without that guarantee of money that would eventuate if required, there could easily have been runs on the banks as they started to crumble. Some were very, very exposed to the GFC.Not even close. If you're talking about people in the US being able to "walk away" from their mortgage, that isn't even correct in most states.

And secondly, it wasn't even the high-risk mortgages that caused the system to collapse, but the selling of those debts to investors under false labelling. And THEN, effectively "gambling" that the debts would, indeed, default, by insuring themselves against it. Which creates a bit of an incentive to make sure they do default, wouldn't you say?Agreed - volunteering happens when people want to give back to the society they live in. When they feel marginalised or even cast away from that society, their incentive to give back plummets. 

You can't ask for people to give what they don't have.I have to agree with leafygreens. The issues about red tape are very valid and should be considered a top priority for change.

But not wanting to volunteer because most of the other volunteers are old? Just smacks of ageism. You really can't socialise with people that don't follow the same TV shows as you?A good point. People probably are less interested these days in regimented systems or cultures that favour personal relationships over ability or work ethic.I think you are correct on all points steve, but number 3 is basically the same reason as number 1. People from small cultural enclaves probably don't feel they have as much social capital in our society as the Anglo people do. They don't see their own faces in ads, or on the streets, or in the media, so it's harder for them to feel they belong. They probably volunteer quite a lot within their own minority groups.

And number 2 is basically the same again. Financial instability because the workforce is structured around casual work makes you feel like society has let you down - there's therefore less inventive to give back.

I think on all fronts the answer is that we need to change society to make young people and ethnic groups feel they belong; that they have a say and "own" part of society. Then they will spend their time and effort building it up.A good point. If such helicopters are useful in fighting bushfires we really should have some.Rubbish, reaver. You are saying that if they don't volunteer, then that proves you right about *why* they don't volunteer. But that's clearly not true.

There could be many reasons why they don't volunteer and the fact that they don't doesn't mean your reason is the correct one.

SdrawkcB was pretty clear about what their stated reasons are: there's nothing connecting them to society currently. They hate their leader, they have no economic security and they don't trust in blind nationalism.

Are you seriously suggesting we turn back to blind nationalism, despite how poorly our country is letting us down? Were the French wrong to revolt despite how they were treated? Was that too unpatriotic of them for your taste?

Despite which, every country on earth has an ugly history. Australia is no different. If we couldn't have national pride unless we had a clean slate, there wouldn't be such a thing as nationalism.

Your obvious "pet hate" of people being taught the truth in school about the circumstances of Australia's settlement is petty and not a part of this debate.I know, right? I can hardly keep on track during a discussion of politics because no-one takes the time to discuss whether the politicians are wearing designer clothes, or where they do their hair.

Honestly, all I remember about Voltaire was that he sported a fantastic wig!Then my apologies fish. The quotation marks displayed as ? for me, making it appear that it was not a quote.You saw the word "female" in the article title and just had to come scuttling out to post about the evils of feminists, didn't you?

The article clearly addresses the fallacy of "merit" that our powerful men use as a construct to excuse excluding women.I would have voted for a dog over Tony Abbott. Far more charismatic, for sure. 

Unfortunately there is a small body of research that suggests many of us are inclined to vote for paternalistic-looking, reasonably trim men who still have all their own hair.

Perhaps people need to be be aware of their biases and purposely circumvent them.Exactly. If a new parliament was elected and it was all women and dark-skinned people, I bet a lot of white men would be crying out that they weren't "represented". Oh well, it was decided based on merit, you know.
So once again we see someone excusing the fact that we don't have women in power by saying "Oh but at least our women are allowed to show their hair!"

Give me women in power and I would wear the headscarf every day.

And as the article points out, it is not just Indonesia we lag behind. There are women in high political positions in Afghanistan, and both India and several African nations, which host sizeable Muslim populations.This article seems to have an air of overly-defensiveness about it, trying to assure readers that just because women in Australia don't have much relative political or economic power, they're still so *free*, you know, because they can wear miniskirts and sleep with whoever they want.

Surely that's not what men want, is it? Those are desires borne entirely and solely from the hearts of women. 

We can see from these "oppressive" societies that elect women leaders, that what men really want is for women to be completely covered and sexually inaccessible. Right?Men don't women presented to them a particular way? Billions of dollars of commerce based on lad's mags, sex-focused advertising and pornography speak otherwise.

I will believe the millions of dollars instead of the diatribe of one single man trying to pretend our country is free of female oppression.But they have the largest population of Muslims out of any country on earth. How does that not qualify them as a Muslim nation?Maybe she came here as part of her successful career because a good economic opportunity presented itself to her?

You know, just like nearly every other immigrant.Pav's comment was clearly facetious, pointing out the ridiculousness of saying the millions of people who share a belief with one crazy person all think exactly like him.

I can introduce you to crazy people from every ideological and philosophical system known to man. Just ask!In-groups and out-groups does not equal racism. Racism is one out-group. There is also culture, religion, language, etc. all of which vector to focus on the "otherness" of a person and lead people to exclude them.Agaras I have water, escape routes, got non-perishables, all the finickety stuff for a possible crisis.

However what I do not have, living in Perth, is an earthquake plan, or a nuclear bomb plan, or a tsunami plan.

Why? Because none of those things will conceivably happen here. Far more time would be wasted in me preparing for them. 

Terrorist attacks are the same. The risk/reward ratio is too small.Zany there are plenty of secular Muslim governments, many in the Middle East.

Look at Lebanon, which has a delicate balance between all the minority groups and religions. They manage to keep everyone (reasonably) happy, but apparently that's too hard for us.

Maybe the towels on their heads stop the sun from baking their brains. We should get onto that.How can you claim Breivik had different motives? He clearly had an obsession with an ideology, and its purity, tinged with racism and quasi-religious justifications.

But which at its core, were all about him not fitting into society.

It was the exact same thing.Exactly. Once they are beheading people, they're probably too far gone. But if you sit down with them while they're a troubled teen and help them out, they never need reach that stage.The point is to engage with them before they become militants in Syria.

Why is this so hard for right-wingers to understand? You intervene with people who have a minor problem, whether mental, drug-related, cultural, racial, whatever - BEFORE it manifests into a full-blown disease.What most people seem not to believe is that a huge, huge proportion of fighters and associated helpers and hangers-on in these extremist groups are not really extremists, they are there for adventure, excitement, poverty, desperation, a sense of belonging, a purpose in life, to follow a family member, etc. etc. and if given alternatives many would shed off from the main group.

They are the extremist version of Christmas Christians. They say all the right things but their heart isn't really in it.But consider, reality bites, that Turkey is just as big an impediment to the Kurds having Kurdistan as the Iraqis are. They refuse to give up their Kurdish lands.

But because the Turks are somewhat secular we don't have a big problem with them oppressing the Kurds. The Iraqis are all radicals, so *their* oppression is evil and must stop!

See why maybe some of these groups view us with disdain?He was clearly addressing the same sentiment that fuels creation and wearing of those T-shirts: Raw, unquestioned patriotism and nationalism.Craig did you know that Australians have been ejected from foreign countries for sporting tattoos of the Buddha that were viewed as offensive? Just because they don't scream for our blood doesn't mean they weren't offended.Actually Michael, he was not supporting Pol Pot. He was criticising Pol Pot's enemies. That is not the same thing.

Remember that wonderful America did not stop the genocide from taking place, even though they were told it happened. No, it took *also communist* Vietnam to step in and stop it.

So are you going to blame the genocide on communism when the saviours were also communist?

Also do you know the role of the USA in building up the Khmer Rouge to begin with? Just like they armed and built up nearly every single terrorist group that has since threatened the Western world. So why aren't you attacking them for their hypocrisy and moral weakness?

Try to think on a more complicated level than the 2D.Monkey See, you think that her friends no longer have anything in common with her just because she changed religions?

That's ludicrous. They would have been friends because of shared hobbies, liking the same cultural phenomenon, etc. Nowhere does she say that she eschewed all of Western culture when she changed religions.

You are just trying to excuse the bigotry of her former friends.I don't know how you can claim that. The USA and the Japanese love each other these days, and they were mass-murdering each other in living memory.

India did a fairly remarkable job of forgiving much of Britain's exploitation of them in order to still claim a partnership with a potential ally.whogoesthere, you are basically putting words in Abbott's mouth. When he spoke of Team Australia he didn't talk about our secular laws or separation of powers or democracy. He just said "Team Australia!"

How about we discuss what he *did* say instead of what you wished he had said?mike, ISIL was formed with the help of the USA, like pretty much every Muslim terrorist group in recent memory, and when they say they hate the USA, maybe you should just believe them?

Part of the problem they have is that the Shia *don't* hate the USA as much (as much, mind you) as well as having theological differences.

This is basically a case of a child being abused by its parent and taking their rage out on their siblings because they do not have the power to punish the parent.

Can you understand that?"escalation of terror attacks in recent times against a parliament"

But not our parliament. Do we increase our terrorism laws when the Afghani parliament is attacked? 

If the Chinese parliament was attacked by pro-democracy terrorists would we ramp up our security?Precisely, GreyBags.

I have some experience with violent tendencies and one of the first things a clever violent person learns is how to goad other people into attacking *them*, so they can simply claim to be defending themselves.

Do not underestimate this drive in certain groups who wish to both lash out and be seen as the victim.

Provoking a victim into attacking you is an art form and one can be very, very skilled at it. In fact, I wager I could get probably 75% of random people to attack me, if I wanted to.

The only way to avoid this cycle is *to be aware it is happening*. Pay very, very close attention to everyone in an argument; try to discern both who really started it and more importantly, who *is trying to continue it*. Ask yourself what both sides stand to gain from the argument, and what they would stand to gain if it escalated into conflict.

Do not assume that nobody *wants* to be attacked, and would never willingly bring that on themselves.naughtee, some perspective on the cultural, social and political environment that existed at the time the Quran was written probably wouldn't go astray. In case you haven't noticed, since that time Muslim countries have operated pretty much the same as all the rest of us. Yeah they had their empires and claimed to be spreading Islam, but the USA has their empire right now claiming to be spreading democracy.

What's the difference?Swan dive, you are committing the fallacy of thinking that because Australia doesn't exclude *everyone*, it doesn't exclude *anyone". 

Gingers are accepted here because they were here from the beginning. Buddhists had a rough go in their own time. Just ask the first Chinese immigrants a century or so ago.Funny, Mitor. The Asians seemed to have been forced to live in ghettos that exist as "little China", "little Vietnam" as well.

Are you suggesting it is only Muslims who come over and try to retain some sense of their original cultural identity?If little Mrs. Murphy's son commits a white power hate crime, she may suddenly find herself concerned. They may arrest her without presenting a warrant or letting anyone know. Oh, and she can't report it to anyone even after they let her go, either.Because clearly it is not giving racist bigots their democratic rights to steal the land of tribes that have been living there for thousands of years.So our prime minister isn't required or expected to give Australians a basic understanding of our new laws? It takes a man whose political campaigns revolved around three-word-slogans longer than 10 minutes to explain a law that allows police to target people who have committed dubious "crimes"?Amazingly, there are parties other than the Liberal Democrats that would or do oppose knee-jerk terrorism laws.

Libertarians are more repugnant than a Communist party. Just because they have some good ideas doesn't mean we need to accept the whole lot.This idea of Australia being nice and magically different doesn't only extend to the government. Too many Australians seem to believe their fellow citizens are somehow morally superior to the rest of the world and would never fall to attacking each other in a civil war, looting from each other during a natural disaster or happily turning a blind eye to the abuse of minority groups.

Resting on your laurels is the best way to crush them beyond recognition.No I think I'd rather vote for a party that doesn't base its policies on ideological fairytales of utopias that could so easily be realised if just everyone conceded how right the idealists were.

I'll vote for some much more sensible and grounded party, like the Free Marijuana mob.WA Ideas, just because they can challenge the warrant in the court means nothing. The court upholds the warrant. Now what? They can't get media support for their case. They have to sit in the dark and accept whatever the government and police deems is good for them. You really think that's a good idea?

Do you realise how many miscarriages of justice happen regularly in our system? A small amount is inevitable, but when they have no voice or power to overturn that injustice, how can we think that is fair and acceptable?Zing, if people fight in wars against Australia in the present day, they can still be charged as traitors.

The thing you can't seem to understand here is that Australia has not really declared war on ISIL. Even so, the people who are known to be fighting with them would not be allowed back into the country or would be arrested upon entering.

So why do we need these new laws?WA Ideas can't deal with situations that aren't simplistic. Don't confuse the poor lad."ASIO and the AFP et al is not made up of wannabe stalins, hitlers, putins and such ilk."

Well, your entire post was logic-free wishful thinking, but this just took the cake.

I didn't realise that ASIO, an organisation that closely vets every person they employ and is secretive about what they do, was such an open book to a clever fellow like yourself!

You know their entire staff, do you?Nom, you think Germany is worse off economically than Australia? They actually have competent and respected industries and aren't just relying on mines.I agree that Rudd seemed to be politically competent while, unfortunately, possibly being personally appalling. So is it acceptable for our politicians to refuse to work with someone who makes their life hell, even if they're a good leader for the country?

I don't know, I'm on the fence about that one.No, I agree with the author. Hand-wringing about what the government should be doing may make us all feel better, knowing that we *wish* we could help, but I'd rather know why we're not actually helping.

Knowing what impedes us would help us change things. Writing and commenting on public articles about how much Australia would love to commit billions to stop ebola, knowing full well it won't change what the government does, is just like taking part in a twitter activism campaign; mostly meaningless.Bingo! If you don't understand what's happening in the background, you will remain confounded as to why Australian politicians make the decision they do.

And no, they don't do what the public wants or even needs.

Get educated and keep informed and pay attention to politics.Keith at least you are willing to admit to being completely ignorant and uninformed, and basing your voting decisions on such.

A shame that anyone can be accepting, let alone proud, of such a position.

A much better position to take is to ask why our government's goals are the ones they are. Who decided those goals were important? Australian citizens didn't know boat people or global warming or the mining tax were important until someone told them. Think about that. Who is telling you what is important?Yes, agreed Peter. Better to vote in the Greens.There were unequal land and water allocations between tribes but the slaughter wasn't over who got what and attempting to survive - it was about deep-seated tribalism provoked by a minority group repressing a majority while they were in power, and then the tables being turned.Mike you clearly have no knowledge whatsoever of the history of the African continent. 

Do you know where a lot of the rare minerals for your electronics come from? The not-so-rare minerals? 

Do you know for how many centuries Europeans have been plundering Africa? Do you know how many genocides have been committed there?

Do you know how many genocides have been committed just in the Congo alone?

Also, do you know how well Australia would have fared as a nation if we didn't have a Mummy giving us a helping hand (the UK)?

And yet now we refuse to give a helping hand to others?

Despicable.JoeBloggs your comments are unfortunately ignorant of history.

Please read up on the history of even ONE African nation. If you are feeling really brave, read up on the history of the Congo and how it was formed into a colony and then a nation.

Go on, I'll wait for you to come back and realise that Africa was made a cesspool by Europeans.Actually JoeBloggs Nigeria has a ton of corruption and nepotism and even kidnappings by Boko Haram and yet they managed to contain the outbreak just fine.

Primarily because it came to the country in a more developed area with proper services rather than starting in the most rural of backwaters.

This is all about available resources to contain the spread, not corruption.Irrelevant. It doesn't matter what for-profit drug companies are doing or not doing. This is about what Australia should do.

Don't deflect from the topic at hand.Oh because the West never does anything the UN doesn't give them permission to. Like those wars in Iraq that the UN said America couldn't do. Remember how that totally stopped them?

Also if you're asking why China or Russia didn't do anything, well, remember that China and Russia didn't have much of a presence in the country at the time. Belgians, French, UK and USA had presences.Snidely, I suggest you do some research.

There was ample warning that there was a genocide brewing in Rwanda. There were armed groups, there was violent propaganda, there was political instability and there was generations of oppression and tribalism. 

We could have done something.

There has also been ample warning that ebola was becoming a real problem. It has been in the news for MONTHS, ever since there were only a hundred cases or so. And ever since the beginning the agencies involved have been begging for help.

We could still do something. But will we?Uh, no that's utter rubbish Zing. An extra hour in the emergency room in Australia might save another life or two. But that hour in Africa could probably save 10 lives as each infected person treated in hospital instead of left on the side of the road is fewer infections spread around.Please! The government probably isn't even doing fever screening of people coming into our airports. The security of our borders from ebola comes from being on the opposite side of the world and not having much to do with Africa.Probably no-one is infected from him, because you only transmit when you are displaying symptoms, and I doubt he was at a bowling alley while feverish and vomiting.I doubt it's much more infectious. A lot of medical personnel were dying in the last outbreaks too - its simply that they got it quarantined and controlled faster so *only* medical personnel were exposed and catching it.

As in Nigeria where they were quickly able to isolate the first case and quarantine him (against his will) but about 12 medical personnel were infected treating him.

But they stopped the spread.The safety of many *humans* is at stake, and being part of humanity we should seek to protect them as part of our self-interest.Well the Doctors Without Borders don't say they can't handle additional staff; they *begged* us for more staff, and the Government effectively handed over whatever was in their pockets at the time to the wide-eyed scruff street beggar, backing away slowly and hoping they didn't follow us home.Dean you realise that there was only this allegedly Islamic terrorist attack in Canada *after* they committed troops to the war on ISIS.

Don't be fooled by what they say about that "proving" there was a risk all along. There's no risk before you step into the shark pool.I don't know if you've noticed this or not reaver, but the Australian government has failed like a billion duties of care every year, and basically nothing happens.

They've failed their duty of care to children in detention centres that have been sexually assaulted and... what exactly was the ramifications of that? Oh? Nothing?

So why should they fret about breaching another duty of care? It's just meaningless noise."like a protective father"

So I take it you are 100% supportive of a nanny state, then right?Do you know why we're called the "Lucky" country? Because our good fortune is down to luck. 

That's why those who aren't so lucky want a hand up from those who are. It's basic human decency.

And yes, I have sent money.Precisely. We get so much more bang for our charity buck by spending it in Africa then on meaningless vote-winning welfare like baby bonuses or, heavens forbid, luxurious maternity schemes.Do you realise that in desperate situations they want as few untrained and inexperienced volunteers underfoot as possible?

I have sent money - I'll send more if the government asks and is going to make a big effort to do something.

Do you want everybody to train as doctors so we're useful? I suggest that would be a rather useless society at the end of the day.Hey Mark, how many tradies die every year due to poor training, poor oversight or sheer stupidity? Is it comparatively a higher or lower percentage than died during the "pink batts" fiasco?

Do you think no-one is ever electrocuted and dies installing something in someone's attic? Or is it only bad when there was government money involved?

And what about our risk assessment in sending Aussie police to a LIVE war zone in Ukraine to take photos of airplane shrapnel and say "yep, this sure is airplane shrapnel" which is about all they managed to do over there.

Get some perspective.Obviously the government needs a radical re-think of its sloganeering. 

Perhaps "pandebolium" would be a suitable way of encapsulating both a simplistic concept and an undirected but raucous call to action. Not any particular action, of course, but you know just general running about, looking important, yelling alot, kind of action.Let's dump all our stupid "responsibilities" in Iraq then because they were based on lies anyway, and our current lot of soldiers aren't going over there to rebuild houses - just to kill more people.

Let's be responsible for saving people's lives for once.So Phil, you also support us sending personnel to Africa to fight Ebola then right? 

Just out of empathy because it "could have been us"?And nobody tries to keep their braces a secret.

And if somebody says "Wow you have such straight teeth, did you wear braces when you were younger?" you don't take offense or feel they are insulting you, do you?"Women should be free to be who they are."

And we're free to criticise who they are. Who ever changes without criticism? I wouldn't be who I am today without it, and I'm very glad about that.Probably not low self-esteem so much as an economic decision regarding her future income.

Gotta be pretty and stay in the papers to keep the money rolling in Hollywood.
Joan Rivers was pretty open about the negative opinions others and herself had about her aging body though, and was honest about her surgeries.
There's "beyond reasonable doubt" which is from criminal cases and "on the balance of probability" which is for civil ones and I believe Skeptic and many of the other commentators are confusing the two. It's why OJ was not criminally convicted for the murder but *was* civilly convicted (of what charge I can't recall).

On the balance of probability Pistorius is guilty... but beyond reasonable doubt he isn't.I believe she is referring to the fact that violence would not be widespread in that society if a large proportion of the people didn't condone it. Otherwise who is doing it all? Do people who don't condone violence commit it?Davo, if you're committing violence, you condone it. There's no two ways about that.

If you spank your children you condone spanking children. If you hit your wife you condone hitting wives.

You may *say* you don't, but if your words and your actions don't match up I will follow your actions to see what you truly believe.Gary said it did not "increase their income". Borrowing more money against the house is not an increase in your income. Borrowed money is never "yours".firthy you are correct about the way people can walk away from loans in the US, but the actual effect of that is quite small.

To put simply, the banks in Australia take possession of the home when we default as well, and if they can't sell it for their money back, they can continue to chase us for the difference.

How often do you really think banks would sell for less than they could, if they know for a fact this mug who owes them money probably doesn't have any to pay? If he did, he wouldn't have defaulted on his mortgage, would he?

The fact is if the bank can't sell it for as much as they want right away, they don't always sell it. And certainly if they suddenly had a ton of devalued properties on their hands, unless they were running a red line of insolvency themselves, they would simply keep the stock and try to wait out the price fluctuations.A low price and high interest rate gives you a much bigger advantage if you are prudent and pay it off quickly. Having a huuge price and low interest rate really dispels much of that advantage. Yet another way that boomers had it easier than their children.Oh I guess the record low first-home buyer stats are just because all the young people don't want to own a house anymore!Housing shortage is just another lie told by the property market to account for why our houses are ludicrously overpriced by every standard.

Another one I've heard bandied around is that we have indoor toilets these days so that justifies more expensive houses! Brother, I'll take an outdoor dunny for a $100,000 house in reasonable distance of the city. Sign me up!

And so on, or "kids these days only like McMansions" - hey, the kids didn't build the McMansion, they just want to buy it. So who built it? Who was it that really loved McMansions enough to lay the foundation for one? Right, the Boomers.It's so appalling, living next door to properties that are continually being flipped, with each purchaser doing some landscaping or adding a pool and selling it on. 

To the next flipper, of course; nobody but renters lived in these houses since the cycle started. And guess how many renters really care about your sustainable landscaping and designer gravel additions? Hint: none of them.

The metaphor of it being a game of Pass the Parcel couldn't be more apt.Yep sorry Peter, but investors who want a quick return, whether on the share market or property market, are just economic bludgers. 

Invest in a company over 20 years and reap the profits? 
Acceptable.

Short sell some shares? 
Bludger.

Simple as that.No, first home buyers aren't taking out mortgages at all. Look at the stats.Don't know what part of Australia you're from Lucy, but my grandparents owned, in fact they owned a farm, and on one mechanic's income. All my grandparents family also owned houses - including a single Great-Uncle of mine who never married, so its not like he was getting any help paying that off.

And in "my" parents day, the 70s and 80s, you rented only for a couple of years until your jobs were secure and you knew where you wanted to live and then boom! Into a house. Don't know many people at all from my parents generation who don't own a home.

And nobody expects to be able to buy a home in their early 20s on one income that's better than their parents. That's utter rubbish. I'm a dual-income family, no kids, married and renting for SIX years and still not in sight of being able to afford a mortgage. Oh and I have a university student loan too. Which our parents didn't. 

What joy.Nope, never been outside of Australia since I married, one car family driving a Ford falcon. 

I never said we were on average wages. My husband is but I am below average despite being university educated, because I face a lot of mental difficulties. However that also means we never go out or drink or party.

It also means I pay a lot for medical care and prescriptions. Does that mean I should never be able to afford a home? Maybe the mentally unwell should just accept it and live on the streets, waiting to mug random people such as you?

The fact is, a couple of decades ago even on middling wages the two of us could have PAID for our house, yet even you only concede we could have a deposit for it, or be third done.
That's pretty much correct Mat Mat, except as well as becoming renters the best and brightest of the young also leave - to where they can ply their trade and live more comfortably.

Then as the boomers retire all the workers supporting them will be immigrants - for some strange reason a lot of boomers don't seem to like immigrants! And those immigrants may not be keen on paying heavy taxes to support the boomers, seeing as its not *their* parents. Their parents are back home in India or China and receiving healthy parcels of money each month that funnel resources out of the Australian economy.

But that's not going to be a problem. I forsee the boomers will, upon retiring into this situation, suddenly learn both humility and live frugally, and compassion for their fellow human beings, no matter how poor their English might be. 

Peace.To be honest your house itself is worth precious little, degrading constantly in value as the years go by. That's why it is not worth as much as a new build.

It's the land that is worth something and appreciates in worth.And the University has reserved the right to do with those emails as they please, as the most important recipient in all communications. Ta.It doesn't matter if Spurr intended the University to keep them private. That's the University's decision to make, as per their user agreement, not his.To be fair David, it would be acceptable if the University published them, but not a third party. If they were hacked, they were hacked, regardless of the policy in place on the email provider.

You do know Google will read your emails too if their word scrapers pick up hints you're dealing in kiddy porn, right? And they swear they never read them otherwise but... who knows? You don't know.

Does that mean if someone else hacks in and reads your Google account, that's OK because Google might have done it too?I think it's just a cultural thing you are used to. Just like British and Japanese people always referring to each other by their last names. Seems weird to us when they do but weird to them if they don't!One does find it hard to take seriously the term "chinky-poos". But I'm still on the fence about this one. Some of the sentences shown were highly offensive... but they were just sentences.
Actually students can be pretty spontaneous about complaining to authority. Traffic at unis is high and schedules are normally gaping with empty timeholes waiting to be filled.

I bet you could get a protest started any day of the week.Sorry anote, but often the extreme vulgarity of a statement is indeed intended to be the joke.

If I tell somebody in a light-hearted argument that I am going to nuke their house and salt the earth it stood on, that is very clearly a joke despite talking about a catastrophic event.

If I tell them I'm going to burn down their house, they probably will have a second of pause to reassure themselves I'm joking.

If I tell them I'm going to throw eggs at their house, there might be a corner of their mind thinking "By jove, he just might do it!"It's obviously intended to be a joke. If it wasn't said to be funny, why was it said? If it was serious it was a threat. If it wasn't serious it was clearly absurd - either I'm mad or I'm trying to make a joke.

One of the recognised dimensions of humour is over-exaggeration. Exaggerated vulgarity is one of the most commonly used examples of that.

Just because you don't appreciate a joke doesn't mean that  it wasn't intended to be a joke.So, astro, you were also supporting the actions of the free press when it was the Murdoch media hacking people's phones to get stories?

Hacking is hacking.Really? I wonder why they still slaughter each other along ethnic lines in parts of Africa and the Middle-East then?

Do you think perhaps its not simply some kind of natural process but a cultural one? Hmmm.You are ludicrously optimistic if you think either biological nature or its offshoots like culture are somehow on a steady course to improvement and peace and moral loveliness. 

Cultural collapse has happened many times in humanity's history and can happen again. It's always been through concerted group effort that societies have progressed, not just waiting for the old people to die off.

Resting on your laurels and thinking "Oh but we're in the clear, it's all up from now on" is the best way to become the next Rome."the increased interconnectedness of humans"

Here's a thought for you. There'll be better interconnectedness between humans that aren't waiting for other, "older" and more "stupid" humans to die off.

If you only have empathy for people you like, you don't really have empathy.Actually MH the university may allow or condone to some degree personal emails being sent using their system. Especially in the case of some academics who may be using their university mail at all hours. There's obviously going to be some overlap between that and their personal life.You'd be surprised how selectively stupid some very intelligent people are.gbe, what does anything you've said there have to do with the fact that the big banks in Australia are bailed out by taxpayer money in a huge Socialist orgy?

Big business is socialist when it favours it to be. Don't delude yourself.The government seems to believe defaulting is a way of paying debt off. Otherwise why are there bankruptcy laws? Yes, you have to pay off everything you can until you have nothing left... but after that you're pretty much clear.

Also, you talk about "over-spending" being different from speculative asset booms. How so? What are people "over-spending" on if not investments and assets? Are we all paying level-headed prices for houses, cars and shares, but coughing up loony money for haircuts, food and lawn-mowing?

"Over-spending" on an asset means you're pretending it's worth more than it is, usually because you want to sell it to someone else down the line at an even more imaginary price.The government creates the money out of thin air. The government prints its own money and decrees how much "imaginary money" in the form of credit shall exist in the environment at any one time.The middle class were better off in the Howard years because he showered them with welfare in the form of baby bonuses and family tax cuts.Haha, no.

Every bit of money comes from the Government. Who prints the money? The free market? Whose name is on the money? Who guarantees that the $5 bill will always be worth $5? It's the Government, not the free market.Actually it was a lack of regulation that led to the crisis in the US. It was explicitly a piece of legislation being removed that created the problem. Yes their debtor-side regulation allowing people to walk away made the problem worse, but that regulation was not the real problem - a lack of regulation much further up the chain was the problem.

So if we want to "site" (sic) the USA as an example of what not to do, then we should regulate our banks and regulate them hard.I do very much like your idea sleepy. Let the risk-takers bear the brunt of their risk.Ahh but nobody has a purely democratic system either. In fact, we don't want one because they're flawed. In the same way a pure libertarian system would be a hazard more than a help. 

Which is why people banging on that "these problems wouldn't have happened under a pure socialist/libertarian/anarchist/methodist/putinist system" are just empty air.

Talk about what aspects of your fantasy ideology could help our *current* system, don't just keep building castles in the clouds.Which is why the stock exchange is so morally vacant to begin with. You only make money when someone else loses it, and no real "product or service" has changed hands. No real value has been added.

Someone has just profited on someone else's foolishness.Regulation costs the government money. It does not bring in an income for them. Hence they are "selling" nothing, unless you mean in terms of an idea. I fail to see how someone, even a government, selling an idea to the public is a Bad Thing by itself.

Prove that the idea is bad, don't just imply that everything the government ever does is bad. I quite like my roads and footpaths, thank you very much.You would be surprised at the viciousness of debt collectors, even over small debts, even over expired debts.

Never, ever assume that because they're not repaying their own debtors they'll forgive yours as well.

Debt collectors have their own handbook of barely-legal tricks that can almost destroy your life until you give them their money.Having a bank account and consumption capitalism don't necessarily go hand in hand. The problem with mattress money is that it is constantly losing value in an inflation-driven society.

The Japanese save like squirrels and don't over-consume at all.

You're joining two behaviours at the hip that don't have any real connection.You couldn't be more obvious as a bank spruiker if you used that as your username. 

Nobody dreams up regulations for regulations sake. There's always a reason behind it, and those reasons can be scrutinised as sensible or foolish.

To come in and just say "Oh man this regulation is just for regulation sake" it to try and deflect any attention from the reasons behind the regulation. To try and deny any such reasons exist. It was just so a bureaucrat could tick a box!

No-one with their head screwed on right would fall for that.Uh, gbe, there is a difference between public and private debt. Yes, as you have now realised Australia is awash with private debt. However this is not public debt or government debt, which is the "debt crisis" the liberals were banging on about.

Please do not just see the word "debt" and start making stuff up in your own mind.Now you're just telling outright lies. Those emails "may not have existed"? There's a link in the article to another piece which talks about Freedom of Information requests of those emails, which both confirmed their existence and that of a suppression order on their contents.

They don't bother to put out suppression orders on things that don't exist.

So at least stick with trying to tell the truth when you spin your hogswash.People get into debt under predatory loan practices because they don't understand them. Because they're stupid, basically.

And the intelligent should not prey upon the stupid any more than the strong should prey upon the weak.

Taking advantage of people's foolishness to sell them debt that they will struggle to ever repay is evil.The banks, even the top four, are not government assets. So I don't know how privatising their assets has anything to do with the governments, as you say.An insurance policy means if the reason for insurance actualises, money will be paid out.

Even if they did not physically hand over money to the banks, they were giving them a guarantee that they would, if it was necessary. That's still a form of bailing out, if they wouldn't have succeeded without that government intervention.

And no, it doesn't matter if "everyone else was doing it" too. A bailout is a bailout.The article did nail it, and yet I find my posts on this very forum are most often censored when they contain a sentiment of revolt and civil disobedience, even of the non-violent kind.

Well, I suppose even the ABC wants to see the status quo maintained.Why would the political parties hate voluntary voting? They *love* it in America, they can't get enough of it. Politicians want fewer voters they have to pander to, not more."self-serving dregs" So the entirety of the major parties, you mean?

Let's be honest. These ubermensch you are looking for to lead us likely do not exist. Everyone is a ball of self-serving policies.

The trick is to get enough *different* self-serving policies pulling at each other so that balance is achieved.So Peter, you then DO think the media corporations need to lower their prices rather than complain about cheating pirates?

Good for the goose, good for the gander.Pensions aren't an "organisation". They're a function of government. He's clearly talking about non-government orgs.Wow Albo, you agree with the article! Which said people need to agitate, demand better and get more active.

What the point of these comments where which basically said 'No, you're wrong we don't need to demand better we need to demand better!'And are the Swiss, or even Swiss women, much worse off for that delay in enfranchisement?

Don't get me wrong, I'm a woman and I don't want to lose my vote, but if the Swiss system is better as a whole, of course some people will lose out, but look at the long-term picture.

Whose population is more happy with their government, Australian or Switzerland?The problem is that just because someone is educated doesn't make them unselfish or moral. Even if votes were allowed only to people of a certain education level it wouldn't guarantee a nice society. Just one nice for people of a certain education level.It does amaze me how much people hate bureaucracy, when it is one of the key systems that any civilisation needs in order to be, well, civilised. Like anything, you can have too much of it, but trying to keep it stripped to the bones is self-cannibalism.You weren't playing the ball at all. You weren't addressing anything in the article, which was the "ball" that was passed to you. Instead you just questioned the motives of the person who served it.

Very poor form.Jerry games are like TV, radio, movies, books, and before all those, jesters and bards.

None of those diversions from reality destroyed humanity and neither will digital games.Perhaps part of the problem is that in California voters can submit their own initiatives to be voted on. That clogs up the system with trivial things. Is the Swiss system different?If only the journalists which tried to follow our own AFP into Ukraine were congratulated for their courage, instead of derided for assuming their fellow countrymen cared about their safety and would warn them of incoming battlefronts.

This article should be a wake-up call to the people who were critical of those journalists, on two fronts.

One, these warzones are abhorrent, and we need to know about them or we simply don't understand the world.

And two, the journalists that cover them do so at a personal expense - sometimes the ultimate one. We owe them at least a modicum of respect for trying to educate us.Sorry but the State is society. It cannot exist without society, and no society can grow very large without a State forming. Even in small hunter-gatherer tribes there were councils of elders or shamans or leaders who, being the representative of their society, fulfilled the function of the State.Global population is already projected to peak and then decline. Overpopulation is not going to get "worse" than it already is. And if the poorer countries want to consume more, well, then those of us in the first world will just have to consume less.

It's very simple.True, but if the unhappy letters to the editor are about government deceit, ignorance of science in the governing of society and social intolerance for emerging minority groups, well, I doubt you can optimism those problems away.Well every study I have seen on population projections say it will not continue on its current trajectory. As the poor get richer, they reproduce less, just like the rest of us.A nuclear event is certainly a concern, especially as nations have well-maintained, active nuclear weapons.

Thankfully that's becoming less of an issue all the time as both nuclear superpowers let their arsenals rot.

Maybe we'll just eventually outgrow the need to threaten each other with mutual destruction.I'm female too and I can't see how the lot of women has done anything but improve since the past.

Which is the point of the article. Nearly everything is better. No it's not perfect, but it's better.

As much as I hate the dual income requirement that feminism has added to society, everything is better for women now.The only physical standards that have dropped are the nutrition levels of food and the pollution/reduction levels of the environment.Bit like flying cars, really. Sure they work in theory. But unfortunately there are humans involved, so it'll never pan out.pagey, if the fossil fuel companies adapted and changed their production and output based on climate science, then I'm sure ANU would invest in them again. So if the companies don't die, the money will come back to them. How does ANU lose in that? Because they may buy the shares for higher than they sold them? A small investment mistake in a large and long-standing portfolio.I believe they wanted public attention, so people knew they were putting their money where their scientific-study-backed mouth was.Even if the human-caused climate change is incorrect, divesting in coal is probably not that bad in the long term. More and more countries are going to move away from it and after the infrastructure is there to support renewable energy they will probably leave it there rather than returning to coal if climate change ended up being a farce.AGB, if everyone who found themselves in a repugnant culture decided to leave instead of challenge it, no culture would ever progress. 

Challenging the status quo and not "loving it or leaving it" is a very vital role in human civilisation.

Which is why this shirt is so dumb.So your one experience outweighs the broad statistical evidence, enno?

Sorry that's not how these things work. It doesn't matter if the statement (income rose under Labor) was false for you if it was *true* for the majority. There will never be a 100% true statistic except that we're all going to die, so every 'true' statistic is a majority one.

You may be right that you became poorer under Labor, but the others are right that Australia became richer.You're not alone. That's why so many potential FHB are simply not buying. In most capital cities it is projected to be more affordable to rent for life than service a mortgage at today's prices.

Which means one of two outcomes is inevitable: Either the country fills up with immigrants that are willing to pay $$$ (but may not like the old residents they're supporting that much) or eventually, prices have to fall or wages have to rise.Good points! I heard that the Pentagon even admitted that there's no rebel group in Syria that the US can work with to fight IS. Now whether this is an excuse for the US to send troop in to invade Syria or the truth, it tells you something fishy about the so called 'moderate' that the US &amp; the allies have been arming.

I don't know why Mr Tim Mayfield quickly assumes Russia's guilt. They might well be once results of investigation confirm it. The Russian accused Australia &amp; Ukraine &amp; Dutch signed a non-disclosure pact, true or not we won't know since intelligence law has gone strict now. Since the US used the Ukrainian Nazi (or Nazi sympathizer if you prefer) to overthrow a democratically elected government and present an inverted reality of the situation, one need not make hasty conclusion about flight MH17 but wait for the full investigation.

People should get reports from Greg Palast, on how the IMF is trying to fleece Ukraine with there conditions of offer for joining the EU, and Joe Biden's son and cronies getting sweet business deal and position in Ukraine.Ann, what gets me is the media hype about Russian troops on the Ukrainian border. It would be strange if there hadn't been a build up when there was a civil war raging next door.

But the point is that Turkey has a similar concentration just over the border from Syria and is being urged to intervene in Kobane by the West. Compare this to the West's propagandist demands that Russia "de-escalate" on the Ukrainian border and return troops to their usual bases.

An intervention by Turkey, a cheerleader for Syrian regime change, would be "humanitarion" while Russian intervention would have been an "invasion".
You have no prove that the Russian or the rebels were responsible for it. The information put out by the US &amp; Ukraine have been debunked. People could easily make a claim that it's Kiev &amp; the US did it. Why would Australia the US &amp; some other countries sign a pact not to release the result of the findings if one country decide to veto it? What do they have to hide? Use your head and don't get brain washed by the establishment media. If you think it's the Russian's fault, at least wait till all findings &amp; results are published.Exactly AGB, the balance is hard to get right, and right now it's heavily weighted against freedom and towards easily abusable "security" regulations.TGU what if you say nothing wrong in your communications, but you have a cousin or, heavens forbid, an immediate family member who is inclined to a bit of jolly hate speech now and then. You know, just the harmless kind against aboriginals or something.

And you wouldn't be so put out by the government finding out about their shameful biases except you know they can be a teensy bit dodgy now and then with the taxes. Not a lot, mind you, just a little, but you really don't want to see your brother put in jail over such trivial matters.

Are you still happy for the gummint to monitor your communications or do you want to cover up for your blood relation?Well if they haven't included "Induce social panic in Australia" on their To-Do list they need to squeeze it on their quick so they can tick off another goal.

Amazing what you can do from half the world away.You never say anything that you make your mother ashamed, or some of your friends to look askance at you? 

Don't mind if everyone in your life knows you make poorly-thought out rants on public forums about businesses when you were at fault?

Happy for your employer to know just how often you get drunk?

Good on you, then, mate!You are correct. I am a saver instead of a spender. I could possibly afford to buy a house, but I would be crazy to pay for one at these overinflated prices, so I won't. But I could.

But if everyone was like me? The economy would collapse.

So stop with the stupid "People these days expect too much rahrah consuming and keeping me in a job rahrah why won't they just pay more for the houses and support my super rahrah"

It's wrong and it's boring.The golden age was obviously when the article stated, the 50s onwards when home ownership skyrocketed (and most people were doing it on one income too).

And before you start crying about McMansions that the current generation supposedly "demands", may I remind you that most first time homebuyers are now buying existing buildings, not building new, so who was it who built all these McMansions they're buying?? Maybe... your generation?Freddie you do realise that regardless of degree, people with tertiary educations statistically are more intelligent, have markedly improved health and life outcomes? Why would you want to create policies that dissuade your citizens from becoming more literate, more well-rounded and more socially and politically aware human beings?

Unless you were hoping your voters are stupid enough to vote against their own interests, then I guess that would be a good policy, yeah.Is your mother a veteran's widow? Does she own outright the house she is living in? What are her health conditions and ongoing health costs? 

Without knowing these sorts of details being told that your mother "lives fine on the pension so everyone else should too" is meaningless twaddle.nameless, or should I say clueless, you seem to simply be ignorant of how government statistics are collected. LB is correct that the "official" unemployment rate is an act of smoke and mirrors - while LB cannot give an accurate figure for the UNDERemployment rate, which is what they are talking about, it can be easily surmised as a lot higher than the official unemployment rate.

A simple search through macroeconomics subjects on unemployment calculations will give you the information you need to be assured of this.

Secondarily, even with your oh-so-official figures the point LB is making holds true; there are not enough jobs for everyone who wants one. Therefore, it is a physical impossibility of the universe for everyone to simply "go get a job" and there will always be people on welfare who don't "deserve" it.Leftover why does it surprise you that we can be a wealthy nation and still have poor people?

India probably has more millioniares than we have citizens, does it therefore surprise you that they still have people living in garbage dumps?

The answer is that the rich are selfish, choosing not to settle at a comfortable level of wealth but always increasing and trying their dardest to reduce their tax load so that they don't have to -shudder- give back to the rest of society.Yeah clearly all the poor in India are just lazy. There's not systematic corruption, nepotism, greed and exploitation. Well that's good to know, guess we can stop feeling sorry for them living in filth now.

And if you think Australia is free of the above, well, I have a bridge in Sydney to sell you.I also seem to be having most of my posts not posted. There is no reason not to be blithe about ebola when it comes to its affect on our lives and country (obviously its effect on humanity as a whole is a different story).

It will never be an epidemic here because we have a health system. Even if it did, it obviously would have been inevitable and therefore there's no reason to fret about it now.

However like Russian rebels and Iraqi terrorists it does make for good distraction fodder for people who are easily scared.mt_syd if you think Ebola is so contagious it could overwhelm our health system then you clearly haven't been paying any attention to the actual news from Africa. It has already been contained in several African states that DO have an adequate health system and where it was in urban, educated areas (brought in by travellers).

It is currently spreading like wildfire because it had a huge rural and not-splendidly-hygienic demographic to work with, which we don't have here. The only factor that both Africa and Australia has which can spread ebola is human dishonesty and hysteria.

Which means, don't freak out about it, and it's less likely to be a problem.Geoff the posters cannot convince the other posters, but there will be many "lurkers" or readers whose minds are not fully solidified one way or the other. You simply have to have an ironclad opinion to post in the first place.

Besides which it is always helpful to both hear the experiences of those on the other side of a debate and remember their humanity and concerns.

Plus it's endlessly amusing to see some people post despite even a self-acknowledged lack of education or experience in what they're talking about. Better than the TV, surely.graazt I believe that apparent inconsistency is easily explained by the ohmigosh look over there it's a terrorist refugee!Really? Gerry Harvey? You mean the bloke who introduced the horrible "No Interest for 12 Months" schemes that bled people for far higher a price than was on the ticket by relying on the fact that few people can work out percentages or read fine print?

Try another example for an 'ethical' businessperson.

Also, he cries like a wounded cow about internet taking his business. He so clearly believes in a level playing field.AE you are quite wrong. Do you know what would happen if all the teachers quit and the schools were then forced to pay 100k each to get them back?

Let's explore. First of all there would be months, possible longer, where students weren't getting taught. The economic impact of that would be felt for a generation or more. 

Secondly, school fees would suddenly jump from hundreds of dollars to tens of thousands of dollars - essentially the same as a university degree. And like a uni degree, many people (or their parents) would suddenly decide they don't need it.

So we would probably have half of students dropping out of school. Oh there's laws against that? You seriously believe people wouldn't break the law to avoid paying 10s of thousands of dollars? Keep dreaming.

So then we have generations of under-educated children who can only enter the workforce as physical labour, an area which is shrinking fast as automation comes into full force.

Your ideas are so laughably bad I can see why you have to post them on an anonymous website. Even your own mother would laugh at them if you spoke them out loud in real life.Has it ever occurred to you we can pay down our debt by increasing revenue as well as by cutting spending? No? Oh don't the talking heads on the television give you that opinion? I can understand, it's so hard to form one independently of what the TV says, isn't it?Oh but AE many of us would pay more tax, and purposely don't undertake reduction schemes because we enjoy knowing that our tax goes to benefit society.

We do also look forward to when your mining company goes under and you lose your job and suddenly discover what life in the real world is like. It will be amusing.Having been to both private schools (overseas) and public schools in Australia, I can attest that while the main thing that matters for your education is good teachers (and that seems to be a coin toss at both public and private), having the resources for more creative classwork, bigger libraries and more excursions does make a difference to a child's ambition and imagination.Feral cats outnumber pet cats, but every feral cat was once a pet. The new laws in WA that require them to be registered and neutered are a step in the right direction. More needs to be done to crack down on people who are not registering their pet cats; perhaps hotlines for neighbours to report cats that they suspect are unregistered because they still display sexual behaviours or are seen killing native wildlife.

I know there are local rangers that can possibly be called for this sort of thing... but I don't know their numbers. Do you? And what powers do they have? Can they seize a cat or enforce it being kept indoors?

More people need to understand that in Australia, cats must be  an "indoor" pet.I wonder what the law is on the non-lethal trapping of cats in your garden or property. I want to create a very bird-friendly yard, and I do not relish the thought that it will become a local haunt for cats that want to eat those birds.The Shooters Party want the right to hunt ducks and other stupid things like that, not feral pests like cats and dogs. 

People who go to the duck hunts to protest can attest that a lot of other native waterfowl and birds are victims of these hunts as well. There's almost no oversight and instead we just have to trust that these people who love to kill animals will only kill the right animals.Some cats can't tolerate it, some can. Unfortunately as we do with dogs, we probably must start breeding cats for personality traits we find desirable.

Rag dolls and other placid cats, or cats with like temperaments, should really be encouraged. But so should proper diet for indoor cats, who will not be expending as much energy.You could probably have stopped your dog from catching birds by putting a bell on him.

Or two, as they do to cats.It's true. Were any women abused by our soldiers stationed in the Pacific? German women were assaulted when Berlin was captured, and throughout Europe, women who formed relationships with Axis soldiers were abused after the war.

The Japanese did some horrible, horrible things and I think their history books need to acknowledge that. But maybe our history books could also acknowledge what our troops and our allies did as well."For a country our size, we pull our weight"

No we don't, the article demonstrated clearly that our aid as a proportion of national income was very low for a first-world developed nation.

And future-proofing Australia? Then why aren't we building broadband networks? We wouldn't *need* so many roads if people could work from home or local satellite offices.

Hey, maybe the Aboriginal communities could also stay where they are and yet be economically liberated if they had broadband internet.

Just a thought. But let's not blame this government for anything.rattan population is projected to peak in 2050... and then decline.

Don't worry, it's okay, shhh.. the overpopulation problem is taking care of itself as hygiene, education and women's rights spreads through the world. It's alright darling.jon, unfortunately many people do look after their own first... and stop there. 

Obviously nobody considers we should spend most of our money on aid or even a lot of it.. but less than 2%? I bet we spend more than that on local sporting and public stadiums and other unnecessary stuff. 

You're talking about your kids going hungry so let's not give the neighbours kid some new shoes... but would you let the neighbours kids go hungry so *your* kid could have new shoes?Actually spud, as someone who has lived in the Middle East I can tell you that there were many anecdotes and incidents where anger or aggression towards a foreigner could be neutralised by merely stating that you were Australian or British rather than American. 

I doubt that still holds true any longer.Hey Dave, just last year while walking through inner city Brisbane very late at night, my father struck up a conversation with two hijab-wearing ladies who were accompanied by a man. There was no indication from any of them that they were upset or put off by being spoken to by a strange man.

Yes it's not what would regularly happen in Saudi Arabia (and this group were indeed Saudis), but they're here now and despite what you believe, they are integrating.And some humans consider their allegiance to their country to be more important than their allegiance to their planet! 

Thus inspiring them to say that they will only work on reducing their pollution load when "other countries" do it first!Huonian people used to ask the same thing about the word "homophobia"... what if I don't hate them, I just disagree with what they do and I don't approve of their lifestyle...It's especially appalling that the people who find it acceptable to heckle or ignore or otherwise be rude to Muslim women wearing hijabs are also the same ones who say they take that position because the headscarf is misogynistic. 

Go figure.How's this for a success of multiculturalism: The Nords, Celts, Picts, Saxons, Normans and Romans all melted into what we now know as the United Kingdom. Note that word: "united"You think people taking anonymous surveys fear social judgement? If the internet has taught us anything, it's that anonymity gives complete freedom from fear of social judgement.

I think maybe they have just read the literature, met the people and explored the culture and realise the Muslims are pretty much the same as us and everyone else.Governments nearly always prefer wars to peace. It makes governing so much easier.

Do crack open a history book or two and see whether politicians have ever really tried to avoid a war they thought they could win.Stopping people from publicly lying is not censorship.AE sure the "intelligent" people know tabloids are rubbish, but the average IQ is still the average - that is, what most people possess. 

So mass media should be tailored for them, and usually it is tailored for what they *want*, but that might be lies and half-truths that cause social unrest. Media has more responsibility than that.By the time they're part of the population in such numbers they can influence social policy, they'll have had several generations of integration and be pretty much just like the rest of us.

Just like the Irish, Chinese, Vietnamese, and everyone else has managed to do.
So APM I take it then you think we should not be allies with, or invite investment from, a culture which is rigidly homogeneous and places social stigma on those who do not conform to the required norm. That refuses immigrants of other nationalities, marginalises those that are presently there to the point where they are hugely over-represented in crime, and to cap it all off, refuses to acknowledge or be held to account for all this present and past discrimination?

I am talking, of course, about Japan.How about we try the Scandinavian model first, firthy, and then decide whether it won't work here or not.

Bring on the tax increases!Wow, I hadn't read any of those newspapers so I didn't know those kind of headlines were out there. That is so amazingly poor taste I don't understand how anyone could buy that without fearing social judgement.Amazingly I think he was probably referring to us going to war against and the killing of today's Muslims.

It would be pretty hard to go to war against the Muslims of 500+ years ago, but at least the extra funding into archaeological digs should bring some community benefit in museum displays.So, mike, some pornography features women forced to perform under duress. Some features women happily doing it off their own free will.

Do you ban porn? Do you check every porn set to make 100% sure they're not roping in a drug addict with promises of smack or emotionally manipulating their girlfriends?

If modern feminism has taught us anything, it should be that the same activity can be oppression to one person and liberation to another.

Apparently only they get to decide. You don't get to decide.Pretty sure a mohawk carries strong social messages as well. Just you are more comfortable with those messages? You're OK with the anarchists loudly proclaiming who they are with clothing and hair, but not the conservatives?$1 million as the low end of the scale? You're dreaming. If you own a house worth a million dollars, you don't need government help. Sell your house and move into one of the $500k holes the young are expected to buy and live in (Oh don't worry, they call them McMansions so they must actually be fabulous and not overpriced decrepit decade-old hovels) and use the other 500k to gain interest to live off. You'll still get some pension, of course, but the burden on government will be lifted.

You want to be a lifter don't you?Yeah you're going to have to provide some actual evidence to support the statement that reducing tax loopholes causes a lower in intake. Unless you mean because they flee to offshore tax havens, in which case that's just another loophole to close.

Sorry but if the rich aren't willing to pay tax, they should be legally hounded until they're not rich any more. 

The rich have become accountable to the masses quite a few times over the history of humankind... think about why.So Gregory despite the fact that it is not almost impossible for  young people to buy homes and they have not even a shred of the same job security your father's generation would have had, they should also shoulder the burden of this large elderly population? With the same pension rates as in the past when a large working population supported a smaller elderly population?

Sorry, maybe that's what *should* happen, but physically it *cannot* happen.

Maybe the elderly should downsize and free up homes for all these young people expected to pay taxes to support their retirements.Indeed. Just the concept that one could once buy a house on the single income of a sales assistant shows how much easier home ownership (and probably getting and keeping a job, because of economic and population conditions) must have been at the time. 

Why are the old who had relatively easy lives in one of history's golden ages of peace and prosperity not expected to share some of the suffering as life becomes unaffordable and unpleasant?Hey Gregory, Australian workers would all happily accept a pay cut if there were also a cut in the insanely overinflated prices we are charged. Never heard of the Australia tax that's placed on almost every imported product?

Yeah, reduce our wages down to the USA or India's levels and suddenly you'll find you have to lower your prices too. 

Amazingly wages and profits go to scale!Hey Jane, all that spending? That's profit in businesses pockets and tax money going to the government. 

That money spent on a house and assets so that they still get a pension? That's money locked away from the economy and government.

Yes, the government should be penalising the second before the first, because that is how capitalism is set up. Don't like it? 

Take it up with capitalism.I also fall into the group that would be happy to pay more tax for better services, and find it disappointing it's such a small percentage of us. 

But I think it comes from lack of education and perspective more than informed selfishness. So many people don't realise just how much of their lives are subsidised and provided by the government.If the government of council is not providing the services they said they would, or are using taxes for things they didn't say they would, that's an issue to take them to task over, but not by just demanding to pay less tax.

If they're rorting with $500,000 they'll rort with $500 too. Combat corruption and political deceit on their own terms, not by just making them less harmful or less obvious.Really, considering we are most likely to be invaded by China in the future, there's nothing we could do against them anyway.

Maybe we're just defending against Indonesia? Well surely some cruise missiles can nip that problem in the bud without troops being necessary.

The troops actually seem to be there to conduct "nice wars" where you don't rain hellfire down on your enemies and salt the ground.

So in effect we're spending a lot of money to both warn away our rivals and assure them that if we end up going for the throat, we'll be nice about it.Indeed, why are we solving this humanitarian crisis but not helping to solve ebola? We offered MSF some tuckshop money and then consider our effort over?

What about Nigeria's Boko Haram? They only reason they aren't ISIL v2.0 is because no wealthy nationstates are funding them for their own purposes... yet.gp, our role in these overseas fiascos is very understandable.

It's political theatre designed to capture the news waves and minds of the populace so they are distracted from more pertinent questions like "Why are our politicians all such lying scum?" and "Why haven't we cracked down on white-collar criminals and tax evaders yet?"When people cry about taxing religions they mostly know that the only one that would end up with a positive tax bill after deductions is the Catholic church. 

So it's actually a very direct request for the Catholics to not be given a tax-free status because they're rich. And we like to tax rich people heavily right? Oh wait, no we don't...So true. People need to be pragmatic and not believe what they are told by pollies.

The money for the war will come from somewhere. Even if they don't call it a tax, if you're effectively worse off in the end, it was a tax or tithe or tribute of some kind you paid to the state.

If only the public cared enough to force the politicians to not go fight America's wars.Well I would pay double tax rather than send our money and people overseas to kill foreigners who'll never affect us.

How is it logical to refuse to give up money to your own government to improve your own social services, but remains logical to give up money to kill some brown people?

Neither is logical and I think you are incorrect in suggesting it is a logical position.So we should make demands of our government and our local reps when they misuse taxes, not refuse to pay them.

Think about it, refusing to pay taxes doesn't make a better society. So you have an extra couple hundred bucks, does some new shoes or an entertaining patio make life better when the roads are filled with pitholes, the national internet is crap and schools are underfunded?No more roads. No more electric cables. No more plumbing. No more policemen. No more firemen. No more public schools. Simples.Erick, that's just silly. Better to get rid of state governments and go with one unified federal govt and local councils.Judy that may be due more to funding priorities than the government saying nice and caring things.
Don't get me wrong I hate this conservative government, but ultimately it matters to the individual whether they can afford treatment or its available more than what their representative in Canberra is saying.Hey Lorenzo, I am a person with mental problems who currently works, but not well. So I could probably try to claim the DSP but I try not to.

I would prefer that people who are heavily addicted to drugs and alcohol be supported on the public purse than that they are forced into jobs where they will screw up and cost more money to private citizens. 

Think about the real alternatives of what you are suggesting. Take drug addicts off a dole and... let them drive a bus? let them handle a business's stock? let them die in the street? What? What are you suggesting?Exactly, Peter is clearly uninformed, but that doesn't stop him having an opinion. 

Susan how is someone legally misusing the *Veteran's* pension have anything to do with people who apparently illegally misuse the Disability pension?

So not only is someone's "friend I know whose cheating" an accurate piece of evidence, but it's also valid even if it isn't for the same pension? 

Wow.I've come to believe that each and every person with an anecdote about "my friend/cousin who claims to be depressed and is on DSP but he looks fine" is completely deluded and their friend/cousin is probably telling the truth. 

Because they never have a shred of experience with genuinely depressed or mentally unwell people, to know that *most* of them are able to act normal and have huge social pressures to act normal, so of course a casual acquaintance will think they are normal.

I dare anyone reading this who has one of those friends/cousins they think are a DSP "bludger" to actually ask them "Do you take medication?" "Do you see a therapist?" "Have you ever tried to commit suicide?" "Does your condition affect you every day or are some days free of problems?"

I think you will find the answers will surprise you.My bosses are amazingly generous and understanding of my mental problems. But most aren't.

I have a friend whose depression led to anger issues. He worked at a mid-range department store that you all know the name of, and sometimes social interactions would leave him so anxious and angry he would have to kick a box to move on. This was reported and he lost his job.

He didn't abuse or yell at a customer or other staff. They had no general work performance issues. He just had anger issues that scared people, because he kicked boxes. So he got fired.

Who is gonna hire him? He eventually managed to struggle through university and get his degree in some technical subject I can't recall. Even with that qualification, if he put "depression and anger issues" on his resume would a single person hire him?The fact that we don't contribute enough to those camps as a nation to allow them to function properly. We are not increasing our foreign aid even as these huge international problems unfold. Just stingy.Well TC, you can't expect that even the dinkiest local government agencies won't be denied access to your private data and metadata if they want it. 

You can still say whatever you like, free opinion... but someone is certainly collating and recording that opinion, for future reference.

And in Queensland, if you belong to certain organisations and so do members of your family, you aren't allowed to attend a family function.Sure OK, Tony Abbott speaks for the old people.

You know, the people on the way out? Guess what. The world is being forever rebuilt by the young, the people who have to keep living in it, not the ones whose story is almost over.

And sorry but I don't care if they had an ISIL flag or a Irish flag or a Confedorate flag or were a rabid feminist marxist leninist anarchist.

Two people does not make a crisis.Hey mike, do you know what % of Muslims worldwide are involved with, or even agree with ISIL and it's ilk?

Do you know what % live peaceful lives just like the rest of us?

Get some perspective.So James you are perfectly happy for Turkey and Lebanon to have huge social strife and funding problems, just keep the problem away from Australia. It doesn't matter that Lebanon was no more involved in any of this crisis than Australian was, is just as innocent and just as hating of ISIL.

Nope, Australia is special. Exceptional. It shouldn't have to lift a finger unless everyone else is pitching in, and even then, not if we can avoid it.

How is that not stingy and selfish, just as the author claimed?Yeah, I like my conspiracy theorists to at least be up to date on the most fashionable new conspiracies that haven't yet been debunked like a double-decker bus going under a low bridge.So you don't have any interest whatsoever in helping with this huge humanitarian crisis? We have to "protect" our own GDP and money more than we have to protect fellow human beings?

Maybe the anti-refugee argument would hold more water if we were actually increasing our foreign aid, but we're not.

It's just stingy.So AE you don't actually care whether or not people really "work" for their money, as long as that money doesn't come from the government. 

At least not directly, since, of course, all our money at one point came factory fresh from a government mint.Veronica the person with a mental illness is probably not always able to make the best decision, especially about whether or not they need therapy and/or other care.

But unfortunately, even when they're wrong they're also right, because if they don't *want* the therapy and treatment it won't work very well, if at all.
Todd, people don't see a dodgy knee as a mitigating circumstance to a crime because people don't use their knees to make decisions. 

That being said, I personally would be in favour of less consideration of mental illness as mitigating, at least for depression and bipolar. Schizophrenia and other serious disorders are a different kettle of fish and some sufferers are full-on delusional. How can they be considered the same as a sane person?

I suppose that's fair Sam - as long as you would be just as private about going to the hospital for a kidney stone or a busted wrist.I have internal cause depression - I actually have quite a charmed life from the outside and at least one of my psychiatrists took pains to rub my nose in that (They're all such charmers). But medication hasn't helped, and I would say that if anything, there is *more* stigma for being depressed when "nothing is really wrong" than when you have a real reason like your parents abused you or your wife left you or you went bankrupt. People have sympathy for those things.

What sympathy is there for "I have a great life and I just don't appreciate it"?There are. My mother-in-law, though well-intentioned and with some anxiety issues of her own, gives me no slack whatsoever, despite knowing I have several problems and take a lot of medication. 

There's plenty of topics I can't even talk about with her because I know she will not accept I have in-built limitations and can't do everything she expects from me.

Also, I know a chap whose own father still says horrible things about him, how worthless he is, both behind his back and in front of him, despite the father being the person who drove his son to drink bleach.I hear you, M. A depressed person doesn't look half as "crazy" as an anxious person in even a minor panic attack. Even my own spouse gives me incredulous and half-fearful looks when I get a major attack.Todd, if people were really concerned about the crazy people being a danger to them, they would be trying to put as much funding towards treating them as possible. Giving every schizophrenic a carer and safe place to live, and making sure all the minorly-afflicted mental health patients at least had cheap medication and therapy.

Alas, that is not the case. So I think you should blame the government and society at large for creating a situation where the "crazy" people are on the streets, not the lawyers for then trying to get those same mentally unwell people the lightest punishment possible. (Which is a lawyer's job)Well, people need to learn who are behind ISIS first before they think about getting involved and how, what strategy to assist. Get away from the mainstream media who spout mostly lies and obfuscations to support the establishment and special interest groups who fund them, infiltrate them and have the power to punish them when the media organisation tell the truth.

The decision to invade Iraq and Iran was already planned in US document during the Clinton's administration. After the US invaded Afghanistan, the US planned to invade not only Iraq, but 7 Middle Eastern countries in five years, general Wesley Clark confessed about this, the US and its cohorts or handlers are running behind schedule at the moment. Do your own research and get information from alternative media, starting with youtube which is an easily access platform; filter through the information each outlet has and get verification from variety of sources and references, don't just believe in everything they say because some of their information could be corrupt as well.

Start with reading awarded war hero Smedley Butler's book "War is a Racket". Look into government false flag  operation as well as psy-ops. We live in perilous times. They've just started WWWIII and most of the masses are still sleeping under their ISIS threat spell. Dig into why the Zionist Christians have been egging for WWIII, who fund them and brainwash them to the extent that they believe that the apocalypse need to be brought forward for their messiah to come and rapture them into heaven. The governments are slowly taking our rights and freedom to control  us while creating destruction in the Middle East and Central Asia just as they have planned and transferring all the power to a small group of the elites to direct society, it was spelled out in one of US' foreign policy mastermind Zbigniew Brzinsky books. We are approaching corporate fascist state.

All this outrage about ISIS beheading while ignoring the thousands of innocent people getting blown to pieces by drone as collateral damage not to mention the million of civilian casualties by Western forces, is an indictment on the state of humanity, most people have lost their humanity and turned into zombies and ghosts. Not to mention hypocritically ignoring Saudi Arabia who regularly behead their citizens and funded ISIS and implicated in the 9/11 report as assisting the 9/11 terrorist financially which the US conveniently try to block from public information in the name of national security, while they attacked Iraq which had nothing to do with 9/11. Look at who benefit from the war, who make profits, who get special contracts to "rebuild" or "develop", what happen to oil rich countries who refuse to be sign up to have their oil priced in US dolla,r and what happened to various countries when they refused to be under the control of the IMF and international bankers, what benefit they brought to tNot so much capital returns as inherited money. But that means cracking down on trust funds and other organisations whose main concern is reducing tax liability.

If it's just a tax on openly inherited money only the middle-class with not enough resources to get in on the tax breaks will be hit by the tax in any meaningful way.Roger there is not one cultural set-mode for why women wear the burqa even in conservative countries. 

Also, obviously as societies get a bit more liberal and it becomes a choice, more women are going to be comfortable about choosing that choice, even if it was once enforced.

After all, it used to be a huge social pressure for women to get married. Now it's not as much. But women still choose to get married despite the history.

Also as someone who has lived in Saudi Arabia, I can tell you that it is normally just the muttawa - the religious or moral police - who care about women fully covering up. The vast populace is a lot more liberal than we give them credit for.Strange, I've never been heckled for wearing normal Australian clothes in Australia. So why do I need any solidarity? I know for a fact that even a Western woman wearing a hijab is going to be treated differently. They're the ones who need support and to know that some people have their back.They don't cover up out of "fear" they cover up for self-respect and as part of their religious experience.
That's strange hidi.

Because all these British immigrants are still eating British food and growing British flowers. In fact there are more and more speciality stores for them.

I knew Chinese immigrants who still spoke Chinese at home and ate Chinese food. Were they confronting and foolish?

Tell me, as part of making sure your children were "born and bred Aussie" did you encourage them to get as drunk as possible on Schoolies week? Did you make sure to correct them every time they spoke about Aborigines in a non-racist way? Don't let Team Australia down!Ron D, there is NO security concerns with the burqa. If a woman is wearing it and asked to show her face, she will show her face just like anyone wearing a helmet! OK she will prefer to show it to a woman but if necessity says even to a man, she will do it.

I don't understand why people think these women have no clue about security and have glued their headscarves on or something.mt_syd, "Islam" does not require the headscarves or face veils. Their culture does.

And if you'd bothered to talk to many of the women wearing it in Australia, you'd see that most do not have male relatives forcing them to do it.

If their cultural values still suggest to them that they should do it, how is that different from our cultural values suggesting to women that they should wear makeup and love the colour pink?Yeah because if we don't like them doing it to each other, we should just do it to them *more* ourselves. Just to stick it to 'em!Greed is about wanting to get rich when it screws over someone else. The older investors are screwing over the younger generation, who now cannot afford homes. That is greed. Selling a hamburger for $20, that's fine, you're not screwing anyone over who doesn't want to be, so go right ahead and no-one will think you're greedy.Yeah, and while screwing over the upcoming generation may seem do-able while they're a small demographic, I don't think many people are looking ahead to the future. 

When they come into the period where they are the majority of the workforce and majority of the taxpayers and thus have a heavy leash on politicians, do you really want them to be remembering decades of being held down by their elders? People have long memories.Please, there are far more people living in far smaller countries in the world who have far more affordable houses. 

Higher density housing in the inner city is required, and all the rules and loopholes that make it beneficial for a housing investor to leave their house empty and un-rented need to be removed.Because feminists support women to be able to make their own choices, even if those choices are bad. That's what freedom is.What happens if a crime is committed by someone in a ski mask? Do you think the police throw up their hands in despair and never catch a single one of them?The burqa was a brilliant covering for the climate in which it originated - the desert. Did you know men in the desert also used to wear dress-style clothes and headscarves, which could be pulled up to cover their face if necessary?

Of course it became deeply entrenched into their culture, and now they don't want to give it up even when they leave the desert.

Give it a generation or two and it will go away on its own. This is just hysteria for hysteria's sake.Wow, gtr, so blind people can never feel social cohesion? I suggest you try telling them that.How is that a facile analogy? He said if he can't see someone's face, he doesn't feel social cohesion with them.

Obviously that's baloney because blind people feel it all the time and they can't see faces.It is not deemed racist by anyone for security to ask a woman with face veil to show her face. And she would have no problem especially doing so if the security was female.

No-one has ever said they don't want to show their face to security officers or that doing so offended them. Stop making stuff up.GeeGee, a lot of people like living in other cultures without fully adopting those cultures themselves. Does every immigrant to France have to pick up a mistress in addition to the wife?

You can appreciate some aspects and shun others. Culture isn't a black and white issue.Michael, any religion preaching hate and division is already covered under hate speech laws. They do crack down on imams preaching hate against Westerners, and I have to hope they would do the same thing to other religions.I'm sure if you wanted to attend a public Ramadan fast-breaking dinner, you could if you asked. A lot of their holidays and rituals aren't "fun" things like fireworks or flinging coloured powder at each other, so it's not strange why people haven't joined in.As one who fought this addiction and won after 18 years of less than a sense of well being I found this article a hoot.  Tax it tax it tax it put it where it belongs and put a cap on the percentage that the companies can profit. They will find another way to make money. Last year I lost my beautiful Mum to lung cancer.  She had smoked most of her life.
You say you vote in the national interest, but then that Rudd and Gillard had to go because their in-fighting was "noxious".

OK, it was noxious, but how was it hurting our national interest? Were we going to war over it? Was it hurting our economy? Was it driving people out of their homes? Was it increasing gun violence.

So explain that whole "I vote in the national interest" thing again to me, would you?I'm sorry sdraw but you didn't really convince me.

You saw their actions as a 'recipe for bad government' and you talked about some things they could have done but didn't... but how is that at all comparable to this government that is actively doing terrible, terrible things?

People just 'had a feeling' that Labor was playing up. But there was no real evidence of it. The country was going fine.

It was all in people's minds, as suggested by the Liberals, that Labor was incompetent, that they were petty, that they lacked guts or brain or spines or spleens or whatever.

Governments aren't supposed to lead us through the wilderness to the promised land. They are supposed to make tomorrow more or less like today, hopefully a little better. The Labor government did that. I don't see how that wasn't in the national interest.Dishonesty and lying are part of the political misbehaviour this article is referencing. The fact that pollies that indulged in it were able to be elected and then not tossed out in some kind of coup or nationwide protest signals other politicians that they can do the same thing and get away with it too.But raywa, the only reason honest pollies don't make good headlines is because the public isn't willing to pay to read those headlines. So once again, the onus falls on the masses.

The media wouldn't produce the scholck they do if we didn't read it and pay for it.Well then why are the journalists writing trash? Think about it. If no-one is reading their stories, nobody would publish them.

It's because the public wants trash that trash gets made for them.

It's up to us to step back and say "No, I won't give in to the lure of the click-bait article or the cheap tabloid. I won't give them my money and incentivise them to write more of this rubbish." And yes, reading their websites gives them revenue from ads too, even if you don't pay a thing.

Just don't look!anote, you don't understand. Let's say the media was completely neutral and had no interest in a political party, nor were they paid to print political party messages.

So now a party gives them a story full of spin and half-truths. Why would they print it? Because they're so abysmally lazy they'll print anything without checking it? That sort of behaviour never remains hidden forever. Then why does anyone still read their paper? 

Whether the journalists are lazy, biased or being paid for their opinion, the readers enable that to continue by buying their papers. 

Stop buying the media made by the interest groups you hate, whoever that is. Don't pay attention to how clever some of their columnists are, how witty their political cartoons or how useful their car reviews or how compelling their sports coverage. 

Stop buying it and it won't get printed!

Yes but Applaudanum that fact, that people are still buying this trash even though they know it's trash, letting it influence their decisions - is still partially their fault! Aren't we supposed to be accepting our personal responsibilities and not expecting a hand-out? 

Well the government isn't going to give us a hand-out of good policy if we don't demand it.

Yes I do walk by a newsagency and when I see "shock" headlines they make me smile. I don't care what's in them. I don't care what's in the clickbait. 

No I don't think we have a terror crisis on our hands, or a refugee crisis, or a welfare crisis, or a national debt crisis or even, so to speak, a private debt crisis. Although any of those things can become one if not handled well. But the headlines are meaningless to me.

Bushfires and alcohol are much bigger crises for Australians.

I was much more interested in the Chinese People's News story about pigeons being probed for security reasons. Now that's some quality propaganda!That first 'axiom' seems pretty silly. You really think with the high population density in New York they have less personal freedoms than when people lived in villages of a couple thousand and EVERYONE knew you and what you were doing and was going to judge you for it and ostracise you?

Methinks not.Those hypnotist tricks mainly just work in face-to-face situations with a carefully set up scenario where the target is either very distracted or very focused, and all the attention of the hypnotist is directed on them.

Also, you only see the takes they were successful. Forgive my cynicism, but just like all those "we asked average Americans where Australia was" and other street surveys, they are going to show you the clips that make the point they wanted, not all the ones that didn't.I have seen some, and read up on others, and often they have a pool of people they use as volunteers and then they whittle them down to the most suggestible ones and use them. Other times they interview people in the audience and of course they don't interview everyone and of course they are going to show you the most convincing interviews.

People can certainly be hypnotised to do things beyond their wishes, but it's made to look a lot more clear cut than it really is.Voters are the ones who allowed the media to become a profit free-for-all. Silly people in love with the money that came from the free market and uncaring about what they were giving up for that money.

Especially with the new wave of Libertarians who believe that a controlling government, even if it is producing an idyllic society, is an evil thing, and a society of individuals who can make their own rules and right their own wrongs (except via violence) are a good thing, even if the society that would lead to would be unliveable.How is it one-sided? He's addressed the fact that if people don't want certain people (like Shorten) leading them, and then they vote for them anyway over "party loyalty" the fault is entirely theirs.Oh Burnsey, that's right, non-compulsory voting would solve all the problems. After all, in America where that is the case, they don't have bitter bi-partisan politics where extremists of both spectrums get the most airtime.

Nup, not at all.Voting on ideology is far more dangerous than voting by policy. Ideology compels people to let in little things that they would never allow if it wasn't part of the package of their ideology.

The Family First party ran on a platform of family values, social cohesion, education, etc. but when their candidates came into power, they revealed themselves to be conservative socially as well, reducing welfare and cutting taxes.

Do you really think all those people voting for "families" really also wanted welfare cuts? Nope, but they let that slip in there because the ideology of Family was too important to them.

Everyone has an ideology, that's not a problem. But voting for your ideology and not for pragmatic goals is a minefield.They get "called out" for their poor performance but that doesn't actually mean anything. Even George Bush got a second term. So how well did that "calling out" work again?

When was the last time it actually did anything? Nixon? Who was basically caught red-handed lying about important things. 

And of course every president after him has pretty much been caught out lying about unimportant things, but that's not important enough to get upset over. You know, our head of state being a liar.No it hasn't made the world fair or happy. But you know what it has made? People who are very rich and are in charge of the military. Do you expect them to change their minds all of a sudden and give the rest of us a fair go? 

I'll see you in Slave Camp #7544.Yes actually I think you can... maybe if it were only the youth voting for lying parties, but it's often the elderly, who should have been around the block enough to know a lie from the nose on their face.Really, Alan, you've reviewed every single registered party and every single candidate they all offer and *every* single one of them was deplorable?

Wow, you are really committed to your research. Good on you!lilly, you need to realise that while the ends doesn't justify the means for *you*, it does for politicians.

So work with that, don't just say they need to change and be decent human beings. We can't convince them with pretty words.Blaming the voter is not promoting dictatorships.

You seem to be misunderstanding what I see as the point of the article. The voter chooses poorly, as he and you both agree. I don't think he is suggesting that therefore we get rid of the voter.

There are other alternatives to either getting rid of voters or the idyllic belief we can educate voters to actually vote for good leaders. I'm sure you know what those are.Agreed. Time for the pollies to man up and admit they don't want to be part of basic human rights and ethical treatment. It's only what their voters want, after all...And I'm fairly sure Indonesia is not a signatory to the refugee convention, and they don't want to give refugees permanent placements in Indonesia either. Is being detained in a camp not a reason to move on?So Aaron maybe you could suggest that instead of only focusing on the rights of refugees in signatory countries, perhaps the signatory countries could also commit money to provide for their wellbeing in non-signatory countries! 

I'm sure the Australian public will be happy to accept a new tax to send money to third-world countries to spend on refugees they'll never see.

And I'm doubly sure that money will never be siphoned, mis-used, wasted or otherwise fizzled away.

Your only other alternative is to withdraw and neglect human rights because we don't want to be "pulling" people to us through our, yannow, basic respect for human dignity.

Time to get rid of that respect then, is it?No boats that they report, Brian, what with that freeze on refugee information given to the media...Yes, and that third option is a third-world nation recently recovering from war where even the native citizens have few prospects. 

And aren't any more fond of foreigners than we are.They did seem embarrassed, that's why they scrambled to change things again so it stopped happening.

Now on to you, why aren't our current politicians embarrassed by their international law breaking?Yes, usually because we become more, rather than less, tolerant of others.

Shame about this current situation, then.If we're full up, why aren't there strict water restrictions in place in Perth, a city that can only exist because of water treatment and desalination plants?

Oh right because rich white people don't want them. And that's more important than supporting the poor human life on this planet.What job do you have that is so much more important to society than the field of lawyers, who seek to ensure that the laws are properly enforced?
