"This would be a drastic strategy of course, especially because the polls make it look unappetising." yet none other than Berg from the IPA is advocating the strategy.

However, the drastic nature of the strategy is the reason Abbott will not call it; except as a last resort.  Abbott does not want a double dissolution.  The few threats of such by members of the Liberal Party so far have been pure bluff.  They are far more scared of a double dissolution than they would like to scare Labor into being.  Abbott has what he wanted.  He will do, or not do, what it takes to not risk his prime ministership; including whatever hypocrisy he thinks will do it.

It would take a miraculous change in popularity for Abbott to call a double dissolution or sheer desperation.
"The result is that justice will eventually be achieved."  We can hope so and we can hope that the justice system improves and we should strive to make it so but it is foolish to categorically say so.This is a beat up to milk the incident.

Abbott did the right thing where he was already on the side of right.  It does not right his passed and ongoing wrongs.I think Green is mistaking Nationalism for honest sincerity.

It may be the case that Abbott was sincere but he has nerve and his normal style was not out of place in a situation that was relatively clear cut and put him on the side of right.  He was on the world stage, had nothing to cover up about the incident and had no need to lie.
"And one would not, perhaps, have expected Australia's 28th prime minister either to have attempted so much, or to have got it so right."  So much what exactly?

He has acted appropriately in a situation where his adversarial style is not out of place and a situation that is clear cut; as the article itself portrays.

It does not make up for Abbott lacking moral authority in the first place. 

Also, while not specific to Abbott and sad as the situation is, the indignation is out of proportion to other atrocities happening around the world."Nevertheless, this does not mean that the measures are without merit."  So long as 'responsible' members of government display a lack of basic understanding, as Abbott and Brandis have, it DOES mean that the measures should be treated as being without merit.  "While it is incumbent upon the media and our politicians not to fan the flames of fear or to use the spectre of terrorism for political ends, they also have a responsibility to soberly and methodically assess such threats as they emerge and put in place reasonable and proportionate measures in response." and the they failed on both points.

On the one hand, the government is maintaining excessive secrecy with respect to so called operational measures against refugees.  On the other, they are announcing the intention to retain more data and trying to reassure without really knowing what they are talking about.  Both are consistent with a tough guy approach but both provide reason to distrust them or question their competence.RMuch of our data is already mined by private enterprises.  There should be laws against that.

Much of our data may already be mined by external governments (apparently the USA has no qualms about it).

Data can be mine for many things, other than the purpose of collection, after being collected.

If the subject field of emails is collected, as so called metadata, then that is already a lot more that the old snail mail.

This government has already betrayed the trust of the electorate.
If you have done nothing wrong you have nothing to be concerned about.  The unquestioning trust in authority.Craig of Bathurst,

It is an unquestioning trust in authority, which for some is an unquestioning trust in the Abbott lead government.  It is presuming the government have got the balance on this case right; no argument accepted.  It is a method of attempting to summarily bypass justification. 

A common sense approach is to understand where the law is sensible and respect the law and law enforcers when that is the case.  We are fortunate enough to live in a country where most law is reasonable.

"How many cases, anote, can you recall when someone was surveilled or arrested or jailed only to find they were not guilty?"  Not guilty of what?  How far do you define 'surveilled'.?  What about breaking an unreasonable law?  What about laws that allow detention without accusation of a crime?  You are suggesting that non guilty suspects are not 'surveilled'.  Even when you trust good enforcement of the law you need to consider possible misuse by future enforcers.  The answer is enough to be concerned about not knowing what is being secretly done.  Furthermore, knowing when a miscarriage of justice has been done does not account for the times a miscarriage of justice has happened without it being widely known."Except that if TA is right ..." right about what?  The article was about lack of coherency.  What do you mean by "all means available"?  Do you trust TA unreservedly just because?What does the decision not to go ahead with the amendment to antidiscrimination laws in conjunction to this new law say if not just that:
   - You should be allowed to offend people unless we need the help of those people.
Such a principled government we have."only someone with something to hide would be worried about these powers"... another naive person.  Respect for authority is good where deserved.  Unquestioning trust is foolish.

Power corrupts.I do no know what the new proposed laws are but there is a far wider issue with copyright.

The breaking of copyright laws in this area have been allowed to flourish for a very long time and I do mean allowed.

It is not as if the industry itself does not float copyright; (ie it is not just the consumers).

Australians are charged more than other countries for no apparent good reason.

Copyright is being flouted in other fields; such as copying package designs.

Why is the breaking of copyright by, say, China not an issue; I do not just mean in the music or film industry.
Abbott has not just fumbled.  Abbott is a victim of his own spin (spin equals lies) and hypocrisy.  Even if he changes he cannot be trusted.
John M,

Don't let facts get in the way.

So you would let the Coalition off their deceit.  What message would that send?

That enough have been convinced that our debt is not an issue as you state is your first misrepresentation.  It is not that the debt is not an issue.  More importantly, there is a structural problem with the budget into the future.  It is that the Coalition overreached in claiming it to be an immediate emergency and lied pre-election about what it would do and what it is doing is inequitable.  It is the way this government is going about addressing the issue.

However, it may well make the issue more difficult to address appropriately going forward, including by a new government; that is, regardless of which party it is.  That is the fault of the Coalition.  The predicament in which the Coalition finds itself is of its own making.

"Politically, is it really worth trashing the countries finances for generations just to win office ?"  A question that presumes that the way the government is dealing with the issue is in the best national interests and ignores the government's lack of trustworthiness.

The Coalition has trashed itself.  Punishment comes at a cost.  Putting faith in the duplicitous is foolish and also has its cost.  It rather depends on your values doesn't it?  Reading you comment, it seems you do not rate trust highly.Abbott has "shown no facility for finding creative solutions to criticisms. An obvious one would be to introduce a means test that rules out payments for the most wealthy."

'creative solutions' .. a euphemism for 'a better con job'.

Abbott is not a negotiator, until the last minute when it is obvious he will not get what he wants.  Even then it is only about the preservation of his position.  Abbott is a man of brinksmanship.  The PPL is very much a self inflicted problem and Abbott loses face by backing away from it and rightly so; that is part of the problem with the PPL in particular and Abbott's style in general.I am all for family assistance but that is twisted/dishonest logic/spin.  "Since when does a mother who works and happens to be successful also classified as WEALTHY?"  Maybe she is and maybe she is not.  The real question is why should a woman who works and happens to be successful be entitled to more social welfare than one who is paid less; that is, why should the more wealthy get more social welfare?

Also, why should the mother get it as if the partner has no responsibility for the children?

The accusation by MumofTwo of the self interest of others clearly applies as much to MumofTwo .

"Nearly everything this Government has done - as opposed to what it said it was going to do - has been aimed at either punishing their enemies or rewarding the select few."  While it has that effect it may not be their aim.  They simply may not get it.  They may not understand the Kafkaesque concept.  They just push ahead with what they believe they know because they believe it must win through despite being Kafkaesque.

Seriously?  Yes, or they are bloody good at acting dumb, ignoring inconvenient truths and pretentiously asserting they have been 'crystal clear' (the last being a particular pose of Morrison).This government talks about reducing waste.  It has no qualms about passing costs and responsibilities on to others to create the illusion of efficiency.Australia does not seem to be able to deal with the issue with a sense of civility."It is easy to be critical with the benefit of a rear-view mirror."  While the boom was much longer than previous booms that benefit was available before the boom.

While I do not know how significant the competition from other parts of the world is there is such competition and it was not mentioned.

If Rio Tinto's and BHP's CEOs are relishing the prospect of a price war then what do they really care about the community."Leadership requires striking what is usually a precarious balance between reflecting what voters want, and convincing them to accept what the nation needs."

Abbott did not try to convince the nation about the extent of what "the nation needs" before the election.  He lied about what he would do.  That is quite a different matter and is far, far worse than the so called Gillard lie that Abbott and the coalition would not let go during their last term in opposition.  He cannot regain trust and credibility until he has shown he deserves it and he has to earn it in a demoted position.  Personally I do not think he can regain them but to let it go and do otherwise is to reward bad behaviour.

Politically, the MH17 disaster was a 'gift' to Abbott.  He did not have to do much to get kudos from it, just because he is Prime Minister in a situation where all would be onside.

Abbott does not try to convince.  He 'dictates' (claims of what is absolutely necessary) and disparages different opinions to what he thinks, even when he is inconsistent.  He will, however, backflip at the last minute to get his way (such as negotiate with minor parties)."If that is a dictator and it sets Australia up well, then I'm ok with that."  What a pathetic dismissal of Abbott's lies.

Abbott brought politics to a new low with his opposition for the sake of opposition, false promises and lies.

Your "if" is insincere and your bias shows that you believe he is on the right path and you believe what he has done is the right thing.  You demonstrate that you are only "ok" with that because you trust him despite his lies.  Perhaps you are trusting that you can see through the Abbott's lies and what he is doing will benefit you.  In so far as you agree he dictates, you also dictate.

Things got done in the last government and it matters what gets done and how things get done.

It is not OK to lie to get your way and it is a bad example for a Prime Minister to set.

Your comment was just being an apologist for Abbott and his gross hypocrisy.Brian Francis,

There you go again, completely avoiding the point about lies as if it does not matter.

I am sure 3 Prime Ministers, 4 Immigration Ministers and multiple other in-house disruptions does not help get things done but does not equate to not getting things done.  What gets done and how it gets done is a point but it does not address the point about lies.

Abbott is untrustworthy even if you think he is competent.

Your evasion conveys an attitude that it is OK to get what you want by deception if you can get away with.  Would you bring up your children that way?  Unfortunately, it is not just you but neither is it good nor moral.'Under attack from within his own ranks over his inability to "sell the budget",'

This idea that the problem is with the sales and not the product is a common predisposition of our times.  The Coalition are just very, very, assertive with regard to that predisposition.  It is not just Hockey and it is not a recent change in attitude with respect to them selling anything.

It is spin based on presuming the budget is good and that an inability to "sell the budget" is explanation enough.

Besides, the Coalition showed themselves to be untrustworthy beforehand.Yes and no.  Yes, the taxing should be fixed.  No, Hockey is not interested in social equity and by extension economic equity.  Hockey does not demonstrate that he believes there is a link between the two.

The misuse of language is promulgated by the notion of 'the age of entitlement'.  It is not about equity.  The so called ending of it is prejudiced towards free market principles.  It is deceitful in its attempt to remove social responsibility and the tax equity side of the argument.  Free markets principles provide incentive but they need to have limiting rules to be fair.

Whatever we do effects other people.  While there have been many benefits from society, society also forces individuals to live in particular ways; far beyond the money transactions the individuals have with others.  The rich have much more influence than the rest but no more right to determine the type of society we have.

Tax and social support should be structured to minimise the transfer of wealth through the tax system to maintain fairness.  Maybe some people should get more support and some should get less.  Maybe some should pay more tax and maybe some should pay less.  Hockey and his 'the age of entitlement' are not about the balance.  It merely treats people who get money from private means legally as having 'earned' it and those who get social support as undeserving (with some glaring inconsistencies which actually worsen the balance; like the PPL scheme)."This indicates the big challenge facing the opponents of the Abbott-Hockey policies. Can an alternative policy agenda that emphasizes greater equality be constructed and implemented? Is the climate right for a renewed drive to redress unjustifiable and socially-costly inequalities?"

It seems to me it indicates more of a challenge to Abbott-Hockey than their opponents.  Abbott-Hockey are the ones trying to 'sell' inequality.

To state that "These concerns are not new." is to be dismissive of the growing inequality.

Is the author concerned about inequality or just a tactical response; like Abbott-Hocky spin?I agree.

Everyone should be forgiven the occasional simple mistake.  These bungles were not simple mistakes but confirmation that this government lacks depth of comprehension and its willingness to resort to a veneer of stubborn spin.That is merely a poor excuse to avoid making a hard decision, in the process of which an admission that it commits some to suffer is evaded.

All laws can be abused but that does not stop us having laws; to prevention of suffering."As we prepare for this difficult discussion," but Andrews has to some extent pre-empted what she thinks the conclusion should be.

I never considered it was a new dilemma and I think the author is using that as red herring.  I do however know some opponents to euthanasia have been using advances in palliative care as an argument against euthanasia.  Will she try to have it both ways?

Andrews insinuation that Chrisitan beliefs are not a significant reason for opposition to euthanasia are misleading or, in my opinion, delusional.  She insinuates that her simple claim that it is not so is enough to refute Nitschke's claim of personal attacks.  In what position is she to know?  "Even the staunchly pro-life Catholic Church considers death a natural event that no one is morally compelled to avert by any and all possible means." is a side step that evades the question euthanasia by failing to distinguish between natural and unnatural death.  Euthanasia is death, which the Christian beliefs are likely to resist and the Catholic Church would not support.
A straw man argument in which the straw man is the claim of straw man argument.

"scripture is being "woven into our public school system"" by insisting that it ought to be there.  That those who participate claim it is not their intention is not an argument.  The limited time is also not a valid point because of the insistence that it ought to be there.

"You see, the other special aspect of SRE is that it is unashamedly dogmatic, and that it makes unambiguous claims." defeats Ashton's argument and "betrays" his prejudice.  Ashton is about "indoctrination" pure and simple.  His claim about the indoctrination of other subjects is grossly overstated and where it might happen it is open to challenge, debate and correction.  That faith sometimes loses is not the point.

Furthermore, and on a related issue, the claim to unambiguous dogma is an implied admission to proselytising.  Now while I believed this was really what most of those who taught under the chaplaincy program were about, my understanding is that proselytising was not supposed to happen in the chaplaincy program.  Under the chaplaincy program Ashton's SRE is not supposed to be happening (just saying because it is a delusional expectation).An unclear statement that does not stand on its own.  What is your point?

The intent could be supportive, unsupportive or an irrelevant statement.  Maybe it is a suggestion that Ashton's accusation of Dean creating a straw man invalidates Ashton's argument.  Maybe it is an accusation that I also put a straw man argument.

A straw man argument is invalid in the first place (adding tu quoque fallacy is not what makes it so).

"A straw man on a quest to derail another straw man" makes more sense as two straw men within one side of an argument; nothing to do with tu quoque. 

My comment is at the end of a line of 3 people not a talk back between two.
"At this stage the Prime Minister's approach is appropriate."  Yes, but he does not exactly speak from a position of moral authority."The reality is that it's completely illogical to suggest one form of transport has more of a right to a road than another."  Whiles the law gives equal rights on most roads it is absolute rubbish to suggest that it is reasonable that cyclists should have as much access on all roads as all other forms of transport.  It depends on the circumstances (the road).

"The reality is that we need more separate bike lanes" is more to the point but it is ludicrous to suggest that we need to accept cyclists riding on any road that carries other forms of transport.  It depends on the circumstances (the road).  Some roads are simply too dangerous for cyclists to be on; including some where it is legal.

True, many motorists need to show more consideration.  Equally true, many cyclists need to show more consideration.  However, some common sense is required and cyclists cannot expect that their convenience is paramount; at the disproportionate inconvenience of many others.It is "too clever by half"

"idealist" and "realist" and other terms are used to beat up and say little.  The last paragraph may be an attempt by the author to show on which side she sits but, if so, a poor and very unclear effort (by saying the idealists are the actual realists).

Reality always imposes itself but that philosophical point is little consolation for wasted loses.Direct Action may partly be a result of satisfying some in the LNP but the LNP could not be seen to have no policy at all.  Direct Action was also contrived to facilitate opposing Labor on Climate Change; just for the sake of opposing.Best interest or national interest?  Anyway, it does not really depend on the definition.  The definition is implied to encompass the common good but the terminology is used to assert rather than explain.  That is, claiming something is in the national interest does not make it so and is an unsatisfactory substitute for explaining how the thing is in the national interest.Yes, to a large extent vested interest is seen as best interest or national interest or for the common good.  Selfishness it a significant part of it but not necessarily applicable to everyone.  It works like this.

'Successful' people get a big hand in making the rules.  They see things in their own terms and the system in which they succeeded as being a good system; what was good for them is good for everyone.  So they make decisions that favour themselves and people like them.

That is not the whole story because it is not necessarily applicable to all 'successful' people.  Not everyone is so narrow minded but it is a significant part of it.Last night, when asked about 'no new taxes'  Abbott replied that before the election he said there would be a levy for the Paid Parental Leave.  He avoided that there would be 'no new taxes' beyond that.

An interesting thing about that though was that he also responded with, paraphrasing but accurate, 'don't you think a levy is a tax'.  For years he and the Coalition have avoided calling a levy a tax and admitting a levy was a tax to give the impression that a levy is not a tax.  The interesting thing is that last night he implied it is obvious that a levy is a tax.  So there is a levy he plans to introduce and he did not skirt around a tax with a levy; just last night.  However, he did evade the question.

Here is another interesting thing about an interview Abbott did last night. He was questioned about his assertions that the carbon tax would wipe Whyalla off the map.  He tried to deflect responsibility for saying that himself by saying a union official had said it.

Abbott is a scaremonger who evades inconvenient truths and is entangled in his own spin.Well whoppie do.  What a phoney come back you made to the real original point.  Abbott used to skirt around taxes with 'levys'.  Levysare taxes and for new taxes find a transcript of last night's 7:30 Report, which is the interview he fumbled his way through.bge,

They would be new wheels; wheels being taxes.

The problem with the wheel analogy is that ...

... Abbott intentionally gave the impression that he would not increase the size of the wheels.  That would be bad enough but on occasion he explicitly made it plain as per Mark James comment.

... Any new tax could be justified as just increasing the size of the wheel.

But you just keep spinning those wheels.Yes, but how much is Abbott's current idea to fix the federation a position of convenience by way of being seen to reduce spending; federal spending that is?  He will claim credit for reducing the costs even if he has only shifted the burden.  Whether or not that was really to the benefit of the public will be irrelevant to him in his claim of reducing costs.

It just suits him for the moment.Quite right and a persistent, insincere negotiator can try to take advantage of this.  By persistently and repeatedly arguing an extreme point and giving a little each time, ostensibly to be reasonable and meet in the middle ground, the middle ground is gradually moved toward the extreme."But Abbott was just too good at giving voice to our greatest fears, ..."  Abbott does like to fear monger but it was not just fear mongering.  It was also an appeal to short term self interest.Quite right.Point 8 is readily open to manipulation and goes quite some way to pre-empting an election.  It also has a practical administrative problem delivering in due course and would need to be capped.

Point 10 is laughable.It is complicated because the politicians make it complicated with spin and 'tactics' and when you come to vote, or make any other kind of decision based on what they present you should try to decipher "the truth".

They are marketeers and they try to deceive by making selective comments and evading inconvenient truths, just as you are in your second paragraph.To be more specific, it is not just "policy that I agree with".  The adversarial approach results in "we must invent a different policy to support for the sake of differentiating ourselves".  The argument presented in support of the policy is made to fit the policy and is not a sincere justification for the policy.Palmer may have influence but ...

... privately paid for his 'representational' influence.
... is lucky to be in a position to influence the balance of power.
... appears to be in it for his own benefit and not demonstrated any consistency or broad understanding about anything else or even that he really cares about equity.
... may be a thorn in Abbott's side but has a lot to do to show he is any better than Abbott.

It is possible but so far it just looks like wishful thinking or provocative writing that Palmer will "deliver the focus, discipline and structure needed to emerge as an effective and sustainable third political force in Australia" at all, let alone for the for the right reasons.  The current situation is more likely to provoke a different new political force but that is wishful thinking too.Rosewarne is not condemning Thorpe but the double standards of sections of the media and I agree with her.You may be right but she is not treating it selectively by ignoring that he also represents a stereotype of keeping mum until you've got nothing left to lose.

By the way, unlike double standards, neither keeping mum nor coming out are things to condemn.  It should not be seen as an aspersion on Thorpe.frangipana,

By 'by the way' I meant by the way. As far as I am concerned Thorpe can be whatever he is, however he is; like your self.

As I wrote, you may be right.Yes, there is neither a need to know nor a right to know by the public.

The problem and the wrong is the demand to know.

The double standard comes into it after getting to know; in this case, ignoring that he is an example of keeping mum until you've got nothing left to lose, just for the impact of the moment.  Thorpe cannot be a role model for braking the mould and be stereotypical.  Therein lies the double standard.
This morning Hunt said they(they Coalition) is the government and Labor should give they what they want.  It is bad enough when they claim to have a mandate on removing the carbon tax but he also said we had a referendum on it.  Hunt also misrepresented Labor's promises while neglecting the Coalition's breaking of promises.

The Coalition forms government but they are not the government in the sense that they can do want they want.  They are only part of the government that has to deal with other parts of the government.  Removing the carbon tax was a central piece of the Coalition's election platform but that does constitute a mandate for the government to remove the carbon tax.

The election was not a referendum, as such, on a single issue.

Negotiation ought to be a part of government.  After acting tough about not negotiating with anyone and denigrating Labor for doing so, the coalition has capitulate to bending over backwards to negotiate for a "win"; in this case on removing the carbon tax.

The Coalition only have themselves to blame for the distrust in them.That some, in support of the Coalition, will bring up THAT 'lie' is hypocrisy in the pathetic extreme but hypocrisy in the extreme has come to be expected from the Coalition.

They hammered THAT 'lie' ad nauseam in opposition and trying to make a virtue of keeping the promise of removing the carbon tax while neglecting the mountain of their own broken promises.It will not help because ...

... there will need to be an agreement on what is meritorious and the 'right' are preoccupied with a narrow economic definition.

... the 'right' with power are self-serving and have a basic argument that can be reduced to something like this - what I have, I have obtained by the system and I deserve (i.e. I merited) AND CONVERSELY those that do not have are in that situation because they do not deserve.

Like the belief of free market purists in the self righting nature of unfettered competition it is an ideological axiom and inherently fair.  A discussion about whether the world is meritocratic will not get around the question of fairness."The government must convince that action is needed."  That is not sufficient.  There are matters of method and equity to be addressed.  Underlying that, the Coalition, being in government, has demonstrated from the start that they are downright untrustworthy.  There is no quick fix for that distrust and that comes with its own costs.I reserve judgment.  Other reports have indicated that the agreed guarantee that savings be passed on to the consumer were not there or pathetically weak.  If that was the case then Palmer's response was completely reasonable and this article is a beat up.

It could have been a mistake by the government or the government could have been trying to pull a swifty.More evidence that the government's silence on so called "operational' matters has more to do with evading scrutiny than the claimed purpose of denying information to people smugglers.Glad to see this being brought up.  When I got to read the contract for my parents unit in a retirement village I was flabbergasted and I now doubt it is as bad as some.  I resolved to avoid a similar fate.  It is a high price for overestimated 'security' in retirement.

Then there is the cost to government when the retiree needs aged care after having been fleeced by the private operator."Accusations of 'moral blackmail' are cruelly simple".  More precisely, accusations of 'moral blackmail' are cruelly simplistic.

The accusation of moral blackmail is an excuse of convenience as is the excuse of saving lives from drowning at sea.  They are shallow excuses with a superficial semblance moral rectitude.  They are potentially condescending to potential refugees about whom we would prefer not to know because we just do not want to have to deal with them.  They are not the reasons for stopping the boats.  Stopping the boats is the reason these attempts at moral justification are being used.This is not a Guantanamo Bay but the Australian government is attempting to circumvent the law just as the USA did (and Australia by implicit support of the USA) last decade.

The government is not acting in the spirit of the law but looking for loop holes.No, not everybody does.  In addition, it is not a moral defence to claim that everybody, meaning everyone else, does.While I am on the side of the author there is a flaw in his 'argument'.  Namely, the comparison with the wealthy getting away with it.  The wealthy can circumvent the consequences of many laws by means unavailable to the poor.  That does not make their actions morally acceptable and does not necessarily mean the law is a bad law.

The law is bad in this field because it prolongs suffering by subjecting some people to self-righteous prejudice; influenced by an unverifiable belief in a sacrosanct principle the practicalities of which others wish to avoid.I do not misunderstand that point.  That is a form of getting away with it.  It is not necessarily morally acceptable to go to another country to avoid a local law.  Also, it is not the only example the author uses of the wealthy circumventing the law.

The author basically says the spirit of the law is wrong because the wealthy can circumvent it while the poor cannot.  I agree that the law is bad but not for that reason.  I think the authors sentiments are in the right place but that is not a good reason.I see no reason to consider it an evil and I see no reason for the proviso to acknowledge that there is not an afterlife.I suggest the independent senators are primarily being called a rabble by those who do not anticipate the independent senators will provide what they want.  That is, gratuitous deprecation in the hope it will gain popular traction and cause the independent senators to 'fall in line'.

I suggest a secondary factor is a perception that some lack nous and control by Palmer who is in it for himself.So you are flabbergasted by their lack of "basic courtesy and common sense".  Our dear beloved leader sets a bad example."In spite of this wall of negativity, the Government is putting on a surprisingly brave face ..."; not so much a brave face as step down from arrogant defiance, arrogant defiance being Abbott and co's facade and something they are good at and makes fools of themselves. "... and has indicated a willingness to negotiate."; which is a case in point, Abbott and co having not been willing at all to 'negotiate' their 'absolutely necessary' intentions until forced to do so. Having been a "wall of negativity" when in opposition and calling Labor illegitimate for negotiating with minor parties during the last term of government the gross hypocrisy of the Coalition continues with an about face of a slimy 'charm offensive'.Once again Abbott has been an apologist for the Sri Lankan government.

When a business fails to tell you something about one of its products it is usually because it does not want you to know the answer because it does not put the product in a comparatively good light.  When they evade answering a reasonable question it is reasonable to assume the obvious answer by implication.  The same applies to the government, especially this government and the subject of asylum seekers is a particular case in point.  It is reasonable to believe that their justification for secrecy has more to do with evasion of scrutiny than either saving lives at sea or 'border protection'.There is no relationship proffered and none evident to relate the conclusion about autonomy with the despairing statistics.

Nor is there any submission to improving accountability despite lamenting the value of current accountability.  So on the contrary, a simplistic implication is that less accountability (autonomy being to do it how you wish) will lead to better learning outcomes.

Simply repeating an ideological bias, like the Coalition, does not make it right.
There is another side to this 'coin' of idolisation; and it does not just apply to sport or sex related issues.

They get paid obscene amounts of money and they accept the responsibility.

Such events are not necessarily one time mistakes and often show a culture that it is simple wrong to suggest are necessarily representative of everyone else, so private or isolated examples.

These people may be relatively young in the adult world but they are not so often such innocents that need to be educated.  They have probably been 'educated' ad nauseam and just kept getting away with bad behaviour, especially where drugs are concerned.

Too often those that get paid more get away with more.  That is unreasonable.

Rosewarne needs to show a lot more discernment to distinguishing between an act and whether privacy is deserved.  In the particular case, maybe privacy (more) was deserved.  However, Rosewarne is preoccupied with presumptuous forgiveness on a pretext of privacy.
Not just sports stars but high revenue drawcards in general have been getting away with more than the average.  That may be changing but so it should.  Publicity is required to make it change.  

I am all for first and second chances but not third, fourth and never ending let offs.  It is not about just an indiscretion.  How much have they got away without publicity?  Apparently this is far from an odd public indiscretion for Carney.

Why shouldn't sports stars and others that accept money to be used as role models be subject to higher scrutiny?  I reckon they should.  Why should good people with decent standards who work as hard or harder but without the attraction to get such remuneration tolerate it?

Does he deserve the consequences?  Probably but not if he did not do what he is supposed to have done.  It depends on all the details.  More importantly, where is the case that he doesn't.  The point is that Rosewarne neither contests what he supposedly did nor makes a good case that he does not deserve the consequences.Just because you identify with that kind of 'joking around' behaviour does not make you representative.  Also, that "many young men" consider such as merely joking does not make it acceptable.  There are many things that "many young men" do that are not acceptable.

Those that behave 'boisterously' often do so without consideration of others.  It exemplifies a possible lack of consideration of those present, a likely lack of consideration of those who might happen to walk in,an expectation that those offended stay quite about it (a kind of bullying) and a gross lack of consideration for others who subsequently need to use the facilities and cleaners.


Correct.  Reading between the lines Matthewson's last couple of contributions seem to be a kind of backhanded support of the Coalition by sort of acknowledging the wrongs of the Coalition but gratuitously knocking Labor and the Greens; for failure to win on a PR front.  It is hardly a moral argument and I am not convinced about the premise anyway."These two rich people with vested interests are worshipped by the environmental evangelists and activists."  Are you for real or a politician?

Besides using pejorative exaggeration, your claimed adoration is outright false with respect to one of those people.  The other choose what could reasonably be interpreted as the best, being least bad, of available practical options.

The theatrics most discredit the Coalition, who demonstrated a ready willingness for an excuse to drop their Direct Action policy.Abbott the destroyer has not just destroyed his own foundations.  His inconsistencies have caused confusion, his intentions need to be second guessed and he takes an adversarial approach.  That is the background to which the opposition parties must assess the practically achievable. 

"Thankfully for TCI, they were saved by the Gore-Palmer spectacle, which could yet descend into a debacle for the environmentalists who brokered the deal."  It could descend into a debacle for all.

Firstly, it is already a debacle for the Coalition who have shown their readiness to for an excuse to drop Direct Action.  Direct Action could still survive but they the Coalition's readiness to drop it has been demonstrated.  It is virtually  common knowledge that they may be pleased to drop the Direct Action policy.  Their lack of sincerity on that issue has been demonstrated.  It is become fairly clear that the same may apply to the Paid Parental Leave; many may be hoping it does not get through the senate.

Secondly, Palmer has not really demonstrated a commitment to an ETS and even less so a commitment that he believes Australia should contribute its fair share to combat global warning.  He has shown a commitment to remove the carbon tax but his actions have not supported his words with respect to an ETS.Totally ignores the fact that distrust in the current Government is very much due to recent behaviour of the party in government and its leader.

Also, ignores the fact that in compromising with Palmer the Coalition is readily abandoning want has been a fundamental policy disagreement with the opposition; namely, Direct Action as opposed to an ETS.  Well, we still have to see that happen but they are going along with the broadcast of that perception.In so far as this article is concerned with perception rather than morality or the underlying factual reality I do not buy it.

The marketing industry is very much an industry of deliberate deception.  "And idiotic marketers should be sent to the naughty corner for a very long time." could reasonably be interpreted as 'punish those marketers who fail to deceive'.

The suggested thought starters are in fact very much in the same vein as the 'controversial topic', just on different subjects.  The following "Dangerous ideas should be encouraged. Inhumane ones should not." is a simplistic personal censorship of what constitutes an acceptable dangerous idea.  The take away message could easily be just pretend to be about dangerous ideas and avoid ideas that might produce too big a backlash.Until a substantial replacement ETS is established in law we can reasonable believe the public is being played for mugs by Palmer and the Coalition.  As it stands on what has been publically released, Palmer would personally benefit financially and Australia could still drag its feet until all other countries 'sign up first'.  That a new ETS would be implemented after removing the 'carbon tax' has to be taken on trust.  A disingenuous blame game of excuses for failure to follow through is a foreseeable scenario.  Even if a commitment to follow through with an ETS is established, the way it has been put can be easily used as an excuse to do nothing until everyone else has done everything.  All it would take is the same kind of spin (dishonesty) we are currently being fed and long been fed on many things.

It is not a proper way of conducting business.  Put it in writing.

"... the carbon tax appears finished along with the Government's deeply unpopular Direct Action plan ...".  It is far from clear the Direct Action plan will even go if the carbon tax goes because that is not a condition of Palmer's support for removing the carbon tax.

Apparently the only condition for Palmer's support to remove the carbon tax is that all 'savings' get passed on to the consumer.  Hunt says that would already be the case.  If that is to be believed then it has been much ado about nothing; Palmer's support is effectively unconditional.
"... there is no logical reason that concern about climate change should be a left or right issue ..." but there is a logical explanation as to why the Coalition and Republicans have resisted doing anything about it.

As it is Palmer has not committed to an ETS in substance.  If he supports the bill to remove the 'carbon tax' before instating a trustworthy and substantial commitment to an ETS then he is playing the public for fools (meaning a lawfully binding commitment of government).  So far, that appears to be his plan.Furthermore Hunt thought Clive's announcement was great.  Does he really believe in an ETS after all or does he think that part of it will be circumvented over time.  We all need to be wary of the latter, including by Clive.

As for the infantile farce of question time Abbott is the most puerile of them all.  It is embarrassing.Sure Labor are far from perfect but Labor are not doing the same as Abbott and Co did in opposition.  Labor have a mandate to represent those who voted for them and are not simply opposing for the sake of opposing.

It was Abbott who blatantly lied pre-election, who promptly broke his promises post-election and is behaving the most puerile of all, having brought politics to a new low by a very significant degree.



Abbott and the Coalition already have a double dissolution trigger.

Abbott and co do not want a double dissolution.

On the few occasions they have threatened a double dissolution it has been bluff. They are more far more frightened of a double dissolution than they can scare the opposition into being.

A double dissolution is their last resort of desperation.A good thing can come out of this but scepticism and work will be required.

It is OK, indeed very reasonable, to not get too far ahead of other countries.  However, that should not then become an excuse for ignoring what Europe and others are doing and not pressuring the USA to lift its game.  It needs to be reasonably proportionate and as the major sizable emitter per capita we need to be leaders in putting in effort to push the agenda and show a willingness to play the game.

At this time evidence of commitment is lacking and trust has be trashed.'I'm rather unsettled by that "as understood in the West" qualifier,'.  I would be too.  What limited exposure to Uthman Badar I have had seems to indicate that he considers his religious beliefs have given him a superior understanding that he utterly fails to demonstrate.  That is, he engages in esoteric sounding waffle."We do not recognise any killing as honourable in this country, ...".  Yes we do.  The prime example is killing as a part of war in defence of the country.

"Giving a name to a horrendous action seems to me to give it some sort of permission.".  Not simply giving a name but giving name that makes it sound like a good thing.  Well yes, of course, it is done a lot.  The name becomes a substitute for providing justification.  It is a euphemism.OK, so if the choice is to kill someone else or be killed by them you will feel morally obliged to let them kill you.To my mind this argument is wrong headed.

Yes, I think the Greens ought to have supported the indexation of fuel excise even if their reason would have been different from the government.

"Fear of being seen to be complicit in Abbott's budget seemingly overrode any motivation to see a version of their policy implemented."  Yes except that the hypothecated use of that increased revenue could easily do the opposite of serving the purpose to which the Green's would supposedly have directed that revenue.  In terms of the overall approach to Climate Change this single point is minor and possibly counterproductive to support given the Coalition's attitude.  They should have put it in those terms.

The Coalition have recently taken to calling their opposition hypocritical.  A sense of proportion is required.  The Coalition are the gross hypocrites and Abbott in particular "while boasting to US president Barack Obama that it's a price signal to reduce carbon emissions".The title is misleading, suggesting as it does that Berg might be writing a favourable article about Labor.

It is true that the structural nature of the budget problem will need to be fixed.  That may create a future problem for Labor.  However, Berg is merely talking up future prospects and hoping, like the Coalition, that the electorate will forget the lies of the Coalition and the unfairness of the current Coalition budget.  It may well happen that way but it is no basis for respecting Berg's opinion (or the Coalition)."And Senator Lines had given the Government the high moral ground as it advances its anti-terrorist strategy."  Occupying the high moral ground is more than platitudes and more than a stance on single issue.  This government has too much baggage to occupy the high moral ground.Underlying it all is a lack of sincerity.  Abbott tried to capitalise on it before being elected by saying the biggest deficit was a trust deficit.

"... the nation in denial of its economic challenges ..."  They may be Paul Kelly's words but they are similar to Coalition claiming its opponents are in denial and only it has the answer; a singular response which is "absolutely necessary".  However, it is not even true.  It is still spin that ignores and wants to avoid facing the deceit by which the current position has been reach, as if it does not matter.  It does matter and price needs to be paid for that deceit.

Abbott made a big deal about being trustworthy and failed miserably bringing the trust deficit to a new low, by a big margin.  Therein lies the major obstacle to " ...a malaise in its political decision-making."The church has, for centuries, held a powerful hold on the articulation and definition of the moral guidelines of good society."  Quite so, an appeal to morality is religion's primary hold and that is where they abjectly failed.

There is another observation that deserves attention.  It is evident that religious institutions and members consider themselves above the law (answerable to a higher authority).  That they have been allowed to get away with it is a public failing."There is still time for the Government to frame the discussion around the medium to long-term rather than the present "emergency" rhetoric it has used".  Should that be 'reframe the discussion'?

They can attempt to frame and reframe the discussion.  Spin is what they do.  It will not make them credible or trustworthy.Brian Francis,

"But a 'Let's not talk to them' schoolyard response is not the way of conducting reasonable relations with any party or any person."

That is a classic response in so far as it represents the government in three ways.  Firstly, the schoolyard type response is most characteristic this government.  Secondly, it is so like the government to accuse opponents of behaviour in which it indulges.  Thirdly, it avoids the point; in this case their lack of credibility and trustworthiness.

The Coalition's explaining has not "been cloudy".  It has been deceitful.

These juveniles in charge have not been prepared to talk and your comment is gross hypocrisy; gross hypocrisy being a characteristic of the Coalition.

To paraphrase Abbott, I know what you're trying to do.  You're trying to make out that the Coalition has been entirely consistent and that the Coalition is better than Labor was.  But the Coalition is far worse, they really are.Religion is serving as an excuse rather than a sincere belief for those warring extremists.

Religion provides no more explanation of good than bad.

Good is used as much as an excuse for Religion as Religion is used as an excuse for good.

Remove religion and the excuse is removed.

Start thinking for yourself.Snickersnee,

I was responding to the article.  I do not think religion can be arbitrarily removed even though it is the mother of all excuses; based as it is on arbitrary belief.

"How does one remove religion?"  Very slowly and without high expectations.jimbob,

Your Oxford Dictionary definition has a broader connotation and is out of context.  Within context it does involve a supernatural being.

Even your inappropriate broader Oxford Dictionary definition would not necessarily make atheism a religion.

People will make things up to suit themselves, especially when it comes to religion (involving the supernatural being), which is why "I do not think religion can be arbitrarily removed" (like it or not).jimbob,

Of course you will be right if you make things up to suit yourself, including creating straw men ... ho ho ho.

By its very basic definition, atheism it is not a religion.  That you stereotype atheists in ways other than their common belief that there is no God, particularly as all being militant, exposes your prejudice.  That some atheists may have some traits similar to some religious is not the point.
Blah, blah, blah, dry theory, none of which helps the government make a case.With respect to the 2.1% growth aim it seems to me that Abbott and the government are encouraging other countries to do what they themselves are not prepared to do; namely borrow to stimulate their respective economies.While the climate agreement should be lauded Obama would do well to acknowledge that USA has been a laggard in this area.  It is not good enough for the USA to finally show some leadership and expect everyone else to jump to the click of their fingers; so to speak.If you want credibility point to reliable per capita emissions and make a case dependant on the agreement, including the comparative end point per capita emissions.

Alternatively, provide viable alternative way for China to better match living standards.

Denying developing countries both better living standards and doing what developed countries did and still do to achieve the living standards they have lacks sincerity.I agree about acceptance of the agreement still being require in the USA and have previously made the point.

However, it would not be a good thing except to a climate change denier, because of the climate implications.

In addition, I suggest that as far as Chinese competitive advantage goes the Climate agreement should be the towards the least of your concerns as well as being insincere.  Unless both equity around the world improves and total world productivity increases without destroying the environment the quality of life for people in developed countries is more likely to get worse than better.  

Cooperation is increasingly more important for everyone's sake.
Try commenters making unsupported declarations of ABC bias for tiresomeness.Another unreasoned tiresome declaration from Ben the lawyer (self proclaimed).

Also, Ben the lawyer reinforces that it is the person, not the content, that is in his sights.  He wants his view portrayed rather than argue its worth.

Still, helps prove the tiresomeness of unsupported declarations of ABC bias, I guess.

The elephant in the room is cyber espionage.Drivel.

It is a bit difficult and pointless to shirt front someone in private.

You did not notice either because it is unverifiable but extremely unlikely to have lived up to Abbott's talk it up rhetoric.  Even 'they respect and understand our position' is evidence of a back down by Abbott.Or perhaps ignoring bullies starves them of sustenance (not that I subscribe to that theory).


Or perhaps Shorten can afford to regroup while Abbott self destructs.It is not as if the shirt front comment was an isolated misstep.  Simplistic rhetoric is a trait of Abbott.  Abbott is not a coward and a weakling.  He is a twit.Utter crap.

While Abbott was never likely to actually shirt front Putin it was a typical over the Abbott utterance.  Abbott intends to be taken seriously but hardly says anything that can be taken seriously.

Waterloo Sunset 2016's comment typifies the feeble excuse after the fact.  He does not even have any evidence that 'a robust discussion' took place between Abbott and Putin.I see, so the Russian ships are there just because Russia feels like the spending the money to send them there and it is just coincidental.Possible but unlikely.

"There is no evidence Russia is seeking to change Australia's behaviour over MH17 or at the G20, nor is there any likelihood that this sea cruise will have any effect on Australia's positions and attitudes."  The ships are the evidence, not necessarily to effect Australia alone and even if is not a direct threat it may be to put in the minds of delegates in G20 discussions, and even Abbott in particular, "don't mess with us".  The author can say it will not have any effect on positions and attitudes and maybe it will not but don't bet on it (even if, for example, it is only a little extra nudge to make Abbott to tone down his language).  Show and talk are all part of the 'game'.

The ships may be a reminder from Russia that it has not gone away with the collapse of the Soviet Union and should not be written off.

It is not as if other countries do not engage in the same king of behaviour, including war games near borders of another country.It is a good development but the United States has not been such an inspiration as it should have been before now.  It seems to me that until recently the United States itself was very much a laggard country (though not all individual states). There was a time when Australia was not the laggard. Had the United States not been such a laggard Australia would probably not be such a laggard as Abbott's own "provincial reflex" has made it (not that it is an acceptable excuse for Abbott).

So there is an element of "it's about time" the United States showed some leadership on climate change. In addition, the plan still needs to be accepted in the United States so let's not jump the gun.Talking about Australian leadership in this matter does not ignore the reality of world politics at all. World politics is the reason that Australia should be showing leadership. It is not about being way ahead of the pack in total effort.  It should be about leading somewhat commensurate with our population (per capita effort) and setting an example because we are the largest emitter per capita.

Focusing on less dependence on fossil fuels is a form of world leadership. Making us a better economy through that process is the problem (challenge).

I don't think we really disagree at all except about the machinations of politics.You can be as emphatic as you like; exclaim, shout from the roof tops and repeat your simplistic, absolutist statement ad nauseam.  It will not make it correct and it displays your ignorance."even 0.00001 of a degree" is not "Literally - literally - nothing", and you clearly make things up as you go; displaying your own ignorance with your emphatic absolutism."It would be wise not to back him into too narrow a corner."  Putin is a bully.  Should he be allowed his way?

As for his current popularity within Russia, it has a lot to do with the with rally around the flag effect.

Is this article meaningful?I am not as convinced of that although control of news outlets may give an inflated sense of popularity. However, I don't rule it out."The point here is that Abbott set a word trap for himself."  Nothing new in that for the unstatesmanlike, rhetoric dancer.It is an argument against regulation per se.  Arguing against regulation is the IPA's reason for being.  It is also a lobbying exercise.  If this lobbying exercise is successful it will have the effect of removing restraints on the raw power of those they represent.  As such it is a hypocritical exercise in self interest, unrestrained by democratic principles of equity, which the IPA is happy to undermine under the guise of freedom.

As you intimate it should be about appropriate rules, which may mean more or less regulation.  The article is IPA spin deliberately omitting their vested interest, with the pretentions of openness and objectivity that implies."It's a balancing act. Either extreme is bad."  Precisely.The reader should assess the motive of the writer.  It is not an uncommon thing but I suggest Berg choses the argument to suit the conclusion and , at least in his capacity of representing the IPA, will not be persuaded by good argument to come to a different conclusion (puts the cart before the horse).  When seen that way it may not seem surprising.  However, you still need to keep in mind his end game, which opinion is heavily weight towards an extreme.  Berg is a lobbyist for the IPA.Berg's appearance of being more reasonable these days is a symptom of the IPA not being happy with the government, the Liberals being their natural political party of allegiance.

However, if you think Berg is not motivated by "Selfishness", on behalf of those the IPA represents, I think you are very much mistaken.  The article is as much an exercise in lobbying as the lobbying described in the article.Peter the Lawyer,

"And are you not selfish on behalf of those whom you support, anote?"  That is not a genuine question although it is your prerogative to decide for yourself whether I am selfish.  However, not everyone is selfish.

Furthermore, I do not subscribe to the notion that simply doing something for oneself defines selfishness as you appear to do.  Selfishness is taking for oneself at the unfair expense of someone else; that is, with no concern for equity, including compensating for the disability of others.  It includes trying to avoid obligations and considering not getting caught a justification for considering acceptable that which is really wrongdoing.

There are objective bases for determining selfishness even if some people have more difficulty being objective than others.

"The best we can do is admit that subjectivity but try to justify opurselves with refrence to objective facts." indeed but your other statements give the impression that you believe that is a disingenuous exercise anyway.  Your default position appears to be to excuse and succumb to your own selfishness with the convenient belief that everyone else does likewise.What a pathetic, undemocratic, lobbying (hypocritical) rant of an excuse for an environment of reduced regulation to favour the powerful in exercising raw power.You are nuts for using "We would be nuts indeed to think that Selfish-minded 'owners' would not flout any set of rules." as an justification for not having rules (they form a basis for penalising those who flout the rules).

You are nuts for writing "But we would be even nuttier to think that more rules still would be the answer to anything." and providing an example of an alternative with a long history of evidence to show it would be inconsistent and unjust.

And I note that I am not for rules for the sake of rules and that I am happy for rules that are properly demonstrated to be counterproductive to be removed; something Berg is not doing because he is motivated by self interest.While I can understand some people reasonably choosing lap band surgery I am unconvinced that it should be normalised as a generally acceptable solution so to speak.  It does have its risks and obesity in general is a growing problem for reasons other than innate personal propensity to be obese."It is not in China's broader interests to puts its signature to an agreement that would be perceived by others as one-sided and predatory."  In a world where the manipulation of perceptions is rampant that is not a very meaningful statement.  The negotiators on both sides will be angling for the best deal for themselves and it is not a level playing field."Who is more culpabable: the banks which asked for the gurantee or the Government that gave it?"  The banks, who were in the position of high potential of failing and thereby creating misery for many.  Of course the government should have prevented them from reaching that position with better oversight and regulation.

"And, would it be true to say that a guarantee does not actually lead to any expenditure by the government?"  It would not be true, to which your third question attests.  On top of administration costs (red tape) it depends on whether the guarantee needs to be called upon.

"Thridly, would the government itself have borrowed those funds if the banks hadn't done so?"  To do what?  Become a bank shop front?  The government would have had to borrow money to meet the guarantee 
if the banks failed to repay.

From which one should conclude that it is appropriate for the government to change rules to give to better protect the tax payer without the banks squealing; the point of the article.  Hopefully it will do so and also better protect customers.Make up your mind about what you are attacking.I see Peter the Lawyer.  So you are not attacking the fact that a guarantee was given, just that the guarantee was limited.  It was criticised by some but "roundly criticised" is a exaggeration.  That  might be a fair criticism, however you have not explained it.

Now you are fond on attaching wrong to the "left", a version of ad hominem attack; something you like to criticise others for from time to time.  Also, at that time the opposition criticised everything Labor did just for the sake of opposition. 

Given that the guarantee is not the kind of thing the 'right' is about and given that you have not explained why the guarantee was OK at all, from your perspective, you are hardly clear or consistent.I do not know whether the proposed rules will achieve that end.  Given the performance of this government I am inclined to think you are probably right."Why don't we instead ..." is providing the question after the answer.  The reason is that euphemism "moral hazard".Peter the Lawyer,

Yes really, your reply comment to Maynard was the question in for which Maynard's comment was the answer.

As for rhetoric the reality of the euphemism "moral hazard", whereby capitalists privatise profits and rely on being bailed out by the taxpayer is widely commonly understood, whereas your "cutting taxes" is a mantra.Peter the Lawyer,

You are fond of using terms like "argumentum ad absurdum" as if to demonstrate that you have some superior understanding of valid logical debate and that others should concede to for that reason.  That is itself a logical fallacy in the way you use the term logical fallacy.

In this particular case the quality of your initial comment invites a response like GJA.  Your statement that cutting taxes would stimulate the economy far better than any government spending ever could is merely a your claim without basis; a mantra with evidence of failure (much like Reganomics).Palmer shows all the signs of being it in for himself anyway.

Lambie has her pet topics, which seem to be unreasonably influenced by her past occupation.  She is a bit silly and over the top but at least she appears not to be motivated by self interest she believes in what she is doing.  More members of the major parties who disagree with their parties/cabinet/leaders should make it publically know when then the disagreement is strong .

Abetz, in criticising Lambie and saying all legislation should be voted on based on it merits, is right but simultaneously a gross hypocrite.  Firstly, he is effectively saying every vote should be treated as a so called 'conscience vote' but instead it is a rare event for the major parties to practice a conscience vote.  Secondly, the Liberals may not go as far as Lambie in threatening on a single issue but they do play that political game and in opposition they clearly opposed for the sole sake of opposing.  They cannot complain about Lambie following the example they set.  Finally, claims that the Liberals do not respond to threats are ever so obviously hollow.  The Liberals have backed down and readily negotiated with minor parties despite lambasting Labor for doing so in opposition and claiming they would not do so before the election.  Based on past performance, if Lambie holds out the Coalition will ignore her until and only if there comes a time when the Liberals need her and the evidence is that they will capitulate.

However, while Lambie is entitled to negotiate and reasonably with hold her vote of support she will only be sinking to the low level of the Coalition if she carries through as far as she has threatened and will not be serving her constituents well.Besides;

Choosing whether to apply the law using that kind of discretion is inappropriate and the choosing not to apply the law does not mean the law has not been broken.

If a law like this can be applied it probably will eventually be applied with politics playing a significant role in the decision.  Even if the AFP Commissioner does not make the decision he should know that.

There needs to be a definition of a journalist for the purposes.  I do not know but I suspect there is not.  It seems to me that in respect of revealing something to the public anyone who reveals the information is a journalist, even if that is not their profession.  I suggest that even the 'original' whistle blower is a journalist if the information is in the public interest then he is as good a being a journalist.The virtual value of houses has increased inversely with the virtual value of other products, especially imported products.  Put another way the value in real terms of imports has gone down while houses have gone up.  As the same time houses, in the main, have not intrinsically improved compared to those products.

Money value is all virtual until the time of a transaction.  Compared to other products houses are over valued and land, not labour, accounts for most of the disparity."the democratisation of decision-making in the 20th century" I do not like the use of the term democratisation as used in relation to technology these days.  Sure people can make something they say more accessible, sort of, but it does not have to be listened to and technology can be used to curb democracy as well.  Democracy is political not technological.

Two other effects of what Kohler has written is a dumbing down and surrender to market economics as currently practiced.

Something can be done but the mix of capitulation, evolution and revolution has yet to be determined."for all intents and purposes" means 'knowingly practically' and includes time constraints according to need.

The size of the earth is finite.  The rate of energy reaching the earth from outside the system (essentially the sun) is finite and, for all intents and purposes, fairly constant.

There is potential to improve the situation with better technologically but for all intents and purposes that cannot be relied on to dramatically improve circumstances within a reasonable time frame.

For all intents and purposes we live in a finite system and in the mean time we are degrading the system in which we live; especially the biological component.
The justice system in Egypt is clearly corrupt and political.

The existence of ISIL is not a good reason to excuse and neglect dictatorships.

The existence of dictatorships (and the West's acceptance of their legitimacy ... and even support) is at least a part of the cause of ISIL.  That is, so far, ISIL is more of a symptom that a cause.  Priorities yes but concentrate only on ISIL and another version under another guise may pop up elsewhere; unknown until too late.

ISIL is mostly composed of members manipulated by a common simple propaganda, the manipulators of which aim to replace one or more dictatorships and governments with their own dictatorship; even if they do not see it that way. The other regimes are already established.

It is an interconnected web of self interest.Fair enough in that sense but the countries you initially specifically mentioned are those that are currently more in focus in the news recently and you mentioned ISIL as if ISIL should have all the attention.

Then, while the others you later mention may not be open and free I do not know that they are worse off than Egyptians who recently tried to change things.  It may be the case but you are not saying that either.

Also, the story was in the context of "The Forgotten Revolution".  Why should the author, specifically the author, not do that?It is easy to envisage a similar situation whereby public servants publically engaged with the Attorney General or any other political Minister or even backbencher except that they were in disagreement and the politician reprimanded the public servant as a consequence.

So, it is reasonable to treat the exchange in this instance as collusion to persuade the public.

However, it is not surprising given this government's failure to properly deal with conflicts of interests in some of its appointments.Also, imagine that a subordinate of these public servants so spoke out, any level so long as it is subordinate, without collusion or permission.  There is a high likelihood that these public servants would reprimand their subordinate public servants (do as I say, not as I do).I understand your difficulty in understanding was that of "perception of corruption".  However, if you swap the Score with the World Rank you will see that Australia comes out best.  I do not know on what the Score is based but the interpretation is that of those countries Australia is perceived as the least corrupt.Jerry Attrick,

Did you look at the World Rank graph (you need to click on the tab and that should clarify it)?  It correlates with the Score graph which shows Russia as the most corrupt.The point of all the graphs is to back up his opinion with data; something Jericho does well and gives him far more credibility than most.

Are you having a go at the ABC without good reason?  Maybe you should collect data and publish a graph to clarify and demonstrate your point.  My guess is that the ABC had nothing to do with producing the graphs apart from providing the platform on which to publish the article provided by Jericho.True enough, but it needs to be balanced with another side.  Soldiers are not conscripted these days and they should have their eyes wide open when they go into it.the yank,

But they should know without being told, shouldn't they?  And it is not just about being abandoned later.  There is fault on both sides.The bottom line is a question of trust much of which has been destroyed in recent times.

Cannot trust Abbott and he is running the show.

Cannot trust the lame explanations of 'metadata' even from Turnbull because the term is a general one and the extent of specifics in any context are totally subject to definition.  Metadata is not at all a term that of itself confines the type or extent of data collected.

Cannot trust systems that act in secret; they are a law unto themselves.

Its a problem.It is a question of trust.

Berg makes a point, however, does anyone believe big companies, such as those whom the IPA represents, do not collect personal data, not keep it long term and really respect our privacy any more?

It is a problem.Abbott's call for 'a mature debate' is also Abbott's immature way of trying to get others to do his will under the pretence of being open minded.If the Coalition believes so strongly in free markets and climate change it would be pursuing something other than Direct Action; like an ETS.

Twisting the point does you no credit.  "If it wasn't so serious, it would be hilarious."How about practicing what you preach, addressing the point and not displaying your own ignorance in failing to understand that Direct Action does involve the government giving money raised by taxes to industry to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.Greig,

You are splitting hairs There is a similarity between what you and Ian write and what DA is and you are just ignoring it for convenience.Greig,

I am not wanting to support the idea at all.  It is what it is and your accusation is mere speculation.  You do not speak for me.

It may the first thing any student of basic economics learns but a free market is not always the most efficient method to allocate resources.  However, it is a very odd approach for Abbott and the Coalition government.  'Odd' in this case, meaning contrary to espoused principles and approaches to other issues, without good reason.

The way technology is going it seems possible that Australia might meet targets for reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by way of the free market.  It seems unlikely but if that happens it will be despite this government and not because of it.Quite right Tom1 and 'everyone' knows it but the game is still being played and all that a pleb can do is keep letting the pretenders know that he knows that he is being deceived.It is not one sided as you try to make out.  It is an odd swap of approaches from the major parties in so far as they oppose each other, an observation made a long time ago.

There is no such thing as a true market, in the way you suggest.  There must be rules made by the government for a market to have any chance of working with reasonable fairness.

Your explanation for your disappointment in direct action as a myth is effectively conceding the Coalition are liars; hardly a basis for a sound defence.  It comes down to the reasons for doing things.

I will let you get it right.The initial reaction of the government was full of excuses and indicated not doing much more unless and until it got into Asia near Australia.  They gave the clear impression they were not applying to it the same humanitarian concern they attributed to Iraq.  The idea that has since emerged from the government side that it did not mean they had decided not to send anyone is spin.I suppose it is alright then, we can forget about the government's big failures to be even handed and constituent.That is largely true but it is spin.  What makes it spin is that it is an expression of principle to defend practice without analysis of how the principle is applied.  Namely, the principle applies equally to Iraq and you have not compared the two applications of the principle, the discrepancies between which have been noted by the author and other commenters.

The government often uses that kind of spin.reaver,

Firstly you are offering that defence after the fact of your first comment, in which you offered no such defence.

Secondly, the small contingent of ADF personnel compared to sending someone to the East African countries is not indicative of the comparable efforts.

Thirdly, you are defending the government just because the government has the right to make the decisions, which does not make them good decisions.  "in the national interest" is a short cut version of the initial spin; namely expressing a principle as a defence without duly addressing the applications of the principle.Yes fear is being peddled by some but are many people really afraid anyway?Much as I dislike and distrust Abbott and the government I do believe they care.  They just think they know better than anyone else and have faith that the ends will justify any means.  That is, they are ideologically narrow minded despite the ideology being vague and determined to show us they are right; even if that is an undemocratic attitude.I do not know about the specific subject of the article but I get the point.  To be funny requires wit.  A thing that irritates me that fits the bill is gratuitous vulgarity of which unnecessary bad language is an obvious example.  It is often substituted for humour but it is witless, not funny and those that find it funny simply enjoy that it would outrage others for the sole sake of the outrage.Gosh reaver, it is not as if your witless comment is informative, except for the implication that I could write something witless, offensive and unpublishable, that you might find funny so long, it is safe to assume, that it does not offend you personally.reaver,

Firstly, you've narrowed the discussion to the privacy of being between friends for your own convenience.  Whether that is an appropriate defence for Spurr is another matter.

Secondly, I will put it another way.  Some people find simply being offensive funny, especially in the company of others who find it funny.  That does not make being offensive a joke.  Being simply offensive under the pretence of humour is disingenuous.  Those people are dimwits.Sorry Ann, but in that case the joke in not intended to be believed and is not intended to be outrage for the sake of outrage.  It is not even necessarily intended to be a joke in the sense of a joke being humorous.  It may simply be an exaggeration not intended to be believed.Ann,

Apart from "It's obviously intended to be a joke." I did not say otherwise.

Apart from using exaggeration as a joke it can be used to make a point.

The point I am trying to make and putting it a different way is that using comedy as a cover for being straight out offensive is practiced, is witless and is not a joke and I do not retreat from that.I agree to a point.

The basic needs and motivations of people do not change quickly over time but the environment can and the technological environment has changed enormously.  The means of satisfying those needs and motivations have changed enormously.

A successful system eventually becomes a victim of its own success when it is unwilling to change as circumstances changes; many of the changed circumstances being a consequence of its own success.  An example is the growth of large organisations by efficiencies of scale.  It provides many advantages but along the way destroys the justifications for free competition by eliminating the competition and the underlying assumption that the consumer can easily go elsewhere.

For these and problems created by people in the natural environment more cooperation is required intranationally and internationally."It is like seeing the inventer of TV as wonderful, but not realising that if he were here now he'd be as clueless as the next man abiout modern technology." a gross exaggeration, unlikely to be true.

May I point out that you are expecting more without more government.  "The more stuff the government does, the harder it is for any government to keep up."  The more stuff the people do, the harder it is for the people to keep up.  The more civilisation advances and grows in population the more social cooperation and social maintenance required.

"The growth in complexuty in government has rendered government almost impossible."  The growth in size and complexity of society has rendered more government necessary."The fact is, by its own assessment, WHO failed badly."  It is a draft as Berg mentions but say that self-criticism makes it to the official release; and even as a the following comments apply.

Politicians and companies do not admit failures.  They spin.

Admission is a step to fixing. Berg does not have a better instrument.  Australia is showing little response compared to its supposed humanitarian justification for going to Iraq.

Contrary to Berg's implications tobacco and obesity are important and worthy world health issues for WHO to address.

What is the point of Berg's criticism?  Criticism is fine but when it comes from Berg, a member of the IPA, the IPA being a spin tank, and is just damning without a better constructive alternative, then it reflects more on the IPA than the organisation being criticised.  At least the report is open.Says the self-proclaimed lawyer whose comments have a tendency to take the form of declarations.David D,

Oh yes I did; the point being that it was a hypocritical for Peter the Layer to be lecturing about logical fallacies.

Furthermore, to take up the accuracy of his comment, it is subject to qualification.

On a single article the point is correct.

Having read many IPA articles and found them to be prejudiced in that way the generalisation that IPA's opinion is influenced by its sponsorship is a valid conclusion and reason for suspicion and dismissing their integrity.  The actual source of that funding takes on a special relevance.The IPA effectively takes cash for comment.  It is reasonable to suspect all IPA statements as virtually being advertorials.I suggest that is a na?ve comment.  We all have to make some compromises.  The compromises vary from person to person and the compromises do not have to be compromises with the truth.  However, overlaying that is the generalisation that the greater the compensation the greater the compromise and the more elastic the self-justification (departure from the truth and self-delusion).

It does not mean everyone is a fraud but the evidence is pretty clear that legalities supplant morality in a lot of decision making and the type of organisation influences that."The fact that you're even able to make that comment on a computer is a result of the precautions and preventative measures taken as a result of the Y2K problem."  That is gross exaggeration, which is unhelpful.  Leave gross exaggeration and simplistic dismissal of evidence to the deniers.Furthermore, with respect to asbestos, it was known by Australian governments long before (at least multiple decades) mining of asbestos ceased and making common products out of asbestos ceased that it was bad for health.  James Hardie was not the only culprit.Besides, eggs in one basket and all that, tying Australia's economy to coal exports in such a big way carries with it a much higher risk than tying it to iron ore.  Iron ore is more likely to recover after a downturn."Are Hong Kong protests a threat to sovereignty?"  Not if the government cares about the wishes of the people and not if the government has the power and will to subjugate the people.  So, not impossible but very unlikely from either perspective in so far as the Chinese government interprets sovereignty and can exercise control.

Slow day at the office today?Is Matthewson suggesting political parties should be insincere?

Matthewson may be correct that Labour has misread the public politically but Labour is right in what it says.  The humanitarianism stated by the government, and specifically Abbott, for going to Iraq is conspicuous by its absence in doing so comparatively little against Ebola.People make up all kinds of spurious arguments out of self interest.

Firstly, if you are going to use the boat analogy it would be more appropriate to say that it sank because Australia did not contribute enough to building a better/bigger boat and if it was going to sink anyway it sank further from shore than it otherwise would.

Secondly, as the biggest polluter per capita we set the bad example along with other high per capita polluters and your reply is not "perfectly valid".

That others behave badly is not an excuse to behave badly and your reasoning is just a feeble excuse to not even try; including motivating others to do the right thing.  If it was valid it would justify all kinds of cop outs and laziness.  It is the kind of attitude that comes from a section of Australians that are an embarrassment.
With respect to Putin and the G20, tough talk and the political love child of John Howard and Bronwyn Bishop.

"We will decide who comes to this country and the circumstances in which they come."  John Howard, 2001Making students do something for which they may never have a reasonable need is a dumb waste even before taking into account students themselves may realise they may never have a reasonable need and do not like or wish to do it.Not on a compulsory basis it isn't.  Not even Madarin for the billions who speak that.  Don't force people to learn things that they are never likely to be of use to them.

Think smart and drop the cliches.Abbott is embarrassingly insincere in his declarations of friendship with other countries, everyone from which Australia or Abbott wants something being a best friend and ignoring recent events which are problems to the other country for which his own party is responsible; just talk it up rhetoric lacking substance, just like his pre-election promises.Sucking up to other countries while ignoring problems ...
... being an apologist for human rights abuses at CHOGM in Sri Lanka last year.
... telling everyone one is our best friend, except where is does not matter; (virtually both China and Japan within a few days ... the insincerity of it is enough without ignoring the friction between the two) acting tough against Putin is very low risk to Abbott
... pretending not to be out of step with the USA re climate change
... and yes, turning boats back to Indonesia, ignoring the fact that Jokowi has already signalled that is problematic.  This last point is specifically relevant to Abbott and his party in the context of his current visit to Indonesia.

Furthermore, while you make clear that you consider the ALP to blame for other things, the fact of who is to blame is irrelevant to the fact that there have been and are issues; which Abbott pretends otherwise.

By the way you are implying Australia has not and would not spy on the Indonesian President (Indonesian President's wife I believe it was) while the Coalition was or is in government.  Are you serious?There's diplomacy, which is should be tactful, and there is grovelling (sickly ingratiation).  Then there is unstatesmanlike behaviour at the other extreme, such as 'shirt fronting'; which is just as insincere and even when toned down to 'robust discussion' looks tough when the risk is low.

Alternatively, are you just suggesting it is all just lies anyway?Not to pick on the author because I get it but 'irony' is not really the right word for typical hypocrisy that can be anticipated.

Likewise, from the other side, there is Premier Barnett is WA preposterously whinging about BHPB and Rio Tinto flooding the iron ore market to squeeze out competition.  It puts 'sovereign risk' in a different perspective.

Large companies have improved a lot and in many ways over the last several decades but they do not ultimately operate out of any systemic sense of moral obligation to the community and regulations are needed to keep them in line and the government is responsible for that on behalf of the public.And their capacity to apply themselves to solving important public issues rather than finding a 'solution' in mystery.By "tangible positive results" I take it you mean physical intervention.  Prayer, in as much as it is meditation, can provide solace.  However, Donnelly is confusing meditation and the like with prayer. A believer in God can treat prayer as meditation but meditation by an atheist is not prayer.  The Deepak Chopra quote does not in the slightest support the preceding sentence "that even atheists and agnostics can find some benefit in prayer".

Make no mistake, Donnelly is proselytizing, even if not a specific religion, although he is clearly prejudiced towards Judeo Christian religiosity.  He is finding a solution in "a transcendent sense of reality and a sense of mystery" not in solving the mystery, which is "very much opposed to scientific rationalism".

Attributing such benefits to prayer is analogous to the effects of a placebo or the sufferer of a mental illness already feeling relieved just having made a decision to seek professional help.  It is an emotional crutch.

It is indeed spurious and quite disturbing.We certainly do not have the Statesmanlike behaviour some said Abbott would adopt at the time he became Prime Minister.  However, I do not have a problem with Abbott being blunt attitude in this instance simply because it is a clear enough situation with Australia in the right.

However, having said that Abbott is more like Putin that he would care to acknowledge; adversarial, indulging in insincere rhetoric, brazenly trying things on to see what they can get away with and stubbornly persisting to stick by statements everyone knows to be ridiculous."... the money-generating activities of the wealthy benefit us all by keeping the economy ticking over"  The money generating activities of the wealthy do benefit us all.  Whether the current structure is fair or provides the best overall benefit to society are completely different matters.

"The IPA argues we should not focus on the gap between rich and poor but the bottom line, which is improving."  The financial bottom line should only be a part of the consideration.  Purchase power of commodities is not the only factor in quality of life and some "advances" in technology and high density living are detrimental to quality of life.  The differential between rich and poor is also detrimental, adversely effects the comparative freedom of the poor and focusing on the bottom line is a disingenuous diversion from addressing equity.Get back to me when your daughter is 21.  If she is a financial success I can easily envisage you saying "I told you so".  If she is not a financial success I can easily envisage you seeing it from a different perspective.

Her life will not be most directly affected by her choices although her choices will be very important.  There will be many things that will directly affect her life besides her choices.  Many of those will be during her formative years and beyond your control as a parent and there will be many to follow.  Many of the choices will depend on the behaviour of others.  Being old enough to be a parent I would have hoped you understood that better.

In the mean time you have not really addressed my comment.AE

It is not a perfect world and people need to contribute their fair share and put in an effort to get ahead.  I get that.

Neither is it a fair world and I get that we all have to work with what we are given.  

However, you are acting as if it is fair and cannot be improved.  There we part ways.A bit of balance.

Being rich in the first place is a comparative advantage that was not earned.

"You take away reward for that - we might as all not work hard."  An exaggeration but in many respects not having to work as hard would not necessarily be a bad thing.  There is such a thing a work-life balance and workaholics put pressure on others to work excessively.

It is not even just about luck and individual hard work alone.  Working for a company, the ability to convince others to work to your advantage and the ability to manipulate others comes into it.

It may not apply to your friend but often supposedly dangerous jobs are not so dangerous at all because of advances in addressing safety issues.  Your friend, as described, is clearly unlikely to be socially conscientious.

The differential between rich and poor has been increasing, the status quo is not right just because it is the status quo and you do not really attempt to address fairness.  It is about relativities not absolutes and limitations to avoid extremes are appropriate.

The populace has the democratic right to adjudicate and assert common values.  The rich have the advantage of being able to exercise control over the masses.
In addition, what ever happened to the idea of turning out a well-rounded individual.  OK it did not work out all that well in the past but that is no reason to throw out the baby with the bath water, so to speak, and there is a sense of going backwards except for the idea of turning out a well-rounded individual.

There is a danger of making schools more boring for a very large proportion of students than it already is.  Chronic boredom is not simply a sign of laziness.  If it was it would not be so painful.Yes but do not make the mistake of thinking it is some kind of conspiracy.  I do not mean to say you are but it could be interpreted that way.

It is a systemic consequence of the successes of the private enterprise and democracy, which has brought many good things.

It may superficially appear contradictory, especially to ideologues of the free market persuasion but it is not.  "Nothing succeeds like success" as the saying goes.  In as much as it applies to anything it applies to profits made by manipulation and exploitation of power and ignorance.One thing I happen to agree with is that the curriculum is overcrowded; but not just the primary curriculum.  At the same time I believe this government is about an excuse to cut costs and not sincere analysis.

It is true that money does not necessarily produce quality but money is usually required to produce quality.  The government is using the former to imply we do not need and should not spend as much to get a better outcome without really addressing the latter.

If we cannot afford to spend as much we cannot afford it but do not pretend it will not lead to lower standards when you do not really know.The ABC is high value for money and that is under threat and that is the point.  This philistine government does not understand the practical and social benefits of quality and crudely equates quality with private enterprise profits despite what its claims about public education, which like the ABC is all about cost cutting.The ABC provides better value for money than any commercial media by any measure except, the "I just do not like it and will not watch it" measure or "it is not cool for my identity measure".

There are many services my taxes contribute to that I do not use that I am happy for it to be spent on.  I do not consider them a waste just because I do not use them.  That you consider any tax funded service that you do not use a waste of money makes you and those for whom you speak very selfish.

The ABC does provide some highbrow content and that is a good thing, especially for those who could not otherwise access it.  However, to describe the ABC as elitist says more about the consumption of mind numbing commercialism than critical thought.  The ABC is not perfect but it meets a far higher standard of quality, impartiality and civility than the commercial media and that is in its favour.  It is interesting to note the commercial mileage made by channel seven's saturated use of very old tired BBC programmes that used to be shown on the ABC.  I suggest a reverse snobbery, pseudo anti-elitism, is at play by a substantial portion of critics of the ABC.Closet romantic,

I get the impression that what I consider civility you consider elitism.

It is a gross exaggeration that the commercially driven product is driven by quality and resorting to businesses that may contain exceptions that may not be within the ABC's scope anyway is unhelpful.

The ABC does far more to question with impartiality than any other media and your selective choice of examples that are not exactly to your liking does not dissuade me otherwise (it is not as if I agree with everything they broadcast).

The ABC provides a civil, impartial service that is very high value for money that many would otherwise not have access to and easily justifies the taxes that support it.Advertising compromises independence, viewing quality and efficiency.

The cost per taxpayer is small.  You write as if you believe the cost per taxpayer is rising out of control.

How much does it cost per taxpayer, why is it "ridiculous" and what has "this day and age" got to do with it?Not quite me thinks.  The usual biggest problem is underestimating and failing to provide the recourses required to implement it properly.The only surprise about the "Judeo-Christian" heritage aspect is the gall to use what was all but a predetermined conclusion.  I do not doubt that good things came out of that history.  However, I find the term as applied offensive in its inherent, prejudiced attitude of religious righteousness.Christopher Pyne does not set a good example of practicing ethics with the asinine wise cracking he uses in an attempt to put down critics during public discourse.Sexism exists but I think in Gillard's case it is grossly exaggerated as a cause of Gillard's demise.  It serves the politics of some to play it up.  Those elements that were sexist against Gillard may have backfired for all the outraged might know.

While Gillard was the first woman PM she was preceded by women premiers and it is weak to blame her fate so much more than the Premiers on sexism.

" sexism within her own party as well as that in the broader Australian community and the media would likely prevent her from ever reaching that goal." is a weak point because there are many things that may prevent Julie Bishop from reaching that goal besides sexism; a goal to which neither she nor anyone else is entitled.

Also, while applying derogatory female terms to women is a bad thing it should not be confused with sexism.

Then there is the perennial question of whether there are the numbers of women who really want to pursue some careers as much as men.Read the first paragraph of the article.  Matthewson says others do and virtually agrees that it played a significant role.  She is not alone and it has been previously intimated on a number of occasions, especially in the context of paving the way for future women Prime Ministers, stopping just short of saying it was the whole cause.I am all for doing more to rid our country of feral cats but I had pretty much thought that the idea had been given up on as a lost cause.  If ridding the country of feral cats can be achieved then ban cats from Australia altogether.

The cat in the picture hardly looks feral at all.  Might have helped with a better picture of a feral cat.It is not the system at fault but abuse of the system by power mongers aided by powerful lobbyists and virtually aided by selfish electors.  We like to see the obvious propaganda in past regimes and/or other parts of the world but propaganda floods our society from the most basic of product advertising to politics.  We like to fool ourselves that this propaganda does not affect us because we can see through it.  If it did not work the money would not be spent on it.

The success of the system is part of the problem by facilitating more 'sophisticated', 'subtle', manipulation of the populace.So Abbott thinks it is a lagging indicator. He's dreaming, self-delusional or just spinning (spin equals lies) and probably all three.  He is personally responsible for the bulk of the decline and brought it with him from opposition.

It would be wrong to trust Abbott while he is in government.  Having identified the trust deficit before the election Abbott made it worse.  In addition to the obvious he failed miserably by the standards he himself set up for the electorate to judge him.  He did not make a simple mistake or accident.  His rhetoric was and is insincere.  To give trust while he remains in government would be to reward his bad behaviour.  The signal would be that politicians can still get away with it.  He needs to be democratically sent to the sin bin.  It is up to the electorate.Like much rhetoric "efficiency dividend" is used euphemistically and even at the top levels the right people will produce the report you want to hear.

In addition I suspect that too many managers, private and public, do not now enough about the work that they manage.Firstly, "exactly none" is clearly false and hypocritical.  There an obvious link between the number of employees and capacity to do the job.  In the absence of a better explanation, which you only dismissively and cursorily attempt to suggest, Verrender's opinion has much more going for it.

Secondly, the way power relationships are going much of the decision making in our society is actually given up to a very few.  That includes our Prime Ministers who have successfully garnered more power to themselves personally as the tendency to presidential elections concentrating on the persona of the party leaders has progressed.
Indeed, amongst other things it is instructive to juxtapose Brandis' speech with the right to be a bigot and this legislation for the self contradiction it exposes.  It is reasonable to come to a conclusion that Brandis is more about imposing his ideology than democratically representing the electorate.Realist1,

"... the Libs the current changes, which surely strengthen our protections" you did not read the article then or are just ignoring it for your own cnvenience.

I add that it is instructive to consider Tony Abbott's reverence for Alan Jones, especially in the last interview between the two."This is slur on the character and conduct of thousands of workers on less than average wages:".  Not exactly.  It is only a slur if you think it is unfair and false and even then it is a slur on the industry that employs them more than the employees themselves (the government would say an unemployed person offered a job in the industry is obliged to work for the industry to obtain unemployment benefits).

"Given none of this is conveyed on the billboard, would he call the billboard an exercise in ambush marketing?"  Well golly, the "racing industry" (a euphemism for a gambling industry) would never use such tactics would they?  (There would be genuine horse lovers in the industry but gambling is far and away the primary reason and driver for its being).

Good on the activists and a similar issue exists with respect to greyhound racing and is probably far worse in that industry (i.e. breeding greyhounds to be euthanized because so many are not winners and not profitable).  It is a disgrace.
"The Greyhound 'industry' has an adopt a greyhound strategy for the also-rans that don't make the grade.".  
In so far as it really works that is fine.  However, my understanding is that it only addresses a fraction of the problem and anyway it is a cop out for a commercial industry to rely on the generosity and good nature of others to fix problems created by the industry.  They will, of course, take any PR kudos that comes with the program regardless of its efficacy.So what is the difference between an illness and a disease?  Mental illnesses/diseases have parallels with all types of physical illnesses as far as I can tell.  Mental illness can even be contagious in the form of hysteria.

Physical illness can cause mental illness and mental illness can cause physical illness.

"Most forms of mental illness are impossible to attribute to specific and known biological mechanisms." Nevertheless, all forms of mental illness are associated with biological mechanisms.  Mental illnesses are physical illnesses as much a chemistry is a sub discipline of physics.

"Drugs alone are not sufficient.".  Drugs alone are not sufficient for all cases and inappropriate for some or many cases.  However, drugs alone are the best solution for many cases.

Clearly mental illness is a detrimental medical condition, which is real and has an associated physical condition, biological and non-biological, in the brain.

I do not think the author is trying to say anything different but has lost clarity in philosophy.  If you stop asking the question "What is mental illness?" the question "What can be done?" is redundant.  It cannot be tackled if it not defined or categorised.Fair enough, in which case they are 2 aspects of the same thing of ill health.
The overdone 'positive attitude' salesmanship of pop (pseudo) psychologists are a disservice to our society.So what is the comparative threat of IS and Ebola?I hope it happens."And, contrary to popular belief, it isn't all about religious extremism".  Religious extremism is the appeal even if the underlying causes for turning to it are not 'religious'.I am not against increased taxes per se and I am in favour of going to fight IS if the overall reason is right.

However, if any more taxes are increased or new taxes introduced, the cost of war will be an inextricable part of the reason.  It is about relativity, not just Abbott's perspective.v,

I basically agree with a different perspective.

Australia should contribute to solving global problems and helping the disadvantaged according to its capacity.

I can think of many good reasons for going to fight IS and Tony Abbott has given some (including humanitarian).

The problem as I see it is that the reasons Abbott has given don't wash and are contradictory with other known things.  For example, what about other humanitarian issues, why does our contribution stop at the border with Syria (by action it implies we do not support the USA and others going Syria but Abbott would say the opposite if pressed), we are sending in support troops and pretending they are not ground troops, we are saying Iraq must defend itself and fighting on their behalf (an oxymoron).

Abbott is a rhetorical dancer.

The explanation has been inadequate so I am concerned that we are not going to fight IS for the wrong reasons (i.e. not with overall justification).So Warrior ... we should follow the USA to hell if that is where the USA wants to go?  Don't be so unquestioningly simplistic.

Secondly, any substance, that causes overall adverse environmental effects is pollution including sewage, radioactive material, chemicals that cause cancer, fertiliser of any kind, algae, etc, etc, etc, and even excessive water in the wrong place can be pollution.  We usually restrict it to human produced substances but whether or not it is an essential component of life in most circumstances is irrelevant.  That includes carbon dioxide (which is a chemical even if it is not what we usually mean when we discuss chemicals).  Get your terminology right."Most of what is proposed seems entirely reasonable with one major exception, and that is the 10-year 'sunset clause' on some of the changes."  What about the abomination that whistle blowers will still be breaking the law?  Is that still in there?To some degree we (following the lead of the USA) are suffering consequences from the last decade of seeking to act and punish outside the law and the use of euphemisms to justify it.  However, the same kind of thing is continuing.

At the same time the government, which has shown itself to be untrustworthy in other things, is expecting additional trust in itself and agencies that may act in secrecy.It is a very good thing that many countries are addressing the problem of IS.  There are many good reasons to join the fight against IS.

The problem is the "rhetorical dance" (phrase used by Dr David Kilcullen on 7:30 Report last night) being performed by our politicians in justifying it and the contradictions that form a part of the rhetoric.

Cost is a consideration but not in isolation.

If the Greens were in charge we probably would not be going to war and they are probably right about the way Abbott is leading us into war.  Abbott may be right to go to war but for the wrong reasons.

There is the glaring self-contradiction that Iraq must defend itself without help yet we and other international forces are there to bomb IS in Iraq.

There may be much more to this than meets the eye and ear or the government is far less certain of itself than it wants to project and is not being open and transparent.The burqa is socially confronting as are many other things, both religious and non religious, that are tolerated.Julie Bishop may or may not be Prime Minister material.  However, it is not demonstrated by doing the easy jobs.  As implied by the opening paragraph she is "riding a wave of national security-inspired popular support at the moment.".Personally, in this case I think it has more to do with Matthewson trying to influence and make news than analysing and reporting.Marsupial,

Your comment is merely a kneejerk reaction displaying your own hate and prejudice.


The article is not a personal attack on Julie Bishop.  If you think otherwise point it out explicitly.Yes, there are many kinds of mental illness. The structure of our society is the cause of some.  A society can be sick as much as an individual and I personally believe some aspects and common activities of our society are group mental illness.  I do not hold out much hope for fixing that in the near future.  However, tackling at the individual level might have a knock on beneficial effect.Yes, there is a risk and the risk is real.

There are however, many that persist in denying they have a problem, even to themselves, when everyone that counts knows about it.  It is not much help to be self delusory about it either.  Not easy.In any case it will be another welcome back down if the non security components are dropped.That is why the public needs to read between the lines.

It is entrenched because they are not prepared to work for a reputation and build political capital and be open and transparent.

The Coalition may in fact have been/and are looking more long term but on a false foundation.  They made it worse at the start and burned capital they did not have to burn and increased the trust deficit.

Sharman Stone spoke up for her electorate over SPC because it was her electorate but she is back in her box now.Some 'leaks' are not genuine leaks; which makes a mockery of disciplinary action in the case of genuine leaks.  One or more of the leaks you mention may not be genuine.

In any case, the Coalition are disciplined to a fault in presenting a united front.There are a number of things in our society not related to Islam that I find offensive and tolerate.  In that vein burqas in general are one of the things I think should be tolerate.

When it comes to security the burqa should not be allowed anywhere other facial coverings are disallowed.  It's a no brainer.

Too many, possibly including the author, are disingenuous in failing to show they understand why burqa wearers may be reasonably considered offensive and provocative.  Burqa wearers are taking a share of what society has to offer while simultaneously and deliberately denying one of the basic elements of social interaction; facial communication.  Don't skirt around that point.

However, there are other provocative things in our society that have nothing to do with Islam and are tolerated.You grossly underestimate the potential coverage of laws that the government can make.  However, that is a different story.All very well but I like to live in a reasonably tolerant country with reasonable laws regardless of the laws in other countries.  Your comment does not address in any comprehensive way the how reasonable the laws were that you choose to abide by.  I am free to criticise the laws in other countries as well as my own.It is something of an exaggeration to suggest that the public have been so informed "time and time again".  More importantly it is splitting hairs in the context of this debate.  They both cover the face.The article makes very good sense and your response neglects that the industry relies on entrapment by addiction; typically before consumers become "functional adults", which makes it worse.  That is such a well understood point that you and possibly Leyonhjelm can be reasonably suspected of being deliberately obtuse.That is apparently part of the solution.  He who is my enemy's enemy is my friend; a strategy that seems to me was attributed to the Middle East in uncomplimentary terms but in which the West is now embroiled.It is equally relevant to both issues.It is all relative to the overall good.  From a climate change perspective burning black coal is better than burning brown coal but not of itself an excuse to burn as much as possible and not an excuse to burn in place of available other cleaner sources.

With regard to Australia playing a substantial role in mitigating climate change, it should be responsible and play a substantial role commensurate with it being a developed relatively rich country and the biggest CO2 emitter per capita (except for some much smaller countries).

With regard to Australia playing a substantial role in fighting IS, it should be responsible and play a leading role substantial role commensurate with it being a developed relatively rich country responding to a world threat and having had involvement in a previous war there and leaving it in a vulnerable situation.

In both cases the caveat should only be that the overall effect is positive rather than negative.  That we are a country with a relatively small population as an excuse to do nothing is just a cop out as are lazy simplistic diversionary questions."The first is that the West, including Australia, carries much of the blame for the disaster that's currently engulfing Iraq and Syria."  Would be good except how so for Syria and where is cohesive explanation that our involvement this time is for the greater good?

"We should, incidentally, ignore those professional critics who complain that the West observes R2P selectively, which of course it does. States do what they can, when they can."  Well that is dismissively unconvincing.

I agree except that the public is owed a far better explanation, which puts the opposition at as much fault as the government for not providing it.Except that the politicians will also feed us and the journalists "trash" in the form of spin comprised of half-truths designed to mislead.

It is hard to know whether to take this article seriously because it is so light on the author may in fact just be stirring the pot with spin comprised of half-truths.

The core business of politicians should not be "winning elections" at the expense of sincerity.  Their core business should be to sincerely present an option.  Politicians are letting us down.graazt,

An official bipartisan commitment to agree to be sincere with the public seems somewhat superfluous to me.

Being truthful does not ensure a win but telling lies should be punished.

Would the Coalition have won the last election even if Abbott was honest?  That is a tough hypothetical but I hope you get my drift.I think I do understand and you have a point but it is only half the story.

As Anne wrote "rubbish in, rubbish out".  Often the source of the rubbish in is politicians (though Anne did not mean politicians).

The general public falls for sensationalism and what you or I might call trash is also a form of manipulation for which the provider is more responsible that the recipient.

"Then why does anyone still read their paper?"  Why does anyone still look to any media?  Well paper readership is falling and because that is where you find news.

Does the IPA have credibility?  The general public does not give it to them.  They are bloody persistent though.Unconvincing.

"But it is wrong to attempt to draw a link between budget cuts, back office savings and decisions made by management about programming."  Nonsense.  It is the ABCs call to set priorities but they are inextricably linked.

"Suggestions that popular programmes or services are at risk because of budget savings are not credible.".  Depends on the relative costs.

"The savings sought from the ABC are not of a scale that will require reductions in programme expenditure."  Depends on the ABC's current efficiency.  A mere claim requiring trust in the Coalition.

'Efficiency dividends' has become a euphemism for cutting costs.

The ABC provides high value for money, is far more reliable and trustworthy than the commercial media and the government and the ABC's quality has already been diminished because of 'efficiency' drives."The second reason is that as such tools are targeted at reducing risky borrowing and lending, ..." not that morality is a consideration as I interpret it."they cannot understand why the West does not react more fiercely" and much of the West cannot understand why those in the Middle East do not react more fiercely.  Maybe they do and we do not know about it and maybe they just expect too much from the West and not enough from their own governments.

At least some Middle East countries are taking part now but it does appear to be somewhat tokenistic.

The question I cannot answer is whether the perception that they do not do enough for themselves is or is not fair."In our view, Clive Palmer has been sold a pup."  That assumes Clive Palmer is sincere and not just flexing his political muscle.That is an invalid argument.  If the government sincerely believes that then it should withdraw from the convention instead of being disingenuous and saying it is living up to its obligations.I have a foot on both sides.

On the on hand, I generally agree.

On the other there are specific proposed new laws with which I agree. One is making it illegal to visit geographic regions with clear, violent, antagonism towards Australia.  It is like a rich person not being able to demonstrate the source of their riches.  There comes a point beyond reasonable doubt that the income was illegally obtained.  There comes a point that a part of the world is so violently antagonist to Australia that it is beyond reasonable doubt that they are going fro nefarious reasons if they cannot provide reasonable explanation.  The is a caveat is that they should know before going.IS controls  parts of Iraq and Syria.  IS have clear, violent, antagonism towards Australia, amongst others.  As such those regions effectively have clear, violent, antagonism towards Australia regardless of any declarations by recognised governments and regardless of the will of any suppressed will of the people of the region.

"Nobody's going to Syria, ..."  blah blah, blah.  It happens very, very frequently; how else did and do so many foreign fighters against the Syrian government get in?IS control those regions, which means they effectively govern those regions, regardless of whether they are the recognised government.

It is beyond reasonable doubt that people from Australia, knowing of such a prohibition, going to those regions without association with reputable organisations and unwilling to say why they are going are doing so against the national interest of Australia.

I see the question not as whether such a situation could reasonably arise but whether our Government adequately explains proscribing such a region if and when it does so."I make no excuse for ISIS, ...".  You make an excuse by effectively denying they are violently antagonistic to us, blaming us that they are "murderous bastards" and simultaneously denying that the actions of those "murderous bastards" have anything to do with us.

I am not in favour of rushing into this war but arguments like yours only help polarise the debate."Like I said I do not and never will make excuses for murderous regimes and groups like ISIS."  But you did make excuses for IS as per my previous comment, which you have not addressed 

"I despise what ISIS stands for but we did declared war on them."  You probably well despise ISIS but I see more implications in your words than you do.  One implication is that you are happy to stand by and watch murderous regimes and groups like IS from the sidelines.  That is, wash your hands of their atrocities.

IS involved us by committing their barbarities, recruiting from our countries and being antagonistic towards us to the extent that they would welcome and incite terror in western countries anyway.

Western influences may have exacerbated the situation in the middle east but IS is brutally fundamentalist to its core and supported by recruits from the west.  They are not just anti-western.  They are anti-everyone that does not agree with their doctrine and projecting the perception that they can stand up against the west is something they probably welcome as a tool of intimidation as well as a tool of recruitment.

Leaving IS to do their deeds without consideration of the consequences is not an acceptable response."Are you comfortable with a unilateral decision by a dim wit like Abbott when time for inclusive considered debate is available."  Not at all.

However, I can see good reason to make it illegal to visit the area.  I can see good reason to go and fight them.  IS is violent and antagonistic towards us even if they have limited ability to reach us here at the moment.  They did include us and even if that was not the case there actions are so barbaric that washing our hands off them would be immoral.  I can understand how western attitudes have made some people feel disenfranchised but the action of IS is misplaced and despotic.

Still, the government has been unconvincing. I expect better from our governments but our governments are still better than the governments there.

The decision should not be to keep out because mistakes have been made.  The decision should be based on whether more good will result in going or keeping out.  The government has done a poor job of explaining itself and, as you say, should allow inclusive considered debate.
