I disagree that the attacks on Indian students were 'racist' in the common understanding. Rather, Indian students were targeted because they were; a) cashed up and gadget-ed up, b) not likely to go to the police, and c) generally understood to be passive and non aggressive. The people carrying out the attacks were interested in robbery, and would have targeted any racial group that fit the above profile. A racist condemnation of a minority had little to to with it. 

Furthermore, the police and media made things worse because, when the attacks started happening, the police publicly warned Indians students that they were soft targets. How was that problematic? It meant lots of people who weren't Indian students suddenly knew there was an easily identifiable, soft target getting around.I'm going to come out with a controversial opinion, are you ready for it?

The bus incident, as well as the Bondi incident and many others like it, are not racist attacks.

You're probably thinking that I'm about to go into some 'religion does not equal race' type of sophistry that relies on pushing literalism as far as it can go in order to obfuscate understanding and stifle discussion. No, I am certainly not doing that.

With regard to the bus incident , the school uniforms and nazi salutes are a dead giveaway. This is instead an act or pantomime depicting winners and losers. In these pantomimes, Jews are considered to be the losers, nazis are considered the winners because of the historically understood power differential. 

These teenaged children (or men-children) were acting out a power imbalance, tipped in their favour, because the vast bulk of their lives are seen by each other to be powerless. One person has the idea, another goes along with it, others go along to form a group, and before you know it you've got a rush of adrenaline fuelling despicable behaviour at a weaker target. These men-children got a 'rush' out of the caper. It wasn't a rush resulting from racial superiority, but rather the rush of winning and power in a small arena.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not justifying these idiots or making excuses for them, but I do think it important to properly diagnose this phenomenon rather than quickly wringing our hands crying 'Oh when will people learn not to be racists'. Frankly, anyone can become a target for these like-minded idiots and they pose a real danger to law abiding citizens. The full extent of the law should be thrown at them, and if laws against racism make that easier then they should be used because, by definition, it was racism."I think if you look at the PPP cost of phone calls these days and note that we have Optus, Virgin, Vodafone and a swaithe of other random provides - you can only say that destorying the telstra monopoloy was the best thing for the consumer. The free market seems to have down a good job then."

What about those who don't make many calls but are forced to pay through the nose every month on 'line rental'?"The emails he fired off were certainly offensive but were they not actually sent in a private capacity?"

We can assume they were. Yet if a recipient thought the contents a little strong, they could contact Carlton's employer for a "Is this a representation of your brand?". The employer then talks to Carlton for a "Please explain" and someone's out of a job. I'm well under Carlton's pay band (I assume), and if I was offensive to the public, I'd no doubt be asked for a 'Please Explain' and most likely sent packing.I have to agree with Dove, Benice. A valiant effort that will be deliberately twisted to suit an opposing agenda. EP seems to be deliberately focussing on extremely rare cases to refute a general truism, a common tactic here on the drum. 

While I wouldn't go as far as saying racism against 'corkers' (Caucasians) doesn't exist, I support your statement that differing power relations make such racism a different ilk. That's not to say that people aren't affected, but I would say that these are isolated incidents within an uncommon phenomenon. Sure, such ncidents are wrong and have the capacity to adversely affect victims, yet it is certainly not part of a general trend.

Someone below mentioned being called a 'pommy expletive' (well, words to that effect) as an example of racism. While this is literally true, such an instance is clearly of a different ilk than the incident mentioned in the article. When proponents can cite examples of racism that share the same profile as the racism that is commonly understood to be damaging, perhaps we can then take the 'corkers are victims too' brigade more seriously.
"Maybe you need to look at what you are doing to attract racist comments."

That has to be unfortunately phrased, PP, and ironically plays into EP's victimisation. One wouldn't suggest to a victim of racism that they must have being doing something wrong to attract the racist comment. Perhaps a more accurate statement might have been: "Maybe you need to look at the comments more closely to determine whether they are fair or unfair criticisms."My understanding is that when put to the test, 18c doesn't rely solely on the 'offence taker'.

A chap I saw being interviewed this morning on the ABC made an interesting comment: Those who are opposed to 18c haven't yet come up with an example of something they'd wish to be free to say that isn't already protected by 18d. 

I'd like to see an individual stake their reputation behind supporting a comment that crosses the line of both 18c and 18d. I don't mean supporting one's right to say such a comment, but the full support of the content or intent of the comment. Who's game?'Lawfare' sounds like an expensive habit, but surely there are provisions to protect people from vexatious lawsuits?"But let's be clear here. She pleaded guilty, she apologised. Of course she explained why she may have behaved that way on the day, but she didn't say it was 'an excuse' or that it justified her doing it."

Hi Benice, you made the same point in your post a few up, but I'll respond here.

I believe that her explanations were in fact an attempt at justification, otherwise she needn't proffer her explanation. To use your terminology in your above post, her explanation was an excuse, but not a reason. A reason follows from a rational argument and 'I let rip because I didn't have a seat' is not rational. 
Thanks, Benice, yet a reference to a medical conviction, no matter how detailed, does not explain why she chose to let fly with racial epithets. If it was indeed an irrational, but understandable, response to pain, she could have just as easily let fly at imaginary space-beings, marxist butterflies and dust-bunnies. That she chose a common epithet for the target she was addressing shows she was operating on a little more than the fumes of irrationality. There are a number of reasonable responses to being in pain and finding no available seats on a bus, launching into a racist tirade is not one of them. 

Call it speculation if you will, yet if you were to choose between the following two apologies and rate them according to sincerity of remorse: (1) 'I am very sorry for my appalling behaviour, for which there can be no justification', and (2) 'I am very sorry for my appalling behaviour, but I did have a medical condition at the time', I daresay that most people would choose the former as representing true remorse. 

Yes, a guilty plea may imply guilt, yet it could just as easily suggest the best choice in the circumstances. I am sure there are frequent occurrences in courtrooms around the country where defendants choose a guilty plea because they know for certain that they cannot be found 'not guilty'. A 'not guilty' plea can attract a harsher sentence once the verdict of guilt is handed down. While I'm not a legal professional, I would suggest that the terms 'guilty' and 'not guilty' are incompatible with one's personal feelings of guilt/remorse and not guilty/right. The cynic in me might suggest that 'guilty and 'not guilty' in the courtroom are much closer to 'can it be proved' and 'can it not be proved'. In the case we are discussing, the presence of untampered video footage would suggest that it could be proved, hence the guilty plea. Furthermore, a public apology and a message of contrition can just as easily be seen as an attempt to gain favour with the authorities and attain a lighter sentence. Ms Bailey's strident public outburst was enacted with such a conviction that any following apology should be considered suspect.  

While I agree with and support the general thrust of this article, I did want to pick up on a problematic section.

"But offensive language crimes, and those who police and enforce them, are not sophisticated enough to tackle more insidious forms of prejudice faced by minorities in Australia. Whether it be the racist jokes shared over the dinner table, discriminatory hiring practices, or the exclusory, nationalistic rhetoric of political elites, silent forms of racism are pervasive and damaging."

There's a very good reason why offensive language crimes aren't sophisticated enough to tackle (a) racist jokes at the dinner table, (b)  discriminatory hiring practices, and (c) nationalistic rhetoric of political elites:

(a) There are two issues here. The first is that a racist joke may often require racist terminology yet the 'victim' or 'intended target' of the joke may well be the teller or a person in the joke depicted as a racist.  A joke lampooning racists shouldn't be considered a racist joke even if it relies on racist terminology. The second point is that around a dinner table, we can imagine that the teller of the joke, if they are indeed good joke tellers, understands the limits of his or her audience. With an audience that is understood to be tolerant of racist jokes, who present is going to be offended to the point of requiring legal intervention?

(b) We already have laws dealing with discriminatory hiring practices so laws about offensive language are either inappropriate or superfluous in such instances. That said, laws surrounding discriminatory hiring practices are hard to prove because one has to prove that the employer refused employment to an individual on the grounds of race rather than on any other category of unsuitability that could be deemed as being fair.

(c) Nationalistic rhetoric might seem an easy target for laws surrounding offensive language because of the observation that ignorant bigots are drawn to nationalism. Because nationalist rhetoric can indeed be expressed without reference to any races or minorities, it doesn't follow that such rhetoric necessarily forms an example of silent or damaging racism.Demand all you want. 

Doesn't mean that any of your demands will then be granted. If Woolies says no to your demands, try Coles, Aldi, the local shop etc. 

If no one agrees to your demands, you'll just have to go without... unless someone presents to you a digital copy of milk freely.When the Carbon tax goes and power prices stay the same, who will ordinary people turn to to point the blame. Less tax revenue, in a time of much touted 'crisis', with the exact same power 'bite' on the wallet.I get to ask: 'A satire of whom?'Didn't Sweden sell valuable resources to help fuel German military endeavours?

It was only when the German effort was looking like a list cause that the Swedes stopped 'fuelling' them.

Sweden proved that there are various shades of 'neutral'."I have no idea how the gross sexualisation of our young people became this normalised."

I share your same concerns, Basil, so I'll attempt an explanation and risk making generalisations (and no doubt wear the ire from all and sundry who choose to disagree on the basis that individuals who don't conform to the generalisation prove that the generalisation is therefore faulty).

When discussing the sexualisation inherent to such pageants, it's important to note that the driving forces behind dance eisteddfods and beauty pageants are, of course, women. Women, it seems, see something totally different to what men see. Far be it for me to describe the experience of all men compelled to watch these parades, but I'll lay odds that the men are doing their utmost NOT to watch the intended focal points of the proceedings. (As an aside, a good strategy for men is to focus on the feet or the faces and lock your viewing to one or the other exclusively. When your wife asks you what you thought, you can then say you thought it excellent and well performed 'terrific shoes' of 'what pretty, smiling, faces'. If pressed on the topic of sexualisation, you can then truthfully say 'I didn't notice, Honey.').

While women understand, surely, that Beyonce styled dance moves have a sexualised connotation when performed by adults, they don't accept that the same connotation exists when these same moves are performed by children. This is because women, I believe, see the 'children' first and the 'moves' second. Men, try as they might to avoid it, see the 'moves' first and the 'children' second. Whether this may be a conditioned response or a natural response, I am sure we could argue for days, but I would argue strongly that this is the case in its most general form.

As others in the thread have mentioned, it's not just pageants and  eisteddfods that is problematic, but also media consumption and mimicry, and the availability of sexualised clothes at the stores. These last two are particularly problematic because it moves the sexualisation (which the women don't see) away from the spectacle of the pageant and towards the everyday experience, which then normalises such sexualisation. Again, I believe women are the driving force here, and don't see it as a problem for the exact same reasons I outlined in the previous paragraph.   

As long as what happens in their heads stays in their heads, then there's no problem is there? Are we really going to start banning 'thoughts' or creating scenarios that avoids thoughts happening? Having an inappropriate thought and 'binning it' straight away is part and parcel of modern life, isn't it?

I avoid such pageants on the grounds they make me uncomfortable and they don't interest me, but many men are compelled to go. My viewing strategy above, I hope, helps someone who doesn't want to watch and can't say why.
"That's left the heavy lifting to the Reserve Bank. At the moment, its only weapon is interest rates. But with a fragile economy, weak wages growth and a looming crash in mining capital investment, a rate hike could seriously damage the economy."

Not only that, but if they were to raise interest rates, that would create a further disparity between the cost of an Australian's loan and that from an overseas investor who has access to a lower interest rate. The fabled 'price crunch' that commentators seem to be salivating over, probably because they themselves want to save 50k or so on their next purchase, won't be quite so 'crunchy' as foreign investors swoop in.

"But his warnings of late - that young Australians may be better off renting than buying - indicate that he's aware of the potential for a generation of young Australians being hocked to the gills to pay off grossly inflated houses"

I don't think his warnings indicate that at all. I suspect that he's instead drumming up 'rental' expectations for the benefit of investors already in the market. I would suggest that the cost difference between renting and buying, at least in the areas we've seen the fastest price growth, has never been more narrow than it is now."your are one of the many in these posts..."

Don't your (sic) just love it when that happens? 
'If John doesn't like it, he can go look for another job' would, presumably, be the employer's position. 

According to some around here, if he was good enough, John could walk out of one job and straight into another. If he can't manage that then it's his own fault for not making himself so employable.The Labor brand is seriously damaged. In the last few months in Victoria, they've had two very public 'brand' failures.

The first was their candidate for Frankston, being embroiled in a workplace bullying case (as the bully), and now the 'Dicta-follies'. 

One might say that a couple of embarrassing failures are a bit of bad luck, yet with the Labor brand being tainted at federal level over previous years, they're in danger of becoming the party of incompetent chancers, lackeys, careerists and 'yes men'. When it comes to that, they'll just be the LNP without the decades of experience in those particular roles.I appreciate the post, Backie, and the debate that has followed has been a rare gem in an increasingly adversarial Drum, but I disagree that there is no left.

At the risk of being simplistic, let's instead say 'general' for the purposes of brevity, I think you are conflating two very different 'lefts'.

One left is 'left economics'. Left economics is associated with government intervention in the economy and resisting the exploitative nature of private capital. Left economics, despite the squeals from the right that the government is still far too intrusive, is pretty much on life support, tax-payer funded of course, in Australia. Almost by the day, the interests of private capital get 'stronger' in the market economy. This is the left I believe you are referring to in your post.

The other left is the 'social left', which in ultra-short form would be the idea that nurture trumps nature, rather than nature trumps nurture (a social right position). The social left position implies that we need welfare and social programs to nurture the population to become good citizens. A social right position implies that we need punishments to address those who 'naturally' need correction to become good citizens. Given that there are many social 'battlegrounds' (i.e. issues needing debate) in action at any moment, individuals, organisations and groups, including political parties, can identify with the social left on one issue, but may identify with the social right on another. Left and right then might be seen to 'overlap', which then creates various confusions surrounding what is left, what is right, who is left and who is right etc. That said, I do think that generally, people believe in social programs over punishments on many social issues.  It's just that, generally speaking again, people tend to go for punishments when and if the existing social programs and welfare are seen to fail.Is there a missing post up there that you are responding to, Backie?

If one follows the thread, it looks like you've fabricated points on a continuum, attributed it to aGuy, and then demolished it. 

Might be convincing, if we could find the post where aGuy said what you suggest."In a contest between Rabbithole's and Tony Abbott's knowledge of the capabilities of Australia's military radar, I'm going to have to go with Tony Abbott."

In a similar contest, between Rabbithole and Tony Abbott, of who has more to lose should their initial public outbursts be contrary to the unfolding facts, Tony Abbott would win that by a country mile.

How long has the west had that Black Box now, plus the supposed miles and miles of air traffic control and RADAR observation information? No official verdict yet?A common refrain heard around here, supposedly in support if the MSM, is that if you don't like what the other other news outlets are saying, you don't have to buy them, whilst we all pay for our ABC."The old ABC is biased line is just a load of rubbish. If people like you would actually have a look at the facts, the contributors of articles and opinions at the ABC are varied and gives all sides a voice."

Did I say that I supported such a line? I merely presented it as a commonly heard refrain around here... and it is.  

'If people like you' weren't so quick to jump to conclusions, we might have a more civilised debate, as opposed than the repetitive back and forth slanging matches day after day after day.If they become part of the EU, Fran, they'll keep their 'fraction of EU' wages, yet be forced to pay 'average EU' prices for their basic services. I'm sure that there are many Ukrainians who can see that all too clearly. Austerity measures won't be called 'Austerity' in the Ukraine situation, but instead referred to as 'Normalisation'.

For an example of the same effect but closer to home, look to the recent 'globalisation' of our Gas.If they are buying their own home, what pressure is on them to sell at 90% of their purchase price? They can simply ride it out in the long term and come out better off than a renter over the same (long term) period.
 
If they do have to sell for relocation purposes, they can simply buy another house that, oddly enough, has also lost 10 percent of its value. What's the difference when selling your 500k roof over your head for 450k or 550k, when the replacement roof is going to cost 450k or 550k (depending which way prices go)? I can think of one small difference, Stamp Duty is less if prices fall."Why do you think anyone would hold on to property like that?"

Because it's the roof over your head that you'd previously decided was a pretty good bet. If you can hold on for the long term, you'll be better off. Worrying about, and trying to manoeuvre around, a short term and one-off blip is what sends people broke. 

Your warnings and dire predictions, Michael, while well intentioned are fundamentally misplaced. They are only applicable to  people who fulfil ALL of the following criteria:

- Purchased within the last two years (supposing that the price drops suddenly tomorrow)
- Only paid a 10% deposit
- Haven't paid more than the minimum monthly payments
- Suddenly find themselves forced to sell with no other option.
 
Without all of the above in place, your predictions aren't a concern. I grant you that there may well be many people out there who fulfil the first three. Yet this is a position that such people have chosen willingly. It's hard to imagine that such people make a greater % of first time buyers than previously, what with the younger generations being so much more educated than previous generations, that they're so technologically savvy that they can punch a few numbers into a loan calculator and compare outcomes with an ease not available before. 

Buying property is a risky endeavour, but people should be encouraged to mitigate that risk where they can, rather than focus on what doom is going to befall them to the point that predictions of their doom can play into the hands of those who wish to scoop up a few 90%-ers themselves.OK Michael, let's work on recent purchase and forced to sell. 

How many owner occupiers are forced to sell within 18 months of purchase? 

If, and it's a pretty big 'IF' unless there are some legislation changes around property investment, prices go down, how many owner occupiers will be forced to sell within 18 months of purchase? Will that number, as a percentage of owner occupiers go up or down? If there's a change in 'forced sales', what has caused the change in forced sales? Why will 'forced sales' be more common, assuming they will be more common? 

I understand that a forced sale on a new purchase has harsher consequences if prices go down, no question about that. What I want to know is, 1) are the number of forced sales enough to justify your dire warnings? and 2) what will cause a supposed increase in forced sales?




"Paul, the car industry was on a road to know where. As a kid in the 70s nearly every driveway had a holden or ford but today that is far from the case."

Yet at present, oddly enough, the driveway is more likely to have more than one car than back in the 70s, AND the car(s) is(are) more likely to be newer than that car was in the 70s.

Geez, how did the local industry drop the ball so badly when the playing field improved around them?Oh there's a counter narrative, you see it in action at the counter:

'That's 4 weeks at 2 per week counselling sessions at $150 a pop, plus mysterious 'government customer' surcharge of 25% comes to a total of $1500. But that's not for you to worry about, the government's got this for you. Take your prescription to the next counter'

'Thank you, sir, that will be $23.60 for your medications this month, yes you will be expected to take them for years, the government will pick up the remaining $220'.

That's the 'counter' narrative.Each and every accepted boat arrival means that one person waiting in a camp (although they are not in a queue) will miss out. What boat arrival advocates have against those people in refugee camps, I'll never know.

Send boat arrivals to the camps to be processed in the same manner as all the other refugees. They won't be there long, apparently, it's not like there's a queue or anything."Very easy to say when its not your relatives laying in the field."

That's even easier to say when it's not your relatives going into a war zone unarmed." The sceptic in me wonders if this isnt deliberate - a number of casualties among an international police contingent (whether inflicted by separatists or Ukrainian government troops) could be twisted to heap even more pressure on Russia and yet another feeble excuse for sanctions, if not a pretext for Western military invovlement."

'Operation Pawn Sacrifice' doesn't quite have the same ring to it.Dutch?

Weren't they Danes?Sorry. I don't know where I got Danes from."Mike Steketees articles is mostly about taking money away from those who earned it, and re-distributing to those who didn't do anything to earn it."

Do tell us us about those people who 'earned it'?  When they conduct their business, do they not use roads, communications and utilities? Do they not rely upon education and health of those they supervise? Do they not require a client base that has the knowledge, the need and the capacity to use their services? Is their home and business not protected by law and order which provides a powerful disincentive for others not to pilfer from or prevent those who are 'earning it'?

Self made men and women are they? Not without relying on another's work, they aren't. 

That's not all. Various statistics show that the top 5, 10 and 20% of income earners are earning more, and own more, as a percentage of the nation's income and wealth compared to past decades. Let me guess, their doing it all themselves, are they?AHLD, you are confusing 'income tax' with the highly spurious 'net tax'. That wouldn't be a diversionary tactic, would it?"So according to you - if Murdoch had not backed Rudd in 2007 Costello would be Prime Minister now."

I don't recall there being a 'Let's Kick This Mob Out Now!" headline on the eve of the 2007 election. Or does 'backed' somehow mean 'not overly hostile to' now?"Believe me, I certainly don't fall for it as a distraction- and I actually support the idea of preventing Syrian fighters returning to Australia or automatic life imprisonment sentences.

Having said that, I don't support
-surveillance
-data retention and snooping"

Don't you see that the second point limits the effectiveness of the first point? How are the authorities going to find out about activities of Aussies abroad?

If you really don't support surveillance and data retention, how do you feel about letting out all of those criminals found guilty, or pressured to plea guilty, because of surveillance and data retention? Will you house a couple of them in your spare room? After all, they may not have been suspects at the time the data was recorded. Would you go as far as to say that such data should not be admissible as evidence and any guilty pleas or trials conducted with such evidence should be dismissed and voided?
But information is being recorded and kept by private companies, supposedly used for billing purposes. This sounds like data retention and surveillance to me, which was the Concerned Citizen's concern in the above post. 

Police should be able to access such information if it's relevant to an investigation they are working on. Time is of the essence in police investigations and requiring a 'Warrant' may place an onerous 'rubber stamping' to something that's more-than-likely going to be agreed to anyway. This includes investigations where they are 'fishing' for patterns/movements etc, without knowing the name of an individual they are looking for. An example might be when they have a missing person they are looking for. They look for to see if the missing person's phone has moved through any 'checkpoints', and in doing so they find that another 'unknown' phone is always with it. If someone is against surveillance, as Concerned citizen said above, they would be against the police using that information to investigate the now-unknown-but-very-soon-to-be-known suspect. If I read Concerned Citizen correctly, then they would have that unknown suspect remain unknown.   

So that's your phone, my phone, everyone's phone currently being 'surveilled' in the above example. The data's just sitting there, where we've been, who we've called etc. Yet no one needs to take a closer look at that 'surveillance' unless there's an investigation that points to strange behaviour. Of course, I'm talking about phones here because of the above example, but I could just as easily be talking IP addresses being linked to certain sites or messages. I believe that's as it should be. 

So to answer your questions directly, if data is being retained for 2 years, I would agree that Police and Military/Government Intelligence organisations should have access without a warrant BUT always tied to an investigation. In other words, the investigation is given a number (which I'm sure they always are for their own administration purposes) and any data requests are recorded as having been required in the investigation. This means that should there be a problem or a complaint is made, for example when a policeman snoops on his ex-girlfriends new fianc?, then he's made accountable for it."They will run the entire database through algorhythms, looking for bogus patterns which they will use as "evidence" to secure a warrant and cause all kinds of mischief with honest folk."

For what purpose, Jimmy? Do they really have time for that? Fishing trips that might net a result 1 in 20 times? Do remember that such data doesn't necessarily prove anything against a citizen, it merely puts them in the frame, or on a 'to watch' list. They still have to prove illegal conduct on the part of the suspect.Thanks, Jim. You don't like being on a watch list whilst I don't mind, I can respect that. 

Now that we've agreed that data retention and surveillance of people yet to commit a crime or become a suspect does indeed exist, would you mind giving another go at my question to Concerned Citizen above: would you have all trials and guilty pleas made with some reference to such 'pre-suspect' data retention and surveillance overturned and the prisoners released?Thanks, Concerned Citizen. Nice list, I'll number them and go one by one. To summarise, you seem pretty keen on surveillance and data retention to me.

1) Returning citizen says "I don't use Social Media" and thus the authorities have to use surveillance and data retention to gain information.
2) Returning citizen claims they were doing peaceful work in Syria: "Oh I was working on an archeological dig uncovering important artistic artefacts. Here, I have a signed confirmation written by the director of the dig, sorry it's written in arabic, that was the only language available". Thus they can only disprove such claims through surveillance and data retention. 
4) How does one provide evidence of proper conduct?
5) But that's surveillance. I thought you said you were against that
6) Fair point. 
7) Sorry, I don't understand what you mean by the last one. If you mean that there is an observed affiliation with an extremist circle, sure refuse re-entry, but that still requires surveillance and data retention.

What if a returning citizen's social media that they claimed they didn't use (point 1) is read and endorsed/supported by people in Australia? Should such people in Australia be then subject to surveillance?"We did not start this war"

I daresay that's debatable. Removing 'Secular Saddam' seems to have been the catalyst, if not the cause, of the present difficulties."Errr ...the writer was trying to explain her own internal conflict, her reactions
And the problems of a society where media and information even news is a commodity

If we didn't buy it it wouldn't be reported this way."

Yet the good Doctor's explanation was that she has an uncontrollable urge and that this urge was presented as an integral part of her personality, albeit one that she knows needs tempering from an external power.

It's a peculiar admission, that the factors one cannot control about one's self should be seen as integral to one's personality, rather than the factors that one has worked hard to improve about one's self. I see it as a sign of contemporary decadence where we are supposed to have eschewed work, difficulties, challenges, goals, and instead thrown up our hands seeking protection and that 'someone else' needs to do something.

If we are uncomfortable about the topic, why are we clicking on it/buying it? 

It used to be said that the longest journey starts with the first step. This would suggest the individual, on their journey away from prurient details, just needs to make that decision and stick to it again and again, one foot in front of another. Dr Rosewarne's position seems that we should have that 'destination' brought to us instantly and without effort.
"I want my prurient interests tempered"

It is within your power to make it so. If discomfort persists, do see a doctor.You're being too modest. Sing that Song of Sixpence till your heart is content. 

Only then can we hope that the literalist plague that has befallen all commentary might somehow be lifted.As soon as someone drops an 'intercontextual', we're done for.Have to agree with OUB here. 

How about we take all the criminals found guilty thanks to evidence gleaned from metadata, and release them to the care of every single person here complaining about being under such surveillance?I think it's the other way around, Evi. It's the LNP who are crying in the shadows whilst the IPA acts like an underworld loan shark: 'Have you delivered the goods to our paymasters yet?'. Thump! 'Have you delivered the goods to our paymasters yet?' Double Thump!!

Might be funny watching a few entertaining thumps from the sidelines. But we should all be on the lookout for the LNP finally acquiescing to that thumping pressure.Let's take a bit of a deep breath here. Everyone's talking about data retention equaling a loss of privacy and that data retention is surveillance. Is this really the case? I think many well-intentioned, usually intelligent, commentators have got their hackles up because of some Orwellian predictions made over 60 years ago. Such predictions aren't relevant, at least not in the way Orwell made them.

Isn't metadata just your 'data footprint'? If you can make choices to limit your carbon footprint, how about making choices to limit your data footprint? Too hard is it? Do you like getting email updates about where to buy the 'least food miles' products, the best 'fair trade' products, updates on farmers and local markets, news about what's going on at your chosen 'caff and weekend breakfast' lifestyle emporium? Businesses are wired into the same data complex because it helps them stay afloat. If they weren't plugged in, they wouldn't be there. If you don't think such a 'price' is worth it, vote with your feet. Be an outcast. To paraphrase Tim Leary for the modern situation: Turn Off, Drop Out, Become Aware. Tread carefully, however, if you take such a course if action , you won't be able to make an attention-seeking, status update on Facebook about it. Sure it's ironic, but it does defeat the purpose.

Woo hoo, I just made a big saving choosing Amazon over a bricks and mortar store. 60% off and home delivery, pretty sweet deal. Mind you, the cost of that saving has to be paid by me deleting emails advertising 'Products I might also like' every day. Oooo, 'They's is watching me. Time's is hard'. 

I'm also not convinced data retention counts as surveillance either, at least not in the way commentators talk about it being akin to CCTV cameras everywhere. Your data is simply trawled by an advanced software algorithm looking for key words AND patterns in the occurrence of those key words. Think of it like a camera trained on a moving crowd. People monitoring the crowd are looking for any movements that aren't like everybody else's because that 'a where the potential for trouble is. Yes, you have to be watched to do that, but you're simply a definition of normal ... Unless you aren't. Rough simile, I know, but best I can do at short notice (and without attracting attention from 'Lord Algorithm').Thanks, PP. Metadata may not have key words, yet flagged sites visited by an IP address do.  

Considering you don't pay 'cost' for the internet (it's research, design, implementation, infrastructure), nor do you make available certain underground infrastructures and 'air space/frequency ranges' that don't belong to you in the various vicinities that the internet exists, you're compelled to follow certain laws and limitations. One might understand it like buying a car: sure, you can buy a car, but that doesn't mean you can drive it through a multilevel shopping centre. Part of those laws and limitations is, apparently, data retention and monitoring (I draw the line at surveillance). No one is forcing you to use the internet, nor is it a bestowed right upon birth. If you want to give it up because you're being observed as one is in a crowd on CCTV, that's your choice.










If it gets people to stop using their mobiles while driving, sounds good to me!

Mind you, the driver could have pulled over to text in the above example, thus not proving beyond doubt the driver was texting and driving.
 
If Brandis did indeed claim that data retention was 'the way Western nations are going', then it demonstrates a surprisingly perceptive comment by a senior figure in the LNP, a rare thing indeed. No wonder it's caused a little confusion. Such a revelation also suggests that government should be taking a back seat to the interests of private capital, yet from our LNP, that's to be expected. 

In the few decades after WW2, it was said that products in the marketplace were the accumulation of capital. This was no doubt true. Given that there were relatively few spaces for a business to advertise its wares to the broad public (just a few tv stations, AM radio, newspapers and magazines, billboards etc), advertising was expensive and thus limited to those businesses in the arena of mass appeal. That takes big money, i.e. the accumulation of capital.

Fast forward to the present, and we've got a very different situation. An almost infinite number of 'channels' of information the public can pay attention to (digital tv, paytv, AM FM and Digital Radio stations, less newspapers but each has more ads than before, more magazines, more billboards and the internet - the last being the most significant game-changer of them all).  So while advertising to the broad public is still expensive and limited to those with the capital to meet mass appeal, a myriad of smaller spaces (channels) have been created for those with a limited or niche appeal. This takes less capital, but requires relevant data for the niche business to survive. The niche business owner has to find ways to target his or her messages and products to the relatively few customers who will choose to spend their discretionary income at that niche business. The niche business can only do this with data. He or she can't survive by hoping that customers will stroll past the shopfront, look in, and spend big. Data is now a necessary part of the equation, along with capital, in the modern marketplace. Without data, only those with access to large accumulations of capital will survive because it is only they who can meet mass appeal. Furthermore, perhaps with a twinge of the Orwellian, those with large accumulations of capital can use data to maintain their hold on the mass appeal.

Unless you want to go back to two types of table wine, red and white, served in Cotties Jam Jar glasses (that's not a literal example, people. It is instead used as a metonymy to stand for all of the limitations that will be placed upon the market even though that one might not come true itself - do they still have Cotties Jam?), data is part of the equation that brings to you that which you are now accustomed. Rubbed out the data and you'll rub out choice. You will rub out the niche.

To paraphrase a quaint old song: The niche bone's connected to the i-phone, the i-phone's connected to the ...Jimmy's on the 'money' here, and I use the word intentionally. 

Data collection is all for the interests of capital, not some cold-war-esque government control. Advertising dollars are what pays for the Internet at the software user end.

Mind you, it surprises me that no militant, Marxist, arty types haven't used this Achilles heel of capitalism as part of various hoaxes, using data collection 'decoys' to show up these mysterious paymasters that rule us all. Meh, too difficult I suppose, better check what's going on on Facebook instead, eh?That suggests a reversal of the 'burden of proof', Bruc3. 

It's notoriously difficult to prove that you didn't do something when you were in the vicinity if that 'something'. Proving that someone else did that 'something', to an extent anyway, gets you off the hook.I'd say that's a pretty fair suggestion, Mark, albeit for two sticking points:

1, How do we determine what people with dual nationalities have been up to?

2, What if the australian citizens joins a 'defence force' that is not aligned to, nor does it belong to, any particular country?  

Your suggestion would have it easier to return to Australia if one fought for a known terrorist organisation or religious-based militia, rather than another country's defence force.Tiresias,

If you buy eggs without opening the carton to see if any are broken, you might expect 1 in every 30 eggs to be broken. On this basis you can predict a number of broken eggs caused by the relatively predictable transport 'environment'.

But if someone at the store has taken a hammer to the cartons without your knowledge, a few light taps will do it, you will find an increase in the number of broken eggs, in increase down to man-made factors over and above the transport 'environment' that usually breaks 1 in 30.
How about we find out the facts about what happened, and then ask for a 'Please Explain' from the guilty party? Then we can make a decision about employing punitive measures against that guilty party.

I find it extremely suspect that in our modern day of constant surveillance, RADAR, satellite tracking and navigation, where most of the citizens of advanced nations carry around personal location/tracking devices with them, we can't seem to work out what happened to 2 commercial airliners full of people. Well, we know what happened to the second one, but we knew what happened without recourse to any of the aforementioned technologies. 

How long have they had MH17's 'black box', plus the Air traffic control and satellite tracking information and yet we still don't have the 'smoking gun' yet?"Sanctions would only work if sufficient to make the Russian people starve. In Australia there would be a revolution if our spawn couldn't access Facebook or buy the latest fashions or be part of the latest trend or fad. We wouldn't need to starve before there would be a designer shortage led revolution."

I know it wasn't your main point, Rusty, but I found this most interesting. I agree with what you say about how very few luxuries have to disappear in order to destabalise Australia. It wouldn't cause revolution, however, it would instead be much worse than that. Australian's generally are too apathetic and lazy to go through the whole revolution palaver. Besides, marches and riots would be too difficult to organise without Facebook. Furthermore, it would mean we have to work together and be considerate of each other in order to provide a united front. We'll instead choose to squabble with each other, run down our fellows in order to secure for ourselves a few shiny trinkets. Look around, do you see much 'brotherhood of man' getting about in our luxurious first world order? 

We're soft. Out of practice, out of touch. Hope comes from wishing for something to be provided to us rather than from us working toward something."Lambie was talking to a couple of commercial radio jocks"

... and an audience of voters. Did she forget they were there? Did she not realise she was in a radio station that was designed for public broadcasting? Did the impressive size of the microphone in front of her leave her feeling a little weak at the knees?

I daresay she forgot the audience was there, seeing as they performed the desired trinity: they were silent, they (collectively) have a big wallet that pays her salary, and they are prone to have the euphemism of your choice done to them by their elected representatives.

Apt really, I hear she likes them like that.
"But the key difference here is that in our culture we "expect" men to be sexual, to be shallow about it, to consistently convey the air of rampant virility."

Well spotted on that quote, yet I have a very different reaction.

Culture isn't an unchanging entity. It moves, it's fluid. As individuals, we have the power to decide what our expectations are and live accordingly. The resultant collection of thousands or millions of expectations on a single issue, such as expectations of gender, when taken together, can be said to then contribute to the culture even though there may be many discrepancies between individual expectations.

For instance, I don't expect men to be shallow about sexuality or for men to constantly convey an air of rampant virility. Instead, I expect men to be more respectful of women, rely less on the objectification of women and to keep the image of their rampant virility under wraps. Will I then be disappointed by much of what goes on in current society? Too right I will be, but I won't contribute to that disappointment by lowering my own standards to the tune of 'when in rome...'.

Back to the quote, I can't quite grasp what Dr Rosewarne's point was. She seems to marking Lambie out as some kind of laudable trailblazer for the female sexual empowerment and, with the quote, giving us the reason for the current backlash. Unfortunately, for Rosewarne's argument, Lambie's example of female sexual empowerment is a boorish rehash of cartoonish Sex and the City stereotypes from 15 years ago. 
I suppose nobody picked up on the questioning because Lambie apparently agreed with the line it was travelling.

I am younger than Lambie and well below her current pay band and I wouldn't have answered such questions in the manner she did as either an individual or as a representative of my employer. I'm not even in the public eye!Have I woken up in some parallel universe?

Not all that long, a male Australian politician was publicly named and shamed for at least 18 months, including numerous newspaper front-page headlines, for making a few off colour, sexist, observations in a private email exchange with someone who had already made sexist observations in that same exchange. 

A female Senator publicly broadcasts a few objectionable comments of a sexual nature and we're supposed to laugh it off as a bit of provocative, bawdy, banter.

These two scenarios exist in the same cultural landscape, yet Dr Rosewarne suggests that the key difference between the two public responses is that the we expect men to be sexually shallow. Huh? If society expected men to be sexually shallow, then it would have been Slipper getting the 'you tell it like it is, man' pats on the back, wouldn't it?

Can we expect 18 months of Drum articles, front page headlines, media saturation and commentary, 'lamb-gate' popping up frequently in the vernacular? Surely you jest!Quite a few comments above have mentioned that Lambie's interview represents a refreshing turn towards honesty in communication over double-speak and repeatedly hitting key words and phrases. I couldn't agree more, and I would add that Lambie's interview was remarkable for what it revealed rather than it bring crude, low-brow, clumsy and ill-advised.

It would seem, on Lambie's freely given testimony, that she prefers the people in her life to 'have the goods where it counts' (seeing as she won't be providing anything), that the should have deep and open wallets (again, there is no mention of her providing anything), and servile ('silence clearly means servility in the given context). 

It was a truly refreshingly honest and remarkable display. Such insights into the mind of those who have made their way to becoming our representatives that we've rarely seen offered openly in the present day. The real story of course is not the media double standards, nor the supposedly brazen display of female sexual empowerment, but that the freely given and 'natural'  comments should confirm selfishness and an attitude of superiority over others from our elected representatives whilst going unchecked and even applauded. I'm certainly not applaudin' 'em on this one.A couple of good requirements there, aGuy.

3) The $ value of the bailout is considered as a commensurate % stake the government will then hold in the bailed-out institution. The government can then sell its 'stake' at a later date when the fortunes of the company have improved."The person to fix it could well be in the upper echelons."

Unless there's evidence that they had put forward a credible plan for a better company performance, which was then ignored, prior to the company going down the chute, any magic 'fix-it' person within the company is pure speculation.In a strange kind of way, I'm against cycle lanes because they promote the inattentiveness of the lazy driver. That said, it's good to see riders 'channeled' along a single route because it makes their behaviour more predictable. 

As a pedestrian, nothing infuriates me more than the footpath or pedestrian crossing cyclist. I keep wanting to 'time' a fall in front of them but I always chicken out at the last second. Drivers who get frustrated by red-light running cyclists really need to keep their attention toward the behaviours on the road that they can control - their own."BTW If they don't want to be hit by a car door then simply ride wider so this isn't an issue."

Not always possible, yet a good idea when it is safe to do so. 

Mind you, have you noticed where that pointy bit of a driver's car door is in relation to the cyclists's person? Around the face and neck, I'd say. Why should a driver be free to fling his or her heavy, and occasionally sharp (when arrived at at speed) piece of metal in the path of a law abiding road user (or free to fail to warn passengers in the car about the danger to other road users)?

An opened car door should ultimately be the driver's responsibility, extending to providing warnings to their passengers concerning the safety of other road users. Let's make negligent drivers liable for medical costs and loss of income for the road users they inflict damage upon. Yes, states have compulsory medical insurance as part of registration costs, yet the TAC (or appropriate state authority) should be able to recoup medical costs, and the harmed individual recoup loss of income costs, from the negligent driver. After all, negligent drivers absentmindedly choose their negligent actions in place of diligence. Why should diligent drivers pay, in the form of fewer available services, when negligent drivers are making a 'lifestyle choice' of their own negligence?

Negligence, it's not an accident."2. take responsibility: you opened the door, you rode without lights, you got impatient, you treated the red light as optional. Why should others reform while we transgress?"
 
This is the big one Gordon, responsibility. But we won't get there while road users, including cars, cyclists and pedestrians, increase their attitude of ownership and combat on the tarmac battleground rather than treat it as a dangerous site requiring a duty of care to other road users.

In my view, one significant contributor to the attitude of ownership and combat on the road is language, specifically the use of the term 'accident'. This term creates a sense of 'accidents' being unavoidable and part and parcel of ones road use. We really should be regarding such incidents as 'cases of negligence that were just waiting to happen'. The vast majority of collisions on the road are the result of one party, usually but not always one who actually made contact with another road user, being negligent rather than diligent. If we adopted the terminology of negligence in place of 'accidents', road users will become more aware of how their actions have effects rather than their actions merely being affected by uncontrolled factors.

Negligence: It's not an accident.



'One less lane' stickers would be quite good. They're just as effective on cars as well.

A better sticker for cars would be 'If I wasn't in my car, you'd be here by now'. Just the sort of thing to soothe the caged beast whilst stuck  behind yet another car."where drivers must baby sit cyclists as their lives are in the drivers hands. so i can see why drivers can get upset with the added pressure"

The thing is, Uhmmmm, what you describe isn't 'added' pressure at all but is instead pressure that has always been there. It is car drivers who have wrongly lowered the expectations of themselves who are are now complaining already existing pressures to be aware and mindful of all road users is somehow 'added' pressure. 

Your average car driver is only aware of the dangers to itself, which is why they pay attention to trucks but not to motorcycles and bikes. Car drivers, generally speaking, are not aware of the dangers that their 800kg cage poses to other road users. 

It's easy to spot the dangerous animals on the road, they are the ones in cages.

How about motorbikes, do you 'take them on'? 

A 'take them on' attitude is not the place for our roads.You still had one safety option you didn't use: after establishing no other traffic, you open the door to the space of your head and peer out from there - hook you right arm around your seat for support. Once looking from that vantage point, you can then decide on a full door push. That last check takes about two seconds."It is truly an Orwellian observation that the ordinary punter in Australia is so distracted by technological apparatuses that do nothing for society other than engage citizens in endless, meaningless conversations with such big girls and boys toys such as cars, phones, fashion and of course the killer of all, armchair watching of sporting events from a young age, when youth and kids should be active not increasingly passive."

Great list, Noah. One can only agree. But let's not forget the particular meaningless diversions staring us all in the face at this very moment:  Armchair politico/socio commentary on online opinion sites (present company included, of course).You want a bit of a break too? 

Do you mean that the rise in value of a property over the last 15-17 years hasn't been enough? Even with CGT to be paid, it's a pretty big windfall. How is that not a 'bit of a break'?

Owner occupies don't get that windfall when they sell after a long period. The rise in value of their home is roughly matched by the rise in value of the home they will need to move into. Investors, particularly the ones who have benefitted from the steepest growth in value in recorded history can just take the sale value, minus CGT, and do whatever they like."How does anyone benefit from that?"

I think that anyone already owning property, before the spike in overseas investment, might be keeping quiet about that. Those that own even larger portfolios will be doing their utmost to maintain overseas investment.Goes where? Straight to a cushy job in the same organisation that won the particular government contract that landed the politician in trouble in the first place?

Politician stuffs up? Sure, boot them out the door, prevent their access to 'after-pollie' perks, hit them with a HECS style loan that forces them to pay back, with interest, any funds that were list as a result of the stuff up.


"But, it's clear that a movement that is only relevant to 18% of the workforce"

Relevant? I believe the 18% figure refers to membership as opposed to relevance. I wonder what would happen if all of the workplace 'victories' for better conditions were applied to only union members, as opposed to all workers? I wonder what the new relevance figure would become?I dunno. It seems that no matter who you vote for, the government gets in anyway.I would like to take this opportunity to remind citizens of the accurate observation that states 'one who desires to rule is the one person who is least suitable to rule', an observation that clearly tallies with contemporary political experience.

It is with this in mind that I heartily encourage Peter from Melbourne's evpression of his desire to rule. I would also like to add that I do not wish to rule, yet if the citizens of this fine nation deem that I must, then I shall not shirk my responsibilities."The first may not be inclusive enough for your tastes and the second may be too simplistic but neither is offensive."

Perhaps you don't think it offensive because it doesn't apply to you. EP's second example is a good example of a common slogan that is offensive and demeaning to men. I am offended that I am being accused of a heinous crime every time I see it.

As for the van slogans, that company should be well and truly busted for disseminating such hateful campaigns against women."I don't get why you think you are being accused?"

Because the statement 'Teach men not to rape' includes all men. It assumes that despite our social conditioning, men still don't have the knowledge not to rape. It's exactly the same as a statement like 'women can't drive'. 

"The simple fact is that many, many young boys and men are basically unaware of consent."

That is not a simple fact at all and instead betrays a less than thorough examination of attitudes and behavioural protocols. By being so quick to lump boys and men as 'unaware', you fail to see the true cause of those stated 'beliefs', which is instead a deliberate deception where young men and boys are trying on a ruse in order to justify behaviours they know are abhorrent. Put any young man or boy in a room with an aggressor, and you'll find that they suddenly are able to demonstrate a most profound awareness of consent. The infamous 'courtroom' or 'classroom' attitude to consent is either 1) a lie, or 2) a deliberately sophist attempt to gain a personal advantage. In short, they know it's wrong. They are just looking for some wriggle room so that they can get out of any trouble they find themselves in.

Furthermore, relying on 'teaching' men not to rape, as the offensive slogan goes, is next to useless because teaching can be ignored. Everything ranging from serious crime down to traffic infringements and even deliberate rudeness demonstrates that teaching can and will be ignored by those who seek to gain from such willed ignorance.

So while I agree with your description of what constitutes rape (although I do find it curious that you felt that I needed it explained to me), I disagree strongly with your suggested methods of preventing it (i.e. the teaching). Young children, both boys and girls know almost instinctively about personal autonomy and the autonomy of others by the time they reach primary school. By placing 'consent' on the ideological battlefields of right vs wrong and informed vs uninformed, you set up the very space where morally dubious types can indeed create wriggle room so that 'Hey, you think one way and I think another. That makes it ok for me to act the way I do, and your daughter can't say anything about it because hey, this is what I do'. No amount of 'reasoning' or 'teaching' is going to get past that. When you mix such 'relativism' with the manner in which young people consume information, you are only going to increase the amount of that 'wriggle room'.

In my view, there's only one way to image society safer for young women: You call out every transgression of the autonomy of others every time, and harshly, from an early age. Recognising the autonomy of others then becomes habitual and any perceived gains through wilful, strategic, ignorance, are reduced.
"Not sure what is more disturbing, the slogans themselves or the customers that hire them?"

Or that young woman freely choose to spend time with such people.Thea's a brave comment, bj, so I'll show for my support for it here. I will offer one qualification, however, that the men who think such things as real, as distinct from intentionally provocative and bawdy humour, aren't necessarily hiring the vans. They are going about their day to day with this version of reality in their heads with these slogans cropping up here and there as confirmation.

While it might not be Wicked's idea of a slogan, but how about: 'You validate the attitude of the man you are with'Ooh, and another: Men don't take offence because it means hard work to get it out of the groundAnother: they said this van was like a man because it was cheap. That's where the similarity ends, this van goes for longer than five minutes.One may well do, but one has to go out looking for them. One doesn't read them flashed in public where you don't know to avoid reading it until you know what it says.

Furthermore, and more importantly, these slogans are presented in exactly the same way we regularly see other corporate slogans that ALWAYS push a message of support for the company providing the slogan. These slogans do no such thing, unless we are to assume the 'attitude displayed' is one proudly endorsed by the company. As it is incomprehensible that a company could possibly endorse such views, the slogan can only exist as an example of 'shock marketing' or a 'hate campaign'. In my view this instance, if it is indeed the former, resembles too much the latter and should be withdrawn.SueB, there is a difference between deception, bumbling and bullying.

Whohasthefish was talking about LNP deception. Such deception has nothing to do with the bumbling nor bullying that you mention above in reply to Bill.

Criticisms of Abbott and the LNP aren't wiped clean when there are criticism of others going around, you know.It's a strange kind of logic at work in the media here. The media seems to be trumpetting with great fanfare and no shame in spelling out the obvious that is it vitally important to regard sexuality as unimportant. It's as though the media really thinks that the comparatively few people who still think sexuality is important enough to require adverse discrimination be made against those of the 'wrong' sexuality will somehow be swayed one and for all by this latest news 'out-age'.

To iterate today's top story one again, it is important to regard sexuality as unimportant. We'll be following this important revelation in the nightly bulletin at 6 and again in a discussion forum at 10.30.That's why John said there is 'better' acceptance today, Nero. Sure, there's probably quite a few places where acceptance is lacking but you would be hard pressed to say that acceptance is generally worse than before."Why do Drum authors continue to tell us about this horrible place Australia is with zero evidence"

It's standard practice here on the drum when it comes to articles on social, cultural and gender issues. We could be thankful that the author hasn't scoured the Internet in order to find some obscure, hateful, post from an an anonymous internet nobody, which would then be evidence that the whole culture does indeed think such a way and that you, accused reader, should hang your head in shame for allowing such hate to pass through your mind - even if that hate doesn't stick.

Sure, such tactics don't advance or progress the debate and our understanding, but it sure does act as fine click-bait where folks line up and post their 'Hey, why are you telling me I'm bad for thinking what I never thought?' or 'Why can't people just stop (cue hand wringing) thinking wrong things?'.
"but by accident he now hold immense power in the senate."

Strangely, it's not an accident. The unwavering opposition between the LNP and the ALP is gifting this power to Palmer in the Senate. If the LNP and the ALP each worked at some compromises, together they would have the numbers to reduce Palmer's  influence. But they won't do that, will they? Like him or loathe him, you can't blame Palmer for reading the situation more perceptively than anyone else in the room. While I personally view this to be against Australia's interests, both the LNP and the ALP are watching it happen whilst sitting on their hands. They are just as complicit in this as he is."I've been trying to think when we became such bastards, what event or circumstance led to it..."

There was no singular event or circumstance. We've all been boiled like a bunch of frogs where the heat has ever so gradually been increased without us knowing about it. Some frogs will be able to hop out, yet they'll need to push a couple of other frogs down in order to manage it."To me, most of the game seems to be 36 players within a 10 metre circle, trying to catch a greasy pig. "

Apt description of the modern game. My description is 'three spiders fighting over a thimble', but I think I like yours better.

"Yes, society thinks that your existence is a poor shadow of the real thing. They're willing to help someone in your exact situation kill themselves."

But, Ann, no two people are ever in the exact same situation and, to be quite frank, it's quite offensive for you to suggest that. Every life experience one has goes on to influence following behaviours and decision making. How can one make a judgement on an other's decision making when one cannot understand or experience the entire scope of that  other's life?

Try this for a hypothetical: Someone with a terminal illness and in constant pain wishes to end their life but cannot because you say so. If that affliction could somehow be transferred to your body, thus curing the other but afflicting you, would you take on that affliction?

Any anti-euthanasia advocate who says no to that hypothetical is a hypocrite.Thank for the clarification, Ann. I agree, Nitschke's recent actions, referred to in the article, are problematic. In my view, such actions work against the very good work he and others have done to help people in what must be a very difficult situation. His actions are only comprehensible to me if there is other information about the case we aren't being told about. 

To confront your scenario: No. Anyone who feels their quality of life is not worth living should not be allowed to have access to euthanasia. They can perhaps put their hand up for it, but that doesn't mean it should be granted. 'Anyone who feels their quality of life is not worth living' covers a broad range of situations and is next to useless as a qualifier. A more stringent definition of what 'qualifies' and what 'doesn't qualify' is necessary. For example, its seems many here are in agreement about Terminal or Incurable illness in conjunction with  debilitating, constant pain would qualify. Can we not start there?

You've mentioned the last part of your scenario in other posts, so I'll answer it here. Firstly, people are never in the 'same' situation. As I mentioned above, one's lifetime of collected experiences goes on to shape and form future behaviours, attitudes and actions. If I am in a wheelchair and I find out that someone else in a wheelchair has expressed a desire to seek assisted suicide/euthanasia (not that I think that such a person should be granted euthanasia on that qualifier alone) then I should conclude, quite rationally, that there are other factors contributing to that person's decision making that don't affect me in the same way. Secondly, how are other people going to find out? As euthanasia would be a medical procedure, who is broadcasting the information? 

The blatantly simple fact is, Ann and DaveS, the media ARE reporting facts. The expression of an opinion, if the expression did indeed happen, IS a fact. This is why so many media stories include words to the effect of 'He said', 'she said', 'it was said', 'it was claimed today', 'lobby groups suggest that', 'international condemnation about', 'calls for' etc etc.

It isn't a case of where 'Bolt, Henderson or whoever said it must be true', but rather 'Bolt, Henderson or whoever are reported to have said it so it must be true that they said it'. This is the necessary distinction which which one needs to view the media in the present day.  

Even if journalists had to include documentary evidence about the facts presented, they would simply point to the footage, the webpage, the press release where something had been said. It's as simple as that. By putting the words 'it was said/claimed' etc, the onus of proof then falls beyond the media's sphere of influence and instead rests upon the shoulders of whoever happens to be making the reported claim.  All the media has to worry about is "Did they say it?" "If yes, we can then say that they said it". Pretty neat trick, eh?


Articles and broadcast reports already provide a wealth of background or contextual information surrounding their published 'quotes'. I think you'll be hard pressed to find one that doesn't, to be honest.

Your suggestion that economic reports are examples of 'independent facts' is false. In such an article or report, look out for words such as 'in a report revealed today by', 'researchers from x have found' etc etc. Again, you'd be hard pressed to find an article that doesn't do that already.In today's Top stories:

Startling claims made by DaveS reveal that climate change isn't happening and the world is flat. The claims were presented during a debate about media influence and accuracy hosted on the ABC's 'The Drum'. A commentator on the Drum, Applaudanum, refused to comment on the accuracy of DaveS claims, and instead framed the claims in a short pastiche of current journalistic methods. Both DaveS and Applaudanum are awaiting further comment.
Why is Muir's voice the only deciding factor in the Senate, Helvi?

What about all the senators that are aligned to one of the two major parties, do their votes not count? If Muir's vote is the 'one' that gets some dodgy legislation across the line, what about all the other senators that voted for it to get across the line as well?

Muir, as an independent, is accountable for his vote. Those aligned to major parties have tried the "but we wuz only following orders" line for too long. We shouldn't let them get away with it. We should be making each and every senator accountable for their vote.

Dr Rosewarne's article is entirely based on the erroneous suggestion that good art is hung or kept purely for the fact that it is good art. Has the esteemed Dr missed the last 80 years of contemporary art? Art is hung and kept because it is valuable. The link between good and valuable in art has been thoroughly and forever broken. It was Walter Benjamin who identified the 'aura' (as he called it) surrounding valuable art. While there may have once been an identifiable token within the artefact that gave a clue to its value, in the present day it is only the fact that the artefact has been held in esteem, monetarily speaking, to confer value in the object. 

Collectors may well be worried, and with good cause, yet it isn't the fear that the art will stop being 'good' that will keep them awake at night. It is the fear that the art will stop being a saleable commodity that will, ironically, have them drinking too much top shelf gin than is good for them. It won't be Rosewarne's imagined flood of old Rolf's that drives down prices, but rather it will be that no one would be willing to show support for him, even if he doesn't profit from sales of old works, that will 'drive me art prices down, sport'.

Anyone know which company's shares represent the top shelf gin products? I reckon we've got 20 years of extra gin profits going that route before they die down to current levels.

Excellent points, anote. I would also add that this particular instance of 'boisterousness' splashes upon the conferring of power to those who happen be weilding a phallus. While the intended humour, apart from it being 'icky and gross', is that whilst being totally drunk, or 'effed up' (in the current jargon), Carney is both 'dominating' and 'dominated'. 

The 'dominated' Carney is effectively dominated twice. Obviously he is dominated by being on the receiving end of the phallic stream emanating from the 'dominating' Carney, but also he is dominated by being totally drunk beyond comprehension, or totally 'effed'. The similarity in terminology where those being 'effed' are regarded as being on the receiving end of male dominance, and the use of the 'eff' word in relation to coitus (one 'effs' while the other 'is 'effed') is no coincidence. I'm surprised Dr Rosewarne, as a sex researcher, has failed to mention the representations of dominance that are quite literally at play here.
Arn't more fossil fuels burned to sustain each life with a high standard of living than burned to sustain each life with a lower standard of living?

The rise in consumption may well be inversely proportionate to population growth, yet the rise in consumption is certainly proportional to demand for fossil fuels. Will the former outweigh the latter?

In the interests of overall flippancy, we should be expecting the rank and file of any organisation to toe the line. It is the leaders in the organisation who get to tow that line to wherever they deem it best."Over the next hundred years, more than 200 million people were murdered in the name of Marxism."

I assume the bulk of these occurred during wartime where you can't always get a firm line between murder and 'self defence', or have you done the case-by-case analysis? Furthermore, just because a ruling party might call themselves Marxists, or some variant of Marxism, it doesn't necessarily follow that the any state-sanctioned killing is done in the 'name' of Marxism, but is instead done in the name of the 'state'.

You've argued, quite convincingly, many times times on other threads, EP, that those who take the name of some ideology rarely hold true to that ideology. Why is it that you think this is not the case with Marxists?What strikes me about this supposedly 'dangerous idea' is that is only dangerous to 'western' ideals of justice, equality, fair trials, separation of powers between church and state etc. Yet the ideas that were advertised as to be presented aren't dangerous to ruling orthodoxies in places like the Middle East and the subcontinent (while I of course admit that said ideas are dangerous to people in those communities who aren't quite so high up in the religious pecking order, ie women). They are in fact safe ideas for those ruling orthodoxies and not dangerous at all.

Does it follow, then, that 'western' ideals of equality, justice, fair trials, separation of powers between church and state are indeed dangerous ideas to those of the ruling orthodoxies in the Middle East and the subcontinent? Are our ideas dangerous to those who would oppose them? 

I daresay that the 'dangerous ideas' people really have no idea, and that is the dangerous bit.Encourage your two to club together for an apartment that they can both live in. Then encourage them to put the bulk of their salaries into the mortgage whilst living a little frugally. They'll own the place within 10 years and then they can decide what to do after that, sell and split the proceeds probably. 

This will mean however that they can't regularly fork out for new clothes, overseas holidays, drinks out after the void after the dinner out...and the brunch out after that, they might have to make their car and computer stretch a while longer, top of the line appliances will have to be budgeted for and bought as needed rather than as wanted. You know, the sort of sacrifices university students were traditionally found to be making for years at a time , and the sorts of sacrifices young people had to make in order to afford their hpreviously makingEncourage your two to club together for an apartment that they can both live in. Then encourage them to put the bulk of their salaries into the mortgage whilst living a little frugally. They'll own the place within 10 years and then they can decide what to do after that, sell and split the proceeds probably. 

This will mean however that they can't regularly fork out for new clothes, overseas holidays, drinks out after the movie after the dinner out...and the brunch out after that, they might have to make their car and computer stretch a while longer, top of the line appliances will have to be budgeted for and bought as needed rather than as wanted. You know, the sort of sacrifices university students were traditionally found to be making for years at a time. Similar to exactly the sorts of sacrifices young people have had to make in order to afford their homes in previous decades.

Times haven't changed nearly as much as expectations.I agree, mike, in theory. 

Haven't you noticed a common tendency these days for one to claim that their ideas are being suppressed when they are instead being ridiculed or challenged?
Sorry, Ann, I was perhaps not quite so clear there. Mike was taking about uncomfortable views being free to be expressed. I was pointing out that once expressed, the contemporary tendency is to claim 'suppression' if one then finds a challenge or critique of the expressed view.

In any case, the man's speech was deemed inappropriate for the event, just as my speech on 'tiddlywinks as cultural struggle' would have been rejected. That's not suppression as he and I still have various other avenues for the expression of our ideas.Honourable ridicule is morally justified.

If someone were to suggest that Honour killings are morally justified, then others would be morally justified in ridiculing that someone and their arguments. It is the honourable thing to do.

So that just leaves the remaining 4/5ths of the property buyers who purchase in the 5-10 years before the much anticipated and prophesied bubble bursting (the prophecies have been running for 12 years so far) as collateral damage.Don't we also have the lowest debt to GDP in the OECD? I wonderful we can up the corporate tax rate and bring down the debt to GDP at the same time?"Why should I pay more tax, if the government is already wasting what I pay now."

Because those tax dollars eventually filter through the system into the very pockets that decide to spend money on your services.

If you suddenly found yourself in a situation where your clients no longer had the intelligence, opportunity, or requirement to use your services, what will happen to your income?But I'm not talking about the trickle down effect. I'm talking about the trickle-up effect where people have money and a capacity to pay for services they require. 

Service providers, quite rightly, do well out of this. Yet those same service providers shouldn't ignore where their profits are coming from.A greater percentage of people fall below the mean income when the individuals who earn the most, earn a greater multiple of that same mean. For example, if you add up the numbers 1,2,3 etc. to 10, the mean is 5.5, giving us 50% of 'people' below the mean and 50% above. If you ads up the numbers 1,2,3, etc. to 8 plus 90 and 100, the mean is 22.6 which gives us 80% of 'people' below the mean and 20% above."In any case, $180,000 isn't really enough for a person of standing to live on at a decent standard."

You're kidding right? Are you saying that a 'person of standing' (what happened to calibre) needs to buy 3 of everything that I buy?Yikes, PtL, now I suspect you truly are 'having a lend'. Next you'll be claiming that such 'necessities' should be tax deductible. 

These 'needs', 'have tos' and 'wish tos' that you speak of are purely 'cultural' associations of the group we are talking about. That is, if the Company Directors unanimously decided that living the life of austerity and providing charity was the one true expression of a meaningful life that faithfully demonstrated their commitment to the aims of their company, then that is what Company Directors would do. The good restaurants etc. wouldn't get a look in. 

Given that we as a group determine the values of culture, as far as we can, then it only seems right that Company directors and CEOs be encouraged to shape their after-work lives around the principle of austerity and charity. Their salaries over and above the median could then be re-assigned to the tax department so that all and sundry can see their worthy sacrifice.To add to MT's point, WA, why is it that you support the rich getting a greater increase in their wealth, in both percentage and absolute dollar terms, than the poor over a period of time. The rich are already well off, why do they need to be 'more' well off?That's a commonly held view, Mack, but it is a too simplistic.

Ask yourself the following: 
How do the employees get to work?
How do the employees stay healthy?
How do the employees get the education to become a reliable contributor to the workplace?
How were the utilities and communications infrastructure built that allow the business to function?
How do the customers get the education, discretionary income, need, and facilioty to purchase your the products/services of the business? 
How is the business protected from thieves and extortionists?

You see, those tax dollars are not punitive. They are payments for the myriad of services that directly and indirectly boost the business' bottom line, as well as the income of the employees. When business owners and employees see such taxes as punitive, that is when we know they have lost all connection to society.Great post, Steve, and I can only agree. However, the horse of 'national pride' (as distinct from patriotism) has bolted and is long gone. 

Odd though it may seem, the entity that let that horse out was the international mass-media. Ever so gradually, people turned away from their neighbours, their relatives, their local communities and became interested in a small box in the corner of their living room. These boxes have multiplied and have developed into various 'new' forms that allow the user to 'interact' with what's happening on the screen as opposed to what's happening around them. 

The 'content' flashing out from these screens bears little relation to the locale of the spectator. The source of the content can come from afar and bear little relationship to the personal circumstances of the spectator. The 'content' can be 'instructive' in that it guides the spectator in what to think and how to be, or it can be 'stimulative' in that it encourages the spectator to continue absorbing information that stimulates their most-desired, yet often subconscious, behaviour patterns. Thus it is that personal 'allegiances'  no longer come from an authoritative 'state', but rather come from the unique mixture of information and stimulation emanating from these many different screens. 

Oh yes, and I am aware of the irony in explaining the above whilst appearing on a little screen myself, so don't bother pointing that out.

Furthermore,  I am also aware of the irony in that the above disclaimer also has, as its source, content gleaned from one of those screens mentioned above, so don't bother pointing that out either.
"and a Brazilian barista should know their coffee"

Except, Closet Romantic, that it's a racist stereotype to assume the individual has a particular experience, even if that experience was deemed to be a positive attribute, in exactly the same way it is racist to assume an individual conforms to a negative character trait associated with a particular race.
A question isn't a point, mike, unless it was rhetorical.

Actors can be discriminated against because their appearance, gender, voice type, accent etc conflicts with a desired trait that is deemed necessary to the production. In cases where make-up and costume can be used to limit the impact of the actors own traits, then the production company has to decide if they can afford to go with that extra expense.Only in some instances, mike. Not illegal for the acting roles already mentioned, but still illegal for almost any other job you care to mention. An employer looking for a barista, forklift driver, mechanic, etc. wouldn't get very far by arguing it isn't illegal for him/her to discriminate according to race because it happens in the acting profession. 
This tallies with my experience, Fortress. There's a general scepticism toward the foreign 'group', yet a willingness to accept the individual.

I've found that older relatives and colleagues, mostly boomer, have a strange linguistic quirk that I don't think they're aware of. They'll mention a migrant they know socially, or at work, and emphasise the fact that despite bring a migrant, he/she is a really great person. For example 'I was talking to this Pakistani guy at work, really nice bloke, and he said ...". 

Why do such speakers assume that we would jump to the conclusion that the migrant fella wasn't a nice bloke?I suppose such people mention it out of habit, where some kind of perceived anomaly has a bearing. Yet they quickly realise it doesn't have a bearing, hence the hastily added 'nice bloke' clause. 

It's not just race either. It could be class, job, clothes, appearance. Keep an ear out for it and note who is doing it, it really is a kind of generational hypnotism, if you'll pardon my unfair generalisation.Star Track doing a good job as a private company, my Lord?

Good to see Australia Post, the owners of Star Track, doing something right.When one considers that the majority of these free/cheap international articles are delivered gratis by the 'letters' operation, you know, the operation within Australia Post that runs at a loss (so they keep telling us), then it's only reasonable to assume that Australia Post's profit and loss reporting is highly dubious.This is how it will pan out, you heard it here first:

Constant broadcasting of 'letters business in decline. Further losses year after year' will prompt the government to privatise the company (even though it is already privately run, how do they expect to get greater efficiencies?). The profitability of the parcels business will be the main selling point to interested buyers.

Interested buyers will then do their own audit of the business structure. They will find out that the parcels business isn't as profitable as Australia Post have been saying. What with all those international articles and other parcels delivered 'gratis' by the letters business, while at the same time piggybacking on that same infrastructure that supports the letters business to deliver actual 'parcel-business' delivered parcels. Interested buyers will then put forward a very low offer, much lower than that expected before the audit of the business structure, which the government of the day will have to accept. The government of the day will even go as far as to say that they are doing the right thing selling it off 'It wasn't even as profitable as they said it was! Good riddance to bad rubbish'.

The letters business will disappear and the new owners will be forced to up the cost of all that free/very cheap international articles coming in to the country by charging those overseas mail operators for the privilege, the cost of which will be passed on to online purchasers. 

You can hear the cash registers spinning in their heads as we speak.
Given the calibre of candidates that keep getting put forward, it would seem both major parties are infected with 'Topdownism'. If you don't toe the correct line, you don't get a look in and you don't advance. Thus we end up with a bunch if yes men, hacks, and careerists all in it for themselves.Then start from the other end, AE: give a $6 a week cut for every 25k per annum up until a figure like 150k.
I made a similar suggestion yesterday, Sir Robert. 

The annoying thing is that you and I can dream this up in our spare time, yet we can probably assume that both you and I combined would not match Shorten's pay band. What's more, he's got resources and records at his fingertips, advisors, staff and supportive colleagues (presumably).

In my view, now would be the time to present an alternative to the '(s)Hockey' budget. Get it out there with plans to take on the big end of town, hit the miners, hit the banks, clamp down on all sorts of 'tax-minimisation' schemes, and basically present the numbers for a reduced debt budget. With public sentiment so against the current government's budget, the opposition are in a position to, in a manner of speaking, govern from opposition.

Yet, I don't think they will. Just today I heard Penny Wong on television with the standard rhetoric against the budget that hadn't changed since the budget was released however many weeks ago, the same sort of comments we've been reading on the drum for that period. We're giving opinions freely, presumably from vastly lower pay bands than members of federal parliament, yet I don't see any evidence of 'earning their daily bread' from any of them. I don't think Labor has a plan, or they are content to watch the LNP skewer themselves further and further as part of some strategy that serves their interests rather than the interests of the people they represent.Just because doing nothing, Zaphod, will not achieve a solution, it doesn't mean that doing 'something' will always result in success either. The 'something' needs to be targeted correctly for the benefit of everyone. 

If there is a budget emergency, why drop one line of revenue (carbon tax)? Why propose an expensive maternity scheme that is going to be paid for with both a levy AND a tax cut at the same time?

It's clear the LNP has no clue about their supposed budget emergency. Their performance thus far would suggest that it isn't the nation's economy that they are interested in, but rather the subjugation of the public to a raft of measures that benefit big business. This is why their public pronouncements are so often conflicted, they are trying to bring in measures against the public interest whilst trying to convince that same public to accept those measures. We should at least be thankful that they are so inept at it.

But strangely, this is the exact time Labor should be outlining their alternatives loudly and clearly. I'm sure stronger controls on tax minimisation schemes used by business and high income earners would be highly agreeable to the public right now, seeing as the LNP's attempts are so unpopular. They should be hitting the airwaves with 'this is the ten point plan on bring the nation's economy back on track...', 'these measures will bring in x billion per year', etc.

Are the Labor party currently announcing such policies and plans? If so, we really should be hearing more about them? If not, what the blazes are they currently doing?The problem with facts, yank, is that there are so many of them. Far too many for one outlet to include in one go. Thus 'selecting' which facts get presented and which facts get buried is where bias steps in. For example, if a newspaper only presented crimes committed by a racial minority to the exclusion of all others, whilst also presenting the achievements of a racial majority to the exclusion of all others, would you then say that facts are the bed rock of journalism?

This is why we get so much 'he said, she said, it was claimed' today, because the act of saying and the act of claiming are facts even though what might be claimed or spoken of is not factual. It's as good a fact as any other if you can legitimately stick an 'it was claimed' at the start. You're covered then, able to print all manner of lies and distortions because you're just presenting the fact that such things were indeed said.The NBN directly threatens Foxtel's business structure by allowing users to bypass costly monthly subscriptions and instead opt for a direct pay-per-view style arrangement with content providers. 

Which major party has attempted to scuttle the NBN?
Which major party had been receiving mostly positive news coverage in the lead up to the recent election?True, Jim, but the widening gap between rich and poor, coupled with the fact that more and more wealth is bring concentrated into fewer and fewer hands, means that the road to building that wealth is steeper and more difficult than it ever has been in living memory.Clear, hard, facts like he did indeed have his hands above his head, that he wasn't armed, that he didn't try to grab the officer's gun? Those sorts of facts?

Couldn't agree more, let's sort out those facts and determine that an unarmed, cooperative, teenager was indeed shot down and then determine whether an unarmed, cooperative, teenager deserved to be shot down.

As everyone would agree, the answer to the last one is obvious: no. Ruby's article, and your post, attempts to suggest people really believe that the answer to the last is yes , which is patently absurd. We should instead focus on the first."The PM is referring to our values as a collective group...egalatarianism, tolerance, mutual respect, trust, diversity and democracy."

Don't they have these things in ither countries? I've seen other countries do them all better than us. So if they are indeed 'ours', perhaps we better show the world how it's done.

Or are we just a country that talks up a big game, but instead watches from the sidelines, stuffing our faces and telling everyone how good 'we' are?


Well done. AE. You've just demolished any claims for a 'budget emergency' and 'economic mismanagement' resulting from the actions of the previous government.What surprises me is the fact that it was supposedly needed to be said at all?

It wasn't controversial, it was basic. A smart primary schooler could have said it. And for this he's on half a million? 

We can agree then that the content of the statement wasn't controversial. That just leaves the 'act' of the statement. In other words, what was the motivation behind the very public enunciation of such trite, middle of the road, non contraversial, content?

That's where the analysis kicks in, the act. If Abbott is worth anything at all, it's the act. It certainly isn't the content.Yet our real problem is tuberculosis, but no one is giving much air time to that. 

As far as tuberculosis is a metaphor for the problems in this country that the governments wants to ignore, and instead focus on some nebulous foreign threat that out there lurking (you never know when it's going to strike), it's really rather apt.Not only that, KE, but he also demonstrated quite superbly what is is that the lifters are lifting. In his case it was the 'lifting' of entitlements straight from the pockets of the taxpayer. Sure, he may have been entitled to them but it was still 'lifting'.Mortan and JohnM,

If we are indeed in some financial mess, why has the Government removed one source of revenue (carbon tax) and campaigned on a new payment for mothers to be paid for by both a levy AND a tax cut on business? Then there was the matter of 'no new taxes'. 

Personally, I agree with the increase. Yet we were told by these guys, when they were in opposition, that the government should be taken at its word, and that is exactly what's happening when people criticise this government's budget plans.

So, are we to take them at their word or not? Are we only to take one team on their word but give the other a free run? Kangaroo Edward said above that gaffes and I'll-informed comment are the lingua Franca of the current government. To that we can add that inconsistency is this government's raison d'ertre.
Fine, turner, I'll take yours. You won't miss it, will you? Why would you have an attachment to a thing that is not real?

We can't always turn to 'causes' because the vast array of human experience is unique. It isn't physics where an action causes an equal and opposite reaction.

We have laws in place around drunk driving, where the onus of responsibility is still 'on the drunk'. One could argue that one wasn't reasonable when they climbed into the driver's seat while intixicated. As far as I'm aware we don't allow that 'excuse' any play in those instances, so there should be no difference in other areas of drunken misadventure."But what if I have previously been abused? Maybe gaol is inappropriate."

Gaol is appropriate because you still had the option of getting up, loudly calling the guy a paedo, storming out and contacting the police. 

How do you know the story you were told was true? If one can remove their emotional experience whilst determining fact from fiction, one can easily remove their emotions long enough to act responsibly.There's only one cause of violence, the perpetrator.

Circumstances don't cause violence. Despite the best interests of the psychotherapy and pharmaceutical industries, there are no lists or 'sets' of circumstances that causes violence. The individual always has control, except in a few very rare instances where such people shouldn't be at large anyway. As for instances of intoxication, the individual chooses to imbibe the intoxicant, with a few rare exceptions again. As someone else said, intoxicants should be an aggravating factor to sentencing, not a mitigating factor.I think there must be some kind of cultural malaise going on. 

In popular music, we see big tours from an assortment of old acts and a recognition that new acts are rubbish in comparison. Now we have calls to bring out some if the old politicians to churn out a few numbers because we recognise that the current crop are rubbish. 

Popular music and politics, who could have predicted the similarity?Speak for yourself, Maxine.

While you're at it, don't allow the media, the business community or the government, who all continually extol the virtues of having lowered expectations and standards, to speak for you either.

Set your standards, live by them, argue for them when necessary. 
"Do yourself a favour... and do your bit to make your country good... or something"

I suppose if some countries handed over some cashola, they could get buy a prime-time mention. A little more cashola and they can buy 'media silence' for their 'competitors'. That's how it went down on Countdown town, didn't it?



"At least he had the mettle to stand up to Putin on behalf of the victims of MH17."

Does that mean the investigation has been completed and that the perpetrators have been identified?

Does that mean Abbott can tear up the 'non-disclosure' deal that he made me with some European governments should the investigation findings go the 'other' way?

Until the investigation is complete and the findings made known, Abbott is just posing for the cameras.A minor news item on the front page of Australia's highest selling newspaper with 3-inch high letters saying 'The Russian's are Coming'?

Not that I personally put any value on what's written on the front page of the Herald-Sun, except maybe the date, but someone's obviously got an interest in ratcheting up the panic.

"People on some distant galaxy, if they've come far enough, will have the same prime numbers, the same integral and differential calculus (different symbols of course but the same structure) and the same quantum field theory. "

Just a question: Are prime numbers (as well as integral and differential calculus) dependent on our having a base10 number system? Would having a base24, base37, base-whatever number system result in a different collection of prime numbers etc.? While the existence of beings on another planet is still uncertain, it would be absolutely unlikely that they'd use base10. A quick glance at your hands should tell you that.The problem of 'funding' all these Royal Commissions neatly dovetails with the problem of 'prosecution' once wrongdoers have been identified. There is a solution, one that's already been successful in the tertiary education sector for a couple of decades, and that is a HECS styled funding of Royal Commissions.

Anyone found guilty of wrong doing by an RC has to fund it through a HECS styled payment, called 'RCCS'. If one person is found guilty, they're up for 53 million. If 50 are found, that's just over a million each. Persons found to be guilty of wrongdoing can make it cheaper for themselves if they successfully manage to get others found guilty by the same RC (just imagine how quick members of the federal LNP would rat each other out just to save a a few million bucks - they'd fall like dominos).

After the RC, the appropriate law enforcement agency can choose to prosecute on the evidence submitted (plus whatever other evidence they themselves dig up), just as they can do today. The fact that someone may have a newly aquired 'RCCS' debt should not play a part in anyone's subsequent punishment.
Thanks, Ann. 

We can try to get around such pesky laws by treating the 'RCCS' funding not as punishment but as an administrative measure only.  Subsequent punishments that are meted out by law enforcement agencies for the 'offence' identified by the RC are treated separately. In other words, the 'RCCS' doesn't punish the offender, but simply identifies them as a customer with an administrative price tag.  

A fall? Sure, you might get a fall of 5% or maybe even 10%, wiping out a whole 2 years of 'gains', whoopdedoo! The only people with enough stake in to fear such a fall is the real estate sector. Smaller commissions and fewer sales is all they fear.

Larger falls of the kind needed to put the fear into owner occupiers are dependent on larger-scale employment falls across the board. I'd like to see the 'get house prices down' cheer squad pop the champagne corks on rising unemployment.

Interest rates? They won't move upward very-far unless the rates overseas do the same first. Our rates have to be relatively competitive with the international market for 2 very important reasons; 1) if international rates are vastly cheaper, then international investors have an advantage over local investors, and 2) it wouldn't be that difficult for the international banks operating loans already in Australia to massively undercut the big 4. The government and the big 4 banks don't want that to happen, particularly point 2!You'll find that we are still welcoming many people, Ann. For every boat arrival turned back, there's one more from a UNHCR camp being granted a place here. 

What is it that boat arrival advocates could possibly have against those in UNHCR camps?Hiding at number 5 is a bit harsh. It depends on their batting and partnership style. Can they rotate and keep the strike? Can they score quickly? Can they maintain partnerships with the tail-enders? Can they boost the skills of the tail-enders just by being out there with them? Gilchrist certainly wasn't hiding down at 6 and 7! I can just imagine the fleeting moment of triumph evaporating for the opposing team: one moment they're celebrating the fifth dismissal of the innings, 'not long now eh, lads?', a second later they see that Gilchchrist is heading to the crease. It would be enough to make you wonder why you bothered at all.

I seem to recall Boonie being an opening batsman with Jones and Border batting at number 3 at different times.I disagree Freddie and Mitor. 

If one is planning on carrying the foetus full term, then the foetus could then be said to have rights or, at least, have its precarious, dependant, status considered when factors beyond its control may affect it.

That said, I don't think this is really a foetal rights issue. Rather, this is a 'State trying to cut costs' issue. Foetal rights are just getting caught in the crossfire.In a strictly literal sense, Mitor, you are correct. At the risk of getting on the slippery slope, how far do we extend those rights to the foetus bearer before a duty of care to the foetus is considered; smoking, prescription drug abuse, contact sports? If the foetus bearer has rights but the foetus doesn't, then bring on the pregnant women MMA battles!Point well made, Mitor, and I'm sure we agree. I suppose it's a matter of terminology. 

As I hinted at earlier, I think talking about rights here is the wrong way to go about it. Do you think a statement such as 'One should not cause damage to a foetus, intended for full term, through abuse or neglect' plays into the hands of anti-abirtionists?Alternative viewpoint?

For many articles, an experienced Drum visitor can see the topic and the author and reliably predict the position taken in the article. In much the same way one can predict what position the yank or one of our in-house lawyers might take on an issue.

We can predict this because the writer takes 'sides' come hell or high water, regardless of any subtle implications that might arise when the 'side' meets the 'issue'. Some of us like to tune in just to see how a 'side' will be 'justified' on an issue. It's a bit like watching a Z-grade film and thinking 'I can't believe they're expecting me to accept this. Are they for real?!'. 

Some of us really love our Z-grade films.You are forgetting, blax, that the cause of a price crash is that the current price is suddenly unaffordable - generally speaking.

What makes the current price unaffordable? A large increase in unemployment/underemployment. One's ability to service the mortgage is directly linked to the overall employment rate. Sure, if you keep your job, or have a suitable buffer (security margin) in place that allows for a slight income loss, then one can still meet their repayments. But if lots of people start becoming unemployed, how does one know they won't be next?The difference between the U.S and Australia is that in the U.S., the person with the mortgage can leave and the Bank is left with an asset that is worth less than the figure they handed over for it - risk held by the bank. In Australia, much the same thing happens except that the bank can then pursue that 'defaulter' for the difference if the price of the asset has dropped - risk held by the person with the mortgage.It is often the case that financial pundits talk about 'growth' when they say that such and such is doing better than someone else. That way, they can avoid talking about a common base for comparison.

For example, let us suppose that two countries were neck and neck on 100 'economic widgets' 10 years ago. Let us suppose also that one country had slow and steady gains so that the last 3 reporting points were 140, 146, and 150 economic widgets, whilst the other country had a lull and then a late burst so that the last 3 reporting points were 95, 105, 120 economic widgets. The latter, with a greater increase in 'growth', would be argued as doing better than the former.You appear to have missed the bit where prices have gone up, fmw.

As interest rates have come down, people have allowed themselves to take out a larger loan to meet a similar monthly repayment. If interest rates come down again, people will  take out even larger loans. If interest rates go up, people will only take out smaller loans.It's not about being defined by one's job, whogoesthere, but it is instead about being defined by what other people are willing to put up with.

If more and more people find a way to live according to a 7-day/60 hour working week, the cost of living will rise to meet that. It will become the new norm to do that. One will be priced out of real estate, for example, if one doesn't keep up with what others are prepared to do.I think, Ann, that you are sticking to a discrete label for a spectrum phenomenon and criticising Orion for doing, in your opinion, the same thing.

Orion appears to be talking about the anecdotes regaled in the article. You have alluded to other acts elsewhere in the thread and assumed that Orion's judgement of the acts mentioned in the article would hold for ANY acts involving children.
Thanks for the clarification. Ann. I seemed to miss anecdote 2 and 3 in my re-read of the article.

For the record, anecdotes 2 and 3, as told above, would certainly put them both behaviours on the spectrum of concerning and problematic.

It's a shame that this story is about to close, because I've just had another thought concerning Dunham's motivations for recounting such anecdotes. In short, I believe Dunham's recounting of the anecdotes, especially in the context of her being a 'weird' kid, is part of an attempt to limit female sexual 'agency'. Her 'weirdness as explanation' makes the anecdote less about something she 'did' and more about something that 'happened to her'. Her program has had that particular charge levelled at it before where, as part of an episode, a sex act was complained and discussed about after-the-fact rather than resisted at the time."Feminists of colour are concerned that Dunham's privilege and her status as an icon of white feminism is excusing her for behaviour that would never be tolerated from a black woman."

That concern is based on what event, exactly? Can someone point to a vaguely similar event when a woman from a minority group was prevented from recounting a similar anecdote? Until that similar event was shown to be 'never tolerated', that concern would be unfounded. 

So, were writing articles based on unfounded concerns now?That brand identification might lead some cynics to suggest that the anecdotes are exaggerated or fabricated.Interesting story, nosey.

Surely, the Republican Party can use whatever machinations they like to choose their candidates in order to maintain their 'brand identity'.

The young man still has the option to run independently. He's not out of the race, he's just not on a team that likes to throw a lot of election money around. When there's money involved, there's a price.I wonder how many 'daredevils' lost their lives working at the frontiers of electricity and electronics?

Would the inconsequential, self-satisfied prose, the kind that emanates from those who themselves decide to sidestep the thoroughly inevitable consequences of participation in research at the frontiers of knowledge, be so easily disseminated without that 'less-than-tragic', stipulated-in-the-contract, sacrifice?
 

They may upped the tax-free threshold, but what did that achieve for revenue?Nobody pulled them up on it because back in the 40s, the term was used to describe liberal economic policy, which they still stand for when it benefits their 'commerce-stituency'.

It was only when the news of various social upheavals in the US during the 1960s was broadcast here did we start using their terminology for liberal social policy.Liberal economic policy, or Economic Liberalism, would be for the free market. In the current era, it would seem that they 'support' certain players within that free market, compared to an earlier tem when they would have prevented private monopolies from being damaging to the public.How many culturally progressive, social-justice, types do you know that are 'fooled' by the name Liberal Party? How many do you think see what Abbott, Hockey, Pyne, Bishop, etc. say in the media every day and still think to themselves at the ballot box 'Oh, but they're still in the Liberal Party so they must be the good guys'?

I prefer to think that our socially progressive, left-leaning, types are intelligent enough to not be fooled by a party heading that has been the same since they were old enough to vote.More frugal use of electricity?

When the residents of Melbourne were put on water restrictions for a few years, the water companies started crying poor and wanted a price rise!Nor would I. In fact, I'd support a government that suddenly 'moved the goalposts' on them, 'tightened the screws' on their business model and forced them to sell back to the State at a loss.Hey, babe. Nice article (who says men don't like doing the irony?)

Seriously, I found the video quite chilling. Perhaps it was the premise and way it was edited, but I really felt the level of threat being 'just almost there'. I know I couldn't hack it day after day.

The supposedly 'nice hello' is one thing. It's borderline innocuous and not remotely threatening. Yet we could accurately predict that a less attractive, perhaps older, more plain, heavier, woman will not attract the same sort of attention. That fact, in my opinion, is what moves the 'nice hello' onto something more sinister. The 'nice hello' is thus a kind of literalist trick or ruse. If there's a negative reaction, the person using the 'nice hello' can fall back on a 'What's the matter with you? I was only being friendly', feigning insult. In other words, they are relying on the established literalism of a 'nice hello' to impart a sexual advance.

Those that then vocally feign insult at this point drop the advance and suggest a threat with a 'What am I, not good enough for you?'. The woman is thus goaded or shamed into a response. If she fails to respond here, the threat is either dropped with a 'What a cow' or it is taken to the next level with a following, continued harassment (yes, it is now harassment), maybe even an arm grab and an 'I'm talking to you!'. That's scary stuff that people shouldn't have to deal with going about their daily business. 

This type of behaviour should not be normalised under any circumstances.Asia has a North, a South, a West and an East. 

Part of that East is the 'Far East Asia' to which Matthew refers."I'm sure Russell's government would consist mainly of females..."

... and then he could make insulting references to those females who were goodly enough to sleep with him to their elderly relatives and call it comedy.

The man is, ostensibly, a charmer. Or has there been so many 'gates' since 'Manuel the Waiter-gate', that we're all in a state of short-term discontinuity?I think the more relevant question is will Brand's followers put down his twitter feed, put down their devices for sending 'likes' about the place, and roll up their sleeves and make a difference.

Or will they just be happy consuming whatever media Brand puts his name to thinking it will make a difference .... to something other than his bank account.Thanks Ann, I look forward to playing the part of the embittered curmudgeon with some enthusiasm. 

Admittedly, it remains to be seen what that 'something' will be. If that 'something' means banding together and doing something for the less fortunate in society, then it would be churlish to admonish them. If that 'something' means unlocking themselves from the consumerist spectacle of quick diversions and empty thrills, I look forward to reading Guy Debord in the park with them.

But if that 'something' turns out to be a brick shaped short-cut to consumer items on the other side of a shop window, then you won't catch me celebrating the small victory of it being someone else's shop.

That's the style of play that Brand himself has turned into a brand-name (pun intended).Ahead of the curve?

You don't get all that free publicity by being ahead of the curve. You get it by being 'on-message'.Brand succeeds because he first outlines all of the things that are currently wrong in the world in such a manner that in your head you think 'Yes, I agree. Yes, this guy is right'. Then when your guard is down, he tells you his solution to the aforementioned problems. You're more likely to agree with him because he's already established that 'trust' or 'rapport' with you based on earlier agreements.

This is a common 'sales-pitch' technique used wherever persuasion can be seemed to benefit he or she who is doing the persuading. 

Oh we are all so 'media-savvy' these days, aren't we? Especially the young, they can see through it all, left, right and centre, they won't get fooled. As they say in the classics, 'oops'.No, my premise is that he's formulaic to the point of banality. His formula and his 'product' are tailor-made for the peddling of escapist consumption.   

So he admits he doesn't have all the answers? You've got to admire the guy for his honesty, eh? Hang on. Who was the last politician, or political aspirant, to claim he or she had all the answers?This again?

The name refers to liberal economic policy. Has done for decades.But when the party was formed, the word 'liberal' wasn't used in connection with social policy, at least not in this country, until news of  the various social upheavals in the US was aired here in the 1960s. 

They can call themselves what they like. If they thought 'The Liberalism Party' wasn't catchy enough, then that was their decision. I've taken a casual interest in political events and history all my adult life, so I'm not going to be fooled by their name now. I recommend other adults (and soon-to-be-adults) do the same. As the saying goes, 'buyer beware'.

No, he wasn't identified by the shop footage. It was only after he was found, via the phones being shown to 'travel together', could they go back to the footage and say 'yeah, that's him'.In order to prevent the attack in your example, there isn't much to go on even if the attackers are careless.

In order to prosecute someone after the fact, someone who could well be saying 'I wasn't there. Azza and I didn't make it to the shopping centre after all!", there's plenty of information out there. There's phone messages, which when collated together create a sequence of events. There's phone location data, credit card purchases, websites visited (these last two, for example, can be seen to be 'timed' to fit together) etc etc. 

Sure, alibis can be made to fit any data circumstance and 'someone else was on my phone/computer' is always good to throw around a bit of doubt. Yet, as more and more information is available to law enforcement agencies, the opportunity for more and more 'cracks' to open up in anyone's alibi increases. Sure, that's a bad thing if the data isn't managed, accessed or protected properly. But it's a good thing for the victims of crime and/or their families looking for justice if the data is indeed managed, accessed and protected properly."CA needs to decide whether it is really interested in the development of Australian cricket or whether it wants to continue prostituting the game to the interests of pay TV"

Oh, they've made that decision.I'll have a try at spelling it out.

She used her position to obtain personal advantages rather than the professional advantages that come with doing the job. Furthermore, it appears that the selection of 'visiting guests' was chosen according to personal requirements rather than the requirements of the organisation. How can we be sure that other visiting guests weren't considered solely because they didn't measure up to Peris' personal 'requirements'? The selection of such visiting guests, which no doubt costs the organisation plenty of money, should be undertaken in a transparent and clearly accountable manner.Yes, personal advantages. I was being polite. What would you prefer I called them?

I'm not saying Bolden gave no clinics etc. I'm saying that its a very real possibility that other, perhaps more suitable and more value-for-money, visiting guests weren't considered to take those clinics for the precise reason that they didn't meet Peris' personal requirements.

It's all about disclosure. If she disclosed her personal interest in having Bolden visit, and that the organisation was fine with that, then fine. It's the organisation's money. If there was no disclosure, then questions should be asked.

Remember the Cadbury/Tasmania deal a little while ago? Cadbury was given money by the government yet Cadbury had financial links to figures very very close to government. No one was saying Cadbury didn't do the 'job' with that money. The problem, as is the case here, is full disclosure and the potential for favourable treatment given to those who have close connections to those who make the decisions.Sure, it shows she is human. It also shows she was functioning well below her pay band. What's that, the Captan's pick put that pay band out further?!

There's no need, Steve C. We only need to point to the conflict of interest and cronyism. I would expect the terms and conditions of Peris' employment at the time would have been quite clear on that.I'd like to see those figures plotted across the last 30 years. I can easily recall them going through the 30% barrier across the board.Yeah, good luck with that, Michael.

Whenever one mentions excessive executive and CEO wages on these boards, you know salaries that are 20 or even 90 times the minimum wage, there's plenty of people around that think such wages are value for money, or that if you want such a wage that you just have to 'make it happen'.

The same argument applies when people have the temerity to suggest that higher wage earners should be taxed more, thus bringing down the higher earner's 'take home' pay to a more level standard. 'No way', goes the cry, 'Such people work hard to get those higher earnings and shouldn't be punished!'."If people have access to low interest loans that they don't have to pay back until they are earning a good income then surely they are smart enough to do a cost benefit analysis on the return from their degree."

Freddie, I believe you have just described the HECS system (or it it HELP now?). That would make your earlier comment that students should put some of that investment in themselves superfluous. How do you think HECS debts are paid?Lower the standards, make courses easy to pass (hint: lots of 'group' assignments), channel those savings to the big pay packets if the top professors, Deans and Chancillors.  Get in more administrators (better let the admin people decide what staff they need). Spend big bucks on advertising and facile 'Believe' themed slogans, get some glossy brochures for the Open day and talk, talk, talk, about what a great job you're doing and what a great place this unversity is. That's the current model on display at a university near you."I am wondering why all these people still wish to go to university?"

It has something to do with job ads stating that a degree is require for the position. You'd thnk that the business sector (what with them being at the apex of initiative, forward thinking, efficiency, planning and awareness) would have already worked out that university degrees have been boiled down to the Kelloggs standard (as you rightly point out) and dropped the need for degrees in their job ads."Why also does not the media in this country promote the virtues of this so very varied and disparate cultural group of human beings and constantly focuses on the few nutters?"

Presumably, atomou, for the exact same reason you say thing like "Or when we attack their brothers and mothers, their sisters, in the street, blatantly and with immunity" in an above post. Why are you focussing on just a few nutters?

"Why must the Muslims constantly apologise for the behaviour of other Muslims?"

There is no 'must' about it. Yet when we see the extreme contrast between reactions to distortions of Islam made by westerners and the reactions to distortions of Islam made by groups like IS, people in western countries begin to wonder about the allegiances of Islam's followers.I suppose then that the Kurdish people don't belong in the north of Iraq, atomou. Thus IS are setting things right by trying to wipe them out?Albo is correct here. 

Attempting to attribute some sort of victimhood status upon middle class kids born and raised in Australian is woefully misguided. 

The only thing this kids are victims of is a chip on their shoulder, put there by an exclusionist faith-based education and strict religious upbringing that promotes an 'us vs them' ethos. 

Fortunately, the vast majority of Australians are welcoming people and our multicultural history is sufficiently robust to encourage many young people to dismiss that 'chip' on the shoulder and treat others (including those of another gender, sexuality and nationality) as equals and with respect. It's hard to imagine what could possibly be done to prevent those few from falling through the cracks due to the weight of that 'chip'. 

If the young men in my area are anything to go by, anything less than instant movie star status and willing girls on command is just 'not respecting me'.I daresay many get to hold a gun in their hands for a few weeks and get to feel like a 'big man'.

Then one day they get a tap on the shoulder and told the local equivalent of 'Sorry, mate, we have to give your gun to someone else. Here, you get to wear this vest. It's an honour, you know. You really should be thanking us'.

What's a kid going to do? He's just been disarmed and is now surrounded by armed men, miles from anywhere, in a lawless pocket within a foreign country. You've got 30 seconds to decide what to do. Praying would probably be your best bet.You are clearly indulging in 'my side' cheering, yank, or talking about AGB's other views not stated here.

I can't find any objective measure in which AGB's views are less realistic than B&amp;B's. AGB at least attempted to describe real events in a historical context. B&amp;B presented an admonishment based on a 'fear' of what may possibly occur.Thanks, Ingenuous, a well expressed comment that explains further what BinB was trying to say. Can't say I disagree.

Yet your position relies on a 'cause+effect' scenario applied to social behaviours. This is highly problematic as such causes and effects are resultant upon a myriad of other causes and effects themselves, each having a unique character and result when compared with different individuals as well as the same individual at different times. The saying that 'the person today is not the person they were yesterday' recognises the absurdly difficult task of pinning social causes to social effects upon any person, let alone a group of people. As you say, racism may be one factor. But racism affects many people without them becoming extremists and extremists have been formed where there has been no evidence of racism. Is missing the number 37 bus a factor as well? How about being raised and schooled in an enclave where one's own culture is given a higher regard than the culture that surrounds that enclave?

While I agree that the government approach is highly spurious, the 'victim as cause' scenario is equally spurious because it confers a privilege upon the victim-now-aggressor's testimony as being always correct in every instance rather than being scrutinised according to an agreed upon social standard. People have been known to falsify such justifications if there is a chance that leniency is the result.Aren't the recent 'lone wolf' styled terrorists and those fighters travelling overseas to fight for IS born and raised in Western countries?"In order to minimise extremism we need to foster a sense of inclusiveness - that everyone is part of the Australian in-group"

Couldn't agree more. 

Now can someone please advise me on how to apply for a special licence to handle and consume LSD so that I can use it as part of my  religious communion with the higher order? I won't be hurting anyone or presenting a danger to anyone and I'll sign whatever form you like that establishes a greater responsibility. Tell me, why can't I enact my beliefs as part of the Australian in-group like everyone else?If the media weren't reporting on he said/she said type tattling, then they'd have to report in policies and observable effects of policy. A government nay well wish to keep such information quiet (unless there's some opportunity for 'good' news), whilst an opposition might not want to appear as bereft of policy. 

Furthermore, the discussion of policy and effects means that stories are continued or revisited over a course of days, weeks and months. The 'tattling' style of reporting means you can focus on South Africa one day, Canada the next. Where will the great wheel of news stop next?I can sympathise with your point, myt, but it is theoretical. 

First if all, what is to be done about such facts is always politics. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, the propagation of one fact over another is always political. Why, for example, is Ebola in all over the news but malaria isn't? Why was the Canadian shooting all over the news, but the Victorian shooting not so much?

One might suggest that news 'weighting' if particular facts is a non-political fact itself, yet that would deny the 'political' acts of selection and distribution."I guess at some stage in our evolution women won't need men"

In many respects, we're already there. As a man, I'm happy to call that an advancement. Yet it is women who are maintaining and expanding the 'competition' between each other to more fierce and absurd lengths. If the men have 'advanced' to obsolescence, then it is women who aren't advancing themselves.Be the change you want see in the world. Don't wait for others to bring that change to you.A sensible contribution indeed, Val. I concur and go further. 

Women are increasingly presented in the media as 'looking good' rather than as 'doing something'. If they are indeed doing something, then they are 'looking good' whilst doing it. The 'looking good' is the important bit. 

So it is that women at the forefront of the media spectacle spend so much time, effort and money into that important bit of 'looking good'. For us 'recently learned to wash' observers, 'looking good' doesn't put bread on the table. We have to do stuff and know stuff, so that the focus upon looking good is a little incongruous with our daily experience. Yet the media pressure, imposed upon women and consumed mostly by women, maintains the illusion that 'looking good' is 'your duty' because, to put it as succinctly as an advertising executive possibly can, 'you're worth it'.Astutely observed.

What comes after the freedom to conform, an entitlement to conform?"If he is honestly saying that it was part of a private game in which the intent was satirical rather than deliberately nasty then I'll accept that because satire is a wonderful thing and must be protected at all costs."

Satire is indeed a wonderful thing and should be protected at all costs. As someone who gladly runs to the defence of satire, I can assure you that satire is threatened from two fronts.

The first front is of course the 'political correctness' front, which we are all familiar with. On this front, the battle tactic is to ignore or remove an original context and replace it with a new context, usually reliant upon literalism. This new, confected, context is matched to a confected outrage with which the supposedly outraged can plume themselves to look like better people. Throw in some handwringing, grinding of the teeth, contort the face to an angry scowl and 'mobs yer uncle', you're not far from the capital punishment audiences of yesteryear.

The second front of the threat to satire is less talked about but equally damaging to the concept of satire. This front is the 'just a joke' defence and it's variants. The most toxic of these variants is of course the practical joke gone bad/too far, along the lines of 'Yeah, we set the new apprentice on fire, but it was just a joke'. The Spurr case is of the same ilk, just with words rather than actions. He's been caught out and now he's trying to appeal to the umpire by saying 'it was just a joke'. Umpires should be able to see through this device quite easily and should be able to say 'yeah, right, you were caught out good and proper' where appropriate. In our protection of satire, we should avoid accepting the satirist's 'just a joke' defence in every instance. Sometimes it is just a ruse used by bullies. 

Spurr is trying to pull a Swift one, but he's just not Swift enough.

I daresay it is well established that the University is within its charter to monitor emails sent on its system. 

What strikes me as odd is that did the University reprimand Spurr when they had found the problematic emails, or was it only after the public furore instigated by New Matilda?

The University itself is not squeaky clean on this. Why wasn't this dealt with in-house when it happened? 

It is ok because it is a critique of the things Lambie says in public if her own volition. 

It isn't a critique of a group based on the perception of some within that group. That would be like saying 'Women aren't suited to positions of power, look at Lambie'. See the difference?Unless, perhaps, it was a recipient of that email that forwarded it on. A bit like someone showing a newspaper a letter (or email) you wrote and sent.

I daresay the University has a 'right' to check emails used on its system. It would no doubt have all sorts of clauses written down that the use had to agree to before being able to use the service. But I would have thought any problematic email that the university finds are then brought up with the sender of the email rather than distributed to the media.Interestingly, in the context of recent stoushes over Section 18C, the right to be a bigot, etc, can New Matilda be charged with defamation if they published Spurr's comments without any comment of their own? They'd just be presenting a range of facts, wouldn't they?Few people have commented upon the 'recipient' thus far, jusme, which seems really odd as any recipients are the most likely candidates for forwarding the email content, and the source, onward to whomever. While I'm in no sense a legal boffin, but I would have thought that a recipient can make public whatever it is they receive, exept in cases where confidentiality clauses and such are involved.

An email 'chain' would certainly exist somewhere and the exposing of the sequence of emails could prove enlightening to all, yet still be   potentially incriminating for the professor. I'm reminded of the Slipper/Ashby scandal where Slipper was accused of sending emails with 'suggestive' content, yet the email chain shows that Ashby clearly started the 'suggestive' content and that Slipper responded in that spirit.

I wonder if the professor has been 'played' or goaded into a similar predicament.It's a common occurrence on topics where there is a spectrum of actions with a single label. Posters jump to defend those who might be seen as being on the 'lower' end of the spectrum, while others jump to admonish those perceived to be at the 'higher' end of the spectrum without overt reference to which end of the spectrum they are talking about. Another reader then becomes flabbergasted, or confects an outrage, at such defence or admonishments being put forward to the opposite ends of the spectrum for he purposes of making another point. 

It's a language/differentiation problem that arises from an over-dependance upon literalism that we unthinkingly take onboard through repeated exposure to our bureaucratic administration (or O.D.U.L.W.U.T.O.T.R.E.B.A. for short. Catchy, eh?)I imagine the 'thinking' runs something like "Well smoking and obesity would have only killed a fraction of those 4500 people if Ebola hadn't got to them first".There was an election in 75, right after the dismissal, wasn't there?"Fewer than two thirds of men in their fifties repartner with women of their own age group."

Intersting statistic. Who are the two-thirds of women in their fifties repartnering with? If some young women are hooking up with divorced men in their fifties, then surely that would leave more women on the scrap heap than the aforementioned two thirds of the men, wouldn't it?Fraser is an interesting piece of the puzzle because he may indeed be the reference point for establishing a 'traditional', or at least 'earlier', position of the LNP. I remember him being one of the most strident and articulate voices against Howard throughout a significant stretch of that period. Was it the case that Fraser changed his position or that the Liberal party changed position?It is interesting indeed. Supporters of the LNP would 'die of shame' before they used such a bereavement as a launchpad for criticism.A roaming band of young men wearing ice-hockey masks and carrying baseball bats should challenge a few beliefs either way.

'What are you picking on us for, officer, we're on our way to our game?"While I can't speak for everyone, I'm just concerned that anyone with an interest in concealment can appropriate the garment or have other concealing costumes validated by example."Given that the only people who seem to be in favour of legislating women's clothes are also anti muslim, I wonder."

That's only your projection speaking because you refuse to see a more subtle point. You've got in in your head that the only way someone can disagree with you is because of their own supposed prejudices. Do you think Turkey is anti-Muslim?

The issue us face covering. Beards, and makeup are hard to legislate against because you can't specify the exact point when identity becomes obscured for every person. A veil or mask can be legislated against. 

Do you really want 100 different people passing through or visiting a local area choosing to wear some sort of uniform face covering? Sure, you're not likely to get that many burkas in a local area in a short space of time, but how can you then prevent other uniforms being chosen for the express purpose of concealment? Let me guess, stop and search the young men in ice-hockey masks, whilst giving burka wearers a free pass?
Because the face is the primary means of registering identity and expression.

One teenager in a horror mask shouldn't raise an alarm. 15 together with the same masks and clothes almost certainly will. Getting convictions with CCTV is hard enough as it is.The only additional danger posed by a motorbike helmet, in contrast to a soft, veil-like, garment is that the wearer can headbut others without damage to their own person and that security personnel can't use blows to the head to quell the wearer.It would be better if the 'm' word was retained for use where appropriate. I daresay you mean that the 'm' shouldn't be used whenever a woman is criticised for her actions."I'd like to see the market collapse, It's like a ponzi scheme at the moment."

With that comment, Algernon has neatly encapsulated the argumentative intent for all of those talking about the great bubble bursted future: 'Let prices come down so I can buy in'. 

That's the cry you can hear in these articles week after week after week. Even if prices drop by 50 or 60k, you can buy that Audi and it will be as though it was free!

The irony is that with so many people itching to buy in when those prices drop just a touch, the demand will keep those prices where they are.Mark of SA has nailed it, 100%.

The figure you want to compare prices to is 'household income'. 30 to 40 years ago, the household income was a lot closer to the 'single' income than it is today. Do the comparisons with household income and you will see that prices haven't moved all that much.

All we need now is EvilPundit or Bev to come along and say it was all the feminist's fault. In a strange sorta way, they're right. How peculiar.

Let's add in a couple of other social developments over the last few decades:
Young people staying at uni for longer - reduced earning capacity. 
Young people living at home for longer - reduces the impact of the problems of earning capacity just mentioned but also adds to a perceved 'entitlement' to spend all of the wages they do have (seeing as mum and dad will always provide the safety net).
Young people getting married/engaged later - this means they fail to plan for their future until the future basically arrives, causing them to start saving later.
Overseas travel - where do they get the money? A small contribution to the deposit now missing in action.
Big Weddings - half a deposit right then and there.
Consumerism - individuals will surely come along and say 'hey, we're not all like that!' But those of us who really still hope that they really aren't that much older can really see the difference between what kids in their 20s have and do today compared with even 15-20 years ago. It's a world of difference. Nice car, by the way.You're invoking a chicken and egg situation there, Jimmy.

Presumably, the answer to your question that you are looking for is 'taxes paid by private industry and their workers'.

Yet was/are private industry able to earn the required amount of money without that infrastructure?

The history of the most advanced economies suggests that governments invest in infrastructure that private industry then uses to make more money than it could without that infrastructure. It's not so much a question of 'who came first?', but rather 'is the amount being invested by government increasing the amount going back into business?'. Again, the histories of the advanced economies would suggest that the invested figure is increasing the money earned through business. Furthermore, it is increasing business earnings by such an amount that it is pertinent to ask 'should we really be getting more from business so that the government can invest further?'.Thanks,Tator. 

I really would like to see this list of private enterprise funded/built/owned infrastructure in comparison with that of the government in order to define this 'most' of which you speak. Roads, railways, hospitals, schools, gas, electricity, water, post, law enforcement and corrections, military. Any others? How much of these were 'mosted' under the private watch?Thanks, Ideas, that was well explained and concise. 

Increasing the amenity and services available to the public also increases it for business, thus having the potential to increase the business profit margin and their resultant tax burden. A road built for the public is a road that cuts costs for business. Electricity made available to the public is also made available to business so they can increase their profitability. 

It all seems to work well on that basis because the funding benefits business which turns into increased funding which even further benefits business and so on. That is until business start moving offshore, whether it be the 'employment' part of their business and/or the 'financial arrangements' of their business. If the business continues to have access to local consumers, yet provides a decreased 'funding' to the government (due to employment and/or financial arrangements no being onshore anymore) then the government will have less funds to increase amenity and services for those same customers that the business needs to sell to. Business are 'reneging' on the previous arrangements in the hope that 'someone or something else' will allow the government to increase amenity and service to the customers it requires.

Unless business wants to restrict sales to only those regions where the bulk of their employment and/or financial arrangements are made, then business will continue to usurp, without contribution to, the amenity and services of the customers it requires.I would have thought that if the bank was looking at crumbling, that would be the ideal time to rack up that credit card debt (provided you've got the funds elsewhere to cover it). Is a crumbled bank really going to be able to chase you down for a few thousand dollars?That's why I suggested you had sufficient funds elsewhere to cover your credit card debt to the crumbling institution. If the goons knock on your door, you settle up and you haven't lost anything. It the goons don't show up, you've cleaned up!The difference between the American and Australian situations, I believe, is that in America, a mortgage holder can choose to abandon it and the bank takes the house. If that house has dropped in value, the bank is forced to wear those consequences. In Australia, you might opt out of your mortgage, the bank sells the house and then hassles you if the sale value doesn't meet your loan value. 

In short, mortgage holders in Australia really don't want to opt out because you can lose your home and still be in considerable debt.Normally, I'd be the first person to jump to the defence of someone writing such things for the purposes of investigation or exploration. I've often said in these threads that just because you've said something, that doesn't indicate you meant it literally or that you yourself believe it. As an academic in a literary field, Professor Spurr may indeed have a valid reason for such an exploration, even if that exploration is casual rather than intended to be put toward research. 

If we take Professor Spurr's reasons as correct, then surely such remarks indicate that the good Professor, really isn't all that good at his field. You see, he comes across as sounding like someone's Uncle or Grandfather who has had a little too much lambrusco at the family Christmas. Where is the evidence of a knowing, self-reflexive, understanding of the machinations of language? Where is the 'play' of symbolism, the rhythm of the text, etc. Where, in short, is the panache that we could ordinarily expect from someone of his standing and position? If these remarks were indeed a part of an exploration in the use of language, we'd expect to see the Professor's professional skills at work. From what we've seen this far, we haven't.

I'll give you an example: there exists some racy, offensive limericks that predate WW1 that would set your hair on end. They make 'There was a young man from Nantucket' look pallid. Not only is the imagery of such limericks wholly offensive, the pre WW1 examples I am thinking of (and no, I can't put them down here) display a very witty, intelligent, and effective use of meter and rhyme. In short, there is a panache to them that we don't expect. The rhyming components don't rely on a collection vulgar words (like the infamous Nantucket limerick), but instead use perfectly normal and safe words to conjure up the imagery, with the occasional vulgar word thrown in but, importantly, such words are not given emphasis.I find it rather telling that Dr Dickson has asked for people to come forward with their belief in 'the non-existence', rather than asking people to bring forth their evidence for 'the existence'. He is asking for submissions of 'faith' rather than submissions of 'fact'.

If Dr Dickson wished to get to the bottom of this issue, he would have done better by offering a donation to charity (whether it be $100 or $1000) for each unique piece of documentary evidence that is contemporaneous with the life of J.C. Sure it might cost him a bit but, as an expert in the field and as someone who teaches the Historical Jesus, he is likely to have a reasonable idea about how many unique bits of corroborating evidence there are and can he then tailor a comfortable donation target. 

At the very least, even if newly discovered pieces of corroborating evidence are presented, he has found pointers to such items very quickly and cheaply and he can add them to the comprehensive list that he has given with this article. 

Oh wait, he didn't provide any with this article. That's strange, what is it he teaches again?"I don't deny that there are substantial questions that could be raised about the Christian faith, but the historical reality of Jesus of Nazareth isn't one of them."

Too right. The sheer absence of contemporary references to, or documentations of, his life on earth really should put the matter beyond question until such reference or record is found. We've got Roman documentation of Boudicca, for example, but none for J.C. and the Sunshine Band."Josephus, Tacitus, Suetonius, Julius Africanus, Origen, Pliny the Younger. These are the recognised authorities on first century events in the Roman world. You'll find they all make mention of Jesus."

I'm sure they do. Yet none of them express a 'contemporary' acount. All of those you mention lived after Jesus had supposedly  died. Josephus is the earliest of the figures in your list being born at AD 37, far too young to give his own account of J.C. 

Their accounts, therefore, are second, third, fourth hand and thus not reliable as evidence of J.C's existence.
Historians don't have to be eye witnesses, correct, and in a great many cases they can't be, yet reliable historians refer to some kind of historical record or artefact of the events they attempt to describe."Just like you can't trust when historians today write about early 20th century figures and events"

I'll have to assume you're being sarcastic with that comment, NewSpeaker. The difference with early 20th Century figures is that there are lots of corroborating evidence of such a figure's life. Birth and death records, marriage records, University records, Military records, photographs, things they wrote or made, published testimony from the figure's contemporaries etc. When we've got those things for J.C, feel free to put them forward.I'll lay odds, reaver, that the people who work for woolies can't say anything whilst simultaneously being identified as someone who works for woolies.

Like a lot of employees, one has to 'remove the badge' before one can speak.If we don't know where the soul is, if there is one, how does one know that using any everyday appliance or routine, commonplace, activity isn't already doing damage to it?

My money's on the skinny jeans, bushranger beards, cold brew coffee and 'green smoothies' being damaging the soul. The evidence trundles by on a conveyor-belt of mason jars every day.That's only a half-way measure.

For full productivity gains, we need to outsource baby production and rearing to the second and third worlds. They do it much cheaper than we can. They've got the stock and the willingness to maintain that stock.

First worlders can pick their new born (or potential parents), the baby is raised in the country of birth until just before school age (or kindergarten age) and then handed over to the first world parents ready for routine indoctrination through the school system. All without missing a day off work. No gestation, no doctors visits, no clinics. 

What's that? You will only feel comfortable with a child that approximates yours or your partners genetic inheritance? What peculiar, outmoded, expensive, and racist (weren't expecting that one, were you?) luxuries people ask for these days.It strikes me that this issue isn't about choice at all. Rather, it is about limiting the adverse consequences resulting from choice.

People are free to make their choices at any time they deem appropriate, they are just now asking that adverse consequences (like losing one's job) be held at bay. You can't blame them for trying, I know I would certainly like to have my choice to go on a '6 month journey of personal fulfilment' be made free of adverse consequences. Yet, seeing that said journey doesn't rely on the propagation of my genetic material, that's not likely to happen. Choices, you say?
"How in God's name can an idea be original, if you've got to quote ideas that are already out there?!!!"

Far be it for me to disagree with the experience of a former teacher, Steve, but I believe that students at secondary level rarely come up with truly original ideas. The vast majority of time, they regurgitate ideas that are floating around from their parents, their peers, from pop culture, from wherever else. They don't even realise they're doing it and believe that such ideas spring from themselves without assistance. Quoting existing ideas forces students to evaluate their own 'thinking' and committing to paper the notion that 'their' ideas already exist and are open to scrutiny and gets them into practice for when they go to University.

In the rare instances where an student's idea might be somehow original, there's bound to be a previous idea which that gifted student had used as a kind of 'springboard' to 'leap' from. Getting that 'springboard' down and showing the connection between that 'springboard' and the student's subsequent 'leap' is of vital importance to any student's intellectual development.I can confirm the same thing is happening in the fine arts as well, Steven.

I've seen things on a second year exam that used to be on a written test (used in conjunction with an audition) that students had to take before they could even get into the University.Thanks for taking the time to write that up, Eggsie, very interesting experiment. I wonder what unencumbered humans scored.

I do think the distinctions between logic and intuition are unclear or erroneous. It seems to me that the rats were displaying logic by incorporating their perception of their surrounds into their strategy. While it may be said that this is something that rats do naturally, one can only suppose the rate would switch to green if the ratios were switched. In short, they response to information acted accordingly. The humans, on the other hand, were persisting with a strategy of attempting to find or guess a pattern to the random, albeit loaded, sequence even though such a pattern can't be observed to exist (at least not at the event to event level). The humans relied upon a faulty logic that didn't improve their results.

It could be that I am simply using a layman's or common definition of logic and intuition that might differ from that used by the sciences.While it is true, Ben, that a small portion of Jones and Bolt critics sued them or ran boycott campaigns, the vast majority of them did not. It would be equally true, if not more so, to say that critics of Jones and Bolt didn't sue them or run boycott campaigns and actually managed to ignore them.

You, Ben, are welcome to retract your statement whenever is convenient.You are welcome to it, Ben, and you know it.

You didn't disprove WP's assertion at all seeing as there are Jones and Bolt critics who managed to ignore them. WP's statement rings true as a descriptor of those people. 

Your statement about the critics suing and running boycotts (not some, not most, just 'critics'), was factually incorrect with regards to those who manage to ignore J+B. Unless of course what you meant to say was 'there were some who were critical of Jones and Bolt who managed to sue Bolt and run boycotts of Jones', which begs the question: why didn't you say that in the first place?

It seems absolute statements catch out the 'professionals' as well. 
Your post displays considerable analytical acumen, Ben, and of course I agree completely. 

If you turn that very same analytical acumen toward your post at 9.39.38am where you say "Jones' critics commenced a campaign against advertisers on his show", you'll see what I was getting at 2 posts ago.Yet WP's statement could only be discredited where it was read to refer to 'all' critics of J+B. WP's statement was still true where it pertained to a great number of individual critics of J+B. Your response was a generality that failed for exactly the same reason you criticised WP."Where they get the idea that the ABC is a left wing outlet I don't know"

The idea sprouts, Maureen, from the fact that criticism of Labor governments is 'deserved', whilst criticism of the LNP 'demonstrates bias'.

You watch, Maureen, there'll be those on both sides who really couldn't tell if I was being pro-Labor or pro-LNP on just that previous sentence alone.I always thought that late X-ers represented the pinnacle of civilisation. Nice to have it confirmed.But one can 'earn' their way out of debt, Roger. This would mean raising revenue. The current government have already put the halt to at least one source of revenue, in celebratory fashion, and they've failed to close various private and business tax minimisation schemes.

Earning or learning? Seems our adults in charge can't get a handle of either one.The 'pink batts' case wasn't large at all. 

The scheme had a better safety record than private industry. It's just the 2 death a week on the private's watch doesn't get reported with the same magnitude and clamour as that earned by the problems with the pink batts scheme.Do you think those sorts of things don't happen in private industry, AE?

Fact remains, this particular government management of private operators proved to have a better safety record than comparable work by private operators managed by private industry.

So how will Abbott's pre-election promise to cut red-tape make things better? Will Tony go around and 'shirt-front' shonky operators?The 'yes men' that find their way into such positions have the mysterious ability to protect themselves when the fit hits the shan. One might say they've made a career if doing it. It's all about the burying the appropriate and necessary warnings within the detail in the most obscure manner possible yet still meeting the requirement of being literally there. If problems do arise, the 'yes man' can point to the warnings on paper, whilst the minster is rarely able to point to the part where the 'yes man' said not to worry about the warnings because they were just a matter of form.Such an article, Graham, would just be another in the long line of 'Libs bad, Labor good' articles as trotted out on 'their' ABC. That's how the song plays around here. Just wait for the chorus to come in with the repeated lines that are the easiest to follow.The funny thing about Labor's policies since 2007 is that they have a peculiar 'feel good' ring to them that plays well in the opinion polls and focus groups. As Edward says, implementation and maintenance have them dodging, guessing, and putting their foot in it every time.

Yet when it comes to pollie perks and pay packets, slugging big business, taxes on the top end of town (the untouchables) even increases in taxes for everyone else, Labor turns to jelly. The only difference between the LNP and Labor are that the LNP will try to sink the boot into that 'everyone else' group before contemplating the 'untouchables'.

If labor continue to demonstrate that they don't have any vision, that they are filled to the eyeballs with spivs, hacks and careerists, the LNP will be favoured due to their observed history of having those traits already and succeeding in not having any vision - and they've got the fear card.Does that mean, David, that only suitably qualified people should be listened to on this topic?

Would these be those same people that make money by requiring people to come to repetitive sessions week after week, month after month? Those same people that make money from selling medications that don't 'cure' people yet need to be taken day in day out for months and years on end?"If our security forces cannot tell if a burqa wearer is male or female, they have made the wrong career choice, or not been well enough trained."

Why should our security forces, or anyone else for that matter, need to tell if it is a man or woman wearing a burqa? If women are allowed to wear the burqa, then men should be allowed to. Not just men, but men of any racial or religious background. If the garment is allowed, the garment is allowed, right?

If one section of the community wants to hide their face from view, then other sections of the community should be allowed as well. After all, it is the 'act' rather than the 'person' that is being objected to by opponents of  the burqa. My friends and I would like to go to our baseball game wearing ice-hockey masks. "Yes, officer, we are on our way to a game, that's what the bats are for. By the way, we all object to being stopped in the street in this way and we will be making complaints about this. After all, we haven't done anything wrong" 

"A blanket ban on the burqa and niqab is an attack on core Australian values - freedom, equality, and inclusion."

I must remember those core Australian values if ever I'm caught with a 'personal use' sized quantity of an illicit substance. When the officer finds that he is in error, having forgotten those core Australian values, I'll be sure to add a good natured 'No worries, mate. She'll be right'. Or is it that Levey has just made up that list and that such core Australian values are not administered at all in this country?

A ban on the burqa is not an attack on freedom, valued by Australians, any more than countless other laws and statutes currently in operation in this country.I would love to see some statistics on the education history of those Australian educated citizens who have gone to fight for IS, or attempted to do so.

Let's see some statistics on attendance to multicultural or state primary and secondary schools vs 'monocultural' or religious state and secondary schools. The information must be out there, I wonder what it will show?Ben, where exactly do the protections of Section 18D fall short when administering Section 18C?But surely, Ben, 18D is a way of 'raising' that bar back to a reasonable standard, is it not?

I ask the question again, how does 18D fall short? What would you like to be able to slide under there?Exactly right, Aaron.

What is it that 'Boat Arrival Advocates' have against refugees stuck in UNHCR camps?If that is the case, Ann, perhaps we should be taking that money that has currently been going to locating, administering and temporarily housing boat arrivals and instead assisting those camps and ferrying boat arrivals to them.But those wearing head-to-toe coverings don't 'have' to sit in the 'we think you might be naughty' box. They can choose to remove their head cover and sit with everyone else. After all, the coverings are a mode of religious observance that is optional but not a requirement of religious observance. 

People have choices. Governments have a duty to resist pandering to those who wilfully choose acts that place them at a distinction when another, readily available, choice would place them on the same regard as other citizens.Your belt example is already happening to some Australians, Lucy.

Some sections of the 'heavy music' community choose to wear studded belts and wristbands as a reference to the iconic costumes of past performers. They are frequently prevented from entering venues, venues they have a paid ticket to enter, on the grounds the studded garment can be used as a weapon or be used to hide a weapon ("sure mr security guard, your metal detector is only picking up the studs on the belt"). Often, the venue does not offer a cloak-room service for patrons to 'check' their contraband accessories.

These peaceable, law-abiding music aficionados are being left out in the cold through no fault of their own. They have to rely on information through their networks, often unreliable, as to whether the venue will admit them. The clamouring for entry rights for stud-adorned citizens in the heavy music community has been met with silence on the part of left leaning rights campaigners. 

As I have suggested elsewhere, 'rights advocates' are being discriminatory by suggesting that Muslim Australians can't navigate social norms without assistance. This amounts to a racist/religionist smear that some sections of the community aren't mature or sophisticated enough to participate in Australia without assistance. Don't hold it against me that I hold Muslim Australians to the same behavioural standards that I expect of other Australians.

Excellent example of the particular double standard so often presented in this topic, Harold.

I would suggest further that the double standard you identify is a glaring enactment of racial/religious discrimination upon the Muslim speaker because it is assumed, by those enacting the double standard, that the Muslim speaker cannot 'take' criticism or tolerate divergent views. The Muslim speaker, it is presumed , needs to be mollycoddled because they are seen as 'beneath' or 'less than' the quality of white speakers.

We see exactly the same racial/religious discrimination heaped upon those same groups when we see traditional Christmas pageants and celebrations banned by mostly white administrators because the assumption is that Muslims can't bear them. Again, it is because Muslims are seen as less able than white people by those who claim to be 'of the left' and 'supportive' of Muslim Australians.

Such racism (or discrimination) by 'avoidance' is a telling indicator of the very real opinions held by those purporting to be 'of the left' regarding the perceived cultural inadequacies of Muslim Australians.Free society, Nilbeliever?

I can't even practice my religion because the naturally occurring substance that is a requirement for my spiritual communion with the higher order is considered illicit.

I can't even apply for a licence that would see me commit to more onerous controls over the handling, use, and storage of said substance.

Free society? What a joke. At least Muslims get to practice their religion. Others, like me, have to miss out.I fear the commentariat is only interested in pleasing itself. It's either bashin' the bishop, or castigating someone else for bashin' the bishop.

Give him a break, he did say 'If...'.

So I suppose that means they could fluctuate, or they could stay steady. It's all very 'uncertain', we just don't know what will happen and that's just too scarey to contemplate. Previous generations existed amidst uncertainty, yet the current lever-pullers seem to go into great doubt-filled binges of prognostication, trying to make sense of it all. It's as if everyone is waiting for someone else to make the first move before they themselves try to do anything. 

One thing is certain: 'uncertain' markets foster an increase in speculative prognostication.
I would rather Burka or niqab clad women to cast them aside so as to show support for their 'uncovered' sisters in Australia who have been coerced to live their lives in 'immodesty' and 'humiliation' on a daily basis.Note the quotation marks, Ann. 

I understand that women don't get heckled or treated poorly for dressing in Western style dress, nor are they considered humiliated or immoral for doing so, but it is heartening to have that fact confirmed by a woman. 

So it is that the Burka or Niqab wearer's concerns about their humiliation and immorality are unfounded when they participate in western society.Strategy, Roger.

If feminists can strike a blow against the white male orthodoxy, then the continued oppression of a smaller number of women is just collateral damage.If you try to ban it as a religious symbol, the complaint is that it is not a religious symbol at all. If you try to ban it on the grounds of social cohesion, the complaint is that it discriminates against those who choose to adhere to a particular mode of religious observance.In western countries like Australia, burka clad women must see 'uncovered' women all the time (I use the word intentionally, so no 'cat'calls, please). What are their thoughts on those women? Do they see them as immodest, humiliated, 'low'? Do they not see the 99+% of women in their field of vision interacting with the male public without harm? Do they feel apart from the rest, better or 'above'?

If I choose a disguise for cultural reasons, can I get to use the special 'identity room' as well?

For the simple reason, L.K, that we don't extend that tolerance to other groups of people.

If my friends and I wanted to get around town wearing ice hockey masks and carrying baseball bats*, would we be tolerated for showing our devotion to the accoutrements of North American sporting culture?

(*Before you say it, yes we are prepared to attach a baseball glove and a ball to our person so as to show we are on our way to or from a suitable park)Freedom of choice?

You do realise I am not even allowed to practice my religion in this country? The naturally occurring substance that is a necessary part of my holy communion with the 'divine presence' has been declared 'illicit'. 

I can't even apply for a licence to handle and consume said substance under strict conditions and controls. 

Sheoakbloke is correct. Infrastructure in the cities is a big problem.

State Governments and local councils want to get more people in and take their entitled revenue (rates, taxes, etc.), yet they don't want to pay for things like new roads, extending public transport and the like.

But it's not just transport. The recent Brisbane floods were a telling example.

What happened was that areas that previously absorbed and directed the rainfall that fell on them were converted into vast surface areas of roof tiles and bitumen. This directed rainfall into drains that were 'plugged into' the existing drain network. Result: a vastly greater amount of water being directed to places that weren't designed to deal with it. Natural or man-made bodies of water experienced an 'unexpected' influx of water, and existing drains (like the ones in already well established towns - think of it as akin to being downstream but instead 'down-drain') got flooded because the existing drains weren't designed to take it.That's exactly what many first home owners have done and continue to do, Jane2. They make savings where they can, go without the 'spoils' that they decide they don't need and won't miss. They might even live in that share house just that little bit longer on the cheap and cheerful.

Yet you'll hear little more than a peep from them. We instead hear the cries of 'why can't something be done for me? It's not fair! I deserve, I want, I need, I'm entitled!'.I've heard the phrase 'incentive to sell' on these pages in the last few days.

If you increase the incentive to sell, then by doing so you will increase the incentive to purchase (so that you can then sell down the track), wouldn't you?"Well then why are the journalists writing trash? Think about it. If no-one is reading their stories, nobody would publish them."

That's not quite the whole story, Ann. There are two less-overt factors in media manipulation, that I would argue are more effective because of their lack of overtness. 

Media consumption is very often habit forming. I know many people that still buy daily newspapers even though they think they are full of rubbish. It's a throwback to a time when the newspaper was perceived to be a reliable source of important information. While that perception has been broken, it hasn't been enough to change the habits of the public. This allows the media a little bit of 'play' or 'wriggle-room' with which to use to their own advantage.

Then there is also the 'inadvertent' consumption where one doesn't have to buy it or even read it, it's enough to send out little glimpses here and there in order to snare the idle passer-by. Do you walk past a newsagents on a daily basis? Do you notice the little headline displays 'Shock Footage Sex Scandal Corrupts Terror Disaster!'? Do you think those things don't have an effect on one's perception of what's happening? Do you think they would have the same effect as though they screamed 'Loyal Friendship Integrity Flower' day after day after day?"But the headlines are meaningless to me."

Have you met anyone who says the headlines are meaningful? What about people who say the media influences them? Not very many, I'll bet. Each individual thinks they are special, that they can perceive truth through the manipulation, that they aren't affected by repeated suggestion, that they arrive at their views independently. 

No one admits to being duped and that it's 'everyone else' who is to blame. We need to recognise this form of manipulation, call it out when it occurs (as opposed to 'playing sides') and refuse to accept that market forces are a benevolent distributor of what the public wants or needs.Which makes Gillard a follower rather than a leader."Liberal and Labor are just the supermarket aisles of Australian democracy. One has an onomatopoeic cash register and the other a childish red hand. And it's all pointing down, down"

I fear it's worse than that. Which of the two has that stupid 'back-pocket tapping' image? Translated to the political dimension, I can't work out if the image is meant to be an insult or a suggestive invitation.Those low interest rates. seabee, are keeping house prices inflated. Those who have budgeted and bought over the last 10 years or more have seen the price of their home balloon way beyond the price they paid for it. 

Sure, that doesn't help owner occupiers who wish to upsize or buy something else similar as all the other prices have gone up as well. But it does help those wishing to downsize, or move from city to country because the price gap has increased in dollar terms. 

So you're sitting on a potential economic windfall, yet still complaining you aren't getting enough on interest earnings? Times is hard, eh?

To add to what nev said, Australia has to be careful that its own interest rates aren't too out of step with the international rates. To increase our own rates well over the rates in other countries would give international investors an advantage over Australian investors. With respect to real estate, this would mean that the 'average' international buyer can outbid the local 'average' because their loan is vastly cheaper.Ditching Stamp Duty will not help. 

If someone is willing to pay 600k for a house + 30k stamp duty, they will just as readily pay 630k with no stamp duty.

All you have done is move government revenue to the seller, a seller who has seen the price of their property balloon out of all proportion in recent years anyway. But hey, that's the real reason to ditch Stamp Duty isn't it? Another 5% for doing nothing is a pretty sweet deal, right? 

If you want to help first timers, sure remove their stamp duty and retain it or increase it for investors (with the proviso that it can't be claimed back as a deduction) and internationals.Capital Gains Tax is still only a percentage of that gain, Graham. While there's a difference between Federal, state and local revenue between Stamp Duty and CGT, the bottom line is that revenue is reduced whilst the remainder is pocketed by the seller. Prices would be unaffected because the 'demand' to purchase is still there, thus not helping the very people who are targeted for help by those who wish to remove Stamp Duty. 

Stamp Duty, Land taxes and Rates are claimable as a tax deduction (even if over a period of time) for investors but not for owner occupiers. If that issue were addressed, perhaps there could be a little more revenue AND the advantage the investor has over the owner occupier would be reduced.

Yes relocation is an issue, bearfield, no question there. My solution would be to remove Stamp Duty for first home buyers and owner occupiers and increase it for investors and internationals and ensure that it is not tax deductible.Exactly right, Paul. This is a poorly disguised attack on 18c from the IPA's chief 'fee speech' advocate (yes, you read that correctly).

It's easy to tell when a criticism of 18c has no substance, it's when there's no mention of 18d anywhere. No 18d, no substance.

How many 18c removalists does it take to change a light bulb?

'Changing light bulbs takes away my freedom!'These are isolated houses in suburban areas.

You block off the street as you go in and allow people out when they need to go. Anyone who wants to go in is prevented from doing so and you can pick your 'public safety' excuse from there: gas leak, bird flu, Ebola, violent husband stand-off, vicious dog etc.
