If Andrews is telling the truth then he should sack his staff who knowingly kept the information from him - even after the story broke. If he doesn't sack them then it calls into question his own credibility.Should companies be allowed to make employees sign waivers that mean that sharing information on a company's illegal activities can make them liable for legal action against them?

Should a church be able to legally punish someone who takes and subsequently releases church records revealing the covering up of child abuse?

Should the government be able to pass new laws that make revealing information about it's own criminal activities illegal?

A government that makes itself unaccountable to the people who they allegedly serve is no longer a democracy and no longer legitimate. 

Unfortunately America has a long history of this - the activities of Project Artichoke and the MK series of projects alone should have been dire warnings about what happens when US intelligence agencies lack the necessary levels of scrutiny but here we are again.

Not that Australia is innately or necessarily any better on this front - the very ability to hide abuses of power leads inevitably to abuses of power.When an elected government uses abilities granted by the "people" to hide abuses of power and clearly illegal acts then it loses all legitimacy. You forget that the laws the government broke as revealed by Snowden were laws voted in by the "people" - including laws relating to the obstruction of justice and concealing of crimes.But the government can't be held accountable to courts and Parliament when the information which might lead it to being held accountable is prevented from ever seeing the light of day. That means that the government isn't accountable to anyone but itself and frankly since the government has far more power than Snowden that is more problematic - Snowden can't organize and operate an illegal wire tapping operation on a vast scale, he can't cover up crimes systematically, he can't operate large scale unethical projects like MKULTRA or the Tuskegee syphillis experiment or the Stateville Malaria experiment (to name just a handful out of many, many such government projects) for years on end.

In the end we SHOULD require Snowden to be less accountable than the government SHOULD be for the simple reason that Snowden is incapable of causing anywhere near the amount of damage if not held to account.Uh... Yeah... I'm sure a legal or even military trial is his only or even his biggest worry... I mean surely the US has never tried to assassinate anyone in Cuba before? ;)You'd think a lawyer would look into the legal precedents of how these laws are actually applied to get some sense of how they actually have worked.

Your summary of it is nonsense and goes entirely against truth of actual judgements of the nearly one hundred cases brought to court over this legislation since 1994 (hardly a lot of them are there).

Firstly it's not just mild offense we're talking about - the standard and precedent is that the conduct in question must result in 'profound and serious effects, not to be likened to mere slights'.

Secondly it doesn't involve the subjective assessment of the complainant as to how much offense was caused, precedent involves using the community standard of offensive behavior - it's no different from being fined for other offensive behaviors in public that the LNP hasn't tried to legalize I notice. 

For example it's not legal to run around the streets screaming random swear words at all passersby - why isn't that an unfair impingement on free speech? Or for that matter standing out front of a church and calling out abuse at church members? Why is it only okay to offend people on the basis of race?

Thirdly what you may have missed is section 18D - this section has always protected anything done reasonably and in good faith in the course of artistic expression, scientific inquiry, fair comment or reporting of the public interest.  This is a broad exemption from 18C that utterly prevents the Racial Discrimination Act from being used to stifle public debate in any meaningful way.

The LNP claims these changes changes are necessary when they were in fact already present to protect free speech within the act in the first place. In fact right up until right wing darling Andrew Bolt got a rap on the knuckles for a combination of ?errors of fact, distortions of the truth and inflammatory and provocative language? the law had been relatively uncontroversial, working and legally quite settled. Funny that.Uh huh.

See the thing is that in Australia the right wing actually has in the past used ASIO in political attacks against those of the left - you want to talk about bigger government control? Let's talk about who has historically enabled just that.

Let's see - John Howard opposed Labor's removal of centralized wage fixing, of tariffs that rendered our businesses utterly uncompetitive and pushed up costs for everyone, tried to prevent the free market determining the value of the Australian dollar, taken away the right of farmers to control entrance to property they own, introduced radical, intrusive measures in the Northern Territory intervention and expanded welfare to all aspects and levels of Australian life rather than just for those who actually need it. 

Indeed, as with this current government, Howard was quite comfortable doing that while demonizing anyone who actually needs welfare and introduce ever more intrusive government policies into their lives 'for their own good'.

Just a few examples for starters there chief but this should make it clear that the LNP has never been a party of small government despite its' claims - this is amply demonstrated as well by spending figures as well as by its' policy positions over the years.

Think Indonesia just outclassed Australian's politically speaking - we may have a lot of advantages here that they have yet to acquire but at least they seem to have this remarkable idea of moving in the right direction rather backwards, backwards, spinning all the while.No - it's not about beliefs being challenged. You're just racist by your own words and actions, and when you get called on it you cry foul. Fact is that every other 'concern' you have is not real - millions coming in a vast tidal wave? BS - Rudd opened the border so just where are these millions? Didn't happen.

Any proof that they're behind more stabbings, shootings or other forms of violence than other groups? More to the point if we're going to single out groups that way, what does it mean if in fact anglo-saxons are responsible for most violence in Australia? Will you campaign to keep them out? I think we both know the answer to that one.

Economic migrants that aren't refugees? That's your opinion and is contradicted by all the evidence but don't let that stop you. 

Welfare? Again proof, not just made up statistics without source would be nice - but again this isn't about anything real that you're trying to address. It's about base fears of little Australia being swamped by Asians or Middle Easterners or Foreigners. We've been here before and yes, it is indeed racist, just like it was with Pauline Hanson - hell not even the terms you're using have changed.1. Wow that is the implication of an old lie. Funny that the so called pause only shows up when you remove the polar regions from the data isn't it? Oh yeah and you need to start with the warmest year in the nineties - one that was particularly hot by global standards but which has been exceeded several times so far in the 2000's. Otherwise the alleged pause doesn't show up at all.

Incidentally even if you go only by the much quoted HadCRUT4 data which doesn't include the poles and is the only one of several satellite data sets then there was still an increase of 0.05 degrees a decade, less than expected but still an increase. 

However if you use whole of globe warming including poles (it is global warming after all - not just parts of the globe conservatives cherry pick) it is 0.12 per decade - equal to the earlier predictions of the IPCC. Stop cherry picking data please. Also the crisis began far before 1990's - if you weren't aware of it by then, that would be down to you.

2. The vast majority of it - depends on the exact factors being measured though and whether you include the fact many of the natural factors are actually in a cooling phase. But yeah, by any credible measurement system the vast majority of it is human caused. See Tett et al. 2000 or Meehl et al. 2004 or Stone et al. 2007 or Lean and Rind 2008 or Huber and Knutti 2011 or Gillett et al. 2012 or Jones et al. 2013 - slightly different ways of calculating it but all of them show that human contribution is far, far higher than natural inputs.

Does that answer your 'scientific' questions mate?Worse - to be fair though people are talking at cross purposes.

Australia allows the highest per capita number of PERMANENT RESETTLEMENTS.

It doesn't do nearly as well at total intake though, especially on per capita or on GDP based measurements.

Hope that helps both sides clarify their positions on the matter.Actually that 1000 number you keep bringing up?

That includes John Howard's years in office and the split ain't that uneven. Don't believe me? Look it up from a credible source.

Indeed John Howard copped political flak because he was too late to assist Siev-X and hundreds of people drowned. You might want to rewrite history so it was always Labor's fault but those are the facts. Deal with them instead of trying to lie about them.

Further John Howard never really stopped the boats, the only time the boats have stopped was without any of the modern 'border protection' (or White Australia) policies or even mandatory detention. 1982-1987 - not one boat, longer than Howard EVER managed. Look it up from a credible source.

PS We don't know those drownings have stopped mate, remember we're being kept in the dark and boats are clearly still attempting to reach Australia so what makes you think that drownings have stopped or indeed will stop? Mindless, blind faith?You just made that up - remember no one has access to information on which to make that claim and given that many people drowned on Howard's watch (about the same as under Rudd and Gillard combined), we have no reason to believe that.

We know one thing though - boats are still heading to Australia and that means a risk of drowning despite all the claims of stopping the boats. So yeah, your policies clearly haven't worked and it's time to admit that.Labor chickened out instead of fixing their hasty decision (which had predictable results) to simply cut all processes they cut and run back to Howard's vile and expensive solution and that has cost us dearly - offshore processing means less jobs in Australia, greater amounts of suffering and hugely increased costs to the taxpayers.

It is a no win situation and also means that we're looking pretty damn bad both regionally and globally - and that makes a different as to where people invest long term and cooperation with our neighbors and allies.

This government though seems more ideologically driven to punish these people as much as possible. Regardless of whether you believe that these people are legitimate refugees who should be allowed to settle here or that they're economic migrants who shouldn't be... we've given up without fuss one of the basic principles of our entire legal system here, habeus corpus. 

Allowing people to be imprisoned indefinitely without trial undermines the very basis for our laws - is that really worth it to keep a few thousand people a year out? Because if they'll do it for immigration then it opens it up to other 'important' government agendas to also bypass these basic and essential legal protections. It's a move towards an authoritarian police state and whether you're on the right or left, surely that has to be a bad thing?There is a solution though.

Step 1. Those claiming asylum are processed for health and security concerns in neighboring countries before they try to get on a boat - this does a lot of the job in and of itself and both increases Australia's regional standing as well as preventing risky sea journeys.

Step 2. Those who are found eligible to apply for asylum are flown here at their own expense - those who can afford it outright pay less than is feasible to pay a smuggler and those who can't are allowed to pay the fees back when they can afford it. They'll be able to do so because...

Step 3. Those who are able to work are allowed to - people seen to be working and learning to adapt here are given priority, those unable to are still looked after while being fully assessed. People have obligations to report and we can initially place them into rural and regional areas, bringing jobs to those areas and providing seasonal work forces to farmers. Anyone committing any kind of serious crime during their assessment forfeits their right to claim asylum in Australia permanently.

Step 4. Those found to be genuine are allowed to stay and become citizens, perhaps initially with provisional citizenship that depends on them (a) keeping out of trouble during a period of say three years and (b) attempting to find work if they're able. I suspect (b) is unnecessary though since most refugees I've met want to work far more than the vast majority of Aussies. During this provisional stage there is no reunion policy with family members and indeed family members attempting to enter outside the normal methods may put the claims of those already here at risk. This would add incentive to keep things orderly without being overly punitive.

Step 5. We save billions of dollars, get more good citizens (which we need by the way, otherwise aging population will cause standards of living to drop for all) and genuine refugees get protection while those who aren't go back. Yes initially it means increasing our intake but once the back logs in our regional neighbors are cleared we'll slow the entire process down without risking people drowning at sea (more than can be said for both Labor and Liberal policies - drownings have occurred in large numbers under both) and without upsetting our neighboring countries or tarnishing Australia's image.

That's just one possible solution though, but a better one than either major party has to date provided.Riiight - so the government telling us that there is only one acceptable way to do things... that's something you guys now are in favor of? Wow.

There are always other ways - I can outline a few if you'd like but there are better answers than just cruel and punitive policies to deal with this. Less costly in terms of both taxpayer dollars and Australia's reputation (important financially if nothing else) too. Also helps solve the problem of our aging population AND if done right would encourage other nations in our region to take more refugees for resettlement too. Perhaps we could even use it to talk Japan into taking more on - they desperately need the boost in working age population after all. We do too just not quite as urgently.Why is everything so hard? Pay a fixed rate of child care to everyone below a means tested  family income - say $150k (or whatever). It may mean someone living in Dubbo is slightly better off than someone in affluent Sydney but so what.It's not very hard. If you are a CBA customer you should think hard about if this bank is right for you. If you are are are a CBA shareholder then think about two things - do you think your bank is acting ethically and if it has been acting unethically do you think its actions could lead to a share price fall.

What is best for you and your family and friends?If the speech wasn't about the headline then what is dangerous about the idea? Dangerous ideas are just that. Ideas that are outrageous, different, against the norm or common thought. If the intention of the speech was to end up telling us that honour killings are indeed not justified under any circumstances then this seems to fit the norm and would hardly be a dangerous idea. Yes, the organisers were right to cancel the speech.AE

Seems to me that's kind of like saying that a parent who is happy to let their child eat candy only, because that is what they like best, is a good parent. 

Sure people don't like to pay more, we get that - indeed it's the whole point in fact. If people don't want to pay more then the answer is to use less rather than just continue not paying for slowly accumulating damage to everyone regardless of how much or little they use. Rather than banning high energy usage or products that take a lot of energy to manufacture this has the advantage of letting people decide for themselves what they can and can't live without.

As for "big polluters" - you know what? I'd agree with you entirely there except for one inconvenient fact - these guys have fought tooth and nail to stop other technologies taking hold, they've tried to con people that it's not their products causing the problem, they've bought and influenced politicians world wide using some of their extraordinary wealth... all rather than accept things and make the necessary changes. For a fraction of what they spend fighting what needs to be done, we could actually make significant inroads on getting it done and their investment in it would allow them to still make a profit.

And it's not a matter of an either or scenario in the end - really we can produce the things we want and have an environment that isn't ruined if we put in place better ways of producing those things. Yes there is an initial cost but the alternative is far costlier and promises far greater disruptions to our collective way of life. But those who have built their wealth on the use of fossil fuels have been able to keep a strangle hold on the energy market. You only need to look and see who exactly has lobbied so hard to kill the RET after all.1. Those refugees that go elsewhere as our policies force them away? They still risk drowning and I note that drownings in other parts of the world of refugees has increased. So really you're just sweeping the problem under the carpet at best.

2. As noted refugees are risking death being sent back. As time and time again has been shown indefinite detention is leading to poor mental health out comes and all too often suicide. Other parts of these policies have actually been responsible for several deaths - not just the attacks on PNG asylum seekers but also sending several to die in the jungle after being set adrift in little orange life boats. Where is your concern for any of these people?

3. Actually there is a third answer - provide an alternative to leaky boats. If we set up refugee assessment centers in Indonesia and other nearby neighbors then we could easily process people before they got in boats and provide them with a cheaper, safer alternative at less cost to the tax payer.

Of course that would mean meeting our international obligations and actually letting people in - but you guys are just worried about them drowning right? I mean that's not just dodging the issue that you don't want any of 'these people' here at all is it?

But I guess that sums up all the LNP's policies: built on utterly fictional notions, selfishness and insularity bordering on xenophobia.Right - so if a murderer were after you and you went to the police, you'd be happy if they just said to go home and try to avoid contact with the murderer? Maybe try moving and learning a new trade from scratch? After all they can't be expected to do anything to help or try to keep you safe.

Again - this is based on a 'well founded fear' not just imagination. But then it's very easy to sit in an armchair and judge people who have been through things you personally can't even begin to imagine.@gbe And you're basing this on what exactly?

Given that Labor, despite heavy LNP opposition, created this country's super system, that the LNP are the only party to have tried to continually undermine it, that the LNP failed to increase it at a sufficient rate and that the LNP actively hate the public service... that just seems like a crazy accusation more likely to be true of the Liberal party than Labor and ultimately based on absolutely nothing.

But then again I suppose that's all hardly surprising - the LNP create nothing for Australia except humiliation on the world stage from threats that they can't keep. 

Amusing as it would have been to watch Putin destroy Abbott with his bare hands (boxing blue vs judo expert and KGB agent doesn't go well for the boxer - especially not if he keeps leading with his chin) I am actually glad he didn't keep his promise of 'shirt fronting'. 

After all Abbott may be an idiot but he's our idiot and it would have looked bad to have to get someone to scrape him off the floor and walls of the place and take him home in a doggy bag. Still he should have thought harder in the first place before opening his mouth and putting his foot in it.

I also suspect that any chance of getting any kind of even a mealy mouthed apology or half hearted contribution to a compensation scheme for families of the victims evaporated the exact moment that Tony needed Vlad to toss him a bone and let him save face on this one.Indeed it does not.

'Observation' in this case doesn't necessarily require or imply an intelligent observer - merely some form of 'sensor'. Basically the observer effect just means that in order to detect something it inherently disturbs the system - at base for an electron to be detectable a photon has to interact with that electron and that photon-electron interaction will change the path of the electron. There are less direct methods of detection but these still necessitate disturbing the thing you wish to observe.

To give a less obscure example, consider measuring the temperature of something using a thermometer - in order to make that measurement some of the thermal energy of whatever is being measured has to be absorbed by the thermometer in order to record the temperature.

Nor does Heisenberg's uncertainty principle imply that each of us is spread out over the universe or that we're ethereal (whatever that means), merely that there are physical limits as to how much information you can get simultaneously about complementary variables (such as position and momentum) of fundamental particles. 

Wave-particle duality isn't a matter of it being one thing and then another after observation exactly either - it gets pretty complex since this goes into quantum field theory but basically both a wave and a particle are ways of looking at the same thing, albeit different aspects and different ways of describing it. 

You can look at different aspects of wave function too - by looking at momentum-space wave function you get a good idea (high probability or low probability spread) of the momentum component of a 'particle' in that region but it comes at the cost (due to uncertainty principle) of getting a good picture of the position-space wave function and consequently you won't get a precise picture (more wide spread possibility) of position component of a 'particle' in that region.

In other words for a particular 'particle', the more precisely you want to know the position of it at any given instant, the less precisely you can measure that 'particle's' momentum at that instant.

Quantum physics may be counter intuitive to us folks that have evolved to deal with the macroscopic world and perceive it on that level, but it's not mystical. Amazing though certainly to us poor apes that have to try to visualize something outside of all evolved natural experience of the world.

PS Apologies if I have made any mistakes here, haven't slept and someone who understands it better than I should feel free to correct me.I agree with Tim, this 'Interstellar' isn't really 'hard' science fiction - though perhaps our reasons differ. For me the thing about wormholes is that they are completely speculative, let alone as a viable method of interstellar transit. Since that seems at the core of this story that would make it 'soft' science fiction at heart - your mileage may vary though. I'd also note that the high profile physicist he mentions didn't have all that much to do with production or direction - the story was 'Hollywood-ized' though still seems like it might be worth a watch even if they don't get everything right.

I do however think it'd be good to see some better works in production including classics from earlier years.

I was a big fan of Frank M. Robinson's 'The ocean's are wide' - generation ships are at least far more feasible than what amounts to 'magical teleportation'. Also a decent stab at explaining Machiavelli to boot so more going on than just technical stuff. 

There ARE some bits in it that rely on technology that is beyond that of the present but it's rather limited and mostly plausible based on current technology - no cryogenic freezing, no wormholes, no hyperspace, no warp drives.

But there's loads of good science fiction around, you just have to look to find stuff that is less space fantasy and more exploration of ideas.

Not that there's necessarily anything wrong with soft science fiction either - though the way Hollywood does it tends to be pretty poor at best - but I found 'With Folded Hands' by Jack Williamson was very good and explored some interesting, if rather dark, ideas on the nature of robotics and increasing, unthinking automation.

I guess for my money the most important thing is the ideas explored - yes blatant errors in science tends to damage the story and lead to plot holes, science as 'magic' seems like a cop out and of course the reality is more interesting to use than poorly made up stuff but at the end of the day science fiction stories are still stories and they of course need more than just dry adherence to detail to make them interesting.I think in this case we're simply theorizing - no one really knows until someone falls into a black hole. Unfortunately even if that happens they will have no way of communicating the answers to the outside world.

Given the physics within a singularity are impossible to describe with current knowledge/theory to any real level and given the rather high likelihood we'll never be able to observe one (at least within the foreseeable future) - we just don't know enough to meaningfully say what goes on at the 'heart' of a black hole.And there you have it folks, we've found someone more reactionary than the current government - they'd settle for taking us back to the 1950's or at best the 19th century.

Peter the "lawyer" wants to take us back to ancient Athens. 

Inquiring minds want to know if Peter just supports utterly disenfranchising those he deems unworthy of having the vote or if he wants to bring back institutionalized pederasty too?

There is one thing he might learn from the ancients though - namely that those who act only in terms of private interests and business and were not interested in the public good were THE original idiots.When will the right learn a simple lesson:

Not everything is or should be for sale.@Peter of Melbourne

If there's one thing worse than party politics, it's holier-than-thou, know-it-all's who think that they know better than all sides and that they're free to reign down judgement from their moral high horse while never actually having to provide real world answers or ever admitting when they got it wrong. You're just too in love with your own smug sense of self righteousness to ever see that the answers you provide are just echoes in an empty chamber and devoid of ever having to cope with the sort of real world factors that would make or break a real solution to a problem.

Really you people are the narcissistic hipsters of politics and a major part of the problem - no solution offered will ever be good enough for you and hence as the number of those who think like you increase democracies become increasing ungovernable. In essence you're worse than the greens - with them at least the echo chamber is the size of their minority party rather than the size of their own head.

Now as for FTA's - they can be good, they can be bad. John Howard sold us out with the US one and this looks like another rushed policy designed to get some publicity for the LNP without thought to the consequences for all Australians.

That said it will take many months to see exactly how it will play out in real terms - in the end the good may outweigh the bad and at the very least China seeking these sorts of agreements represents them being willing to play ball in terms of global economics.

I do think if we're to maximize the benefits afforded by this FTA though we need to do something similar to what China has done with Australia - get people with experience studying the place and train up our business people in how best to deal with the law, culture, politics and other factors that will mean the difference between success and failure. 

China has done this on a massive scale with Australia and we need to step up to the plate - teaching more people the language is part of the solution but we need to go further than that, indeed it would be optimal to have education and training tailored to specific industries and to specific parts of this very large and variable country. Providing this as a free or at least subsidized service to Australian business would be a big step forwards in my opinion.Yeah! How dare Gough Whitlam not solve every problem in the world while at the same time dealing with a Liberal party abusing our entire system of lawful governance in unprecedented fashion!

Guess the myth of Whitlam is thoroughly demolished now!I think Whitlam did get it wrong on the Vietnamese refugees - not that this current mob would have let them in either, which doesn't absolve Gough's mistake at all but let's be honest here. It's very disingenuous to criticize someone for making mistake that you'd view as a stroke of genius if someone you supported did it. 

As for East Timor, sorry this is the country that John Howard betrayed utterly by pretending to want them as an independent, stable nation free from Indonesian rule but in fact was just using in order to get access to their gas resources while spying on them to get a better deal? That East Timor?

Might want to remember that we'd just gotten out of a secret war with Indonesia (which conservative governments had prevented the Australian public from hearing about - an utterly undemocratic act) and probably didn't want to restart that given how badly the conservative led Australian intervention in Vietnam had just gone. 

Endless war based on ideological principle and the belief that we're always in the right tends to cause a lot more destruction and death than the diplomatic, albeit at times unpalatable, alternative - indeed if we'd invaded over East Timor it might well never have gained independence as it eventually did.

Gough Whitlam certainly wasn't a saint but he was far better than conservatives give him credit for, even if they lack the vision or strip away the historical context to try and belittle him. Without his all too short leadership this country would be much worse off on every level. 

Further the elephant in the room is that the reason he's so despised by the right because to do less than try and demonize him might bring up the awkward question of why conservatives thought it was okay to abuse parliamentary process in such an unprecedented manner and with absolutely zero regard for Australia's economic interests by throwing a huge tantrum and blocking supply. Or indeed what pressure was put on Kerr to fail in even the basic task of consulting the elected prime minister before taking action that even Fraser later condemned.On the other hand he achieved more in TWO terms (he won in 1972 and in 1974 even if his last term was cut short by dodgy conservative schemes that broke established precedent) than conservative governments had done in 23 years.

That's 23 years in which they could have solved even the basic problems of sanitation systems in Sydney and Melbourne, but didn't.

23 years they could have made university level education available to more than just a rich elite, but didn't.

23 years that they could have opened relations with China, but didn't.

23 years in which they could have provided fairer treatment and recognition of indigenous people, could have provided universal healthcare, could have provided pensions to those in need and really doing it tough, could have in some measurable way - any way in fact - made Australia a better place, but didn't.

Sure - the GG sided against him after Fraser stooped to a new low in Aussie politics and broke convention by blocking supply, without regard for the consequences for the Australian economy of inducing political paralysis.

This lack of regard for Australia's economy would later show in Fraser's leadership for after being left zero net debt he and treasurer John Howard were utterly toxic to our economy - they left us heavily in debt, with over 10 percent unemployment, interest rates and inflation at the same time. 
This was, and still is, the worst economic performance of any Australian government.
@True Liberal

Spot on mate.

It's sad that rather than get the real message, namely that absolute power in the hands of a few people without proper checks and balances and particularly without real scrutiny is a terrible thing, people instead concentrate on trying to rewrite history and clear their 'side' of any wrong doing.

Fact is that the 20th century saw both left and right wing authoritarian governments that commit horrific acts on massive scales.

You'd think by now we'd have learned to automatically kick out any government that starts talking along the lines of "Just trust us to do the right thing, we don't need watching..." or "Freedom of the press needs to be limited, of course, due to national security..." but here we are.I disagree - they're not liberal with a small 'l' rightly enough, and they're not conservative either. A conservative would be outraged by this governments attack on the vital institutions of government and encroachments on basic freedoms and legal principles that have existed in some cases for hundreds of years.

They are reactionaries who aim to take Australian society back to a golden age that never existed outside of their own imaginations. Hence the negative stance on just about everything Labor did before the election and the drive to rewrite the national curriculum towards 'judeo-christian' values as if these some how represented all of the Australian people or ever in fact did.

It also explains the view that trampling on basic legal principles is okay - they feel that society is in mortal moral peril from the progressive forces of the last 60+ years and so the ends justify the means.Thing is that one person's "holding the press to account" is another person's "censoring the media".

But that aside you still leave out the internet filter Labor tried to put in place in any case.

Fact is that Labor has for awhile now also pushed for these kind of laws, both of the major parties are taking us down this road and justifying it in various ways be they a partisan press, national security interests, border security, the environment not being reported on honestly, protecting the children (sigh) or stopping internet 'piracy' (which I think a large amount of the commercial pressure is coming from).

I think that to be honest we need a more open discussion in which the Australian people can have their views held as to which limits they're willing to accept on these things. I know that both sides of government want to cave in and allow everyone to be monitored in order to catch people who copy movies but we need to here from more than just one industry - if most people don't accept the validity of 'piracy' being a crime here then it shouldn't be. 

The views of ISPs, for one, should have at least as much weight as the movie industry, they shouldn't be forced to pay to protect someone else's 'property' surely? Similarly if most people don't accept an internet filter then we shouldn't have one, regardless of what either major party thinks is best for us.Don't mention that, unlike Fraser (with Howard as Australia's worst treasurer), he didn't actually leave us in any debt.

Don't mention that left to the Liberal's Sydney and Melbourne would be awash with untreated sewage - after twenty three years of power the LNP had done nothing to solve this.

Don't mention that he started deregulation of the economy by lowering tariffs with an eye towards removing them - something the allegedly free marketeers of the LNP opposed.

Don't mention that he was subject to a unfounded trash from Murdoch newspapers, ambushed by Liberals blocking supply against the national interests and the betrayal of an undemocratic governor-general who mislead him instead of trying to find a real solution to a LNP created crisis.

Both the left and the right mythologize the man, but don't pretend the right wing are even close to reality on this  - their level of hatred for what this man did is far more distorting than even the highest pedestal that the left might put him on could ever do.

And if you want to talk bad economics, look to the Fraser legacy under John Howard's treasury: over ten percent unemployment, inflation and interest rates and ever increasing debt that took the reforms of the Hawke-Keating era to correct and get Australia back into prosperity only for John Howard to come along and spend all the boom time profits and leave us in structural deficit.

Rewrite history all you want, it's all the right seem to be good at when it comes to economics, but the facts are there and they show that the right is talking out their collective rear ends when it comes to financial and economic policy as well as social.
Better time it well then, given Australia's history in terms of immigration, just who do you think they're going to come for first mate?So basically your political position is to think you're some kind of unique and delicate, special flower above all the follies of all other human beings. Gotcha.

In the continuous circle of left to right politics, you're the hole in the middle. There is a name for that kind of politics, it's not fascism or communist but narcissism.Hi Billy Bob, the basic principles of physics would like word with you even though they say you've never heard of them let alone know them well.

As for children behind razor wire - sounds unlikely to me. All I know for sure about the greens these days is that I'd rather not watch Sarah Hanson Young spontaneously explode into tears on the telly again.

Still the point does remain that imprisoning children long term is pretty damaging to them and seems to be using punitive measures against children to in order to target their parents - a pretty terrible practice surely?But we don't make them pay for health costs caused by fossil fuel usage.

Further your own example compares state level subsidies to state AND federal level funding combined and is therefore without value.1. Carbon dioxide IS a pollutant - it's NOT an atmospheric one but it IS a water pollutant that is measurably increasing the acidity of the ocean. That has nothing to do with global warming but it is a directly observable fact.

2. Carbon dioxide isn't the only pollutant from fossil fuels - in fact fossil fuels cause tremendous amounts of health issues and deaths world wide from air pollution. This isn't added in to the cost of fossil fuel so therefore we're already subsidizing fossil fuels on that basis alone. This is long attested to by rigorous studies and again has nothing to do with global warming.

3. I know you want to believe what right wing ideologues say but perhaps listen to the scientists about global warming, or at least gain some knowledge of atmospheric physics and you'll see how wrong you are there. Even if you choose to take faith in the right wing ideologues the other two points still stand though.

4. Fossil fuel companies are massively subsidized anyway - they don't pay nearly the level of tax competing industries do. At least with direct subsidies they're easier to keep track of and trace but huge scale tax offsets are just as bad and we lose billions a year (more than we spend on renewable energy technologies) to them.

5. At this point I suspect that 'catastrophic global warming' in some senses is unavoidable, though hopefully some ways off still. Really we're just trying to minimize the level of the catastrophes it brings. Sadly the greens and many others of the left haven't been that well educated in science any more than the majority of the right (albeit that they're generally more open to it) - they worry about things like sea level rises when rainfall distribution and patterns over agricultural and pastoral areas are a far more pressing concern. 

Also effects on the ocean are largely poorly understood even by the scientific community as yet due to a lack of research and data - these changes there could prove a real problem since much of the worlds food is produced there. Also concerns particular to Australia are worth a look - severity and number of dangerous  bush fires in particular.Cool - so go plug your cars exhaust system into your closed automobile and just sit and inhale for awhile mate ;)@Theos - sadly they actually give off quite toxic pollutants even if stored unburnt.

In fact there's a considerable amount of data suggesting that people who work at petrol stations are, just to give one example, effected by the toxic fumes sufficiently to run a significantly higher risk of having a fatal car accident on the way home from work.Not regular as clockwork mate - originally 2011 was predicted to be solar maximum, then 2013, but in fact we're still heading towards it now during 2014.

Bizbob is wrong though too - we're not at minimum either and maximum is predicted at far less than 5 years from now.'18 year pause'

No - actually according to one measurement (HADCRUT) which doesn't count in the areas of greatest warming (arctic and antarctic) the RATE OF INCREASE of temperatures has reduced. That doesn't mean that temperatures have stopped increasing or that cooling has occurred even by this most favourable of measurements.

I'd also note that the 18 year thing is cherry picking using an unusually warm year (which has been exceeded but not by all that much) as a start date. Any other starting year and the effect is much less dramatic.

Finally it was always expected that we'd see variance in the rates of warming - differences in heat between ocean and atmosphere and between shallow ocean and deep ocean lead to different absorbtion rates of excess heat energy.

'record ice coverage'

Flat out wrong mate. Antarctic sea ice coverage has increased slightly but is thinner and the actual amount of ice coverage globally has massively reduced. Also sea ice is seasonal - ice sheets are the more valid measure and while a particular area of the antarctic increased up until recently, the antarctic sheet in total has shrunk and the arctic sheet has shrunk massively.

'record cold days'

And record hot days - neither of which is to the point though since that's weather and not climate and reflects only regional variations.

'water in the dams'

Yes - we came out of a very long ENSO event where our entire continent was at the driest yet seen. Also warming increases evaporation so can lead to more rainfall or less depending on the area, season and other factors. However the trade off there is that we've seen a lot more severe rainfall events as well as severe droughts, exactly as global warming predicts because the natural variations become more extreme due to added heat energy. Also more devastating bush fires.

'less severe and frequent weather events'

Another flat out falsehood - they've increased markedly over the last few decades. However I'd also point out that this isn't entirely down to climate change - a weather event is generally only of note if it effects people and we have more people in more places and depend on more agriculture.

One final note that I'd like to see you at least TRY to address - global warming also predicts that while the lower atmosphere warms, the upper atmosphere cools. This is what has happened and nothing but global warming explains it that's thus far been proposed.

Don't believe me? Well thing is that as the upper atmosphere cools, it shrinks and because of that we've actually had to alter the orbit of satellites because less dense atmosphere at their level means that otherwise they'd leave the planet's orbit.

So how does that gel with your global warming conspiracy stuff? You reckon Sarah Hanson Young flew up and faked it perhaps?Yeah - I'd be careful with that. Peak oil has been predicted before wrongly.

Fact is we don't know how long these resources will last - new resources are still being discovered although the rate of discovery has decreased, for now at least.

Further some resources that were discovered may become economically viable to use when they previously weren't.

Finally coal can actually be converted to petrol so, yeah, wouldn't hold your breath waiting on that one.John Howard left us in structural deficit, his much vaunted surplus wouldn't have lasted one year regardless of who was in power.

This despite inheriting a reformed economy (he opposed the necessary reforms at the time I might add) that was doing extremely well and an unprecedented mining boom that he squandered. 

Not only was he a poor economic manager as prime minister, he was the single worst treasurer in modern Australian history under Fraser. Over 10 percent unemployment, over 10 percent inflation, over 10 percent interest rates - just awful.

And what do we have to show for Howard's time in office? Unaffordable middle class welfare, unsustainable tax cuts, a squandered mining boom, a more divided, less cohesive society despite that being a key part of what he wanted for Australia, a war that was based on lies and made the world less safe that we're now going in to try to fix some of the damage he did... and bugger all else.

The one thing I'll give him credit for is gun law reform - he did nothing else of value. A small, myopic man forever looking over his shoulder back to a past that never really existed outside of his ill informed childhood, he slowed down Australia's progress because he never really felt comfortable with it or with our nation being anything other than a satellite state of Britain and then America - certainly his racist views on Asia are well documented and those attitudes helped prevent us finding our place in the world. He squandered eleven years of our nation's potential and led us into the wilderness of mediocrity and away from a legacy of Australia as a great nation.

And yet you and so many right wingers praise him, never realizing just how much he cost all of us including you.@ Dugong

Well actually Howard sailed through the Asian Economic Crisis due wholly to reforms Keating put through rather than any competence on his or Costello's part, a fact that most competent economic analysts and political commentators recognize.

Keating's recession 'we had to have' ironically wasn't even a recession - it was one quarter of negative growth followed by positive growth thereafter, for over twenty years, based on his opening up of the economy.

Yes of course there was a bump, such massive structural reforms rarely go as smoothly as they did here yet the right wing complain even as they take credit for the fruits of the reforms that they opposed at the time vehemently. 

Fact is that without Keating this country would still be mired in tariffs, utterly uncompetitive in all areas with centrally fixed wages, high inflation, high unemployment and high interest rates (You know, just like Howard had achieved as treasurer under Fraser? When he was the worst treasurer of modern times?).

In fact without Labor governments we'd still live in a country that didn't have proper sanitation in our major cities, where only the very rich had access to health care or university level education, closed off from the world with an outdated economy that couldn't handle external shocks and which went into recession at least every decade (as it did right up until the Hawke-Keating era reforms and since then not once in over twenty years).

This is because the Libs talk a big game but achieve nothing, they think governing means keeping things they way they found them if not trying to take them back to the imaginary golden days of their lost youth. Under that kind of governance we fall backwards compared to the rest of the world or at least those parts of it not caught in a conservative time warp. 

Despite that they still manage to be bigger spenders, largely on regional slush fund projects that benefit few other than to generate good will in marginal electorates and help keep the dinosaurs in power for longer while we pay through the nose in lost opportunities for it.Can you explain why you think Howard was good given that he wasted the unprecedented windfall of the Hawke-Keating reformed economy and massive mining boom utterly?

Seriously - he left us in structural deficit with not enough of his widely acclaimed surplus to cover even one year of continued expenditure and nothing to show for it. Oh except for a war he led us into based on lies and that is still going.

Worse still because his excessive tax cuts and middle class welfare came just before the GFC hit our shores we had to go years without being safely able to fix the economy he ruined.

PS He was also the worst treasurer in modern Australian history under Fraser. And a unrepentant racist too - go look at what he had to say about our Asian neighbours at the time.I'm thinking that the response to AGW, IS, Ebola and most things in life shouldn't be fear.

It's right to be concerned and take steps to protect ourselves and others but full blown panic shouldn't be the outcome we're looking for - the hysterical reactions to all of these things tends to make them harder to deal with.

In the case of AGW we got panic on both sides of politics, neither of which has been helpful. Parts of the left decided it was instantly the end of civilization unless we did something, anything, right now. Parts of the right have simply turned against scientific processes that they accept in most any other field. They've stuck their heads in the sand. This is not helpful either. 

A better reaction is to say that while there are uncertainties, the weight of evidence together with basic physics strongly suggests we've got a problem, it is one we can partially ameliorate and partly adapt to though if we're prepared to take sensible action in terms of not only cutting emissions (though in a way that preserves our economy so we don't lose the ability to act at all), but also of basic research so we can adapt to changing rainfall patterns and new technologies to adapt to other challenges this might present. 

In the case of IS, again portions of both sides of politics are panicking - in this case it tends to be a reversal. Some of the left seem to think that there is no problem at all, some of the right over state it and demand dramatic, ill thought out actions. They want something done right now, regardless of what it is.

Again I think the truth lies somewhere in between - yes IS is a real problem, as is terrorism in general. However if it means giving up basic freedoms then we should move very carefully indeed - particularly when existing measures seem to work quite well and other solutions are available. We should also be having more of a discussion as to whether we should be continuing to interfere in the middle east at all since thus far our meddling seems only to have made things worse. I'm not saying rule it out, but if we go in there in a climate of fear and panic without a thought out plan then we're only likely going to make things worse still.

Just my 2 cents.Which makes China so much different than when we (read the US led us meekly along with them) supported Saddam or Pinochet or Saudi Arabia or South Africa or... 

Well you get the idea. Fact is that we can't just stick our heads in the sand and demand that other nations change to meet our notions of what they should be doing. Even if that were a just thing to do we simply don't have the power to enforce it.

Plus really, who are we to look at China's mistakes when we still don't acknowledge our own or those of our close allies - or did you think it was okay for the US to overthrow democracies willy-nilly as they have since world war 2? Was it okay for them to use chemical weapons in Vietnam (they say mistakenly, would we believe the same from anyone else?)? 

Fact is we're very, very, very selective in our moral outrage.An interesting point to note is that when Chinese heads of state have visited Australia, even in the recent past, they were more interested in meeting Gough than our current prime minister at the time.

Think they respected the fact that he gave the US a bridge towards more normalized relations with them. Probably didn't hurt the chances of avoiding violent conflict either.Not saying they wouldn't have traded with us at all mate, but they've certainly granted us fairly favourable deals and been fairly reasonable with us. Not all of that is down to Gough but I think you're kidding yourself if you think he didn't get the ball rolling on this one.

As for Indonesia - even now we couldn't prevent them invading East Timor. That's simply a fact - we have the ability to defend Australia but not to invade Indonesia, simply don't have the manpower. Now Gough may well be guilty of having failed to put more diplomatic pressure on Indonesia but it's also true that our relationship with Jarkarta was at a much lower point and that may not have helped and may have created problems for Australia.

But as for John Howard getting involved - he sure did, once massive gas reserves were discovered and then helped cheat the East Timorese out much of it. Even went so far as to illegally spy on their government to strengthen our negotiating position. Nice man that, I'm sure he got involved for purely altruistic reasons there.And yet people deserve a fair trial - isn't that the basis of the rule of law? If we're to abandon that then murderers are no different from anyone else since justice doesn't therefore mean anything.

Fact is that Pistorius was treated to incompetent police work, trial by media and a prosecution setting out to convict him (at least in everyone's minds) of a charge that they simply never had the evidence to even remotely support.

Further, while the sentence is in my mind too short (10-15 seems on the face of it far more appropriate), it SHOULD be taken into account that South Africa's over crowded prison system is likely to be a far harsher penalty to a man without legs than to one with them since they don't really have appropriate care options. Sentencing is supposed to take that into account.

Finally I think it's worth noting that the family seems satisfied with the sentence after hearing the trial themselves. Not that this will stop the prosecutor from trying to appeal to get a lengthier sentence in all probability, this is after all being pushed by largely uninformed outsiders who branded him guilty of the original charge from day one and were fed only the most sensationalist of out takes from the trial.

Fact is that trial by media is no better than mob rule - if we're going that way why waste money on legal process, he could have just been strung up from a tree as soon as he was accused much more cheaply after all.Remind Abbott that it'll help the churches and I'm sure he'll take a look?Sure thing mate - you guys wanted to keep the poor without sanitation or medical care or prospects of utilizing their talents to the full. Oh yeah, and you lot then went on to trash the economy under Fraser, with John Howard as treasurer, worse than any other government before or since.

Lets recite the facts shall we? 

Over 10 percent unemployment.

Over 10 percent inflation.

Over 10 percent interest rates.

And nothing to bloody well show for it, compare to 3 years to utterly reform and improve the country in numerous ways.

However populist your policies, what will be remember is how little your mob do for this country and at what cost. 

(Remember that deficit crisis you guys are blaming on Labor, you know the one that John Howard started while leaving a surplus less than enough to cover that deficit he created for one year? Despite record tax receipts from the mining boom that were utterly wasted? Hey, remember Howard's views on Asian people back in the '80's? Remember him actually justifying both an illegal invasion based on false intelligence  and allowing over three hundred and fifty people to drown despite it being completely preventable? Still I bet you that you'll find some way to square the fact that you lot are both morally and fiscally bankrupt in your own head despite it being utterly at odds with the reality.)@Monkey

While being born here doesn't automatically grant you citizenship unless at least one parent is Australian, there is another factor in this to consider that often would mean that a child in these circumstances should be given Australian citizenship: the fact is that this child is stateless and not entitled to citizenship in any other nation.@Paul01

This is Australia, we don't use the phrase "I could care less" - only Americans do.

We don't use it not because it's American but because it makes no sense and actually says the exact opposite of what you clearly mean to say. If you COULD care less that means you could in fact care a great deal or very little but it means you do care too some extent.

The correct phrase is "I COULDN'T care less", which correctly implies that you don't care about it at all.

Sorry to be pedantic but I hate the American version of this phrase.

As for the rest of your post, I personally don't care about people expressing either opinion, trite as those opinions are. I've always felt that the whole 'love your country' thing was very much going against Australian identity (such as it is) - that excessive and showy nationalism was never our cup of tea. At the same time the whole 'ashamed to be Australian' thing sounds really petulant - when I'm annoyed with what is happening here I'd rather an angry rant in a more invective laden form than something that whiny.

I do agree with you, Paul01, however that we should be working towards a carbon dioxide neutral economy at a heightened pace - there are a lot of jobs and money to be made from the opportunities available in it and it'd probably stop some of the world's sillier conflicts if we removed our reliance on fossil fuels anyway.Depends on who you ask or what way you look at it.

Aristotle, Auguste Comte, Benjamin Pierce, Bertrand Russell, the Oxford English Dictionary and many others would disagree, at least in part.

I'd say that math probably shouldn't be bundled in with arts or science, it's a thing unto itself since it's an odd mixture of elements of art, science, philosophy, logic and intuition.

I think the most important thing is that a heavier focus, earlier on with math would benefit art AND science greatly.I'd like to see the focus on STEM subjects, especially earlier on - early learning makes for the best results in mathematics and in language subjects. This also suggests it might be a good idea to start a foreign language earlier with the capacity to follow that particular language stream all the way through schooling - I'd focus that on Chinese rather than European languages but with options there.

But yeah - Science, Technology, English and Mathematics should form the basic core of what is taught with other subjects more or less optional. Critical thinking skills should be a major component of that - they're vital for science but also for arts, history, politics and many other subjects besides. Without the basis of logic and rational thought, creativity is worthless.

Some exposure to art and history is certainly desirable, though history is the kind of thing that tends to get political interference due to culture war type attitudes. A better thing is to focus more on analysis and how to research history and how to analyze art is a better focus than simply trying to get kids to rote learn whatever chunks of 'history' they're being told are true and important and better than simply telling people about the artists deemed to be great by whoever is doing the teaching.

Religion shouldn't be a subject, much less a compulsory one. Focusing on the history of religions or comparative religion possibly as an elective, and study of the worlds religious texts as literature is reasonable but of pretty low importance compared to core subjects.

Physical education isn't really a subject, never has been. Yes children need exercise but schools can't provide everything and that's not supposed to be their primary purpose - parents at some point need to take responsibility for something and this is one of those things. Would do the parents some good too I might add. If we're really obsessed over trying to fix obesity through schooling, teach the kids martial arts of some kind - at least they'll learn discipline and how to defend themselves in addition to just being physically active.

As for arts - they are of marginal importance, people will be exposed to such things anyway. This is a hold over, ironically given the accusation of the piece, from the 19th century and earlier ideas of a 'classical' education and has no place in a world that has truly moved beyond ancient Greece and Rome and beyond Judeo-Christian heritage. 

tl;dr? Basically instead of teaching kids who don't want to learn and will never get much use out of how to dance, sing and paint or about 'judeo-christian' values (whatever the hell those are supposed to be, let's face it - it's just an excuse to indoctrinate) or getting them mindlessly running around in circles or forcing them to play cricket and football - let's focus on teaching kids how to think for themselves AND on the core subjects that are vital to our world, science, techn@Oh Lordy

Then by rights you must take responsibility for deaths at sea caused by people going places other than Australia and for those caused by preventing people fleeing persecution or forcing them to flee to unsafe areas surely? 

I mean otherwise you'd just be being a massive hypocrite since you'd basically be saying 'accidents happen', right?

Oh also since several deaths have occurred DIRECTLY as a result of this governments policies... how would you suggest we assess the moral culpability of deaths caused directly by those policies? Do you think that is a better, more justifiable outcome?

Another point - have a look at what is happening in detention centres to those working there. The toll is worse than it ever was on those fishing out dead bodies, the turn over is huge as are mental health problems for the workers. Medical staff particularly are affected since they're being forced to choose between losing their job and doing things that they know aren't in their patients best interests. They're seeing children imprisoned, people attempting suicide on at least a weekly basis, people who have been driven utterly to despair in order to earn this government votes. Have you talked to any of them? Or is it just the poor old customs officers you worry about?

If so you might consider what we're doing to them - they and the navy have now been charged with the risky and depressing duty of capturing these people and locking them away indefinitely, knowing that many of them will come out of this permanently scarred at the very least. Some won't make it out at all.

One final thing, what we've done with immigration undermines basic principles of justice that we've had for hundreds of years. Habeas corpus is fundamental to justice and rule of law, yet we've sold that down river because a large chunk of the Australian populace got hysterically scared that a few people who weren't white came in leaky boats. Pathetic. If that's what we've come to then Australia isn't worth saving so you might as well just let everyone in.

Maybe that's this government's real strategy? To make Australia so terrible that the tide of boats will turn the other way? That'll sure show them Tony!

PS Does anyone else here wish Ms Hansen-Young would stop bursting into tears in front of cameras constantly? I find her annoying and that she often undermines her own, admittedly often ill thought out and overly emotive, points.Oh so only "genuine refugees" count if they drown? Nice. I thought you were genuinely concerned about PEOPLE drowning, but it turns out that in fact you're not.

Incidentally I'm not just talking about those we turn back, if, as you say, it's not just a matter of those in Australian custody then surely you'd equally have to be concerned about what happens to those people who are forced to try other risky sea journeys since Australia is allegedly closed to them?

After all how can you genuinely claim that Labor "drowned x number of people" or that the LNP "saved x number of people from drowning" when you actually don't care if they drown elsewhere, just not in your back yard? And even then only if they're "genuine refugees" (practically all of them actually, but it's meaningless to argue when they aren't even getting properly assessed)?

As for your view of the current system? No - actually we're no longer taking in anyone who comes on a boat so we DO turn back genuine refugees with a well founded fear of persecution.

Stop justifying what you know is wrong, in addition to people being drowned at sea we are now ACTUALLY responsible for people going insane, committing suicide, being dropped off in remote jungles and dying, being based to death while in Australian custody and more. 

Or at least be honest - you couldn't give two tenths of a sh*t whether people drown, you just don't want them here and you want to use them for you own political purposes. Your are morally bankrupt in this respect, own it.

Also "thousands of deaths at sea"? Labor only was in government for several hundred (about the same as the Howard government from 2000-2007) so where all these extra deaths that you blame the ALP for coming from?

Oh and incidentally deaths at sea haven't stopped - but again, you don't really care - if they die on the LNP watch you'll just say they weren't GENUINE enough to count as real people.Yeah, right mate.

Just like abuse in churches, the military or any other group immune from scrutiny and protected from on high, it's all just a matter of opinion... right?

"The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing."

Edmund BurkeIgnores technology - people have been predicting we'd run out of food since Malthus but it hasn't happened yet and indeed we've gotten better at feeding the world, less malnutrition than ever! 

Almost like demand drives innovation - isn't that what the right wing always preaches (unless it's inconvenient for them)?

Also ignores population trends aren't exponential or even linear, indeed population growth is slowly seeming to level off. 

Almost like when people aren't kept in a state of constant poverty in order to direct all the wealth to a few, they stop being so worried about child mortality that they cease having a dozen children so that maybe a couple survive to look after them in old age.

As for environmental concerns - it's not so much population but certain industries and lax legal protections doing the damage there. However since the right wing seems to have had a change of heart about this I think that's great that we'll finally be getting tough on the companies and wealthy individuals that cause environmental degradation in Australia! 

Oh wait, just like the whole deaths at sea they were just faking concern in order to promote xenophobia, insularity and subtle racist over tones in order to get votes from a frightened populace that doesn't like change or people with different skin colour? Damn, ah well, there's always hope.Good - go with him and keep on going.

Australia will be better off.This old lie? Again? Really?

Your numbers are wrong and more importantly those numbers aren't just from Labor's time in office mate - they're combined with Howard's time. He oversaw just under half of those deaths (he was in charge for less than half the time they occurred in though) including the largest single loss of life, the Siev X. 

I might add that this was actually preventable and that you right wingers defended his right to let them drown and that it shows just how you really feel about it. But now you're pretending to be compassionate and I'm sure that you've deluded yourself that it was all Labor's fault.

As for the air strikes - be serious, you can't justify that budget measures are needed for air strikes when you were already pushing those budget measures before air strikes were even mentioned.

As for numbers of people there are few problems here:

1) We don't know the numbers arriving or at least risking life at sea, those are operational matters and if we can't have the data then we don't accept the claim at face value.

2) Boats stopped for a longer period without any of these policies - longer than Howard ever managed (which was not long at all and measures ceased being effective rapidly no matter how draconian he got); without even mandatory detention in place we had no boats for 6 years. No government response to date has topped that.

3) The fact that the right wing places so fast and loose with the truth as to suggest that drownings occurring in the Howard era are somehow the responsibility of Labor suggests that they simply can't be believed or trusted, combined with the first point about a lack of data on which to base such a claim we must reject it as they've shown they lack honesty here as well as accountability.This.

This is the pathetic mentality of the LNP.

This is the Australia they want.

Frightened, cowed, hate filled, insular and afraid of the world - too terrified of life for this country to ever become the great nation it so easily could be.

Instead they want us hiding under the bed, frightened of refugees and terrorists and afraid to speak out against our own injustices, the trampling of our laws and the removal of our freedoms.

The country they seek to create here is one that can never justify the level of 'protection' they say is needed because such a country is not worth protecting.Sure pal - locking up little kids to make yourself feel safe isn't really just a symptom of you being a coward. Whatever you say champ.

If you're none of those things then prove it, stand up and help find a better solution than treating people like animals. Put your money where your mouth and refuse to accept this treatment of anyone by Australia. Whatever you point of view on asylum seekers and how genuine most of them are, no one should be treated like this and indeed it strikes at the very heart of our system of laws and not imprisoning people who have not committed a crime - still less punishing children for crimes they haven't committed.

Or, you know, just keep using mealy mouthed excuses for why you feel the need to treat people that have not committed a crime as deserving of worse treatment than prisoners, of locking up their children and of allowing them to die while in our custody from preventable causes. Or of dumping them in little orange life boats in remote parts of the jungle and washing your hands of it. Whatever you prefer, it's a free country for now... at least until we're not allowed to inquire about refugees or us going to war or...

Calm isn't the same as apathetic to human suffering, rational isn't the same as rationalization of it either.

I'd also note that I was responding to APM's little rant about how all "they" understand is force and weakness and that we're in danger of being "over-run". If you have no problem with that language then all I can say is that you're part of the problem.

But boats stopped for 6 years before any of this nonsense - I know you guys don't like statistics and just make them up (hence you blaming Labor for thousands of deaths at sea when Howard oversaw nearly as many over a shorter period of measurement) but we'll see how it goes. In the Howard era it was a temporary solution at best as more boats started to come.

That said I think you can stop the boats through these kind of methods, if you're harsh enough and give no possibility of meeting our international obligations then sure - why not. I just think that the costs and the compromise of legal principles, basic justice and morality required aren't worth it compared to organizing a proper regional solution that includes us taking in our fair share of refugees and not locking people up overseas without the right to a fair trial.

I'm also not against a system which (unlike TPVs) provides provisional citizenship - basically allow people to have a clear and certain pathway to earn it by participating in work, not committing any significant criminal activity, etc but allows those deemed not acceptable to still get temporary protection and stops us locking people up in hell holes for years at huge cost and for no real benefit to anyone.Again with the false figures?

220 people drowned in one incident in 2000 alone, add in the 353 from SIEV X and you'll see that your figures are straight up nonsense.

Also you really have to include deaths in custody - many under Howard. And as another person pointed out people have been dying under Abbott too and that's just the ones we know about with very limited data.

Finally you should probably include deaths of people who are sent back.

Unless of course you just want to make up numbers to blame the ALP, then of course just continue as you were.



Get rid of Shorten, right bloody now.

Never liked the guy. Only good thing I can say for him is that he promised to reinstate a science portfolio and indeed give it the backing of the PM's office. Other than that he's been terrible and is rapidly handing Abbot the chance of a second term that will be even more damaging than the first one.

He's just useless and playing the same sort of 'small target' politics that the LNP have been playing since 1993, except he's not good at it and Labor suffers when it simply adopts the 'no policy' zone mantra of the coalition. Get out fully detailed and well thought through policy suggestions early on so that public can help shape those policies by the time of the election and you'll contrast yourself to a government that increasingly is accountable to no one for reasons of &lt;redacted due to operational matters at sea/terrorisms/possibility of governmental embaressment&gt;

And make policy focused - indeed let causes take a back seat on this one, economy needs fixing before anything else is on the agenda. That alone will differentiate from the Greens whose head is rarely in the right place even when their heart is - you can't allow the perfect to become the enemy of the good and until we sought out the basics focusing on saving lesbian refugee rainforest whales from discrimination in the arts world is probably not the most important issue to most people. 

Fortunately the economy is an easy one - reverse the Howard era tax cuts that put us into structural deficit and you get us back on track to surplus while avoiding the destructive, ill conceived cuts to everything important to Australian society and way of life.

Get science properly funded again too - increase the relevance of Aussie education systems by focusing on STEM topics will help too, if nothing else it'd prevent the kind of general ignorance of how the modern world actually runs that is so prevalent on all sides of politics right now and generally works against us in the worst of ways.

Bring in legislation that starts to define the limits of 'national security' or 'border control' as excuses seen to trump all rights, accountability, economic and other considerations.

Do all that before the next election and there's a chance Australia will dodge a bullet there... otherwise we are looking increasingly at a society reshaped by the current gaggle of idiots running the show. It's all too real a possibility and one that will set Australia back by decades and cost all of us, particularly those who can afford it least, dearly.@chipinga

If you're going to be honest, be honest.

1. Healthy surplus? You mean less than a years worth of surplus given the massive structural deficit John Howard left us in by excessively cutting taxes and giving out overly generous middle class welfare. That's without even looking at the GFC mate.

Also I'd note we have NOTHING to show for John Howard's wasting of our unprecedented mining boom - he used it to keep himself in power with regional slush funds. It was not HIS money to do that with and represents a tremendous wasted opportunity to meaningfully improve this country.

2. You have the luxury of claiming after the fact we were immune only because Labor got us through it so well - fact is that even the right wing supported at least parts of the stimulus measures because it was absolutely necessary. As it was we avoided recession by the skin of our teeth only - we had one quarter of negative growth only, two would have been a recession but one is as bad as the 90's recession 'we had to have'.

So why do people think we were immune? Because Labor actually, as is recognized worldwide outside of Australia, did a very good job of keeping the economy ticking - so much so that our stability brought in investment that helped even after the stimulus finished.

3. You're also not counting another factor - our allies in the US, and China in response, launched a currency war. We didn't enter into it and it drove our dollar to punishingly high levels - good news for mining companies but it was crippling to manufacturing and other sectors including tourism and financial services on which a lot more of our economy is dependent.

4. The debt we did come into was very modest by world standards, the real worry has been the deficit that John Howard left us. Now Labor COULD have either raised taxes or do the sort of massive cuts the LNP have in mind but this would have caused us bigger problems during the last six years since we were facing very severe external shocks to the government. 

Look to Europe and you'll see what that would have done - austerity measures in such a situation merely shrink the economy and any money you'll save in debt spending will be swallowed up in lowered amounts of incomes, social problems that will take decades to fix at much higher costs, increased welfare costs as many have lost their jobs, increased poverty rates and the prospect of lost generations and cyclic unemployment in poverty.

5. Yeah right - living within our means would mean taxing appropriately to pay for the country. LNP has ruled that out in favor of the promise of 'jam tomorrow', that if we reduce our debt we'll suddenly be able to correct the damage that their cuts will inflict and then some. However this is much more destructive and expensive than simply raising taxes to their original, appropriate level and removing welfare to the well off.

For the LNP toActually the structural deficit was created in the Howard years due to repeated and overly generous income tax cuts slashing government revenue and boosts to middle class welfare increasing government expenditure. 

Once he'd blown through the surplus generated by the mining boom on regional slush funds in marginal seats to get reelected again and again a debt was inevitable - if he hadn't lost power when he did we'd still have been in debt within a year of the election in which he lost as his remaining surplus wasn't sufficient to cover even one year of the deficit he created.

Labor could have put in a hard hitting budget with either harsh cuts or higher taxes early on of course but the likely effect would have been simply to shrink the economy given that the GFC had started internationally by that point. In fact putting in a stimulus package seems to have been the sensible choice that point - it allowed growth to continue even if it ran us up a fairly modest level of debt.

Tackling the deficit is necessary but cutting services and hitting the easy targets such as the unemployed and the disabled won't do it efficiently and will create many hidden costs - raising taxes to pre-Howard era levels and cutting back on welfare payments to the middle and upper class would be a better solution all round; indeed as this data shows the least well off have already reduced their reliance on government money.This is the problem with the ABC today - too much news and not enough entertainment. ABC 1 and ABC 2 are hardly worth watching anymore. They have poor quality programs purchased on the cheap just to fill in the spaces. Taking money away from ABC News and putting it into quality Australian drama and comedy would improve the ABC out of sight. ABC has grown too large with 4 TV channels, God only knows how many analogue and digital radio stations and a monster online presence. Too much quantity and not enough quality.That suggests that one way to redress the social inequality problem is to increase tax on capital returns in times of lower than capital return economic growth rate. 

This would instantly reduce the problem of inherited wealth overwhelming the opportunities of the not-so-well-to-do as well as allowing that money to be spent on reducing the cost of education for the less well off and providing for a robust social welfare net.On the other hand the burqa is rare here - wearing it automatically draws a lot of attention to the wearer. It would be an extremely poor choice of 'disguise' for any attempted crime as a result.

And have we actually seen it used to commit crimes in this country? Or is this just a reaction to a problem that doesn't actually exist outside of fevered, fear induced fantasies?

Oh and incidentally I have seen a bride who is on her way from the wedding once in a train station, and once in a bank - no one cared much other than to offer congratulations. Funny that.1. So have we actually had any crimes committed by people wearing a burqa in which their identity has been concealed? Is this an actual problem or an over reaction to one that is imaginary? Cause I'm pretty sure I'd have heard of a burqa driven crime wave by now.

2. Not seeing people arguing for absolute, country wide bans on ski masks or full face motorcycle helmets - despite the fact that they are used in far, far more crimes. Wonder why that is?

3. Frankly if it prevents eyewitness accounts then that would be reasonable precaution for ANYONE to take. Eyewitness accounts have consistently proven themselves to be the least reliable form of evidence admissible in court and yet consistently is given greater weight by juries than it should ever have. It is prone to manipulation by personal bias, by police 'guiding' witnesses, by faulty or even confabulated 'memories' of the event, outright lies, hysteria, the 'witness' making it up because they 'know what must have happened',  mistaken identity and many other factors. 

As a form of evidence it is responsible for the vast majority of known false convictions that are later overturned by more reliable forms of evidence. It's also particularly bad in cases where the accused is of a minority - mistaken identity is more likely as is bias, hysteria, police manipulation and a variety of other factors. 

4. Unless we're going to strip search everyone going into parliament, just how does this increase protection to people? I mean they still have to pass metal and explosive detectors - if those don't pick something up than how will they do so for people not wearing the burqa? Further since the burqa is so rare that will act to partially identify someone and forensic evidence will still be left - indeed things like fiber samples may leave more evidence in the case of a burqa than someone in jeans and a t shirt.

Just some thoughts.Or just to realize that whatever you believe, others have a right to their own beliefs provided they don't cause ACTUAL harm to you. (as opposed to being offended or 'emotional' harm or imaginary harm or you being simply exposed to something you don't agree with - adults have to put up with that in life sometimes you see)

I don't agree with that any religion is correct or based in reality either but I'd rather have people go about their business following the religion of their choice than have the government tell me what I can and can't believe and how I can (short of causing ACTUAL harm again) express those beliefs.

We've seen the way that goes before and it's just a different kind of stupid.Let's face it though, most of the people protesting the burqa wouldn't be caught dead sitting two feet away from a muslim let alone talking to them. They're happy enough to anonymously talk smack on the internet about them though.

But on that note, what - we should ban everything that might make someone feel uncomfortable? Or just those things associated with a minority that might make someone feel uncomfortable?

Never thought Australia would become a land filled with so many prudish, selfish cowards but here we are.Perhaps we should have a complete check list of what people can and can't wear as approved by a government department?

Or maybe to save on costs we could all wear grey, purely functional garments sold by government shops to meet the new standards of what we're told is acceptable?

Or maybe Australian's could stop being so pants wettingly terrified of everything to the point that they willingly give away their freedoms over risks that aren't even real? Seriously it's pathetic - Australia has become a nation of whinging crybabies that want the government to heavy handedly jump in and protect them from even the most minute risk of a threat. No wonder we have people suing local councils after jumping head first into two feet of water and paralyzing themselves. 

What the hell happened to this country?Yeah - pretty sure it's the none-too-subtle dog whistling to racists and xenophobes that is doing the dividing and not the clothing. 

Clothing doesn't actually have an opinion you see, nor is it capable of mind controlling you and forcing you to have a negative one of the wearer - that's all you mate.Even a quick review of robberies in Australia will bring up a whole lot using ski masks or bike helmets for concealment - very few if any burqa users. The numbers aren't in your favour there.

On the other hand I'm not sure even ski mask or bike helmet or hoodie bans/restrictions work well - if someone wants to do so they can use a makeshift face covering carried in their pocket and put on just before a robbery takes place. Also in the case of hoodies and ski masks they're not all that good at hiding identity and can leave additional evidence in the form of clothing fibers. Bike helmets are also often recognizable and can form an independent stream of evidence to link the person to a robbery. They also limit vision/maneuverability and can make the robber more vulnerable to being blind sided.

Finally eyewitness testimony is the weakest and most unreliable form of evidence - indeed if fingerprinting or DNA testing were even nearly as inaccurate we'd never allow them in court at all. It leads to the vast majority of false convictions.But religion takes on the character of the culture; otherwise we wouldn't speak of a ROMAN Catholic church or GREEK or RUSSIAN Orthodox ones. Fact is that there is no neat division and Islam is particularly known for the way it tends to adapt to the culture in which it exists. 

Further in many cultures the burqa is optional and a matter of a woman's personal beliefs - yes some people are pressured into making a decision they otherwise wouldn't but really the government isn't going to succeed in stepping in there without doing more harm than good. Suffice to say that women in Australia who don't wish to wear it should be well protected by law and society but trying to enforce a concrete ban is simply inflicting persecution on women who do make that choice for themselves.

Further if fundamentalism is a crime then we've got many more fundamentalist Christians than Muslims in this country.

I'm not religious but if we're going to go after that then let's do it fairly and equally across the board - though in my opinion it's chasing at shadows and just a different kind of stupidity and misplaced overly certain self righteousness.Oh I'm sorry the media has ignored your plight Veronica! You and people like you are clearly the real victims here!

I mean imagine having to suffer through other people doing things that, while they don't affect you in any way, shape or form, you personally disagree with! It's outrageous!

Perhaps the government should get you compensation you poor little lamb!

Incidentally will you be trying to have sports mascots (who could be plotting anything under there and have easy access to large sporting events with lots of people present - a nightmarish terrorist scenario!) or people collecting for charity in koala suits banned? I mean surely they're adding to the trauma of you 'real' victims out there that the media ignore?Agreed Gordon.Awwww - poor you having to put up with people doing things you don't agree with but which in no way harm you. 

But of course 'first fleeters' weren't the first ones here were they - just how much concern did your ancestors show for aboriginal peoples? 

Cause that's exactly how seriously we should take your concerns now. We'll be nicer though and not take your kids, land, engage in attempted genocide, continue to have police get away with murdering you right up to the present day, and so on; so really you should feel lucky.

But do go on about how women wearing clothing you don't approve of means that you're a victim and the government should rescue poor little you from ever having to see anyone 'foreign' as if you weren't a descendant of foreigners yourself.
