'But consider this: even if an adult did happen to draw this picture, why doesn't it break your heart?'

Because it's not very good.'We should not consult CEOs when discussing industry policy of any kind.'

Who would you consult with? 

Isn't the better course to listen to what the people with experience have to say, discount it for any personal or corporate perspective that may not be relevant, and decide based on that? 

It seems more likely to get a better outcome than a carte blanche ignorance of what those at the coalface of industry think. 

'Corporations do not not have the public interest at heart when making decisions.'

Who does?'The Public Health professionals do.'

Surely they are also subject to the same biases, personal interest etc as the rest of us?

'You ignore experts and repeat the same arguments as "Lord Monkton" and the proven ignorance of Mr Abbott.'

Actually, I think you'll find that I haven't actually put forward a position on the science of climate change - I have never needed to. My disagreements with people here are invariably about whether we should throw money at the perceived problem, the effect of that money, and whether or not it is worthwhile. I can have those arguments without coming to a position on climate change itself.'Big tobacco. Big carbon.'

Big government.'This is a public health issue and there is a significant role for government.'

Maybe. 

My point was merely that everything you accuse 'Big tobacco' and 'Big carbon' of, you could say the same about governments.'But also taxes should be dramatically increased on alcohol to stop binge drinking'

Why do you feel it necessary to charge everyone more? Can't we just let people live their lives out in peace?'if my existence does not effect you'

But all the laws that you support to restrict my actions (not that I smoke and only drink on social occasions) affect me. Is that any better than a smoker affecting you?

Or is it just that you feel morally superior enough to dictate to someone else what they can and can't do?'Anyhow we have had our little riposte - so fair thee well my friend.'

You too mate, thanks for the discussion.'What amuses me is many of those who wax on about banning cigarettes are in favour of legalised marijuana and safe injecting houses.'

That's true. I guess on the flip side, those that support the continued use of tobacco are in favour of keeping marijuana illegal. 

There is enough hypocrisy on both sides to go around on this issue.'a person is having a heart attack due to eating products which are activley promoted as non threatening'

How about we just ask for more personal responsibility of the person eating the junk food/smoking the cigarette?'use of reasonable and equal force'

Could you point me to where it says that in war you should use 'equal force'? Surely that is a recipe for a stalemate in any war.'Yes, gerard was wrong when he said equal force.'

Excellent, thanks.'I watch with some disgust as I see people argue for free speech'

That says a lot about you. 

'Conveniently forgetting that those that have great oratory skills and the public ear can quickly rouse a mob into violence.'

To the extent that is true, those people make the choice to physically act. It's called 'breaking the chain of causation' in law. 

'It is this behaviour that the RDA is meant to stop.'

Can you name one time where there was going to be a riot and section 18C prevented it? Just one, thanks. Should be easy enough for you. 

'Looking through history indeed recent history we see how the orators have brought the world to disaster.'

No, those who sought to infringe the freedoms of others brought the world to disaster. It was those that argued for freedom that saved everyone. You have things backward.'If not, why not?'

Because they are protecting a democracy, rather than scum-sucking terrorists.'With Jonathan it's never about principle, it's always about the side.'

Indeed, although he is not exactly Robinson Crusoe in that respect. 

A perfect example is the difference between the left's reaction to the News of the World hacking to the hacking that went on about Abbott's daughter. I'm waiting for Labor to demand a media enquiry, for Gillard to come out and say that New Matilda has 'questions to answer', for my favourite contributor on here 'the yank' to apologise for using hacked information to attack Abbott's family. 

The left has been remarkably silent on this hacking though - I'm sure it has nothing to do with side over principle, though...'for a person with hardly a great skill in design'

Who are you to judge that again?

'gets a full scholarship'

I'll just remind you again that it was private money, and therefore none of your business. 

'Were you against Gillard's mission against the Murdoch press? What's the difference between that and this latest 1984 conservative attack on civil liberties?'

I'm against both, because I am consistent. Something you can't lay claim to.'Your sense of moral equivalency here is way off'

Your desire to excuse one, but not the other, is slightly absurd. At least be consistent.'so lawyers can understand what he is trying to say'

Do you really want to get into an intelligence contest between top tier lawyers and unemployed artists? Really?'do not let him do that to you, it is a disgrace.'

Not as disgraceful as going after a politician's family, I'd wager.'The notion that someone has an alternate view to what you or your party has is just bashing and the forum that allows someone to express that view is another nasty day on the ABC.'

Just do a quick tally of say, the last 20 articles on the Drum, put them into rough 'Labor' and 'Coalition' camps and then come back to us. 

Then consider the fact that everyone, regardless of political persuasion has to pay taxes to the ABC. Actually, looking at the socio-economic status of different electorates, you could make the argument that Coalitionsupporters contribute more to taxes than Labor's. Then tell me if you honestly think the ABC reflects anything like balance.'Bolt got caught for lying'

No, he got caught for offending. The legislation says 'offend, insult or humiliate'. No mention of lying at all. 

Why deliberately misrepresent things?'which contradict his claims about taxation equality.'

Only if you are an idiot that judges the budget by whether the reduction in tax dollars going to an individual welfare recipient is equivalent to extra tax imposts on those funding the welfare.

It would be embarrassing if it wasn't so serious.'Most people, (not including you, Ben) believe that those who have the most money should pay the most taxes'

They already do. What you are saying is that they should pay the most taxes, and should an irresponsible government blow the budget, pick up most of the tab  to fix it (notwithstanding that they have already contributed the most to date). 

That's a weird concept of fairness.'the more I think Germany should not have a guilty conscience about either world war'

You must have missed something called 'The Holocaust'. Look it up at some point.'Which people?'

The people that voted the Coalition in. 

'Quite a lot of us are against everything that this article describes and we continue to speak out about it.'

You are in a minority - agian, I refer you to the election result. Embrace your irrelevance, my friend. 

'I seriously doubt whether the people who voted in the coalition support a policy that neglects and harms children'

Indeed, that's why they voted for a policy that stopped the drownings. Wins all round, really.'Treating children like this is totally inhumane.'

The public voted for it. You're welcome.'Because a majority supported Abbott doesn't make him right'

Remind me to explain the concept of democracy to you one day.'Wrong is wrong.'

Who gets to decide that? You? How convenient. 

'It doesn't make it right because a majority of people support a wrong.'

How arrogant to presume you know better than the majority of people in a democracy. How totalitarian of you.'So can we extend the right to marry to everyone?'

I think we should. I also think that polygamy should be legal. Any argument that you can make for gay marriage (consenting adults, who are we to judge what goes on in the bedroom etc) can be made for polygamy. 

I value consistency above all else, and there is absolutely no way to be consistent in arguing for gay marriage unless you also argue for polygamy. 

As someone much better than me once said, "who am I to judge?"'Taxation and property law is not designed for multiple partners.'

Taxation and property law once wasn't designed for same sex relationships. We fixed it, let's fix it for this circumstance as well.'would seem to be the closest approximation to consistency I could think of.'

On the contrary. If you support one thing, and do not support another, despite the same arguments being able to be made for both, then you are merely making arbitrary decisions that are not consistent with each other.'They don't do science, they don't do research - on anything.'

As opposed to the well thought-out policies of the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd omnishambles. How's that mining tax going again? $600,000 last quarter? 

What a success.'$2.4 billion this year from the Mining Tax would be a reasonable estimate from your post Ben. '

$600,000 x 4 is $2.4 million, mate. You're welcome.'That is the sort of shallow thinking that you tend to lend yourself to'

I would say it's probably better than attacking politician's family members, wouldn't you?'There isn't one thing he has done that hasn't been a train wreck.'

'Tis the problem with absolute statements. It only takes one thing to disprove your point. 

Let's list some things that haven't been a train wreck (and because you said 'there isn't one thing', just one thing means you are wrong):

1. Abbott was elected to repeal the carbon tax. Tick. I could argue that it could have gone through more smoothly, but in the face of a recalcitrant opposition that didn't recognise a clear mandate, I wouldn't call it a 'train wreck'. 

2. Asylum seekers. One boat making it to the mainland in the last 7 months. Compared with the 50,000 people that came under Labor's watch, I wouldn't call that a 'train wreck'. 

3. MH17. Pretty early to call this, but no signs that Abbott's response is a 'train wreck' as such. 

See the problem with absolutist statements?'Too bad you can't take that attitude into a court when you lawyers are defending someone obviously guilty'

1. That's irrelevant to my point. 

2. I'm in commercial law, I don't defend anyone. 

3. Would you prefer that someone who is 'obviously guilty' is not afforded a full and complete defence? Is that the system you want?'Two of your three points are wrong'

No, you just have a difference of opinion. 

An opinion that requires you to think that people didn't want the carbon tax repealed, and don't support the current border protection policies, which are both laughable. 

'And made us a laughing stock throughout the civilised world'

Oh please. No one even knows we exist.

'and very nearly alienating our closest Asian neighbours'

On the contrary, our relationships have never been stronger than when we stopped the flow of boats. 

'wreck waiting to happen'

Maybe, but to make a call either way is premature. 

'Deploying armed ADF and AFP personnel into another foriegn country'

Yeah, so that hasn't happened. Don't let that get in the way of a rant, though.'Fancy praising the bravery and honour of Japanese soldiers in WWII.'

He was quoting an Australian general. And at the time we gave the Japanese sailors military honours and returned their bodies back to Japan. 

Take your complaints up with the people in WW2, thanks.'If Medicare is no longer for everyone, we will have torn up a big part of our social contract.'

It's amazing how everyone defines a 'social contract' to include what they want to include in it. Convenient.'therefore if 'everyone' disagrees with the copayment then part of the 'social contract' has been breached/torn up.'

I don't disagree with it. Therefore it hasn't been torn up, according to your logic.'What would you exclude from the concept of "social contract"?'

That's my point. If it includes everything, then it actually means nothing.'Just take the word "social" away and just focus on the word "contract", you will see what I mean.'

Just show me the written contract or give me evidence of the oral contract and I'm with you. Otherwise, it's a meaningless term.'When are lawyers going to join the social contract.'

They'll probably wait until it is defined in some kind of meaningful manner...'defined as in " if I am on the tiolet but thinking about a clients case I am allowed to charge them" that sort of defined'

That's not a definition.'Why, why, why do we need a surcharge of $7.00?'

Because taxing a demand driven system based on someone else's income is economic lunacy. Someone has to pay the bill eventually.'Got any evidence for your rant Ben?'

Any evidence that a demand driven system that is paid for by third parties is economic lunacy? How about basic supply/demand economics?'I still don`t know what a `price signal` is.'

It's pretty simple, really. Imagine that someone brings an unlimited number of cupcakes into work. If the cupcakes were free, people would just keep eating them (I know I would). 

Now, it costs money to make those cupcakes, so if no payment is required, the person making the cupcakes would go broke, and people wouldn't realise how much it cost and so would continue consuming. 

If the cupcake provider puts a price on it that reflects the costs of the cupcake, then the provider doesn't go broke and people moderate consumption because it costs something. 

A fairly trivial comparison to medical care, I know, but you said you didn't know what it was.'It's actually pretty complex.'

To set it at the right price, that is true. 

The original poster seemed to suggest that they did not understand it at a theoretical level - at a theoretical level it is pretty simple.'I have made at least 20 visits to my GP and had about the same to my physiotherapist this calendar year.'

How much would you like me to pay for your visits to the GP? Just give me a number, thanks.'How much would you like me to pay for your visits to the GP?'

None. I'll pay for it myself. Then you can pay for yours. Deal?

'If I may, you would pay infinitely less than the $50K to be paid to rich women to have a baby under Abbott's PPL.'

Sure, I'm happy for no government paid maternity leave. 

We seem to be in agreement. Happy times. 

'As for killing, the reality is you are personally choosing to allow children to be killed in other countries when you don't donate to charities to save them.'

No, one requires a conscious choice to terminate a life that you have control over, the other is, at worst, failing to prevent a death. I don't have a particularly strong opinion either way on abortion (from a purely selfish point of view it isn't a decision that I will ever have to make), but we shouldn't trivialise it with banal comparisons. 

'Do you devote your every moment to saving these children? or do you only care about the ideology of the unborn?'

I'm not sure whether 'because you can't save every child, ever, everywhere, you have to be for abortion' is a valid argument.'There are conscience decisions made when one decides not to stop the killing of children overseas, or if you prefer right here in Australia.'

Again, there is a difference between not intervening, and consciously performing an act. Making false comparisons doesn't alter the topic at hand - if you support abortion, fine, if you don't, that's fine as well, but either position needs to stand on its own.'Everyone knows that a foetus is not a baby, or these would be regular events.'

I'm neither here nor there on foetus/baby distinguishments. Although taking your point to its logical conclusion, women shouldn't be sad when they have a miscarriage, since no life was lost. Oddly enough, they tend to be. 

'They have a right to terminate, and it is vastly inappropriate for others to interfere.'

I wouldn't necessarily put it as high as a 'right', I would describe it more as a 'liberty'. In any event, it is quite proper to discuss the issue, out of interest, if nothing else.'I think it is unethical to force women to carry, deliver and raise a baby when they cannot cope.'

No one is forced to raise a child - there are various ways that you can give them up. As to the rest, I don't see it as unethical, just immensely unpractical.'they should be held to account for coming up with their idea in the first place'

Yeah, damn free speech supporters. Fancy them thinking that the best way to have an open and free society is to debate topics, as opposed to shutting down opinions.

You can be in favour of free speech for Barney the Dinosaur and The Wiggles, but if you are not in favour of free speech for speech that you fiind offensive and abhorrent, you are not in favour of free speech at all, and are on the side of creeping totalitarianism.'You forget BtL that Andrew Bolt had the chance for free speech but he stuffed it with poor research'

'I am for free speech provided I agree with the research methodology that has been done.' - not exactly Voltaire, is it?'Section 18C is a partial protection against this. Do not be so naive as to think that race riots cannot occur here.'

It's nice that you think 18C is the only thing standing between civility and a roaring mob of Australian racists. Not exactly thinking the best of Australians, are you. 

Your point re race ritos is interesting. I pose a simple question to you, to test your hypothesis - can you please detail one time where there was going to be a race riot and 18C stepped in to stop it? Just one, should be simple enough if 18C is as effective as you proclaim. 

'So far as freedom of speech is concerned, could I assume that you are a strong supporter of defamation laws?'

I do not support defamation laws. In any event, defamation does not seek to prevent 'offence'.'it contributes to the goal of keeping harmony in an ethnically diverse nation by acting as a deterrent to words and conduct that may incite violence.'

No, it prevents 'offence'. Can you name one other country that prevents speech based on offence? Canada doesn't for example, are you saying that Canada does not 'keep harmony in an ethnically diverse nation'?

'Section 18C would not prevent a race riot that is brewing but can contribute to preventing one from brewing.'

Proof please. 

'AND the fact that you admit that there must be some restrictions on freedom of speech'

I don't. I specifically said I disagree with defamation laws. Please re-read my post. Even if I did agree with them, yours is a classic slippery slope example - 'we will already have laws, let's have some more'. It's intellectually dishonest and lazy.'The fact that our laws against racial vilification exist is the reason we don't have lots of race riots.'

Proof please. Could it not just be because we are a civilised country? Why must you think the worst of your fellow citizens?'He just can't make crap up and be as factually inept as he was previously when he does it.'

I would prefer that people could just make rubbish up, as opposed to the state deciding what is and isn't legitimate to say - I trust that the Australian public can make their own mind up about things.'But any policy that makes Bolt et.al. happy at the expense of others is too partisan to be good policy'

The reverse of that is true as well, though. Why don't you judge a policy (the restriction of free speech) on the policy itself, rather than an individual's reaction to it?'whether they apply to Australian citizens returning from service with the Israeli Defence Force.'

Why would they? They are no threat to us or our way of life. Those that travel over there to advance terrorism and hack people's heads off on the other hand...'To APM, Ben the Lawyer and Brian Francis is left the unenviable position of having to defend the indefensible. Yet even they are sounding tired and lacking in motivation (Crikey, Ben is down to only one post on this page!).'

My posts tend to be determined by how interested I am in the topic and how much time I have to engage with people on here. 

You'll note most of my posts tend not to be overly supportive of the government, but rather answering some of the more ridiculous posters here who try and paint the government as somewhere between Nazis and general puppy killers. 

It is unfortunate that most of my time recently tends to be imploring others to try and not to attack the family members of politicians. There was a time when that wouldn't have been necessary.'an insupportable regime'

A popularly elected government is not a 'regime'. This is the hyperbole that I seek to combat. 

'Therefore I cannot see how anyone could provide support.'

At any one point in time (and this goes for both sides) about 50ish percent of people disagree with you. How is that hard to comprehend? 

'The metadata debacle is a prime example of the worst management style I have ever seen.'

You must have missed the NBN 'back of a napkin' story. You should look that up.'Goodbye any hope of addressing climate change.'

You can probably console yourself with the fact that nothing that we did could have made a difference anyway. 

Embrace your (and my) irrelevance, my friend.'I thought Tony and friends wanted us to be a nation of lifters, not leaners'

Sure, but your example has us lifting for no reason. That's just silly.'How is it that you can so quickly dismiss the benefits of alternative energy'

I didn't. I merely noted that we could not make a difference to climate change, because of our incredibly small impact on global emissions. 

'and typical of those that adhere to Coalition ideology of a century ago.'

There was no Coalition a century ago. 

'To infer that Australia is in dire straights because of the carbon tax is dishonest'

I did not. 

'and to state that all things will now be in order because Abbott has done the unforgivable is actually false'

I did not. 

'his government is in trouble'

Probably not - first term governments tend not to get voted out.'Regulate the newspapers so they at least sometmes print facts, not lies.'

The printed press hasn't been regulated anywhere in the western world since the 1600s - the freedom of the press has been thought to be too important. Good to see the left at least be honest about their totalitarian desires.'The only people who would be concerned about such a proposal would be those who wish to be able to print lies, and for their favoured newspapers'

On the contrary - the people concerned about it are those that do not wish for others to decide for them what the 'truth' of any situation is. 

I back myself, and the Australian public, to decide where the truth lies in any set of circumstances. You clearly do not have that same faith.'not a presentation that is biased toward one group or another, as one of our national newspapers continually does'

Just don't buy it. Exercise your free choice.'If we had honest politicians we'd have an honest society and would need to have so many regulations. Our politicians are only a reflection of what society values.'

I think that is an excellent point.'because renewable energy is the growth industry just look at China's efforts in this area.'

You guys should campaign on that at the next election. 'A stronger carbon tax and weaker borders' could be your slogan. 

That'll do well.'Folks like you invested in horse farm and farriers while Henry Ford was fine tuning his mass production of cars.'

And folks like you would have attempted to tax horse farms and farriers to get the new technology cheaper. That's the thing - fossil fuels were and are cheaper and more efficient. Once renewables are cheaper, they will dominate. To try and make them cheaper by government intervention is a fools errand.'Sounds like a business opportunity to me.'

What is your business again?

'All Labor is going to have to do is show up.'

Australians don't vote out first term federal governments. Which is why I wasn't excited in 2010 and why I tell my leftie friends now not to get too excited. 

'Do you seriously think that Abbott is going to be able to stop boat arrivals?'

Could you please tell me the last time that boat people made it to Australia? Cheers. 

'Because it isn't going to go away just get harder to deal with.'

Seems pretty simple to me. Go back to what worked, abolish Labor's policy in this area and voila, problem solved.'If we can prosecute someone for swearing in public, why not for displaying offensive slogans?'

To anyone who says that the slippery slope argument is not valid when it comes to restrictions on speech, I give you 'Exhibit A'.'you could explain the joke to my 6 year old daughter'

Just do what my parents did. They told me to ask them if I didn't know what it meant when I was 18. Pretty simple, I would think.'teach my son not to be a misogynist moron'

That just came naturally to me, I guess. 

'If the idiots at Wicked breach that innocence I have to do something.'

Sure. Tell him not to use those words and ask what they mean when he is 18. Again, pretty simple.'The sooner NSW takes Obeid,Tripodi,McDonald and Sinodinis to trial'

I haven't seen anything to suggest (and ICAC certainly hasn't made a finding) that Sinodinis has done anything corrupt. All I've seen are people complaining that he got paid too much for what he did. Have you got anything more than that?'Edward Snowden exposed the unlawful intelligence activities of the US and Australia'

That's a pretty serious accusation, Mr Barnes, but oddly enough I didn't find any support for that claim in your article. Could you please detail what laws Australia has broken? Just the name of the Act, the circumstances that gave rise to the breach, and when it was confirmed in a court of law that a law had been broken by Australia. 

Cheers.'How many more examples do u want?'

All of your example are irrelevant.'Any example put to you would be labeled the same thing'

All I ask for is the Act that was breached and when it was found to have been breached. Can you provide that answer?'The worry is that certain sections of the media are actually supporting this clamp-down on freedom of speech'

You do see the irony of someone of the left complaining about freedom of speech infringements, yes? You remember your love of section 18C of the RDA? You remember the media inquiry? You remember the proposal for government oversight of the media cheered on by people of your ilk?

You haven't exactly covered yourself in glory on this topic, my friend.'your problem is that you align me with a straw man of your own making which you label "the left".'

I've never understood why the left are so hesitant to accept what they are? Embarrassment at past performance perhaps?'Some (you?) falsely argued that this section of the RDA unfairly stymied 'free speech'.'

It does. You are not allowed to say things that offend people unless you are prepared to be sued. Do try and tell me how that doesn't restrict free speech.'And not everyone opposed to big brother is on the left.'

Oh I agree - I suspect the left is generally in favour, given their love of government intervention.'No it wasn't legal, not in any way, shape or form.'

Thanks. Assuming you think that applies to Australia as well, can you just point out the Act that was breached? Cheers.'behaving in a dictatorial manner does them no favours.'

I think you may need to consider the definition of 'dictatorial' before using it so loosely.''dictatorial manners' Is different to dictatorial.'

Sure, but you can't divorce the two words from each other as you have attempted to do.'To say one thing before they get into office and do something else.'

Yes, that has never happened before now. It must be a conservative thing.'Not on such a scale, nor so deliberate or misleading.'

Each side always thinks the other is worse. Your point of view says more about your political leanings than the situation at hand.'Being patronising is the rule of thumb for the Abbott/Murdoch crowd'

Oh, come on. Chris has written a good article that, rightly in my opinion, calls out the political class (that's all of the political class, btw) as to how they have been treating the new senators. Even then, in response to an article that criticises both sides, you still can't help yourself and try and make a partisan crack. 

For someone who often waxes lyrical about how good it would be if the extremes could get out of the way, you do a remarkably good imitation of an extreme, partisan hack sometimes.'Perhaps as a change from union bashing the PM might like to launch a Royal Commission into the banks.'

I'd prefer to have neither. They both seem like monumental wastes of time and effort.'The last Commonwealth election was, in part, about competitive cruelty to seagoing coloureds.'

Can we please stop with the racist, emotive language? People that disagree with you are not necessarily racists, or bigots, or anything else that makes it easier for you to ignore their (valid) opinions. That's grade 2 style debating. 

Your problem is that you are conflating 2 separate issues - migrants who come here through legal means, and migrants (whether economic or refugee) that don't. Australians have always, and will always, resent those that are seen to be engaging in unfair acts. You can spin it any way you like, but Australians are always going to support the people who have been living in hellish camps in Africe for decades over those that are able to afford $10,000 per person to hop on a boat. That's pretty legitimate in my view. 

In any event, skilled migration is relatively popular (not so much in the union movement). So your obsession with colour is, quite frankly, ridiculous, unsupported, and serves no purpose.  

I think the take away for you, Mr Hughes, is to learn how to debate. I'll give you a tip - starting your argument with 'anyone who disagrees with me is racist' is unlikely to win you anyone over to your side.I love this comment.'It doesnt matter that the US is moving to an ETS.'

No it's not. If anything, it's closer to direct action, but at the end of the day, all it is is Obama standing up and saying 'let's try and do something', rather than actual policy. 

Why misrepresent things?'And you say you're a libertarian right? You believe in decentralization and individual decision making?'

Indeed, which is why I am against Direct Action. My point was not to support it, but to rebut that argument that Obama has decided to move to an ETS when that is not the case.'They have already accomplished so much in so little time.'

Indeed - Sydney has been pretty cold recently. I think it is probably the carbon tax working its magic. 

Will wonders never cease? I must admit that I had my doubts that a tax could reduce the temperature but the evidence is in. 

I think our next goal should be to bring rain to the outback. Maybe a sunshine tax?'Unless I'm mistaken BtL it is also winter in Sydney as well'

Alas Malcolm, you may have stumbled upon the answer. Oh well - do we still aim for a sunshine tax at some point?'But try diving to 20m with a bottle of oxygen. You won't surface alive.'

That's because you appear to have forgotten to take a breathing apparatus as well.'The humour! I haven't been so impressed for years.'

Why thank you. I do try.'Instead of having a Commission into pink batts, and Gillard why don't we have one where it is really needed how and why we got into a war in Iraq.'

Instead of being so incredibly partisan, why don't you decide whether you are for or against RCs generally, rather than just picking those that suit your obvious ideological blindness?

'Then what we can have are war trial putting all those that supported that war in the dock'

That's an interesting take on justice. 'We will send you to jail because we disagree with you'. It's in keeping with the modern day left's love of totalitarianism.'every MP and Senator was answerable to their respective electorates?'

They are (well MPs at least). It's called an election every 3 years. Senators are unrepresentative swill, I will admit that.'4 deg. is the difference between the last ice age and now.'

That's good. I like the heat - more day at the beaches for me.'What beaches? Between increased storm damage and sea level rise'

There will always be beaches, they just might move a bit. I don't really mind, I'll surf wherever the waves are.'It's the same here, but the stakes are bigger.'

Except more beach days - that's a win in my books.'So we should take responsibility for 1.5% of the necessary cuts.'

Done. Get me a binding international agreement and I will happily sign up to 1.5% of it. When do you think that binding international agreement will be in the post? Soon?'Other countries are taking action without waiting for an international agreement.'

Good on them. I'll wait until that binding international agreement comes in the mailbox please.'Of course there should be a Royal Commission.'

But we were told by Labor and their supporters here that a Royal Commission wasn't needed into the unions because there were already laws and the police should investigate. And the Coalition said that obviously the authorities weren't investigating so there needed to be a Royal Commission

Seems to me that it is the same situation here, it's just the two sides have reversed their positions. Hypocrisy writ large from both sides.'So you agree that the banks are ripping off society and should be investigated just as hard as the unions?'

All I ask for is consistency. The Labor supporters (such as yourself) that were arguing against a RC into the unions should also argue against a RC into the banks. Those who supported a RC into the unions should support a RC into the banks. 

That won't happen because people like you are too partisan to be consistent. 

'In fact don't limit it to just the banks heck go in hard on the bigger thief's of society go after the law profession.'

No one is forced to seek the advice of lawyers. your personal attacks are disappointing.'the law is a closed shop'

Anyone can enter into the legal profession, provided you have done the relevant courses (and pass criminal checks etc). It is no more closed than any other profession. 

'People have no choice but to jump through the legal hoops your lot set up.'

Anyone can represent themselves in court. The court system is also set up, and regulated, by government, not lawyers. 

'There is a very good reason why your profession is one of the most hated in the world only surpassed by politicians.'

Actually, a recent poll put us much higher than politicians. I was pleasantly surprised. I think we even beat out journalists. No word on unemployed aspiring artists though...'Keep pretending that there isn't anything wrong with the legal profession if you like.'

I imagine, like anything, there are positives and negatives. I was merely responding to your suggestion that law is a 'closed shop'. 

'I spent years as a union delegate'

That's hardly surprising. 

'so for you to bang on about union corruption is offensive to me.'

I haven't 'banged on' about union corruption in today's post at all. I merely ask for consistency. 

'You live in an ivory tower'

I live in a unit. 

'don't have a clue what harm your profession dispenses.'

Again, positives and negatives, my friend. 

'It is just that we don't have a sure fire mechanism of sucking money out of the poor.'

Neither do I, unfortunately. People have to instruct me, I can't force them to use me.'Overwhelming they are towards one party, guess which one.'

I would imagine the party that is more likely to represent more of their interests. That's not surprising. 

'I also wonder when it will be about time that we started looking at legal fees?'

They are private contracts, buddy. If you come to me and you don't like my rates, you are more than able to walk down the street and get a cheaper lawyer. 

'How can the man in the street expect a fair trial against a huge corporation.'

Are you suggesting that the judges are not impartial? Big call.'Ben has indicated that lawyers are only the third most hated professionals in the world and he is quite pleased about it.'

I think we were 40ish out of 50. 

Onwards and upwards, as they say.'so lets hold a RC into the finance industrty and end the hypocrisy'

I'd be fine with that provided all the people on here who argued against the RC into the unions similarly argue against a RC into the banks. I won't hold my breath...'I wonder when it will that we start examining legal fees and how they are set.'

They are set by an individual contracting with another individual (or firm). It's no secret. To the extent that you think they are too much, you can go to the many cheaper options out there. 

Freedom to contract. It's a wonderful thing.'ASIC is unquestioningly running a cronyism racket.'

It's pretty easy to sit on an ABC website and throw unsubstantiated allegations, isn't it? I have no doubt that ASIC could probably improve, but to suggest that it runs a 'cronyism racket' is beyond the pale.'even a gutted ABC'

The ABC consumes $1 billion a year. Tell me again how it has been 'gutted'. Pure hyperbole.'for a different ETS without a solid implementation date.'

It goes further than that - there is no implementation date. It just isn't going to happen, because it won't get through the lower house.'It will be the only way Abbott will get to repeal the Carbon Tax.'

Nope. It wasn't one of the conditions put on Palmer's support. Have a look at Palmer's interview with Tony Jones and you will see that. 

You're welcome.This is excellent news for someone like me, who sits somewhere between the 'climate change isn't real' and 'we are all going to burn because of climate change' brigades. 

The carbon tax will be gone, any ETS will not get up in the lower house, and there won't be any wasteful direct action rubbish. 

Superb. 

The only other thing I could have asked for is for the abolition of the Climate Change Authority and the Clean Energy Finance Corporation (since they are both economic nonsenses), but you can't have everything, I guess. 

Given the above, you have to wonder why Al Gore agreed to be part of it, but hypocrisy hasn't stopped him before.'like a liveable planet somewhere down the track'

That falls nicely into the 'we are all going to burn because of climate change' category. Well done.'It's inevitable, no amount of whining from the right will stop it.'

Maybe. But for now, that argument has been run and won by the right.'A few dollars maybe?'

Correct. And for no dollar benefit (given Australia's small contribution to global emissions). Money wins out over meaningless symbolism for me any day.'The pollution there cannot be any clearer and the cause of that pollution cannot be more obvious.'

Sure. But we don't have that problem here. 

'I suspect your real problem is that the fight against such pollution is coming from groups you don't approve of so therefore You cannot accept the situation.'

What you suspect and what is actually the case are two very different things. I am an immensely practical person. I have no problem in spending money if there is an identifiable benefit that produces a greater return. A carbon tax or an ETS in Australia doesn't do that.'The only difference is the amount we burn.'

I agree - it will be an issue when the population of Australia reaches 1 billion. Until then, I'm pretty calm about it.'Clives make believe ETS was part of the deal Abbott would have to accept to get rid of the CT.'

Incorrect. Tony Jones interviewed Palmer last night and Palmer confirmed that the repeal of the carbon tax would not hinge on the introduction of an ETS. The only precondition was that the repeal would include legislation to ensure that price reductions would flow to consumers. 

Again, you're welcome.'the most profligate in Australias history according to IMF'

Again, there is a disclaimer on the front saying that the report does not reflect the opinions of the IMF. In the same way that a research paper from a university researcher does not reflect the opinion of the institution, the IMF (as an institution) cannot be said to either support, or disagree with the report. 

Is it dishonesty or merely ignorance that means this line repeatedly keeps getting a run? It is mildly tiresome for those of us that appreciate accuracy.'Anyone who wishes to quote the IMF report has every right to do so.'

Sure. But it is not 'an IMF report', nor should it be said that the IMF agrees with it. That's all I ask. Accuracy, my dear, accuracy. 

'No one trusts this government anymore.'

No one trusts any government. Which is the correct approach, in my opinion.'Also if the claim is dishonest why did have the papers used headlines'

Surely that doesn't need to be explained?Thanks for the article. I'm going to stick to my guns here and suggest that such a topic should be able to be discussed. 

I find the point of view abhorrent, and I would argue against it, but I think the point that needs to be taken is that ideas are only defeated by argument, not by censure.'In 2013, the IMF examined 200 years of government finance records across 55 leading economies. It identified only 2 periods of Australia fiscal profligacy in recent years'

False. That article was specifically not put out by the IMF - the disclaimer is in the first few pages. 

I expect you will want to retract that statement.'You can say whatever you like about the source'

Except when it's wrong.'Except its not Ben, it is nothing more than a disclaimer, no different to any other disclaimer.'

Except this disclaimer directly contradicts the original claim that 'the IMF examined'. It did no such thing. 

Accuracy - it will get you every time.'Yet it sits on the IMF website Ben. How on earth do you explain that.'

I don't have to. It's irrelevant to my point, which you seem to have ceded.'So you can point us to the source which proves this assertion to be incorrect yes?'

I can't link to the report, but if you google it and scroll to the top of the 2nd page, you will see the words 'this working paper should not be reported as representing the views of the IMF'. 

You're welcome.'but have the contents of the report been proved incorrect?'

I make no comment either way on the report. My point was that to suggest that the IMF said it was false. Which I have proven.'Pointing to a disclaimer which accompanies just about all documents does not in the slightest prove the document wrong.'

I didn't attempt to. If you re-read my post you will notice that I was merely correcting the mistake made by the original poster. 

'Honesty and integrity are not your sides strong suit.'

Sadly, that can be said about all political parties.'The research document is a working paper prepared by four IMF full time researchers.'

Sure- and had Judy Bee said that, I would have no quarrel with her. Unfortunately, that is not the position she took, leaving me to correct her mistake. 

'A very clumsy and weak attempt to discredit it Ben the Lawyer.'

I didn't attempt to discredit anything - I merely corrected an error made by the original poster. 

'It's simply a fact'

No, it's an opinion. An opinion that can arguably be supported with certain facts, but ultimately whether someone or something is 'profligate' is a matter of opinion.'You're not answering the claims its authors make.'

I don't need to. I was merely correcting a mistake in the original post.'It's mitigation is an issue of government'

Hence making it a political issue.'It used to be bi-partisan.'

Only in the sense that Turnbull took a position that was unpopular with the majority of conservative voters. Now, the party better reflects the wishes of its members. 

Climate change and a government's response is inherently political.'only if one party are arguing that "climate change is crap"!'

No party in Australia is arguing that.'But someone will have to pay. But who? Our kids. Better them than us!'

You could make the same argument about the debt that Labor left us, but the left doesn't. I wonder why?'the destruction of the middle class.'

The middle class is where the Coalition wins the election, buddy. Look at the electorates - inner city and poor suburbs are Labor/Greens. The middle class is Coalition heartland. 

Try again.'and yet after having acknowledged that he rorted the system nothing happens.'

Let he who is without sin etc etc. Nothing happens because they all do it (Gillard for example took an RAAF jet to a friend's wedding) - that being the case, who would take up the case for the prosecution? You? 

'a free education for his child'

Grubby once again from you. In any event, any parent in Australia can get 'a free education' for their child - it's called state schools and the HECS system. But do keep attacking a politician's family members.

'And now to break the voter's attention from a budget disaster he wraps himself in a cloak of hyper patriotism.'

I wonder what 'hyper-patriotism' is, exactly? I for one am happy to see a PM very clearly state that Australia is against the atrocities being committed by ISIS. You may support ISIS, but it's good to know that our politicians don't (this is a bipartisan point as well, I have no doubt Bill Shorten feels the exact same way). 

I guess it's easy to criticise when you just dabble with some colours every day at the taxpayer's expense.'The world is full of greys.'

Only if you subscribe to the moral equivalency view of the world where no one is better than another. I'm happy to say that Australia and Australian culture is better than the primitive barbarians that behead and crucify men, women and children. No grey area there, my friend.'National security is an issue or it's not'

Indeed. Do you not think that it is?'Sue Lines was correct and said what she did for the right reason: Abbott accidentally told the truth to justify being a money grubbing cheat - NOT THE SAME!'

I get it - one side good, the other bad. Tres boring.'And the LNP fan club fail to realize that there is nothing inherently wrong with debt.'

How much debt, per person, would you like my grandkids to be saddled with because you couldn't control your spending?

A round figure will do, cheers.'Even simplistic idiots, like our current P.M'

He's a Rhodes Scholar. Do you really want to compare your academic nous to his?'Would an intelligent person really act in the manner of Abbott?'

What makes you think you are qualified to judge?'What makes you think that I'm not?'

I didn't say you weren't. You seem to be asserting that you can, so I was just after some kind of evidence that you are qualified to make such an assertion. 

If, hypothetically, I was an unemployed artist, I would probably hesitate before judging others. But I am unlikely to be an unemployed artist, so it's not such an issue for me.'I do not think he has a grasp of of the realities of governing Australia.'

That may well be true. My point was merely that to say he is unintelligent is slightly ridiculous.Thanks for the article.

Firstly, let me say I do not have strong opinions either way on this (it doesn't affect me in the slightest), but have a couple of issues with the points you have made.  

I think the problem is that when these donations were made many years ago, there was a belief (and depending on what state you are in that belief may have actually been legislated) that the donor would remain anonymous. It is a bit rich therefore, 20 odd years later, that we seek to change the assumptions that the 'contract' (for want of a better word) was made on. 

Now, I can understand that there needs to be flexibility for things like genetic diseases etc, and the law should accordingly reflect that, but if I was to donate and tick the box that says I wanted to be anonymous, I don't want to have to worry that in 20 years time this will be reversed because someone is feeling a bit sad (excuse the flippancy of my comment). 

I also think it is a bit dishonest to write off concerns as 'However, some practitioners in the assisted reproductive technology industry are shareholders in their clinics and might desire a continuation of the status quo for business stability.' There are legitimate concerns that should things be changed too much, and the rights of the donor not respected, then donations will dry up. Don't undersell or write off the legitimate concerns of your ideological adversaries just because you disagree with them. It is a dishonest debating technique.'Can't we see a few articles about how Uncle Sam loves makes war on smaller nations for fun and profit?'

Yes, because God knows there isn't enough anti-Americanism on the ABC. 

Can we have one, just one, article on the negatives of one country without the spineless moral relativists amongst us screaming about the US? It is tiresome.'Try commenters making unsupported declarations of ABC bias for tiresomeness.'

Please name a prime time television or radio show hosted by a conservative. 

The fact that the only show hosted by a conservative is called 'Counterpoint' really gives the game away...'It would be totally inappropriate for a program (I assume you mean news, as opposed to (say) everything!) subscribing to a Code of Ethics (e.g. Journalism) to be hosted by a 'conservative''

Why? There are plenty of progressives on the ABC who are doing it.'That resident of Glebe whom you despise is also served by the Council.'

And pays very little in rates. Businesses pay close to 80% of the rates the City of Sydney receives, and yet is not adequately represented at a local government level.'A lie.'

Compare the percentage in rates paid by individuals and the percentage paid by businesses. After you've informed yourself, come back tome.'And where else in the country to businesses get a vote in a LGA, state or federal election?'

City of Melbourne.'South Australia does not have a gerrymander.'

Winning only 47% of the 2PP and forming government looks an awful lot like the old Joh days in QLD.'bit of a problem when all the Liberal vote is locked up in a small number of seats.'

Which was the common refrain of Joh. History does tend to repeat...'But do we have to treat the ones who come here by boat like prisoners of war?'

I would prefer that we didn't, but it's called deterrence. One only has to compare the results of the Rudd/Gillard years with the results since the election to see that it acts as a deterrent.

Horrible? Probably. Necessary? Unfortunately.'From a moral standpoint (considering our economic advantage over and above shared international responsibility for looking after refugees) then you are not.'

You shouldn't put your moral judgments on others.'I see it as similar to Governments not paying ransom if a citizen is kidnapped by terrorists/criminals.'

That's an excellent analogy.'are donations to the IPA tax deductible?'

No, they're not, which makes your next comment redundant. 

You're welcome.'but incurred in the course of earning assessable income or incurred in the course of carrying on a business, YES THEY ARE.'

You are right. To the extent that someone donates to the IPA in the course of earning income (not sure how that would work) or to the extent that they donate 'in the course of carrying on a business' (again, good luck trying to get that past the ATO), you are correct. 

But, in practical terms, unless the ATO has changed the way they define 'in the course of carrying on a business', they are not.'I would take the issue of union corruption a lot more seriously if the search wasn't so politically motivated.'

I believe you. You are normally so even-handed.'Are you for clearing up corruption any other places as well as unions?'

The existence of corruption (in unions or otherwise) doesn't keep me up at night. I just don't fall for the argument that unless you investigate corruption everywhere, at every point in time, you can't investigate one incidence of it. Seems like a recipe for procastination to me. 

I'm personally a fan of the unions. They are the only thing keeping the Labor party from completely following the lead of the loony left.'Maggie got her just deserves well before she passed away.'

Ah, the morally superior left in full flight here. I'm just imagining the complaints that would be made had I said the same about Whitlam. 

I trust all the lefties here will stand on principle and denounce your comment...'Right, so the taxpayers got together, started a kitty and dispersed the funds off their own bat did they?'

Yes, it's called Consolidated Revenue. You know the money government gets doesn't come out of thin air, right? Some productive worker has to pay it so that the less productive can leach off society.'Abbot and co are absolute scum.'

Let's just strip the emotion out of it for a second and think it through logically. Before we decide what pay rise is acceptable, we first have to know what these people are currently on. We also have to know what a fair market rate (presumably by comparing what our guys are paid vs their counterparts overseas) is for their jobs (now and in the future) to determine whether they are overpaid, underpaid, or paid just right. 

Once we have that information, we can assess whether the pay rise is too small. I know I don't have that information, do you? I know the review panel which recommends pays has that information. They may be wrong, they may be right, but before we shoot from the hip, don't you think the above is absolutely necessary before determining what pay rise (if any) is acceptable?'I would hazard a big guess that they are not paid anywhere as much as a professional football, ball shape immaterial, player.'

Whilst I don't quibble with your sentiments, the difference is, of course, that the football player isn't paid out of other people's taxes.'I think the underlying question is whether we want our armed servicemen going backwards in terms of their earnings.'

A question that can only really be answered if we know what they are on now, versus what their relative counterparts are on elsewhere. I don't have that information.'If this is not the case, then the pay of Chinese, German or Icelandic solders, bears no relevance to the pay of Australian solders.'

There would be a way of normalising what that would be. Again, I just don't have the information to make that call.'What does it matter what their present pay level is?'

Because that is how you judge what the pay rise (if any) should be. It could well be that their pay is currently just right, in which case a less than inflation rise is unfair. It could well be that they are overpaid, in which case a less than inflation rise would be acceptable. They could be underpaid, in which case a less than inflation pay rise is even more unacceptable. 

Until I know the base, I can't make a judgment on the future. 

'You might find a soldier in England is paid less, so what?'

It would give me an idea about what their work is valued at overseas and provide context. 

'I am not great at maths but even I can figure out that the money offered isn't going to keep up with the cost of living.'

Correct. Which is why their current pay is important to know. 

'Unable to cope after getting out of service they end up unemployed.'

That is not relevant to what serving members should get over the next 3 years.'As for you, now that you have all the information available, what's your position as a Liberal supporter?'

Stating that they are on between $24,000 and $100,000 is useless. I need to know what each individual person is on and then judge them against what their contemporaries are on (presumably overseas, but I don't even know what the best measure is). 

Comparing them to a government backbencher is useless as well. 

I don't have anywhere near enough to make a judgment call. It could well be that 1.5% is unacceptable. It could well be that 1.5% is fine. I just don't know. I'm not sure what my faux outrage would achieve were I to follow your lead.'hence it's a pay cut.'

Which may be appropriate depending on what they are on now, and what the market generally values their services at. I'm not saying it is appropriate, merely that I don't know enough to make a call either way. 

I would wager that you don't know enough to make a call either.'It is a rare thing that you suddenly need the facts before deciding where you stand on this Ben.'

I have absolutely no idea what our defence personnel are on. I therefore can't make a judgment on what their pay rise should or shouldn't be. 

It seems a relatively logical position.'and everything to with the Australian CPI'

To do that I need to know what the base is to know whether it is acceptable.

'has nothing to do overseas soldiers and their pay'

If you are a lawyer, what you are paid is determined (in part) on what your competition is also paid. It is the same elsewhere (it's called the market). A comparison with overseas soldiers isn't perfect, but it gets us much closer than just picking random numbers out of the air. 

'If you want to actually attract recruits to go off to remote and dangerous places you need to have some incentive not a disincentive.'

That makes sense. That's why I need to know what they are on now.'They are not up to it regardless of Abbott' words 'mature debate' because coming from his it's an oxymoron.'

Thank you for so eloquently disproving Jonathan's theory that it is a 'discussion most of us are more than capable of having.''Surely when Abbott calls for a "mature debate" people are laughing their heads off, at least those that remember his time in opposition and his promises during the election.'

Thank you for so eloquently disproving Jonathan's thesis that that it is a 'discussion most of us are more than capable of having.''Gillard was first hesitant, but she grew into it'

The public disagreed with your theory.'I'm sorry, but he doesn't deserve that kind of a break.'

I'm not sure where that kind of attitude gets us. Perpetual stagnation, I imagine, as each side takes that atttitude when the other is in government.'What he didn't do, from what I understand is find a way to pay for things.'

And that's the rub, isn't it? We can all promise sunshine, lollipops and rainbows, but if there is no may to pay for it then they are empty promises. There is no 'greatness' in spouting off ideas and then expecting other people to work out how to pay for them as you go galloping off into the sunset.'Yes there is, Benny, yes there is.'

Fine. My idea is to give everyone a million dollars and we will fund 1 trillion dollars of research into finding unicorns and leprechauns. Also, every child will be given their own house.

What a great man I must be, according to your theory. 

'And the greatness endures by highlighting just how shoddy the current crop are'

Well, when you are constrained by such mundane things as budgets and laws and unwilling to finance crazy ideas by going to shoddy money lenders, things do seem a bit tame in comparison, I'll give you that.'You want an every person for themselves country?'

I just want people to be able to pay for their thought bubbles.

'I suggest Australia should have gone the way of Norway and taxed the bejesus out of the mining companies.' 

That is one idea (a horribly economically flawed idea), and it is still better than just creating these policies with no way to pay for them. 

'your profession limits the number of people that can enter it'

That's medicine mate. Provided you do a law degree and then the College of Law (not sure what the equivalent is in other states), then you can become a lawyer. 

Do try and get your facts correct, thanks.'However, a Liberal defeat will be the first nail in the coffin of Tony Abbott and Co'

Were you one of the ones who convinced themselves every time a Liberal state government lost that Howard was next? How did that work for you for 12 years?'for staying around so long'

By 'staying around so long' I imagine you mean the multiple electoral defeats inflicted on Labor?

In any event, the hatred I see levelled at Abbott is the same as that levelled at Howard (and Rudd and Gillard for that matter). The rusted ons will always think the current PM that is not on their side is 'the worst ever'.'Tony Abbott's call of a 'mature debate" on anything I like a serial crook calling for a mature debate on law reform.'

Possibly. Does that mean that we shouldn't try out of spite? At what point do those on the left (even if we give credence to all their complaints about how they have been wronged since forever), decide to be the bigger man? Or are we destined to have a constant stream of 'well you did X, so we aren't going to listen to anything you ever say.'

It doesn't seem like there is a great chance of progress if that is the attitude both sides take in perpetuity...'It is just a very bad idea, a very lazy idea'

There isn't even an 'idea' yet - just a general discussion point as to the roles and funding of the states and commonwealth. You have jumped to conclusions without even considering what it is that may be debated at some point in the future. It is one of the more egregious examples of close-minded thinking. 

'and now wants a 'great bigger tax on everything' (the GST)'

Again, can we not have the discussion? Why are you so limited in your thoughts?'Save your call until Labor has been re-elected'

Again, where does that get us? No doubt Labor will call for the same thing, the rusted on Liberals will take the same approach as you rusted-on Labor types and we are left in the exact same situation. 

A never-ending cycle of one-upsmanship that gets us absolutely nowhere, and that no one comes out of with clean hands. 

We have to be better than this.'Why the sudden call for reasonableness when you have always been one of the most implacably one sided supporters of everything the Coalition has done?'

I only seem that way because of the loony-left fringe that dominates these pages. There are many things I disagree with in respect of the current government - the failure to repeal section 18C of the RDA, section 35P of the new terrorism laws, putting $20 billion into some kind of never-never 'research fund', the PPL, and the lack of will to actually make cuts to a budget that spends more than what it brings in. 

The thing is though, I tend only to comment on the articles and posts that I disagree with. It would be boring if I merely commented on those that I agree with.'we would have heard before now your opposition to the PPL scheme for example'

I have said in comments on other articles that I oppose the PPL (truth be known I also oppose the maternity leave provided int he public service as well). 

'spent your time on the Drum criticising those that do.'

Again, it would be boring if we all agreed. 

'Glad to hear that you do necessarily support it all, but just keep it to yourself.'

On the contrary. everything I have listed above I have mentioned at one point or another in my time here. I can't help it if you do not bother to read all the posts. 

'Why didn't you come clean with your opinion on the Medical Research Fund during the discussions earlier this year on the stupid Budget?'

I did. I have also, at various points in time, raised my opposition to the other policies mentioned (particularly the backflip on 18C - I have written the equivalent of books on that one). 

As I said above, most of my time is spent challenging others - it's more fun that way. 

'Id suggest that no he has not, so why should the opposition or anyone else for that matter take Abbott seriously?'

Again, where does that get us? Any government, ever, will come to power with the other side having gripes about their conduct at some point or another. 

'Wouldnt granting Abbott his wish of a 'mature debate' encourage future politicians to lie their proverbial off to gain power?'

Possibly, but again, where does that get us? 

Yours is a recipe for stagnation until a politician comes along that has never lied, bent the truth or omitted anything. That's just never going to happen. Truly, the impotent are pure...'It is up to the politicians to lead and one way would be for Abbott and Shorten to get together and come up with a bipartisan agenda for reform but that is never going to happen.'

I think that's probably correct.'by labelling anyone that disagrees with Abbott (you) as [sic]immature lefties'

No I didn't. Do try not to put words in my mouth. 

'Grow up Ben, you are the one perpetuating the left/right crap.'

Me and the political system...

'is incapable of mature debate'

I've seen no evidence to suggest that those of your ilk are any better in that respect. 


'and wait for a mature leader to take a mature look at the problem'

Which just means the left will wait for a Labor leader, and the right will wait for a Liberal leader. That isn't a solution.'and racist attitude'

I've seen no evidence of racism in the current government.'Either we have to get rid of the state govts. or we have to get rid of the federal govt.'

Neither of which are possible. There is no way the majority of people want to no longer be part of a federation. Similarly, you can't get rid of the states - they are in the Constitution. You would have to completely change our system and constitution to do so. 

We can't even agree on whether Whitlam was a good or bad PM. We have some people that think Abbott is the greatest of all time and some who think he is the devil incarnate. What do you think the chances are that we can ever get agreement on completely changing the structure of the country? 

Let's stick with something achievable and realistic please.'My thoughts on Whitlam, Abbott etc are hardly relevant to a structural change in the country's/states' governance.'

My point is that if we can't agree on that, there is Buckley's on agreeing as to what structural changes are necessary. Let's do what we can with what we have.'So you don't think the Henry Tax Review was good enough? missedit?'

It didn't consider the GST. Absurd.'So the great reform of the Howard era, the GST, is struggling to perform just a decade after its introduction.'

It is performing fine (I would have preferred to have seen it at 15% with greater reductions in income tax and no exemptions, but you can't have everything I guess). 

Unfortunately, governments have been unable to keep their spending in line with revenue (hence the wall to wall debt and deficits across the nation).'Surely the compelling argument people like you should be peddling is that as long as we keep your pals' hands on the respective tillers and consign the vandals into a pit of perpetual insignificance, then it isn't necessary to "reform" anything?'

Nope, that's not an answer either.'A broad base consumption tax is a typical brainchild of Neoliberal ideology'

In terms of Australia, it was originally proposed by Paul Keating, future Labor prime minister. 

You're welcome.'Even if that's the case, it just shows how much power Murdoch has in getting the high court to side with him'

It never went to the High Court.'The very thought that the man who has done his utmost to destroy democracy in the USA and Australia'

Why don't we try and tone down the hyperbole, hmmm?'Truth hurts, hmmm?'

Were it the truth, possibly. But it's just hyperbole.'to persuade government to help train and employ these kids.'

Why should the government employ them? I'm not sure whether we want an entire generation that has learned to rely on the teat of the taxpayer (to the extent that hasn't already happened).'Why not'.

Because for every person that the government employs you need another three in private enterprise paying taxes to support them, that's why.'For a start markets do not exist without the benefit of government intervention and regulation eg property law, money'

Well, the markets still exist. You may not like the way the rules are enforced (essentially through strength of the parties), but a 'market' still exists in those circumstances.  
'Id prefer to have our current situation than that of Sudan, or Afghanistan for example'

Sure, but the choice isn't so binary. It isn't 'you must accept all the current rules we have or we will be like Sudan'. There is, like most discussions, a middle way I would imagine (i.e. less regulation than we currently have, but more than Sudan).'That's what's "trickling down" from the Neoliberal "cornucopia".... precious little!!!'

Hi Alpo. The 3 worst states that you note are, in order, Tasmania, Victoria, and South Australia. All of which have (until relatively recently) had long term state Labor governments. Tasmania in particular is a basket case thanks to the voodoo economics of the Labor/Greens alliance. Is your argument that Tasmania is a hot bed of neoliberalism?

Something doesn't stack up buddy. Try again.I wish there was some way I could 'like' this comment.'Do we care about things like animal cruelty or do we care about making a lot of money.'

The choice isn't so binary, and it is a misrepresentation to put it in such a way. I'm not aware of too many farmers that are sitting on the porch dabbling at painting, for example. It is more likely a choice between caring about things like animal cruelty or caring about whether a farmer goes bankrupt.  

In a choice between a cow and a farmer's livelihood, I'm going to go for the farmer. 

This issue demonstrates the problems with governments making arbitrary decisions that impact people's lives, and is one of the reasons I am for smaller government. On the brighter side, the Abbott government can come into this with clean hands. Hopefully they offer a decent settlement, apologise and write it off as another failed Labor experiment, where the symbolic once again outweighed the practical.'At least the executioner wasn't committing climate terrorism...'

Oh just stop your ridiculous moralising.'modernise the Federation then we also need to debate the cost benefits of state abolition.'

The Federation only exists because of the states. Without them there is no federation. You would have to re-write the Constitution. We can't even agree to have a debate on the GST, what do you think the chances are that we can re-write the Constitution?'It's a regressive tax.'

Actually, it's an exceedingly efficient tax, which is why Keating argued for it back in the 80s. In a pertfect world there would be a higher GST and no income tax, but that wouldn't satisfy the class-envy warriors on here. 

'It's a regressive tax, that's why Keating backed down and then fought Hewson (and won) on the issue.'

Keating backed down because he was overruled by Hawke. He fought on the issue for base political purposes (which is entirely legitimate for a politician to do). Let's not try to re-write history.'We are just tired of being treated like rubbish and paid so as well.'

Work harder. Start your own business. Invest your money. There are many options.  

'that we are losers because we didn't make it.'

You yourself have admitted that you 'didn't make it'. What would you prefer to be called? Winners?

'Many of the "losers" had no chance from day One in life'

Perhaps. Many more are just lazy. 

'legislating a bit of fairness'

Fairness is subjective. You cannot legislate it.'This government is all about taxing the poor'

The 'poor' pay litle to no tax. Do try again.'They pay 10% on nearly all the goods and services they buy and they have nothing left to save.'

They consume less than those with more (hence the beauty of a consumption tax like the GST). They then take more from government coffers than they put in. Not a bad life, all things considered.'poor pay GST, a high proportion of their limited means.'

But less overall than those better off. I'm not going to cry for those that contribute less than I do.'a fair taxation system'

'Fair' means a hundred different things to a hundred different people. 'Fair' needs to come out of the argument as it is entirely subjective, distracting, and ultimately useless.'No-one pays "no tax" Ben. Not since the GST. Do try again.'

You'll note I said 'little to no'. Try again.'I expect Abbott would find discussing cutting back on his pet projects like PPL'

I trust you also disagree with the maternity leave that is available for the public service then?'Ben, there are Toyota Corolla PPL and Mercedes Benz PPL'

The maternity leave arrangements for the federal public service and the PPL are almost identical. Do you understand this?'Why is the government involved in this issue at all?'

I agree. 

'On the other hand more child care places should be made available and affordable.'

Agreed.'It is a condition of employment'

Paid for by taxpayer funds. 

'I am surprised that you consider that big business should pay for women having children'

I don't - I am against the PPL. I just find the hypocrisy of those that are against the PPL, but for the maternity leave entitlements in the public service amusing, to say the least.'One would have thought that you favoured Abbott's brain explosion.'

One wonders how you reconcile that comment with your final comment of 'Truth is that you will defend anything Abbott does till your dying day.''If the LNP want to increase the GST, it should be voted on by the people of Australia at the next election.'

I believe that's the plan.'as soon as they can hoodwink enough voters.'

I wouldn't call taking something to an election (if that is indeed what happens) 'hoodwinking' anyone.'Yes, a new LNP slogan for the next election: "Increase the GST". Let's see how that one goes.'

Agreed, that's a tough sell. Which really only goes to show how low our public discourse has slipped since the days of Hawke when the big reforms were supported (and in some cases proposed by) the Coalition.'The GST is a drag on business and the wider economy and is the most inefficient way to raise tax revenues imaginable.'

Consumption taxes are the most efficient that we have devised. You can't hide your consumption (like you can with income tax), you can't move it around (like you can with income tax), and it doesn't change behaviour too much (as opposed to things like stamp duty etc).

Did you study economics at all? It's all there, really.'other class envy deniers'

I don't deny that there is class envy. One only needs to review these pages.'And Labor went on two loose the next two elections in landslides.'

An inconvenient truth for the Labor faithful.No matter what you think of the dismissal, the Australian people were given a chance pass judgment on Whitlam twice afterwards. Whitlam lost both those elections by a handsome margin - democracy in action, indeed.'So the ends justify the means?'

I am comfortable with any process that results in a free and fair election.'Overthrowing a democratically elected government is inherently undemocratic, and all the spin in the world won't change that.'

I'm not sure whether you can say that dismissing a government so that free and fair elections can be held (in which the previous PM runs) is 'overthrowing democracy'.'but rather the utter bastardry of the Liberals and their fellow travellers.'

An election was called straight away. Labor lost (and heavily). An election was then called in '77. Labor lost (and heavily). Democracy can be inconvenient sometimes...'None of which mitigates the utter bastardry of the Liberals and their fellow travellers like Joh, Ben.'

Surely, in a democracy, providing the people with the chance to have a say is not a bad thing? I'm not sure you could ever describe a process that led to the people deciding their elected representatives was bastardry. You can be upset that your side lost (twice), that is understandable.'Maybe just maybe the Australian people have been duped'

Perhaps they merely threw out a government they didn't like? Then, when offered the chance to vote them back in 2 years later, delivered another thumping rejection. 

'I would like to know why Murdoch can photoshop k Rudd's face on the dumb guys of an old American sitcom and call it news'

Private company. Just don't buy it. 

'Hey didn't Murdoch give up his Australian citizenship so he could be an American all because he wanted to make more money?'

i'm not sure how relevant that is, except to your obviosu hang-up on Murdoch.'But I guess its too much to expect the "born to rule" mentality of the LNP and its supporters to recognise a democratic outcome.'

As opposed to you with '75 and '77?

'The "utter bastardry of the Liberals and their fellow travellers" again being revealed following the Gillard election.'

How so? They did their best to have the government turfed out in their favour. As any good opposition will do. 

'NZ doesn't need state governments - why do we?'

Because we are a federation of states. To do away with them we need to completely re-write the constituion. We can't even agree on whether Whitlam was bad for the economy. What do you think the chances are that we can agree on an entirely new constitution?

Let's stick to something achievable, please.'Clever countries, with a educated populations vote wisely, and vote in good leaders.'

I actually broadly think that is true of Australia. I may disagree with the actions of various leaders, but with one or two exceptions, we have been relatively well served I think.'Too many people take the view that if a politician does something they personally don't agree with then they must be incompetant, foolish or stupid.'

That is one of the best comments I have ever read on these forums. I hadn't thought of it like that before, but I think you are correct.'damn the fiscal stimulus that saved australia from the global recession of 2008'

Everyone else spent big as well and that didn't save them from a recession. I think you may have to look past a simple, undergraduate, Keynesian 'we spend money so it was all good' reason as to why we didn't go into a recession. Here's a tip - look at the underlying strength of the Australian economy (thanks Hawke, Keating and Howard), China and population growth.'The GFC was apparently caused by the ideology, and actions of conservatives,'

False.'What would have happened if we had let our building industry collapse as well?'

Is your suggestion that without the stimulus our entire building industry would have collapsed?'It sure would have dumped a lot of young workers onto the unemployment lines.'

Proof please.'The spending in this country was carefully targeted Ben.'

Yeah, the pink batts program was great. 

'The only other country to have a similar stimulus program was Poland.'

Merely plucking out another country that did not go into recession and saying 'our stimulus was similar to theirs' is not good enough. Every developed country in the world launched a stimulus package. Almost all of them went into recession regardless.'The other reason being that their stimulus was the most similar to ours.'

A meaningless phrase without any proof or examples.'and the second is 'Why did so many try stimulus, if it was such a bad idea?''

Because it is easier to splash money around in a frantic effort to appear to be 'doing something'. I'm not sure you can really say 'well everyone else did it to' as some kind of grand argument. Appeals to authorities like that are fairly weak.'The sooner the old man either steps down and retires or just dies then the better'

You stay classy. 

'The similarities between the destruction of Whitlam and more recently Gillard raises many questions of interference in our democratic processes'

Do you mean how they both lost elections (Whitlam in 75 and 77 and Gillard in 13) and then retired? Damn that democractic vote.'Both subject to a massive media campaign of lies and smears.'

Said every losing side, ever.'at the end of the day it is Rupert Murdoch whom dictates Australian government policy'

Luckily you can always vote them out if you don't like them. Just get 50.01% of the population to agree with you and you are sweet.  

'The irony of a lawyer, whom supports Abbott, talking about 'class' borders on the hysterical.'

I don't remember wishing death upon someone. 

'Damn that democratic process that was subverted in '75'

Was it? We went to an election (which Whitlam lost). We then went to an election in 77 (which Whitlam lost). 

'How come the most notable thing about this country's journalists-slash-spokesmodels on this issue is their silence.'

Perhaps I am being naive, but I imagine it is because they don't necessarily know what the right answer is. I know if I was a journalist and argued against these types of laws I would be concerned that someone would be hurt in the future because of my (what could be called self-indulgent) fears. 

It's a tough issue generally, I think.'attacking free speech its all of a sudden too tough an issue to handle'

You misread my post. I am, all things being equal, against 35P. I was merely seeking to explain why some journalists may be hesitant to speak out against it.'My question is why are their opinions worth any more than anyone else.'

Is your argument that the opinions of the owners/directors of a media empire in respect of the media are worth no more than mine, for example? That seems ridiculous.'I understand their power is far greater, but are their intellects' any greater? Absolutely not.'

I can't really comment on their intellect. But they do have more experience than me, so I can see why people would prefer to hear from them than me.'Are we so silly to buy into this nonsense?'

Anyone who thinks we are all about to die because of a terrorist attack is an idiot. 

Similarly, anyone who downplays the threat of those amongst us that would do us harm based on misplaced and primitive ideological beliefs, and seeks to throw in distracting arguments about how we are more likely to be a victim of domestic violence or a shark attack is an idiot. 

I guess I sit somewhere between 'we are all going to die' and the yank's 'move along, nothing to see here, why can't we talk about domestic violence or attack Abbott's family' approach.'And my question is, why ?'

Because it currently provides more jobs and tax revenues than the alternatives. Governments survive based on the country's economic performance when they are in government. 

Sometimes the simplest answer is the most correct.'Gough Whitlam was the best and the greatest PM ever.'

Look, I don't want to sound too grouchy, and out of respect for the reently departed I will tone down my comments, but let's leave off the more hyperbolic statements on both sides, ok? 

Whitlam, like most, had good and bad aspects. He was very good at articulating a vision. Not so great at the delivery. The greatest Labor PM, post WW2 is Hawke. No contest.'Which is why he was ousted in an undemocratic fashion.'

He was beaten at an election. Doesn't seem too undemocratic to moi. 

Your conspiracy theories do you no credit.'free tertiary education'

It was not free. It was just paid for by someone else.'he was the best and will remain so'

Possibly, for you, that is true. My point was merely that tertiary education is not free. I trust, as well as thanking Gough, you also thank those taxpayers (most of whom had not gone to uni in those days), who subsidised your existence.'But it did make university education accessible to poor kids who might otherwise never have had the opportunity'

Possibly. The rates of the lower socio economic classes going to uni remained stubbornly low, despite Whitlam's changes. In any event, you should thank those hard working taxpayers who subsidised your existence.'Yep, how many best friends can a country have?'

Ask Obama. 



'With the latest downgrades of growth prospects I hope the leaders are able to focus on financial matters'

Me too. Hopefully climate change doesn't come up. I'm glad we can agree on some things.'Climate change wasn't mentioned.'

That's my point. Let's hope it stays that way.'Not so good if you are one of the other species on the planet.'

Are you one of the other species?'A secure country would do what Italy does as shown on ABC Foreign correspondent'

The numbers have increased threefold and deaths at sea continue to rise (much like they did under Labor). If that is what a 'secure' country does (facilitate the death at sea of thousands), I'll have no part in it, thanks very much. 

I always wonder how people like you can look at a situation that clearly failed (Labor's boat people policy), or a current situation that is failing (Italy's policy), and say 'hey, let's do that!'. Particularly where we have a situation in Australia now where the boats have stopped and babies aren't getting dashed on the rocks off Christmas Island. 

Astounding.'It is what gets done to the people that have NOT drowned which is the issue.'

So the people who have drowned as a result of lax border protection policies are what exactly? Irrelevant? 'Accidents happen' as Hanson-Young once said?

Very nice.'charged with crimes against humanity if they have been found to have been committed.'

None have been committed. Rest well, my friend.'I agree in broad terms that basics needed to be the focus in the primary grades and that education is an imperative, hence why it should never become a political football.'

And yet it always has been (and probably always will be). Alas.'According to her it does not matter who is in power in Finland, all sides value good education, they don't chop and change like here; high standards matter to all...'

The political parties have different views as to what constitutes 'good education', hence where the argument is.'whereas critics of Bolt, Jones etc just ignore them.'

Bolt was sued by his critics. 

Jones' critics commenced a campaign against advertisers on his show. 

You are welcome to retract your statement whenever is convenient.'correction; Bolt's critics ignore him, except when he tells outright lies.'

Your original statement was still incorrect. Also you have not addressed the critics of Jones yet. 

Again, a retraction is probably warranted.'While it is true, Ben, that a small portion of Jones and Bolt critics sued them or ran boycott campaigns, the vast majority of them did not.'

You can say the same about the critics of the ABC. Unless you are suggesting that the half a dozen critics of the ABC that get regular airtime are the ABC's only critics. I doubt you are that blind. 

'You, Ben, are welcome to retract your statement whenever is convenient.'

Why? Wining Pom suggested that Bolt and Jones' critics (not some, not most, just 'critics') just ignored them. I disproved Wining Pom's hypothesis. Hence, there is no need for a retraction, as I am correct (as admitted by Wining Pom above). 

You're welcome.'at all seeing as there are Jones and Bolt critics who managed to ignore them.'

Sure - and had he said that 'some' had managed to ignore them, I would have had no problem. His failure to do so left him open to attack. Indeed, the fact that he didn't suggests he referred to all. 

It's a small point, granted, but when you are making blanket statements about the conduct of large groups of people, it helps not to lump them all into the same category."If you turn that very same analytical acumen toward your post at 9.39.38am where you say "Jones' critics commenced a campaign against advertisers on his show""

My point was in response to WP. I had no need to couch my statement in generalities, as it was unnecessary to disprove his point. 

Debating 101.'The only recent court case concerning Bolt was one where he was found guilty of breaking the law.'

That isn't the question. The question was whether the critics of Bolt and Jones ignored them. That is, demonstrably, untrue. 

Absolute statements my friends, they'll get you every time.'the damage is already done with those under 35, up to 70% won't vote for him.'

Leaving aside the arbitrary figure, I doubt the Coalition is sweating about the youth vote. No responsibilities and uni-level arguments tend to appeal to that age group, hence it's historical support for Labor (or, more recently, the Greens). A few percentage points in that age group, which has such a low percentage voting for the Coalition generally won't faze anyone.'We moved on from the church, we moved on from kings and queens and we'll move on from what we have now.'

We moved on from them because something better presented itself. Should that happen again, I imagine we will consider it. Until then, comments like 'whatever you want to call it, has had its day' seem slightly premature. 

I think, Jonathan, that it is easy to criticise when you do not have to worry about sales and your entire existence is subsidised by taxpayers. 

You're welcome, by the way.My query is a rather simple one - if we accept that these fighters are threats, why not allow them to leave and then cancel their passport? I'll cede that organisations like ASIO definitely know more than me about this, but it seems counterintuitive to accept that these people would do Australian's harm but then keep them here. 

Would it not be safer to let them travel and then cancel people's passports?'If they are Australian citizens, I didnt think you COULD cancel their passports.'

I read a while ago that we had cancelled the passports of some of those fighting in Syria. That may be wrong.'one's country of birth was virtually a guarantee of ability to return.'

There was a report in the Fairfax press a while ago that some of the jihadis in Syria had had their passports cancelled. I'm not sure how accurate that is.I don't disagree with your main thrust, Mr Saul. You have unfortunately conflated the boat people issue, but since this is the ABC, and you are at USyd, I'll give you a pass on that one. 

This is actually one of the issues that I take a 'pox on both your houses' type of approach. The ones whinging the most about the new terrorism laws were the ones that pushed the hardest (or stayed the most silent) as the Gillard government maintained the legislation that makes it illegal to offend people, sought to licence the press (you mention regressive, that hasn't been done since the 1600s), and sought to reverse the onus of proof in respect of anti-discrimination laws. 

Similarly, the biggest supporters of the new terrorism laws are those that railed against the above not 12 months ago. 

I think the issue here (and you Mr Saul, also fall into this category) is that people argue for sides, rather than principle. You are happy enough to stand up for human rights when they fit whatever buzz issues suit you. The right does the same, but in reverse. 

Ultimately, I am against section 18C of the RDA, against press licensing, against the reversal of the onus of proof for anti-discrimination legislation, against detention without charge, against surveillance of vast swathes of the population, and against laws that discriminate based on people's fashion choices. Unfortunately, that pits me against the left (for the first few options above) and the right (for the rest of the above. 

I can at least remain consistent. Unfortunately, there are those amongst us (and a big hat tip to most of the commentators here), who only argue for 'human rights' when it suits them. That is the real measure of the pathetic nature of modern discourse in Australia.'but rather 'their rights vs. my rights'.'

Only if you accept, for example, that there is a right to not be offended. There is no such right. 

'uncompromising dogma versus those who see the situation as being a bit more multi-faceted and nuanced than you do.'

By 'multi-faceted and nuanced', you of course mean "I can change my position depending on which side of politics is arguing it." Convenient, I'll grant you, but it does leave you open to charegs of rank hypocrisy.'something which hasn't even been decided upon.'

Only if you assume that laws only exist by power of legislation. Look up concepts of natural law and come back to me. 

'but rather one where competing "rights" are always in play.'

If that is true, and anyone can claim any 'rights' then the concept of a 'right' loses all meaning. Very post-modern, but not useful in the slightest.'Ben, where exactly do the protections of Section 18D fall short when administering Section 18C?'

Section 18D is irrelevant because offence is too low a bar in the first place.'You have a problem with civil liberties?'

Don't you support section 18C of the Racial Discrimination Act? Those in glass houses...'All it does is it protects peoples civil liberty not to be racially vilified'

It only requires offence, not vilification. You are getting your concepts mixed up. 

'Those supporting 18C are actually supporting civil liberties and free speech'

Now that is an excellent case of Orwellian double-think - 'ess speech is more speech'. Well done, sir.'I'm with you Yank, let those who support this war pay the cost.'

Can we take the same approach with all government expenditures? I'm up for that...'I am just following the example of those who squawk about the funding of the ABC, Ben.'

I agree. I am more than happy for a user pays system - let's keep it consistent.'Opt out if you like but please stop being a hypocrite.'

I can't opt out of super, buddy, it's a legislative requirement. 

I am merely making the comment that I actually support the user-pays idea being rolled out across all of society. I would be fine, I wonder whether you would be one of the loudest voices against though? 

'What do you say about the budget emergency claims now?'

I'm neither here nor there on that one - I wish we didn't have $400 billion in debt, but that's a problem my kids and grandkids are going to have to solve. I'll be long gone before that one rears its ugly head.'I don't see China going anywhere dropping bombs?'

I'm not sure whether we want to use China as our moral guide, unless of course we want to run our own citizens over with tanks - then they may have something to offer us.'Has any foreign minister tried to talk to them'

How would that go exactly? 'Dear IS, please tell us why you are mutilating female genitals.' 'Dear IS, why are you lopping off our heads?' 'Dear IS, explain the rationale behind your most recent genocide.'

Doesn't sound like a better option to me.'This body should be untouchable, well funded without any possibility of that funding being cut.'

Can a body funded by the government ever truly be independent? Honest question.'Sounds a bit like Brisbane gearing up for the G20.'

Nope, not at all. Your post was fine until your attempted moral equivalency. It is fine to criticise others without desperately searching for flaws within Australia, you know.
