Which one was that? Rudd's efforts to gain Australia's seat on the security Council I suppose you mean.

Just as well he didn't take too much notice of the usual sneering from the LNP, wasn't it.

I think it very likely that, if we can continue for long enough to establish the fundamental scientific facts of just what we are as a species, that in the process it will become obvious just what kind of political arrangements suit that species, and that the ongoing expansion of this knowledge will allow for ever more accurate (and agreeable) refinements.

However it is another feature of the species which is very much integral to what we are as an animal which poses the greatest obstacle to this hoped for situation.

We exist as a species because we have two very effective species survival mechanisms - our individual survival mechanism is our decision maker (our intellect), and our group survival mechanism is our social nature.

The free-play of these two attributes will eventually result in political structures which adequately take cognizance of these fundamental human traits - just so long as that other human trait - our conservativeness - doesn't put an insurmountable hurdle in the path to sanity.

That's the fear, that our tendency to megalomania coupled with our conservative natures will combine to prevent us getting rid of power structures (nation states) run by the megalomaniacal lunatic fringe of humanity.

I very much hope that I don't elicit any replies which include either the word "right" or "left".  I am, after all, a bilaterally symmetrical mammal.Why is enforced lack of economic benefits not persecution?No.

The sneer "Argumentum ad passions" doesn't describe it at all.

What was said was an illustration of the hypocrisy of those who pretend to humanitarian feelings in one vote gaining exercise while driving children to insanity by incarceration at the same time.

You won't find them lined up speechifying at the gravesides where the children from the beach at Gaza are buried.

Do you wonder why? - or do you in fact know very well?That is a completely myopic and mindless thing to say.

It doesn't begin to address anything except your own feelings. It would eg. pander to feelings generated by ignorant racism and xenophobia.

Try putting yourself in the position of those who apparently hurt your feelings by being so thoughtless as to get drowned off the Australian coast and forcing on you the knowledge of it and you may see things differently.

You may even get around to wondering why someone would take a chance on they and their children drowning.I didn't generate new labels for anyone. I just pointed out that the author of what I replied to had labelled himself - very effectively.

As for what would I do under the circumstances you describe? (It sounds remarkably like circumstances in which I have lived in Australia - no schooling for my children, living in a tent, to all functional purposes no medical care). Perhaps I'd cut the throat of the first rich person I came across and go looking for a cut-price people smuggler. I'm not at all sure, but why do you imagine that I would feel differently about those with money to pay a people smuggler than I now feel about those with un-necessary and unusable wealth wasting squillions while others don't have the necessities of a decent life?

(By the way I do have the necessities of a decent life, and I don't feel the slightest twinge of the "envy" that Mr Howard used talk about. Contempt? Yes, in some cases. Annoyance at wasted human opportunities?  Very much so. Exasperation at stupidity? Yes lots of that, But envy? What is there to envy?).If I was you I'd feel very upset.

Someone's been concealing the truth from you.

Like me you can buy a Chinese wind turbine which will generate all the energy your home will ever need for a few hundred dollars.  If you then get a few of the new solar panels for a thousand or so you (like me) need never see another power bill.

If you then use your excess electricity generating capacity to produce hydrogen from water you can add it to the mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide you get from any old piece of wood give it a squeeze and you've got methanol! 

"Cheap and reliable energy"? It's all around you.

You don't have to worry about the sinister mental machinations of the ALP or even the idiotic troglodytic emanations from Bad Habbott or even that other bloke - what's his name.  You know who I mean.  Larry the Labrador.
He doesn't like windmills.  That's a worry.  I lie awake at night with a terrible mental picture of him as he scales the supports dressed in a leotard as he goes aloft to tear the blades off one by one.

It's a terrible situation we're in - surrounded by malignant influences.

Look out! Here they come again!They.ve got at you.
I've been off grid for five years, it's totally reliable and cost nothing like 10000.  My last addition was a wind turbine for a little over $400.  You have to use your brains and turn things off when not in use etc .

Not reliable? We haven't been without electricity in five years.

Do you know that all power to Las Vegas, night and day is about to be supplied by a solar thermal plant?

Come on. Get into the 21st C. It's a good place to be.  
The human race hasn't had such an opportunity for convenient freedom in thousands of years - if ever before.

Someone has been spinning you stories.

I'm quite serious about manufacturing methanol. It's a relatively very safe, energy dense transportable fuel, and made by pressurising the right proportions of Hydrogen (from water) and hydrogen and carbon monoxide from wood."Australia, however, does have an inalienable right to control its borders and secure its own survival".

Nonsense.

From whence did Australia derive this "inalienable right"?

If you can't work it out, I'll give you a hint.

It comes from exactly the same place as the "right" to mutilate the genitals of the women of Northern Iraq.

If you wish to say that you've got more than you need and you intend to keep things that way while others have far less than they need, at least have the mental integrity to say so.

I go with Tommy Aquinas on this.  He said that if you had more than you need and others have less than they need you were required to hand over what you don't need.

They are bloody awkward these Christians who insist on Christianity, aren't they.

It's a bit like pointing out to the crazies in Iraq that if they do believe in their Islamic Occasionalism they might spare a thought about why Allah made human female genitaia the way he did.    

Maimonides got it right.  He suggested that if when they returned from a long campaign they found their women pregnant they shouldn't be too hard on them - but then Maimonides lived in the bad days before the Reformation when he was allowed to think straight and even have a little joke.Under the Constitution, The Federal Government has powers to enact laws for the good government of the Commonwealth.

As the High Court has clearly ruled, the meaning of the words in any Act are "the ordinary meaning of the words".

We should therefore be able to refuse to be governed by any enactment which is not for the good governance of the Commonwealth. 

Very little of what these weird people in the Federal Government have enacted or sought to enact is for the good governance of the Commonwealth.

Enacting legislation which will generate the conditions of inequality which led to both the French and Russian Revolutions is quite simply not for the good governance of the Commonwealth.

Such laws have no legal basis.  They are unconstitutional.


No, your missing the point. 

We won't have that kind of war any more.  

Rommel was the last person who tried that and look what happened to him.

Wars now, more than ever before, depend on lunatics sending young men to kill each other to satisfy their megalomania. That is just about played out.  I gave a lift to an AJ a while back and I said to him: "One of these days...." and he finished it for me ...."they're going to tell us to go and kill people and we're going to tell them to get stuffed."

Some day when an idiot like Putin turns up and says he'd like to run the show we'll have a system where someone gives him a kick in the backside and p..... him off.

Giving power to the megalomaniacal lunatic fringe has gone on long enough.

Abbott can be given an old tyre to flip around on and Putin could be given a keyhole to peer through and a set of blocked off binoculars.  These people are always pretty stupid, and easily handled, as long as they aren't given power.I hope and believe that you will be proved very wrong.

The human race can do quite amazing things when enough people know enough and can see that knowledge and reason are in their best interests from every important point of view.

Our large and dangerous predators mostly now exist at our let, even if we still don't like the scratchy noises that cave bears used make when squeezing into our caves.

We've got rid of smallpox and communities of millions now exist free of some of the worst diseases that have beset us for millennia.

We now feed 6 billion adequately and with a bit more sense will be able to fed the other billion.

Human advances are never linear.  At the moment we've been temporarily badly hindered by the aberration which is Abbott as Prime Minister, but even the conservatives will get rid of him in the near future - when the greedy start to realise that his reactionariness is inhibiting their greed.

We could short circuit all the misery that comes with having him as PM, but that might entail something as sensible as having money as a means of exchange in communities that have knowledge as the currency of their value system - instead of the idiocy of having money as a commodity in a material value system.  Perhaps that is hoping for to much.

We shouldn't give up. After all we've nearly all got clean water, immunisation, food and a roof - not to mention cherries from the USA in June.There are very few situations where there is a necessary difference between being a purist and being a pragmatist.
 
The idea that there is, is the retreat position of those who don't know enough or are insufficiently intelligent to make a rational decision.

Given the state of pollution of the earth's atmosphere, and the ongoing bases of this pollution and the known consequences of continuing with the sources of the pollution, the only pragmatic thing to do is to stop polluting now, and then see what can be done about ameliorating the effects of the damage already done.

As with most things, including all things where there is sufficient known, the purist is the pragmatist.

To pretend that there is any gap between the two positions is just to leave wriggle room for ignorant idiots.

That way lies disaster.Your problem is that if there were enough people who have the same opinions as you, your giggle might end in a gurgle.  

I don't think you have too much to worry about. There is enough people know enough and are rational enough to save you from yourself.  As the governor of California said (referring to California's world's biggest solar power plant, world's biggest wind farm and the State's biggest industry being the manufacture of electric cars) "I might be a Republican, but I'm not an idiot". 

I did take quite a long time for many people to come to the understanding that the huge rocks in Europe  had been pushed around by expanding ice sheets and as you no doubt know, there are still many people who don't "believe in" evolution, but this one is different. We'll go broke if we keep refusing to know about this one.  

There wasn't a quid in burning witches so we gave that up too.I know very little of market economies, but just as I accept that the economists of the world think that a market based system is the most effective way to reduce emissions in a world of market economies, perhaps you should accept the opinions of the world's oceanographers that if we don't drastically reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the very near future, the pH of the oceans will fall by another 0.1pH unit and the ocean's corals and other calcareous structures will start disappearing. 

No?  Somewhere you have found a law against that idea have you? 

If you think that the relevant people at Wood's Hole and the Scripps Institute don't know what they are talking about, I think it is you who don't know what you are talking about.

I did a PhD on bivalve shell production, and I know enough to know when people are talking sense or rubbish on the subject.Neither cynicism nor gullibility is of much use in this, or any serious argument.

What I hope for is that anyone contributing will take the trouble to find out what is known, and without bias one way or the other cautiously accept what:

(a) accords with their understanding of relevant basic ideas, and

(b) is the opinion of those with a record of holding opinions which accord with acceptable underlying knowledge.

I don't for a second pay any respect to this "peer reviewed" shield of the coward, and I have a long record of disagreeing with "peer reviewed scientific facts".  I've seen a wall cupboard full of reams of rubbish that had all been "peer reviewed", and the last "peer reviewer" I met was a totally contemptible scientific snake oil merchant - the worst I've ever met with neither knowledge, integrity nor honour.  

However there is some integrity in the selection processes for positions at some of the world's best scientific establishments and if in a lifetime of studying scientific reports and working on scientific research I have not read rubbish produced by scientists from a certain scientific institute I take this into account in my assessment of material they produce.

Because of the above I stay well away from pronunciations on 
atmospheric and land surface matters.  I don't doubt that some are qualified to have opinions - I'm not qualified to assess them.

However I can speak with a great deal of certainty on the consequences of continuing to pour a great amount of carbon dioxide into the gases in contact with the earth's oceans. I can authenticate the major points underpinning my opinions on this matter with a strip of universal litmus paper, a glass of water and a tube to bubble my outgoing breath through  the water - and a massive literature from oceanographic chemical research which had nothing directly to do with climate change. 

I can say to the lawyers and other ignoramus (4th declension, your honour)

1. Stop talking rubbish about something you know nothing about,
2 Stop advocating continued burning of fossil fuels on a mega scale.
3. Stop scare-mongering about "the cost to business" while you take un-necessary chances on dissolving the corals of the world's reefs. 
4. While-ever you waste millions of the world's resources on abominations like the trial of Raffaele Sollecito fix your own stinking mess up before you start attacking scientists of integrity from a position of biased ignorance like that which upholds the protection from retribution for depravity of the members of the judicial priestly cult.
  

I could send you a photo of the eight pretty bright red strangely thin and seed shaped nectarines on a nectarine that blossomed in May, the shrivelled figs blackened and stunted from unseasonal fruiting, the odd little blood plums about the size of marbles and the yellow guavas with masses of buds in mid-winter. Strange, too, the silky oaks all bloom with the Jacarandas all my life (in November) but this year they are covered with beautiful golden blossoms in July. 

Stick around.  You ain't seen nothing yet. I don't think any of us realised just what a knife edge the whole of biology was on.  Out my window the newly sprung grain paddocks are already yellow tinged.  I wonder will they produce a crop of wheat at all.  What will happen to Australia's wheat production if the wheat growing areas of WA miss out on a few of their just sufficient mm of rain? 

Funny isn't it that all the trees have noticed something but you and Tony Abbott haven't.

She might all be right - but then again she might all be very bloody wrong and we've been idiots to have taken this unnecessary chance.
This is not a trivial matter.
 
It is highly likely that the decision of the Federal Senate to repeal the carbon dioxide pricing legislation will result, directly and indirectly, in the unnecessarily premature and wretched deaths of millions of human beings.

What an absurdity that we have designed political structures administered by ignorant idiots.

This matter, at a minimum, requires, for sensible decisions,  a knowledge that changing the composition of a gas can alter transmission of electromagnetic radiation through it, an understanding of the relationship of the incoming and outgoing radiations to climate, an understanding of the chemical consequences of increasing the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere contiguous with the earth's oceans, an understanding of the relationship between aragonite deposition by marine animals and the pH of the oceans etc etc.

I am quite certain that those who have made these decisions are as free of the knowledge and reasoning powers necessary for the decisions to be rational as a crab is from feathers.

Over the cliff they go, by the tens of millions, condemned by power in the hands of the ignorant and the stupid, just as we, by ignorance and stupidity, condemned to wretched deaths  myriads of the indigenous people of Australia between 1788 and 1940.

Ignorant fools had power then, and they still have power now.I find your and Mr Abbott's assumptions about why some people voted how they voted, and the extensions of this to specific issues, dishonest and absurd.

For a start, some few more of the people of Australia who voted, voted in such a way that Abbott &amp; Co had a majority. 

To transpose this fact to assumptions about exactly why any one person voted how they did, let alone a large number, is ridiculous.  

It is just as likely, perhaps, that people voted how they did because of a long litany of lies, or truths, about totally different matters.

I don't know, and neither do you.We have an economic system which only functions well if one person in 20 who wants a job can't have one.

We have a health system which leaves people suffering the ill-health of old age in misery from constant pain while sports people and drunken hoons are attended to immediately.

We have a wage system where many in occupations necessary for public health are paid a pittance and other physically competent people are paid amounts that they neither need nor can sensibly use to flop about as useless drones, contributing only to the drain on available resources via the diseases associated with gluttony. 

We have a legal system which selectively trains the most likely members of society to be psychopathic criminals.

We have a mental health system which was out of date in the last Ice Age.

I billion people live trapped in cruel poverty and disease.

The oceans are being acidified at an alarming rate and we are exponentially destroying the atmosphere we exist on and degrading our lands and water supplies.

What "reforms" does our government do?

It cuts foreign aid.

It channels even more money to the already uselessly wealthy.

It attempts to make the sick and destitute pay more for medical help.

It turns back the boats.

It promotes atmospheric pollution.

And, bewilderingly, it praises Rupert Murdoch and his rag.

If these are their idea of reforms, I hope they don't do any more.  

Couldn't they just go cycling or play with an old tyre?

Trashy attempts at objectionable derision aimed at any group, women or other, is just that- trashy and objectionable.

It's more a symptom of a social disease than anything else.

Having rules against it and or enforcing them is missing the point.

When our schools don't spend about a dozen years turning out people who would vote for Abbott and Hockey and who display "road rage", when every issue which should involve philosophical discussion isn't referred to a spokesman for the "business" community, when commercial TV doesn't offer an endless parade of women who fairly closely resemble a line of dairy cows waiting for their turn at the milking bails, when we are not constantly subjected to the "wisdom" of ignorant pot-bellied windbags, when the Federal Treasurer isn't trying to arrange for adding to the miseries of the old and infirm, etc, etc, I promise I'll be there with a mop helping to remove objectionable travelling graffiti.

In the meantime I think that we've all got more important things to focus on than childish verbal muck.I recently stayed with some people who only watch commercial TV.
It seems that this provides an endless reminder of rural scenes of Fresian cows lining up to be milked - and invitations to buy things I don't want and have never needed.
It's strange that some people would choose to watch something which I just find annoying.
The whole world is a little queer save thee and me - and I'm very unsure of thee.Churchill?
Wasn't he that clown who as First Sea Lord was going to "force the Dardanelles with a naval bombardment"?

And Maggie?

From ghoulies and ghosties and political cave dwellers Good Lord deliver us.Allegedly the Republican Governor of California when asked about his State having the world's biggest solar thermal power plant ,the world's biggest wind farm, and having as its biggest industry an electric car manufacturer said "I'm a Republican, but I'm not an idiot".

That clearly sets him apart from some senior Australian politicians on at least two bases.

Clive Palmer might be erratic, but at least that carries with it the chance that he might be on the right track some of the time.

Where Australian politics has got to, small mercies are all that can be hoped for.The lack of a Japanese military was about the only good outcome of WW2 for anyone, including the Japanese.

Since they got on perfectly well without one it's beyond me to understand why they ever wanted one,

As for Abbott's egging them on, has this person any intelligence at all?

He might have had the decency to allow my generation to die before he invited the knights of Bushido to stalk around Australia.  Perhaps if he had familiarised himself with the photo of the allied POWs being used for live bayonet practice he might have chosen his words a little differently.This "wishes of the majority" which you speak of, I wonder why you believe that it is something to determine someone's opinion, or what they say, or do?

(Just as an aside, was "the wishes of the majority" so important to you when Rudd and Co won government? Did you go on paying taxes when the "majority" voted for Beazley rather than Howard?)

It helps to keep in mind that the wishes of the majority has been based on later proven falsehood for most of the ten thousand odd years of history and pre-history and probably for the previous 5 million odd years since our ancestors biologically parted company with the ancestors of the chimpanzees.

There have been times when the "majority" believed in an odd story about the earth being made in seven days, another about people eating certain fruit and the consequences, a world wide flood, that there never had been ice sheets covering Europe, that death from disease happened because of someone else's malign incantations, that malaria ( as the name implies) was caused by bad air, that evolution happened by the inheritance of acquired characteristics, that "swimming" witches was a good day out  etc etc.  

The "wish of the majority", as far as the present Federal Government goes was just a representation of what those influenced by what Rupert and his journalists told them to wish.

The "wish of the majority" saw the present Queensland premier and his mob elected in a land slide. At the time and ever since I've been asking people "What did Anna do wrong?"  

I've not yet heard one coherent reply. Perhaps you can offer one? I thought that she was a highly intelligent hard working lovely person with the welfare of the community at heart.

Now apparently the "wishes of the majority" is that the Qld. Premier be unelected!

The "wish of the majority" saw Abbott defeat Rudd.  I'll have a little wager with you - that Harvard will never appoint Abbott to any position - let alone a senior one extremely important to America's national interest. 

I'd strongly advise a sounder basis for your opinions than the "wishes of the majority".  After all the majority of Germans voted to give Hitler absolute power.  That wasn't very sensible.

Try reading up on science and the opinions of a few of the more coherent philosophers from over the last 2.5 millennia. I recommend "Great Books of the Western World" as a place to start.  After that you might like to have a browse through the scientific journals in any Uni library. No?  You'd rather "wishes of the majority"? What a pity.You shouldn't worry.
He really is fairly easy to keep out of mischief.
Just give him an old tyre and , like an orang-utan with a corn sack and a horizontal bar. he'll be able to keep himself amused for hours.Perhaps the current shambolic state of governments throughout the world is just a reflection of the fact that nation states and material value systems really are foreign to the animal Homo sapiens. Whatever use they were, they clearly no longer function.  Perhaps it is time we had another serious look at the whole matter of us living on this planet for another 100,000,000 years or so before the sun we are now using  becomes useless and we have to find a more suitable one?
Abbott, Putin, Berlesconi &amp;Co - we really don't need these dills clogging up the works.  That being so we don't need the system whereby we foist them on ourselves.The value in opinion polls on various matters is not as a guide to what is correct or accurate - much less what is desirable or ethical.

One of their most important pieces of information is that on many issues they provide a guide to the degree of ignorance, stupidity and bigotry in the population sampled.

J have to deal with self doubt and uneasiness if it transpires that I'm amongst the majority on any matter.

Historically and still, the majority have been wrong on practically every matter.Did you really expect anything different?

Abbott is a monarchist.

Monarchists by definition are in favour of a political system where some are favoured over others because of who their parents (allegedly) are.

Inequality is the air they breathe, the water they drink and the food they eat.

Even when their monarch was accurately described as :

"An old, mad, blind, despised and dying king"(courtesy of PBS) in 1819, the monarchists were still monarchists.

Monarchy is a deranged state of mind based on the human tendency to megalomania where this genetically inherited tendency is not ameliorated or controlled by our inherited social natures.

Abbott has only his megalomania. He's too lazy to have learnt anything, too stupid to have sorted anything out if he had, and as a monarchist, someone forgot to magnetise the needle on his ethical compass.   

It's unfair to expect anything of Abbott and delinquent to have given him and his mob political power. Left there long enough and there'll be prison hulks moored in the Parramatta River.
I don't feel pain as much as some others, but I think that, as with any other subject, sufficient knowledge and common sense use of such knowledge are very helpful.

I use the 3;2;1 program  Three op rums to 2 aspirins to one weak opioid.  Like any other toxins, you are better to use a variety rather than asking one damaged organ to cope with too much of the same.

No doubt the time will come when I need morphine and I'm very sorry for those who do and it should not be anyone's right to tell them whether they can have whatever analgesic they require.  

However there should be available public information on what does what, and how to manage the benefits and down-sides.It is not a matter of "talking their way out of it".

Their entire story, repeated over and over by many of them, is that the only alternatives are acceptance of the measures in their budget or increased taxes (of the community at large) or further cutting services. 

That is a lie, and it is this lie that they would have to "talk their way out of".

Months ago Dr Hewson pointed out that the so called debt and deficit disaster disappears if the government simply retrieves the $34 odd billion dollars a year that it gives to the wealthiest people in Australia for augmenting their personal superannuation.

That's the crux of the matter.  these people really believe that they and their friends are "entitled" to be very rich whereas others who have spent their days in useful productive occupations that benefit the entire community should rot to their deaths in poverty and the ill-health of old age. 

It is beyond me to understand why they think this. By and large they are a tribe of ignorant unlettered dopes who have wasted their lives on amassing wealth and power. 

Since this is how they think, they will not "talk their way out of it".  They genuinely believe that God ordained that they be rich and others rot. 

If they also phase out the ludicrous negative gearing fraud we'd be awash with cash to do rational things - plenty of em.

If they then started charging company tax at the same rate as income tax --------

They won't.  The only solution is "Operation Raus Im Quick".

As for hypocritical drivel about the children being starved by the evil IS in Syria and Iraq. Yes it is terrible but not nearly as cruel and needlessly, pointlessly brutal as this Governments starvation of the children of East Timor.

Abbott, Morrison, Hockey, Pyne, Abetz, Brandis - a sickening mob of blind and stupid self serving hypocrites.

Now their Qld counterpart is to give police powers to private citizens. At least the Gestapo were state police.

I know they know no science, philosophy, economics or any of the bases of good government.  Now it is quite obvious they know nothing of History.  What do they know?You might have "felt OK".  

I cringed in humiliation every time they crawled to Pommy Royalty or Yank wealth.

I simmered with ineffectual rage every time these mingy mercenary individuals denigrated the herculean and public spirited efforts of the myriads of dedicated people who worked long hard hours for little monetary reward looking after other people's health as Government employees.

I watched in utter dismay as these fools terminated the research programs and careers of dedicated scientists throughout Australia's research institutions.

You may have felt OK.  I didn't feel Ok while Australia's position and standing and reputation in the entire world was mindlessly and stupidly allowed to sink - weighed down by ignorance and a pervasive culture of selfishness and greed.

"---a competent treasurer".

In what way has he displayed this alleged "competence"?

He started yapping rubbish about "the end to the age of entitlement" many months ago and then has suggested not a single idea about how to end the age of entitlement of every unproductive parasite and drone in the country.  (I mean the merchant bankers, insurance men, lawyers, court officials, usurers and land sharks).

He talked about the Rudd Government as being the worst Government since Whitlam.  

The thing that both the Whitlam and Rudd Governments did was to implement, when long overdue, the two biggest percentage rises in the Old Age Pension since its inception.

Where is Hockey's plan to make felicitous use by way of home industries for the myriads of competent unhappily retired retirees who would love to still contribute if any Federal Treasurer had the intelligence to implement a scheme which allowed them to contribute according to their often somewhat truncated and variable but pointlessly wasted abilities?

Where is the plan to produce electric cars to restart the automotive industry that these dopes ended - just so that we can keep up with that radical "left wing" outfit - the Republican Administration in California?  

Where is the plan to introduce industries to implement plans to harvest Australia's superabundant solar and wind energy resources thereby generating employment and wealth in regional and rural Australia?

Where is the plan to end the obscenity of bank after bank revealing multi-billion dollar profits?

What kind of moron would suggest leaving unemployed young people without the pittance of the dole until they sort themselves out?  The jobs are simply not there as the man from Vinnies keeps telling them - but they are deaf.

What any worthwhile treasurer would understand is that a community's true wealth is only generated by productivity - not by banks, insurance companies, money fiddlers, brothel owners or paper shufflers -and Hockey? All Hockey understands and all Hockey will ever understand is the matter of fiddling around with money - and that doesn't make a good treasurer. 

Just a spokesman for spivs.
I am not an economist, but I know highly intelligent and rational people who have worked with Dr K henry who hold him in the highest regard professionally.

With my own ears and eyes I listened to, and watched Dr Henry heap unstinting praise on Mr Kevin Rudd for his Government's handling of the Global Financial Crisis and for Mr Rudd's personal contribution to this.

Now Mr Berg seeks to belittle their efforts, and in the process to belittle Dr Henry's opinion by claiming that the entire matter can be sneeringly reduced to one virtually irrelevant, (although quite perspicacious) sentence in a memo by Mr Swann.

The day when I take your opinion on matters economic rather than that of Dr Henry, Mr Berg, will be the day that I'll know that I've lost my marbles - all of them.

Mr Rudd has been appointed to a senior position at Harvard working on matters of vital importance to the USA. I feel quite confident that the tribe of small carping detractors of this quite wonderful person will wait quite a while for a similar invitation.

Instead of a Mandarin speaking Prime Minister with a mature world vision and wonderful plans for the people of Australia in that world, we have a misguided individual who learnt at the feet of Bob Santamaria, who championed the Catholic Rural Movement, who milks the public purse for bike riding and does strange manoeuvres on worn out tyres. 

Lucky Harvard - and poor fella my country.I find both the basic assumptions of this article and what Mr Hockey thinks is good economics thoroughly ridiculous on practical and utterly objectionable on moral grounds - and completely ridiculous economically.

What neither this author nor Mr Hockey seems to understand is that sick and debilitated human beings are unproductive human beings.  Leaving out the moral issue altogether, unless a person is some grotesque and depraved individual who takes great delight in the physical misery of others, there is no upside of any kind to a community in which there are great numbers of people suffering the effects of poverty and disease.

Right at the moment there are in Australia myriads of old people limping about with knees that if they were "valuable" footballers would be effectively treated as a matter of urgency. Each and every one of these people suffers torments every night and if they do hobble off to a medical practitioner they will be given a prescription for a drug which has recently been proven to be almost if not entirely worthless - something that the legion of old people who live in misery with damaged knees could have told the medical and pharmaceutical communities long ago.

We are social animals.

We have effective societies economically, productively and emotionally when we behave socially.

Any person in a debilitated state, whether by old age, sickness, accident or from any other reason has a call on me to assist them.

Hockey and Abbott (like Howard before them) believe that someone's illness is someone else's business opportunity.

That is morally depraved and economically ridiculous.

[One other thing these ignoramus completely fail to realise - every time they open their mouths they gratuitously, ignorantly and grossly insult the large number of dedicated people who work for relatively very little as health professionals of every kind throughout the country)."-----make policy on the basis of ideology -----".

If the "ideology" is soundly based on facts and reason then this ideology is a very good basis for policy.

The problem here is that the policies are based on ignorance and stupidity - not on philosophically and factually soundly based ideology. 

We are an animal with two major survival mechanisms - our major individual survival mechanism is our intellect and our major group survival mechanism is our social nature. 

Any policy which runs counter to these is antihuman - and as such is based on false or incoherent ideology - as is this budget.

It offends our intellect and affronts our social natures.I'm uncertain about what the author understands by "morality" and I get a feeling that she has perhaps not lived long enough since her undergraduate days to get over the "what we call foolscap" mentality.

To suggest that there is any divergence between good economics and morality is an academic abstraction, and is quite irrational.

Good economics generates human happiness and is profoundly intrinsically moral.

This budget is profoundly immoral, precisely because it is bad economically.This "team Australia" is a garbage concept. 

Because I was born on this bit of the earth's surface and Abbott was brought here doesn't mean that it is rational for me to join any "team" that he is a part of.

I hold him in contempt for his monarchism.

His hypocrisy as an alleged Christian is totally phony - neither he nor Morrisson nor Hockey has the first inkling of what constitutes a Christian.

His cringing to the wealthy and powerful is pathetic.

His ignorance of science, history and philosophy is monumental, and defines and describes the empty person who yaps his pointless slogans.

A slogan is a discussion conducted by an ignorant fool.

I am, who am.  Before Abbott was, I am, and thanks all the same, I will remain who I am while having absolutely nothing to do with Abbott's "team Australia".

They play on old tyres, don't they?Wasn't that great statesman Gee Dubbaya also guilty of this same kind of drivel?

"Team" this and "Operation" that.

He seems to have this uniform condition in an advanced state.

Surely there's a treatment available?  Perhaps if someone introduces a few stem cells through his ear it might help?

The only "operation" I'd like to see is "Operation Raus Im Quick".

In the meantime can't he be put to use on a push bike with an alternator where the back wheel should be?

Alternatively, he could be found an old tyre to perform tricks on.  He seems to like that. 

And if my values and aspirations are diametrically opposed to those of Abbott, as mine are, why "should" or how "could" I share anything with him?

Are you suggesting we all stop thinking and talking and all go BAAAAH.

You can be as pseudo tribal as you please. 

I choose to be in the first instance human and in the second a person who understands the genetic oneness and diversity of the animal Homo sapiens.

Abbott's understanding seems to be more suited to the attitudes of a 19C Englishman in the British Raj and the international politics pre Bismark than to a person living in an era one and a half centuries after the publication of The Origin of Species and nearly 70 years after the first atomic bomb.

Abbott was out of date when he was trailing around after Bob Santamaria, and he hasn't either the knowledge nor the intelligence needed to update himself to the present.

That is why when the Japanese take the profoundly retrograde steps of returning to their militaristic past, unfortunately Abbott is there to cheer them on. 

The only purpose that the Prime Ministership of Abbott can serve is to instruct us (once again) that we should be very careful whom we equip with political power.Do you mean that there are blind, ignorant, ill-informed fools in the American Congress, just like some of those in our Federal Parliament in Canberra?

I suppose it has always been so.  The same system that gave Rome Nero gave them Marcus Aurelius.Because at the uni he saw a chance to appeal to the next generation not to drop the baton whereas at the Convention  Centre he'd just have been preaching to the old converted - except of course for Abbott and he's obviously given trying to talk sense to Abbott away as a waste of time.

I mean all he would get from trying to talk sense to Abbott is a pain in the tonsils.I know it's parochial, and I know it's just part of any story and may not be representative of anything much, but--, I wonder.

I built my house where is because of the beautiful views over about 400 square ks of mountains, green dairy farms and lush paddocks of winter and summer grain crops.

The mountains are still there, but they have a lifeless brown tinge.

The cows have gone.

The cattle have all been sold from the local grazing blocks.

The dams are dry or nearly so.

The Paddocks are either a dying stubble from the winter crop that died or brown ploughed ground where the summer crop was not planted.

Bananas are $4 in Perth markets and supplied by Carnarvon because the rain didn't come to Innisfail!! A drought at Innisfail!!

A major reason for the increase in the recent CPI was an increase in the price of fruit!

Katter says there is one suicide every 4 days amongst despairing graziers in his electorate.

Climate Change is a "heap of crap" Mr Abbott?I have wondered for some years how people (like Abbott and Hockey) would smoothly negotiate the path from absurdity on the Climate Change subject to the only rational position of agreement with the problem and a coherent plan to deal with it.

Instead, this pair of nincompoops have taken the extraordinarily foolish and crazily reckless step of stating more forthrightly than ever their denialism.  

Abbott's "big heap  of crap" and "fad" assessments and Hockey's "I hate wind turbines", if allowed to dim and become buried by the passage of time may have almost totally faded had they commenced a rational progression to fact and sanity.

Instead, with the blindness of religious bigots pursuing some crazy and irrational belief, Abbott has backed himself into an untenable idealogical corner by labelling Obama's fund to facilitate the clean energy path in developing countries:

"Socialism masquerading as environmentalism" 

and left himself no room for future sanity, and Hockey has said, and dogmatically repeated:

"Climate change is not an impediment to economic growth".

In so doing, these two have squarely painted themselves into the inexorably darkening Sepia Corner, with in the ever brightening Green Corner, Barak Obama, Pope Francis, Mr Cameron, Mr Xi Jinping and Ban Ki Moon etc etc. 

The spirit of Mr Rudd quietly floated out of the Convention Centre with a satisfied smile on its face. 

It's nice to have history on your side.It has been obvious for some time that Joe, didn't know much.

It's quite clear that he doesn't know any science.  CO2 +H2O -&gt; fergetit, fergetit.  There's no point going on with that.

Clearly he knows very little about the aetiology of lung cancer.

How about crocodiles?  Does he know much about crocodiles?

He clearly believes that budgit is when you lean against an immovable object and try to shift it, like a nation's views on a doctor tax.

The aesthetic beauties of a paddock of graceful windmills produces only an aversion reflex

Now it has become all too obvious that he knows nothing of horticulture.

Joe.  You can't grow cabbages, pies or an economy under the Pacific.  Sea weed, yes, but you can only grow those things on ground with air above it.  That's just how things are.  When you've sorted it out, would you tell Tony?  He needs to know too.There is only one proper insurer for a social animal and that is the others of the species.

All insurance is parasitism of the weak (of one kind or another) by the strong.

It should be the first thing considered a crime.

Someone's illness (or ill luck) should not be someone else's business opportunity.  That is fundamentally anti human, like giving a private company $20,000,000 of public funds because there is a disease outbreak in Africa!

The author vividly describes anti human behaviour - and mentality.

Thank you.  We need to clearly understand it to get rid of it. 
Perhaps you are unaware that a material value system is a quite recent thing in human affairs?

Australian Aboriginals looked after each other when they had a knowledge value system.

I hope we can one day return to that.

A material value system, especially where currencies become "commodities" are an absurdity for a social animal - and a cruel curse to the species.Abbott is so unsuitable as a person to be the Prime Minister of a country in the 21st Century as to call into question the political system which resulted in him filling the position.

I was confused when Howard promoted him.

I was non-plussed when his party made him leader.

I thought that there must have been something I was missing when journalists started suggesting him as PM.

I seriously wondered whether nearly half the Australian electorate didn't need urgent  help of some kind when they voted for him.

Now it is absolutely clear that I was right all along.

A person who is a monarchist, given to playing little military games, to persecution of refugees, who knows nothing of science and sneers at advice from scientists and economists is simply unsuitable for the position of Prime Minister in the 21st Century. 

It is way past time that those who promoted him admit their mistake and agitate for him to go.

Far too many lives have already been destroyed by Abbott's PM ship and that just a beginning.
Why does it need to be a woman to replace Gail Kelly? Almost any normally competent man or woman would do.

The capitalist personality cult that someone - anyone - is worth millions a year is just simply absurd. 

It's equally absurd as Stalin's Communist personality cult.

The most common and obvious difference between any "senior executive and anyone else is that they have more than their share of a megalomaniacal tendency, and I know of no statistical correlation between this attribute and any other. 

In fact in every place I worked, as soon as the CEO went on holidays everyone else operated better.

These megos are usually just pests to their relatives and nuisances to their friends.

Millions/year? Baloney.Why not?

Norway showed what can be done with sane taxing of profits from exploitation of mineral resources.

It's a pity that some Australians were too bloody stupid to do the same.

If you find that you are still one of the "dull clods untroubled by a spark", take yourself off to John Moffat's old workshop at Irvinebank and think for a moment that this is where they used to manufacture shearing machines.  Long ago.  When they were milling the ore from the Vulcan.

"Where's Irvinebank?" you ask.

Bah, I don't know that you're worth talking to.  

It's in Rock Wallaby country.I disagree for one very simple reason.  I do not believe that in matters like those under discussion that the size of the country has much to do with the effect world wide of what the country does.

I am firmly of the opinion that, with rational and competent government, Australia could cease burning of fossil fuels for energy or transport in a very small number of years - and that the economy of the country could improve while we do it.

I have a solar system which supplies all electricity needs and have had for seven years.  I'm in the process of adding a wind turbine. I have an anemometer in the front yard and have learnt that when you can "hear" the wind it is averaging about 5.0 metres/ second or over.  I lie awake at night when I can hear the wind, wondering just what it will take to overcome the bias generated stupidity of those telling me that it is economically unrealistic to stop wreckin the joint.

I have three vehicles all of which will be converted to electric power within a year. 

This I promise you.  When my neighbours see me driving by in electric cars powered by electricity from my own photovoltaic panels and turbine for nothing, it will not take them long to want an electric car themselves.

It will be exactly the same when one country totally converts to renewable energies and their people are healthier, wealthier and happier for it.  There will follow a cascade of other countries to do the same.

There was a young man from Peru,
Who found a large rat in his stew.
Said the waiter don't shout,
Or wave it about,
Or the others will all want one too.  

I've thought for a long time that when the US of A finally cottoned on to the idea that they would go quickly with implementation.

There are those who are saying that the US congress will block Obama's initiative.

Perhaps they didn't notice the Republican mayor in the process of converting his city to 100% renewable energy said "I might be a Republican, but I'm not a bloody idiot"
Tell me, was it you that applied for a senior position involving USA foreign policy at Harvard lately?

How are you going with that?I wonder if we can change direction onto a rational track?

The "climate change" debate and the fossil fuels v renewable energy debate are finished.

It is just not sensible to go on and on ever more aggressively defending an indefensible position.

When Las Vegas is to be powered entirely by solar power, mostly at night, of course, it's time to toss in the towel.

Let's change to something more rational - and this time let's keep the argument constrained by facts and rational projections.  

Firstly as any of you can do right now, check the currently advertised retail price of solar panels and appropriate inverters. Then check the length of the guarantee. Then check the solar exposure of your part of Australia. That way you can work out the initial capital cost /kWh of electricity over the life of your own personal power station. Then check the energy storage options. For panels plus inverters, you'll find an array of prices averaging about 1.0kW/$1,000.

With all that locked in, and one eye on the acidifying and inexorably rising oceans, and having noted that the Chinese will sell you reasonable sized electric motors for less than $7 each if you buy 500, turn your minds to just what can be done with all that energy, yours for nearly nothing, in the privacy of your own omes. 

Let's get onto something constructive and stop this other interminable mindless yabber.

Otherwise you'll find yourself sickening and dying from the bad air from the swamps.

You'll never know what lonesome is till you get to herdin cows.

That's where you mob will end up.  

Herdin cows.I certainly have looked into the matter, especially as regards cost - the last time was yesterday when my engineer son rang about prices he was being quoted.

I also checked my batteries yesterday. They're now nearly seven years old, have had minimum maintenance and just about as new.  "Replace in 4 - 5 years". That's nonsense. They make far better batteries now than when I bought these. 

I'm in the process of designing a commercial project which will require 40 kWh/ day.  That's no problem when the cost of photovoltaic panels plus inverter is now between $3900 for 6kW and $6000 for 5kW.  Those figures are straight off easily accessible advertising and represent the low and the high of the figures quoted.  With 8 hrs sunshine on average and a bit of help from a wind turbine 40kWh /day won't be a problem.

Depending on your situation and how much energy you use each day and how much you want to store there are a variety of options.  Why the Hell would you want $25,000 worth of batteries? Forget the electrical system and buy yourself a yacht.

The solar panels I have, also seven years old still put out exactly the same amps that they did 7 years ago. Whence the budget on 25% and a life of 10 years?  The guarantee on present solar panels is 25 years.
I don't get it.  What do you mean "is not correct".  Those are the advertised figures. I am neither blind nor a liar.

Secondly what do you mean "dream"? It is not a dream.  We have a stand alone solar electricity system which was installed nearly seven years ago.

Next Tuesday I find out where to attach the wires from my newly purchased turbine.

The nearest bit of grid is about 1.6ks away.

You seem to have difficulty with facts.
If I was you I wouldn't worry about the air conditioner. Try less clothes in hot weather and more in cold weather.  It's worked for millions of years, but you need to keep your body's homeostatic mechanisms in good working order.

There was an old bloke lived at Ebor who slept in an old tin bath-tub filled with newspapers.  He had a thermometer on the wall of his tin shed so that he knew how deep to climb in on any night.  That's technology for you.

But a 7kW air conditioner in Sydney?!

Anyone who uses a 7kW air conditioner is a direct threat to the human race - a pest to his relatives and a nuisance to his friends.
Perhaps it is you that is "stuck in the groove".

I too heard that interview and I also dislike the interviewing technique of Ms Sales, but if you think that "coal will be important for 50 years" is a fair representation of, or summation of what Mr Walsh said then your selective hearing problem is very serious.

For whatever reason Mr Walsh obviously didn't want to give the answers he was being badgered into giving by way of a direct personal attack on Mr Abbott, but this is not to say that Mr Walsh, as I thought he made very clear, has not very different views from those of Mr Abbott.

As for whether Australia is out of step - with whom do you suggest we are in step? Clearly not the EU, nor China, nor USA.

As for the ABC "trying to paint a negative picture of the Government", how would they do that?  Do you mean that they would approach the matter from somewhere the other side of negative infinity? 

Might I suggest you read the Pope's letter to Mr Abbott?  It is far harsher and far more telling than anything anyone from the ABC has ever said, and sadly, and humiliatingly, so very, very accurate and true.Exactly, and I'd expect nothing less from a VetTeacher. 

It is to me totally bewildering that those who would submit themselves to the medications and operations prescribed by a medico, can't get their heads around the notion that increasing the carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will lower the pH of the surface layers of the ocean.

"For to sell them what you tell them'
Is the art of medicine".

Perhaps an advanced course in salesmanship is the thing that's missing from a science degree - or perhaps, and more to the point, we need better school teachers - urgently.

It is utterly ridiculous that in 2014 and after over a decade of schooling and the expenditure of mega millions a community who have all been to high school should be so intractably ignorant and stupid.The terms "left wing " and "right wing are fairly meaningless labels with very little descriptive value, and to a great extent distorting in the present context.

Mr Rob Borbidge was the Conservative Premier of Queensland after the recently deceased Wayne Goss and his genuine and profound respect for Goss displayed in his gracious tribute puts the trivial yapping about right and left in perspective.

It would be an improvement if these silly shallow terms could be dispensed with altogether.

Both Wayne Goss and Rob Borbidge were very decent, bilaterally symmetrical human beings and to refer to either as right or left would be contemptuously insufficient. 

However it is factually wrong to pretend that there were not, and are not, serious impediments to women in our society. Especially are mothers of young children ridiculously and unnecessarily discriminated against. 

The lacks, errors, incompetencies and failures of Australian politics are at the moment and in the most recent past obvious and appalling - but while this makes us (perhaps temporarily?) worse than NZ, all governments, in every country in the world are similarly failing their peoples and the people of the world.

The human race is involved, as never before in our history, in a race against time.  

Every now and then there is something which gives me new hope that we will win - but then there is IS, Abbott, Putin and the Tea party, but even more cogently there is Eddie Obeid and Cory Bernardi - "is" because they are a single problem.

Any political system which generates the likes of these as representative politicians is defunct, and seriously defunct. 

Although it went virtually un-noticed, the most recent thing to renew my hopes was the work which strongly suggested that how people vote was, to some extent at least, determined genetically. 

That should (in a perfect world, or even in a sensible world) loudly proclaim that human society and human politics must take note of the fact that the animal in question is the mammal Homo sapiens.

We evolved to be a mammal with an intellect as our individual survival mechanism and a social nature as our group survival mechanism and our human societies must reflect the fundamental importance of these attributes - otherwise are they alien.

To function, our intellect and our social nature require a political society composed of about the same number of people as there were in every human society until grain growing distorted the entire picture and ushered in the age of the megalomaniacs.

Australia, or any modern nation state, is an antihuman monstrosity.

When we know enough, we'll do it properly ie if knowledge and reason hold sway - and if we have enough time.I fully agree that we need a new system of government, but the idea of having majority rule leaves me with uncontrollable shudders.

Throughout history, and now, the majority have been wrong about almost any subject about which there has been dispute.

Despite all imperfections our knowledge machines, over the last 2,500 years have generated an enormous amount of knowledge which is fundamental to good public decision making.

Most of this knowledge is totally foreign to by far the majority of people.

We go to a mechanic to have our cars repaired. We go to a medico to have our bodies repaired. Why should we go to an ignorant mob to plan and run our society?

Abbott is the perfect example of what you get when the majority have the say.

Like them he is profoundly ignorant, totally amoral, unculturedly primitive, intensely stupid and composed of cunning.  That's why they vote for him.  They recognise one of their own.

Abbott is not concerned about whether there is enough cheese for everyone.

He is only concerned to ensure that he and his friends get more than their share of what there is and to Hell with the rest.

From ghoulies and ghosties and long legged beasties and the 

rule of the majority, Good Lord deliver me. 
"---he's an intelligent and well read man---"!!!!

I find that astonishing.  

I had assumed that someone who's behaviour is so atrocious and whose speech is so halting and incompetent had been behind the door when they were giving it all out.  I had assumed that if he read at all it was probably something with lots of pictures like "Superman".

If he is as you say, that makes him evil in the extreme.

Anyone who, from a position of political power, at every opportunity, wantonly makes the lives of less fortunate people less fortunate, and the wealth of the wealthy great beyond need sense or reason, while at the same time destroying the last vestiges of decency in our public life and our society is either extremely ignorant, extremely evil, or both.


His latest lunacy is to erect his own version of a Berlin Wall around Australia.  The East German criminals murdered people as the left.  Our people are to be grabbed and given long gaol sentences when they return. 

You can't be serious.   

Abbott thinks that carbon dioxide is "weightless".

He's not intelligent and well read.

His ignorance is profound, and all I've ever seen in Abbott is the highly developed degree of cunning which lazy, ignorant and stupid people rely on to survive.
In all the, the matter fundamental to the whole thing is totally overlooked - me the citizen.
I reluctantly agree to be governed by elected governments.  

In our political system, a House of Parliament, Senate or otherwise, elected with a majority of a certain political persuasion is the one I agree to be governed by.

I have never and will never agree to be governed by a parliament appointed by the Queen's representative, the likes of Bjelke Petersen or anyone else.

This was the fundamental breach of   our political system represented by the behaviour at the time of Bjelke Petersen, Fraser, Kerr, and various High Court Judges.

They showed themselves to be shallow fools and the damage they did is reflected in the degree of contempt for their professions and Australian public life ever since.

All that shows is that some of the "voting citizens of Australia" are a pack of mindless fools.  
 
You are missing the point.

We are supposed to have an elective oligarchy and that is what I reluctantly sign up to.

You may agree to dutifully toddle along and vote, and then have your vote arbitrarily disregarded if you wish.

That is simply agreeing to a dictatorship.

That a majority of the Australian electorate endorsed dictatorship does not make the dictatorial behaviour any less stupid - or any less evil. 

Do you also think that the German voters were sensible to vote to give Hitler dictatorial powers?

That a majority of people vote in a certain way doesn't make their behaviour sensible, rational or ethical.

I have been mystified for 39 years that anyone would put the spurious argument that you have advanced.The tendency to look after ourselves is innate.  It is genetically inherited.

Another attribute of human beings is empathy with others - our social nature.  That is also genetically inherited.

Attributes like selfishness and social - ness are inherited in a community in Normal Distributions.

That is, some of us are like Mother Theresa and others like Marie Antoinette, but most of us somewhere in between.

However we are also intelligent animals.

There are times, situations, where our altruistic tendencies can result in harm to all concerned and other times, situations, where apparently selfish behaviour can result in detriment to all concerned, including those who behave selfishly.

Perhaps it will help if the meaningless pejorative terms left-wing and right-wing were dispensed with and we actually addressed our genetically transmitted humanity.

Gough was a superb human being with sufficient honesty and intelligence to admit his own tendency to megalomania.

It is that which set him apart from the other megalomaniacs. 
I am a scientist.

A physical chemistry scientist friend of mine used measure the changes in transmission of radiation through mixtures of gases with changes in the relative concentrations of those gases.

If you increase the concentrations of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere you will alter the transmission of radiation through the atmosphere.

There is no sensible argument about this. You either know about it -or you are ignorant of the subject.

Similarly increasing the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will increase the rate of carbon dioxide dissolving in the surface layers of the ocean and this, all else being equal will tend to decrease the pH of the surface layers of the ocean.

The ph of the surface layers of the ocean has quite markedly decreased since the Industrial Revolution. 

Again, there is no sensible argument about this.  You either know about it or you are ignorant of the matter.

Anyone who wishes to dispute these very simple and basic concepts is disputing some very basic, not to say at least as far as this argument is concerned, simple physical and chemical concepts.

What are the alternatives?

Does anyone seriously believe that increasing the atmospheric concentration of CO2 or CH4 won't change transmission through it of radiation?

Do people believe that increasing the concentration of dissolved CO2 in water won't lower the pH? 

I know that Mr Abbott disputes the science, but that's because of his ignorance.  He thinks that CO2 is weightless!

At least these parts of this matter should have ceased long ago.

Every working scientist goes to work every day with an enormous background of accepted basic scientific "fact".  No results of their experiments are at all likely to bring any of this into question.

If every working scientist had to question and re-prove every part of this every day science would never progress.

Things get a lot less certain when the systems under discussion get more complicated.
The ridiculous thing about this whole debate is that I'm quite certain that nearly all of those who style themselves "climate sceptics" or "climate deniers" will submit to life threatening medical procedures based on "medical science" which is based on "beliefs" of the medical profession where the "scientific" basis is tenuous at best. 

For example, I have been asking the medical profession for nearly fifty years just which tooth does the cholesterol molecule use when it bites the intima of an artery?  I've yet to get a scientifically tenable answer (which is not to say that there is not one).
You mean by reducing the national debt by cutting out the $34,000,000,000 annually that the Government hands over via the superannuation tax rort?You know, there's another group of people who are equally as bad as union officials who behave corruptly - perhaps even worse - and that is company executives who behave corruptly.

Now about a few decades ago an engineer I knew was offered a huge amount of money to work for a certain company but he abruptly turned the offer down because he was far to anxious about his professional reputation to work for that shonky lot.
I wonder would Tony Abbott know who that might have been and whether he mightn't like to have a Royal Commission into corrupt businesses that he might have come across?"---deal with Clive Palmer on Direct Action dismissed as a temporary fig leaf ---".

Given Mr Abbott's rather odd notions of modesty of dress, I'm frightened that he might go for a Black Genoa with its numerous cutouts or even the more risqu? White Adriatic which is, of course, a rather inconsequential thing altogether.

For Clive Palmer I'm hoping he goes for the far more substantial Brown Turkey - but you can never know with Clive.

I hope he doesn't make the mistake of sunbathing on the beach in his fig leaf while the Japanese whaling fleet are in the vicinity.

I find the accompanying photograph disturbing.

If I was Napthine I'd be very careful.

It's a wonder that his mother didn't warn him about getting into situations like that with a person like that.

No wonder he has a nervous smile on his face.This whole debate about how to decrease carbon emissions should have been over a long time ago.

It is now the case that it is so cheap to generate electricity from wind or solar, and in suitable situations from tidal power, and the known costs of continuing to burn fossil fuels are so great, that there is no longer a sensible debate.

With solar panels +inverter, the dearest I could find cost $0.08/kWh if they lasted 5years and they are guaranteed for 25 years.  The cheapest are about 2/3 of this.  The batteries are expensive but their price is in free fall. 

Further I recently checked the costs of conversion of our vehicles from petrol to electric.  An American firm offers a comprehensive kit for $6,000 and a Chinese firm most of the same for $4,000.  I checked this on the day that we put another $100 odd in the car. We do this twice a week, but not for much longer.

There are other sensible uses for cheaply generated electricity.  For example, if my sums are correct, it takes less than 40 kWh to lower the temperature of one million cubic metres of saturated atmosphere (air, water and latent heat all considered) one degree C and that will precipitate 1 cubic metre (1,000l) of water.

The only problem is that our government is spending its entire efforts whipping up military ferver and scaremongering and instituting operation this and operation that instead of governing the country.  

Perhaps the physics is beyond them.

Perhaps Abbott and Morrison would be less trouble were they to tend to a position of maximum inertia?Yes and stop burning fossil fuels wherever possible as soon as possible.I think the major problem is one of timing.

In a world where the human genome has been deciphered, and we know as of fact that we and the Chimps had common ancestors only about five million years ago, and that we share mitochondria with everything from onions, to oysters to mules, it just seems bizarre that we are continuing to carry on as if it really was true that God put good spirits into some of us and bad spirits into others.

It is just mind bending.

I gave a young soldier a lift a while ago, and after some silence, I said

"One of these days---" and he finished it for me
"---they are going to tell us to go and kill some people and we're going to tell them to get nicked".

I have a huge hope that we will soon realise that we are an animal with an intellect for an individual survival mechanism and a social nature as our group survival mechanism, that we evolved to live in small communities and that nation states, civilizations, caliphates etc are all idiotic failures generated by megalomaniacs.  

We're not far from sanity - just so long as left over lunacies from our ignorant past don't cause utter mayhem before we get there.All these matters, The GST, ETS, and fuel excise should, in Australia, be non-events.

he GST is a decision to implement the Napoleonic theory of tax gathering. - ie squeeze it out of the poor, the rich are too powerful to be forced to hand it over,(as with the "Mining Tax").  It is a disgraceful tax by gutless governments.

For a government which is already systematically impoverishing the impoverished it is quite simply disgraceful to talk about raising or widening the GST.

As for an ETS or a fuel excise tax in Australia, they are both bizarrely ethereal subjects.

I have just carefully checked the current prices and physical facts for what follows:

At the moment, the price of photovoltaic panels plus the appropriate inverters are  about (above and below) about $1000 /kW installed capacity.

Since this gear all has a warranty on it for 5 years or more, that means that if the sun shines on average 7 hours/day for an average of 250 days per year for 5 years this equates to 8750 kWh/ $1000 invested.

That is, for the solar panels and the appropriate inverter, the cost of the electricity for the installation costs of the panels and the inverter  is $0.114 /kWh.

Similarly, a quick check of current price of wind turbines, from 0.8m radius to large turbines rated at 100 kW, depending on available average wind speed, the price per kW hour of generated electricity is about the same as the PV set up if you have average wind of 6.6metres/sec, but is much larger with lower wind speeds.

In NW Western Australia lies King Sound - 100km x 50km roughly.

The tide there averages about 10metres.

The Potential Energy of the water in King Sound at high tide is therefore  2.24x 10 to the fifteenth Joules.

That is, 6.2x 100000000 kWh /tide

Now the Good Lord, being far more intelligent than our government of dolts, saw fit to partially close off the entrance to King Sound with a line of rocky islets so that each tide a spectacular rush of water, like a huge interrupted water fall cascades through the islets.  

Only profound ignorance and intense stupidity could possibly explain why, in Australia in 2014 we are talking about just to what extent we intend to further poison a poisoned planet. 

Please spare me nit -picking and essentially politically motivated dishonest rubbish about the other costs etc  I can afford to be out by a few 0s and the argument is still valid.

The matter was dealt with comprehensively in Ockham's Razor at 7.45am on Sunday 26 October. qv. For those who wish to disagree (especially those who wish to gratuitously call me dishonest) please read the transcript of Ockam first.Be brave Mr Cassidy.

Tell it like it is.

Nearly every thing that Abbott is trying to do is to promote the rich and kick the tripe out of the have nots.

I challenge you or anyone else to indicate just one single domestic initiative of this government which is intended to lower the gaping and ever widening gap between rich and poor in this country.

I just don't understand what theory he has, if he has one.

Unless he personally believes that there is nothing like a bit of healthy sadism, I can't see where he is going.

Does he believe that God made some people to be poor, sick and miserable and others to be  filthy rich and that it is his religious duty to ensure that we have that, and plenty of it?

As for "selfish politics" from the Labor Party, they are simply not in a position to join Abbott, Hockey and Cormann gleefully kicking the tripe out of the aged infirm, the disadvantaged youth and the struggling working poor.  You know that as well as I do.

Why are you not mentioning the $34,000,000,000 annual superannuation tax fraud?  That's the big story.  I hope you are not held back by greedy self interest?

If Abbott proposed getting rid of the country's financial problems by ending this rubbish and Labor blocked it you'd have a case.  Tell Joe about it. He doesn't like this 'entitlement' business.  He said so. 

Meantime you shouldn't take increasing the leg to torso ratio too far.  It can prove hazardous in several ways.
There is a fundamental intrinsic difference between a business opportunity and the requirement that we care for the sick.There's no need for Greg to supply you with a graph.

The equation describing power in wind coming to a horizontal axis turbine is:

Power (Watts) = pi/2 x densityof air(c i.2) x velocity cubed x radius squared.

Don't get too excited about the 10m/s or the 50 m/s

They equate to 36kph and 180kph respectively.

If you have a 1m radius turbine and average 4m/s wind velocity then you can count on 120 Watts which over 24 hrs gives about 2.9 kWh /day.

The turbine will cost about $400 . The stand will cost about $140.

The turbine + stand will pay for itself in about 500 days.

I don't know anything else that will except a cosh and a face mask.

Of course as the turbines get bigger the power generated gets much bigger proportionate to the cost.

A 2m radius turbine is not that much more expensive than the one metre r model and in the same wind produces 4x the power.

If you augment the wind velocity  x2 then you get 8x the power.

Watch this space and bear in mind that the catamarans in the recent America's Cup were travelling at 70 knots in a 30 knot breeze.

Bernoulli's theorem and the physics of lift will help.  

Don't wait for others - make your own - but don't be distracted by the biases and bigotries of lawyers and accountants.  They know nothing about the matter but that won't stop their incessant yabbering.The problem with all this material is that it, ostrich like, simply refuses to see the future.

Forget the "poles and wires" costs.  The poles will become places for hawks to build their nests and white ants to get a feed, and the wires will become rest areas for migrating swallows, martins and over-fed flying foxes.

There will be no electricity charges.  We'll all be making our own like I do now - with any surplus given to our neighbours as required.

There will be a quite bewildering array of beautiful earth saving wind turbines around the landscape.  There will of course be the need for a set of blinkers so that Joe Hockey won't be distressed.

Our electric cars, electric tricycles and electric bicycles will quietly wiz about - forget all the gabble about to do or not to do about the petrol tax. 

We will need steel rails to refurbish all the railway lines shut down by very progressive people like Bjelke Petersen.  Petersen thought that carrying freight on rubber tyres on endlessly destroyed roads was cheaper than running trains on metal wheels on railway lines - but then Joe was a lot like the other Joe.  He knew nothing about the physics of friction or anything else much. 

The stupidities and mindlessnesses of the human race are bewildering.

Try driving from Brisbane to Cairns or Ravenna to Venice.  The Coral sea sits beside the B to C route and the Adriatic beside the R to V route, and yet both highways are choked with an endless line of trucks, only interrupted by the billions worth (pick your currency) repairing the roads because of the trucks.

There's no water works taking place on the Coral Sea or the Adriatic.  The surface self-heals after the ships have gone, unlike the highways. That's the difference between water and bitumen.  Tony and Joe haven't noticed this.

Tell me again how did we end up with Abbott and Hockey (and Cormann for gawd's sake)?

I try not to despair, but it's hard - it's hard.Obviously the economics of the whole matter is quite complicated, involving as it does use by dates of huge infrastructure of varying longevities and guesses as to future costs, not to mention very difficult to quantify costs of reversing carbon dioxide pollution of the atmosphere, and the oceans and the various costs of rising seas etc.  There are for example high rises on some of Sydney's beaches built where previous structures have ended up rather damp.

However some things are quite clear.

Increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide, despite various oceanic buffering mechanisms, has, since the Industrial Revolution, measurably lowered oceanic Ph.

Very well accredited scientists working in very well accredited laboratories have predicted, that if the exponentially increasing burning of fossil fuels continues, the pH will drop again by that amount in a relatively short time and at that stage we can stop talking about incremental changes - corals will start dissolving, the production of aragonite by shell fish will cease and we'll have a major disaster on our hands especially if you like oysters, pearls or Queensland beaches.

The degree of delusion in those yabbering on about how Mr Abbott is the elected PM and therefore he and his government have the right to this, that and the other leaves me in mental turmoil, and uncontrollable shudders.

No-one has the "right" to destroy this planet as a place for Homo sapiens to live.  They don't even have the "right" to take a serious chance on doing this.

This is not a matter for lawyers and accountants.  these are matters of science, some of it complicated and some of it very simple, but none of it amenable to understanding from the point of view of a science-less lawyer or accountant.

Give them an old tyre or two bags, one with beans in and the other empty, but for the sake o all that's either holy or profane, get them out of the road.

They have no part to play in the matter. 

Childish generalised sneers add nothing.

If you're in a position to attack the work and conclusions of the oceanographers at Woods Hole, Scripps Institute etc let's hear it.

Otherwise I suggest you keep a discreet, if not appropriately reverential, silence. 

For the material on transmission of different wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation through different mixtures of the gases in question you'll have to go to the appropriate Journals of Physical Chemistry.  Alternatively, poke your head into any Chemistry Department at any Uni - and someone will look after you if your patient.

After all, we pay for them - and mind enrichment is what they do for a living.

I know the material is available.  A friend of mine did nothing else, day and night.Thank you for your gracious words.  It is far more effective than defending yourself - and many times as gratifying.I don't know why almost no-one has picked up the point but John Hewson pointed out at the start of this matter that the Commonwealth makes a hand out of $34,000,000,000 annually to  wealthy Austraalians who put their before tax incomes into superannuation.

This being so, why are Abbott, Hockey and Cormann allowed to get away with the dishonest statements that the only option is to squeeze money out of the poor, old and destitute?

Where are you labor?

Where are you Greens?

Where are you PUPs?

Surely you are not all millionaires - or is it now billionaires?I have no independent figures.

I understood Hewson to say that the government should solve its financial problems by cutting out a $34,000,000,000 annual  tax concession on superannuation deposits.

This was in response to Hockey's end to the "age of entitlement" rubbish.Because he said he wouldn't.

Good heavens man.

You wouldn't want him to be inconsistent, would you?There are many quite erroneous assumptions in the replies to this article - quite a few by people whose name suggests that they belong to a miserable profession, many of whose participants spend many of their days scrabbling for money in other people's psychological garbage bins.

From this unfortunate position myopia is a workplace hazard.

It would all be a lot clearer to me if there was some coherent distinction between actual physical production (the "goods" part of things) and the services part of things (some of which are not services to anyone - just convoluted ways of getting hold of money). 


There are several very damaging myths to add to the confusion.  

One is that people employed by private enterprise work more productively than public servants.  The most productively I've ever worked was as a government employed hospital biochemist - not to get more money as "---the lawyer" might think but that the results were required for the doctors to treat people who were bloody well dying - without the results.

Greed is neither the only nor the most compelling motive for human behaviour.  This was what I call the Howard myopia.

Further some things are of their nature public (like air, water health, knowledge and money - which only has sensible use as a means of exchange and should never have become a "commodity") and some things are of their nature private - and should be strictly left private.

The whole mess has resulted from the misconceptions of the oat eater Adam Smith and the book worm Karl Marx.   We should go back to the far side of them and develop some coherent theory of economics which:

1, assumes that human beings are at their happiest when they are productive and see themselves as worthwhile members of the herd.

2. We are social animals and with social animals they are each others "insurance" and all current "insurance is just a very nasty form of parasitism.

3. That amongst social animals all forms of patents and intellectual property rights are nothing more nor less than an extremely heavy financial burden for the human herd.  They are an abomination.  The matter has reached complete absurdity when people are wanting to claim patents over genetic knowledge that can save other people's lives or feed people who are starving.  That is plainly a sick concept.


In the meantime:

Tax parasitism and greed;
Encourage productivity;
Increase company tax and close get richer quicker tax avoidance by the rich.
etc etc 

Lets have an age of entitlement to a decent life and less pies for Hockey.Not only that, but in rendering productive people non-productive the only surplus they will end up with is a surplus of destroyed lives, and wasted opportunities.

Young engineers I know are off overseas.  There's no contracts for construction companies under this "infrastructure Prime Minister" and his banking lawyer Treasurer.  The scientists will follow in a flock.

Abbott and Hockey (and Cormann- Lord help us) are still working on the premise that if your outgo is greater than your income then your upkeep is liable to be your downfall - the corner store theory of national economics.

They totally miss the point that if your income is greater than your outgo your upkeep is a trivial consideration.  You'll have some dough left over for health services, education, research and funding sport and the arts. 

Said another way, by an old timber getter I used know (whose hands were permanently bent into a shape that would hold an axe handle or a chain saw):

"This wasn't a bad country when everybody did a bit of work".

By "work" he wasn't referring to sitting at a table fiddling with money and a bottle of "pootle's patent pudding enlarger" turning $100 into $102 - that was contemptuously left to parasites like Gulbenkian.

Meanwhile these fools wipe out all the small beginnings made by Labor and set us up to being the laughing stock of the world
enthusiastically opening coal mines and wiping out the renewable energy industry.

Where'd we get em?

If, after we get rid of them Labor mucks things up again - I'll leave you to figure out what i'll do to them. Metal objects with a wooden handle come readily to mind.
It grows tiresome attempting (probably futilely) to counter bigoted untruth with fact and truth. However not to do so runs the risk of permanent error, and that is worth attempting to counter.

Taking just one point.

There  were  at the time a group who, were they socialist supporters, I have not the slightest doubt, you and all your ilk would call terrorists and be loudly clamouring that they be dealt with.

They were carrying out clandestine military training.  Perhaps you don't know, but just for practice, they blew an Australian road bridge to pieces. The police knew who they were- and so did ASIO, but nothing was done about their criminal behaviour.

There was an official State visit coming up and there was a real possibility that these criminal goons might murder members of the visitors.

When the Attorney General, the Minister in charge of ASIO, tried to find out what was going on he was refused information that he not only had a right to but would have been grossly remiss if he had not attempted to obtain it.  With the refusal of ASIO to provide it he went to ASIO's office to get it.

By what idiotic distortion did this become, then and ever since, a legitimate reason to attack the Whitlam Government?  

The present equivalent is not hard to come up with, is it?

Please try to make what you write based on fact and free of inverting bias.Why hasn't all those years of school and university had a better outcome.?

I did not agree to be governed by a dictatorship set up by Petersen Frazer and Kerr or anyone else then or at any other time.

What happened at subsequent elections had nothing whatever to do with the matter.

All the results of those elections showed was what a mob of mindless sheep there were in Australia. 

labor should have obtained 100% of the vote at the subsequent election - and then should have resigned and called fresh elections after an interval of time equal to that which they should have been allowed in the first place.

This is not some trivial game to be played with little gotchas and people hiding in the back yard.

This is the fundamental basis of public life in the country and the only legitimiser of forcing people to pay taxes and obey laws.

I first heard this irrational tripe from the mouth of the one time Federal Minister Kevin Cairns at the time and have been listening to it ever since.

Please learn to think clearly - and deal with your biases.
Just as the majority of the same sort of people (ignorant, stupid and poorly educated) used go along in droves to see the old women who had had sex with the devil pulled around in a waterhole on a rope till they drowned - just a few years ago.

If you've got no better argument than public opinion you're running on empty.

Try again, this time by appeal to facts and reason.Historically and factually it is a very simple matter.
The labor Party had its genesis in setting up an organisation to counter exploitation of one person by another.

The Conservative parties were set up and operate to protect private wealth and power.

The most altruistic of the Conservatives (at best) talk of a "bigger cake"  - thereby totally missing what is the object of Labor - equality.

That is not to say that there are not decent people in Conservative parties, but they are necessarily misguided.  Nor is it to say that there are not self seeking depraved traitors to the cause in the Labor Party.

Believe me, we hate them worse than we hate any Liberal.

For any of us who are genuine there is a "light on the hill".  We will not cease trying until it shines equally on everyone.

 We will oppose inequality, cruelty, greed, megalomania, dishonesty and ignorant bias forever.

It is for those very reasons that we oppose Abbott.

I have yet to see one decent glimmer from this dreadful person.

Put it this way - Abbott tickles the Peter for bike riding.  Gough didn't and any such behaviour from him is inconceivable.  Abbott's in the Liberal party.  Gough was a Labor man.  There is a fundamental difference.I think your delusory notions come rom the 
fact that the press in Australia is far more biased than in UK or USA for example.

The delusion certainly is widespread.  

My son having completed degrees in history and Economics was telling my wife much the same story as you've been told. He went and studied the matter and has a very different view now.

Just for your education, and to safeguard you from similar delusions in the future I suggest you get a copy of Mr justice Kirby's erudite lectures on Whitlam.

In Australia you'll only easily find rabidly conservative material in the privately owned Press and only slightly less conservative views being pedalled by the ABC.

The material necessary for a balanced view is quite hard to find, but a healthy dose of scepticism on all that comes easily is a start.

Just check how the author of your information votes and that'll help.
Blessed are they who expecteth nothing for they shall not be disappointed.

If I'm to hand over my decision making capabilities, I require that the person I'm handing them to is at least a decent and intelligent human being.

Menzies, Holt, Gorton, McMahon, Whitlam, Frazer, Hawke, Keating, Howard, Rudd, Gillard and Abbott?

Gorton, Whitlam, Keating and Rudd were worthwhile individuals, about whom you could have some hope that they had a worthwhile vision for Australia and Australians, and the integrity to attempt to implement it.

That is why their incumbencies were all very short - and they were savagely and dishonestly dealt with by political journalists - each one of them.

You can have the rest, from any point of view. 
Did a political journalist tell you that, did they?

Do you think it was a good idea to let foreign companies rip out Australia's mineral wealth without paying a reasonable tax?

Do you think Rudd was wrong about Climate change? Now seven disastrously long years later almost the entire rest of the world is scrambling to get to where he was in 2007.

Do you think he was wrong in trying to reform a health system which could only be lauded by brutal sadists.

was he wrong to react angrily to other politicians wanting more money while many in the community didn't have any wages?

Do you think he was wrong to increase foreign aid?

I listened to the former head of Treasury give unstinting praise to Rudd for the part he played in Australia avoiding the disasters of the GFC.  Perhaps you think Ken Henry didn't know what he was talking about. 

Everything I ever saw of Rudd was "worthwhile" - and still is.We go nowhere slowly because instead of the informed intelligent populace required for the proper functioning of an elective oligarchy, we have an electorate that is moronised by school teachers and miss-informed and misled by ignorant, visionless politicians and political journalists.I've previously suggested we leave Abbott&amp;Co governing Abbott &amp;Co and get on with the serious and enjoyable business of living sensibly while, to the extent possible, ignoring them. 

We can leave you with them, misreporting what they are up to and convincing the Co part of the Abbott&amp;Co how it is really intelligent to starve Timorese children while un-taxing wealthy Australians to the tune of $34,000,000,000 annually.Well who are they?

I've never previously agreed with Hawke, but he referred to them collectively as "the dregs".

The thing about dregs is that it's hard to distinguish one bit from another - it is usually an indistinguishable off coloured gooey mess at the bottom of a receptacle.

Just who from "the dregs" would you like to hear from?


I genuinely have  trouble learning or remembering their names.

Turnbull looked impressive - until he sold his soul supporting that worthless individual Abbott.  But then there is ---? Well who?

Pyne runs along to offices and then can't remember, and about education?  He has not one sensible thought on the reasons for, nor sensible methods of education.

As for the Christian born againer?  Having done it once do you think he could try again?  He made an awful mess of it last time.

Then there's George Brandis.  I'll leave him with you.

Then there's Eric Abetz.  He was the bloke (another good Christian) who used that unfortunate from treasury to attack Rudd via a forged document. I wonder, in Christian charity, did he visit the bloke when he was hospitalised with mental sickness?

Then there's Bernardi.  Are you seriously suggesting that we have e listen to Bernardi?
    
Finally the only other name I can remember is Bishop - and she just leaves me with a slight feeling of distaste.

They are an extraordinarily ordinary and on average unpleasant lot of people.
Gough for part of this time was being advised by Nugget Coombs.

He was vary loath to criticise any part of the bureaucracy, but he did say that the Government had received very bad advice from Treasury.

I think Nugget was a far better economist than Stone and anyone who backed Bjelke Petersen was odd to say the least.

It should be remembered that the current criticisms are mostly coming from people who believe that it is reasonable to allow the richest people in Australia to escape $34,000,000,000 in taxation via a superannuation lurk annually while claiming the country is in economic crisis, and the young unemployed will have to do without the dole for six months, the old pensioners will be left to their medical miseries, and overseas aid must be cut resulting in starvation to death of children in East Timor and other countries.

It is a matter of priorities.

I'm glad that Morrison and Abbott are Christians.  Just imagine what they'd be doing to hungry kids, the infirm old, and disadvantaged young people if they were pagans!I'm fairly conservative.

Because of what I know of the origin of life on earth, species, the mammalian species and our species in particular, I think:

1, that we evolved to live in societies sufficiently small so that our decision making capacity, our intellect, was allowed to function;

2. that our social natures should dictate our behaviour - not laws imposed by someone else;

3.that a knowledge value system is more appropriate for an animal with an intellect as its major individual survival mechanism than a material value system;

4. that militaries and warfare are quite simply mass lunacy and should be done without;

5. that along with our intellectual survival mechanism we inherited a tendency to megalomania and that nation states and governments are simply the idiotic inventions of megalomaniacs and not sensible ways for humans to comport themselves;

6. That money was a convenient means of exchange but for it to be a "commodity" is an idiotic distortion - again arranged by megalomaniacs for no-ones benefit but theirs.

As I said, I'm a conservative.  My ideas are conservatively based on a consideration of what the species is.

The ABC is off the reactionary rails and Abbott&amp;Co are just ignorant fools.  They haven't the foggiest clue about what a human being is, and, as a consequence, are quite unable to see that monarchy and billionaire worship are simply manifestations of their own distorted megalomania, unleavened by either knowledge or intellect.This is not any sort of "logic". 

This is a grotesque display of medical ignorance and human depravity.

Perhaps "Glistening Beaver" is a rich Christian?

These "Gods", Christian and otherwise, are getting stranger by the day."--- don't want us to fund it."

I wouldn't want you to fund a kind smile if you were dying of a fit of the giggles.The boundaries of nation states, like their governments, economic systems and their legal systems are all very recent human constructs and, like all things human, are quite likely to be and may well soon prove to be, seriously flawed.

For example, it has been seriously suggested that the nation state/national government model is quite incapable of adequately addressing man made climate change (if it does exist).

If this, or any similar world wide disaster transpires and our nation state governments are, for whatever reason, utterly incompetent to deal with it, what are you going to say?

"Oh no. You can't question their decisions.  They are the government and they have made this decision."

That strikes me as even more mindless than the person who wants to leave the ebola epidemic for God to fix.

Still, its much of a muchness with the legal opinion that making laws "for the good governance of the Commonwealth" means that the government of the day is free to decide what laws it will make without obsessing about what is or is not "good governance".

They've got at you.

The place to start is with the evolution of the mammal H. sapiens.

Don't get too tied up in laws and the dills who make them.

That way you are likely to get led astray - because you'll forever be constrained to ride the camel that the politicians made when they set out to make a horse.

What if this decision is founded on the racist ideas of a few politically powerful people, informed by their belief that they might loose votes should they send teams of people and some return with ebola, and, being contrary to all sense about the spread of highly infectious viral diseases, may well contribute to the worst pandemic the human race has ever experienced?

Will you still be saying "The government has made its decision and therefore________?

Give the little grey cells a run some time.  They do like to caper about.The infectious disease laboratory at Geelong deals with disease organisms on a daily basis which are quite as dangerous and deadly as Ebola.

It is rubbish to say that we do not have people trained and capable of working in this field and I do not believe for a fraction of a second that countries like USA and the Brits would refuse to accept and treat an Australian infected with ebola while working in Africa at their request.

This is just another rubbishy dishonest political decision, like the one to save the children in Iraq while denying the aid which would have saved the starving children in East Timor.

This government is, by my standards "unAustralian.With this disgraceful decision, I can't think of one sphere  of Federal Government activity which doesn't now leave me cringing in shame.

Our entire political system needs to lift its game.

We must never again elect a government of ignorant, selfish, visionless power graspers - and that requires not only basic reforms in the Liberal Party but basic reforms in the labor Party - and a rethinking by every citizen of their public duties as human beings.

Just as one example, no government of any political hue, would be game to lower our foreign aid budget if the people of Australia made it sufficiently clear that to starve children in East Timor (or anywhere else) was just totally unacceptable by those elected to behave as our representatives.

If we sufficiently let them know that we won't tolerate brutality to children while the richest section of the community get a Super-annuation hand out of $34,000,000,000 per year (as now) from the Federal Government then they won't do it.

I believe that there are very, very few Australians who if given the alternatives of unnecessarily starving children to death or using the same money for a hand out of un-necessarily large amounts to women during their pregnancies wouldn't unhesitatingly choose to provide food for the children.

The politicians have to be let know in unmistakably clear terms that we are not depraved, selfish, inhuman rubbish and we don't accept being represented, nationally or internationally, as depraved, selfish, inhuman rubbish. 
Thank you. That of course is the perfect answer to the overpopulationists. 

If they are serious and honest, their part of the answer is as near as the nearest horizontal beam and length of rope, but they  never seem to want to do their bit.  Just advocate that some miserable person be made even more miserable.


Of course, if they knew any more than they did they would know that the answer lies in ending poverty and promoting equality.

But that's the last thing that any selfish elitist wants.
I am, who am (a human being}.
Long before states were, Homo sapiens is - to slightly misquote a rather wise fells.

"---swing a conservative judge into the presiding seat---"!

Good heavens! you are surely not suggesting that a member of the judiciary might be biased are you?

Surely you understand that the very basis of our legal system is that members of the judiciary are never biased?

Otherwise you are suggesting that ---- it's too terrible to contemplate.

Priestly cults can't be biased.  They must be left free to attack medicos and engineers for mistakes or professional ignorance while free from any such strictures themselves.  Just imagine if they could be attacked for mis-interpretation of a High Court judgement or for deciding that blow-fly maggots could grow to 15mm length in a couple of days while feeding on hot air!! 

Next thing you'll be suggesting that judges be sued for wrong judgements and that lawyers be open to sanction for perverting the course of justice!

There's no end to the disasters that your suggestion allows.All that that election proved was that the "vast majority of voters" were a pack of trivial, shallow easily duped idiots who failed to realise that the very basis for government in this country had been sordidly soiled by some very ugly people, and that they were prepared to electorally endorse it.

That's why I didn't again vote until my failure to do so materially affected the result in the defeat of Goss by the Queensland police union. 

In my experience, the vast majority of any large group of human beings (eg the Australian electorate) are a mob of ignorant fools.

That's why they have leaders - as do sheep.

The "vast majority" basis is a very shaky one.  Tell me about the "vast majority" of jihadists, why don't you - or is the argument only valid when you choose it to be? 
There are those who say that a well held bigotry will defeat fact and reason every time.

As social animals, we don't have the luxury to believe that, despite how depressing a world with lunatics beheading people and a PM who brings back sirs and ladies might be.

We must go on arguing for fact and reason and for the understanding of, and removal, of bigotries.

Two things should keep us on this straight and narrow:
If we don't succeed in defeating the bigots, mega millions will die unnecessarily early and miserable deaths and we, not the bigots, will be to blame.  Bigots by definition are driven by irrationality and as such are not responsible for their opinions or actions.

Secondly as Keats said:

"Beauty is truth, truth beauty.  That is all you know and all you need to know". 

Not only should we argue against bigoted ignorance, but we should also promote the exquisite beauty in the concepts of love and knowledge dependent on carbon's covalent bonds. 
  
There is no point attacking Mr Abbott for his monarchism or ignorance of covalent bonds.

Mr Abbott is not to blame for Mr Abbott. We are, and especially the "we" refers to those of us who have been paid to "enrich the minds of the young".  

"We" didn't try hard enough.I don't agree.
It's very important to have "sirs and ladies' otherwise we won't know who the deserving people are.

After all, it's the same reason for having a monarchy, except that Mr Abbott should have  made the titles hereditary.  Blood will out, you know.

As for all those who will drown and starve because of inundation by the oceans - well they've probably been sinning.

And as for Keats, didn't he say something about "emptying some dull opiate" or something like that?

And well founded bigotries, weren't they the bases for Manichaeism, Zoroastrianism, animism and all those other isms that have lifted homo sapiens above the animals?

I think Mr Abbott's on the right track, him and his odd crew of born againers and un- Australians - straight back to some tyre leaping culture before the stone age.

Just think what the world might have been like without the Indoeuropeans and their war chariots and horses.

After all, there were plenty of asses about.  Who wants horses?I'm uncertain about your necessary requirements.  It may be that the age of steel is passing.  There's some pretty good carbon products about and there's possibilities for construction materials far better and cheaper than steel for many purposes.

There might be lots of better things to do with coal than burning it - either for energy or steel production.

I know of an amazing material made of flattened aragonite crystals encased in scleroprotein. New tricks for old tyres and bits of stiff carbon based plates perhaps? Then there's the new batteries made of ultra/thin carbon layers.  

Don't give up on us just yet. Making steel with coking coal in a blast furnace was a good trick in is time, but I think we can go past that.

You seem to be in a total muddle.

Perhaps all that critical thinking has critically damaged your brain?

I'd give it away if I was you.

As an alternative, if I was you, I'd check the current cost of Chinese electric engines capable of 1kW, the current cost of photo voltaic cells capable of 5kW and the efficiency of currently available electrical contrivances, the storage capacity and length of life of Li/Fe batteries, the current cost and capabilities of available electric cars - and just do it.

Don't go thinking critically about it. That's obviously just got you into a muddle.

You will have to decide on whether you go for horizontal axis or one of those fancy vertical axis ones inside a stator, and then there's the decision of wether to buy it or build it yourself.

But thinking critically? - no, give that a miss.    

Tony is a monarchist. 

He believes that it is sensible to breed a head of state.

Take it from there.  

You can't place insurmountable hurdles in the path of any person.

Some of us just missed out when they were handing it all around.

Tony rides bikes and does gymnastic tricks on old tyres.

You'll just have to be satisfied with that.

I was hoping for a front row seat when he and Putin  --- but as I said, its best to just be satisfied with what we've got - bike rides and tyre bounces.Perhaps it might help you to go for a drive and take note of what can be seen on roof tops.

That's just the start.

We're about to leave you listening to Tony and Tony listening to you.

The rest of us (including Joe Blow) are off and gone, using renewable energy to power our homes and electric cars and harvesting and collecting our own water.

There you'll be, just you and Tony and that Belgian fella, sitting parched on a desert sand hill, marvelling at the  beetles collecting water. George Brandis of course will be sitting on another sand hill tossing mullock at you and claiming the right to do it.

It won't help you and Tony if you make like the beetles with your backs facing the ocean  - they've got alternating hydrophilic and hydrophobic bumps and grooves on their backs - and sufficient neuronal capacity to make use of them to survive.

I'm afraid it's bad luck for you and Tony.

Don't forget the old tyre.  
The suggestion that we "ignore Abbott" is well worth consideration.

There is no necessity that we be constrained to either support a government or wait some years and attempt to change it. That may fail. It is worth exploring alternatives.

I believe that Abbott's Government is, through ignorance and stupidity, generating the conditions for the unnecessary early deaths of many millions of people.  What they are doing is, in its human consequences, as evil through ignorance and stupidity as was Hitler's mass murder through insanity.

This raises for me (and perhaps for many others) Tolstoy's dilemma - "What's to be done?"

Since time is of the moral essence, waiting for the next election and hoping for a change of government may in fact make us complicit in Abbott's evil behaviour. 

Perhaps with modern technology it may be possible for those like me to, collectively, largely bypass government.

We may be able to generate the situation where we are independent of any government for all the necessities of life.

e may be able to generate a society which is responsible for its own requirements of water, food, housing, power, clothing, education, transport and health services. We can, right now, make electric cars, trucks and tractors powered by renewable energy. If there are sufficient numbers of millions of us we may be able to restore foreign aid to the level of decency instead of Abbott's policy of generating mass starvation and then "turning back the boats".  That's sick.  We don't have to be mentally sick.

We may, amongst ourselves be able to arrange a society which replaces laws with agreements.

We may, amongst ourselves, replace a material value system with a knowledge value system. 

If the Australian political system is so ridiculous that it generates a government like the present one, perhaps it is time to find a better way to go.

We may be able to do this so efficiently that Abbott and his government are left governing no-one and nothing.

Why not? 

The widespread uptake of solar power generation is the most hopeful thing that has happened in the history of humanity since the agricultural revolution at the end of the last Ice Age.

It offers the possibility of recovering our humanity from the megalomaniacal lunatic fringe - the politicians and all their long strings of useless hangers on.

I'm reminded of the old WW2 veteran who having inspected the graves of his mates then wandered over to the Japanese war cemetery and then declined to write anything in the book provided because he said the only thing he could think to write was "---- all politicians' and he didn't want to write that. 

I'm with him.  It's time we brought the age of the megalomaniac to a close.The point, and it is the fundamental point, that you and your ilk will never understand, is that there was a third player in the matter of Kerr's sacking of Whitlam, and that was me, the citizen of the nation state of Australia.

I, a citizen of this nation state, agree to pay taxes and to abide by the laws of this nation state, as long as the government of the nation state is the elected government.

The part of the government which blocked supply to the Whitlam Government was a group of people which in functional aggregate was the opposite of the Senate elected by the electors of Australia in 1974.  

This distortion was arranged by Bjelke Petersen.

I have never agreed, nor would I agree to be governed by a body arbitrarily appointed by anyone, be it Bjelke Petersen, The Pirates of Pentridge, or the wool gatherers of Woolamooloo.

You can agree to that sort of arrangement , or any that you like.  but please spare me the unintellectual distortion that because Labor lost the subsequent election this justified the enforcement on me of an unelected government.

An unelected government is a dictatorship.

I didn't, don't, and never will agree to be governed by a dictatorship.

Kerr and Fraser took part in a disgraceful and dishonest fraud and some of the electors of Australia subsequently endorsed it.

That didn't make a disgraceful and dishonest fraud anything other than what it was.
It is not really difficult.

Those who have cash/ and or assets and or/ reliable earning ability which is far more than the average are quite obviously rich.

Those who have far less of these things than the average are just as obviously poor. 

Please don't give us too much of that "possessions equates to moral virtue" garbage. I've known too many people, both rich and poor and have lived too long for that story to have any meaning. Brothel owners operating with imported illegal immigrant sex slaves gets rid of that theory fairly effectively.Our political process of elective oligarchy depends fundamentally on informed intelligent voters electing a parliament whose members will make decisions as representatives of the voters which will then be carried out properly by the relevant executives.
How well this can function depends on the integrity of each part of the process.

Here I wish to just address the "informed intelligent"" aspect of the voters.

Apart from underlying political philosophy of a voter their ability to be informed on any particular matter depends to a great extent on what is just about their only source of information - the media.

A perfect example of the almost total failure of the "informed" aspect of our political system was the biased reporting and  bias from lack of comprehensive reporting, and the uncritically and biased-to-the-point-of-dishonesty reporting of the "home insulation scheme".

 It is regularly referred to by journalists in extremely derogatory terms - such as a "disaster".  It wasn't.  

It was an amazing success.

The public, by and large, know nothing about the overall benefits of the scheme and have been fed a steady diet for years of the "disastrous" increase in numbers of resultant house fires and the deaths of the four young workers involved in the scheme. 

Blame for both the fires and the deaths has been imputed to not just the Rudd Government but to Mr Rudd himself.

On any fair analysis, an assessment of the "home insulation scheme" would:

1. Give an assessment of the financial benefit to the Australian economy of the effect of insulating over 1.000,000 houses in terms of replacement of expensive alternatives;

2. Give an assessment of the benefits to the Australian people and the economy of the number of people employed in the scheme as a buffer against the GFC.

3. Compare the number of house fires resulting from the implementation of the scheme with the proportional number of fires in the industry before the implementation of the scheme .

4. compare the proportion of deaths to houses insulated which occurred during implementation with the rate of deaths in the industry before implementation and the rate of deaths in other industries where there is an inherently dangerous workplace; and finally, and most importantly,

5. Ask very serious questions about the "education" of young adults who could loose their lives under the circumstances.

Re "1" the scheme was worth a fortune to Australia.


Re "2" the scheme employed a large number who otherwise would have been on the dole via the GFC.

Re"3' There was no proportional increase in house fires. 

Re "4" I have heard that there was no proportional increase in deaths (- but I'm uncertain of that).
Mate, the goanna is up the other tree.

No sensible person is arguing that there are not several bases for climate change, some little understood and others hard to quantify.

But one thing is certain. If increasing atmospheric CO2 adds to global warming and the globe is warming, only a bloody ratbag - or someone who knew little or nothing about the homeostatic limitations of Homo sapiens physiology would advocate pumping out ever more CO2.

Something that is easier to understand, and just as bad for life on earth as global warming is ongoing acidification of the earth's oceans since the Industrial revolution.

Go and find out the facts - and vet teacher and I will be glad to welcome you into the fold of rational knowledgeable people.

You wouldn't want to stay out there with Abbot and the dunces drowning in the rising seas, would you.Several of the above comments ask why Abbott's govt. was elected.

There is a Thurber story that might explain it for you.

Because the owl said:

"Who"

"You two"

"To wit" and 

"To woo"

at what appeared to be appropriate times, the animals decided that he was the wisest of them all and voted him to be their God.

So they all decided to follow him. However because he was blind in daylight, in the middle of the day he led them straight down the middle of the highway and a truck ran over them.

It seems pretty much like entrusting the nation's economy, job opportunities for young people, the nation's health and medical system, our international relationships, adequate lives for old people, industrial relations, the future of the planet as a place for people to live, the funding of schools, university education and scientific research, handling the world's refugee crisis etc etc  to  someone who could repeat, over and over again, like a galah (if not like an owl):

"Great big new tax" and

"Turn back the boats". 


I hope that before the next Federal Election that the electors take the time to read a little Thurber.

Is it true that Morrison has been born again?

Well I think he should have another go at it.

He made a terrible botch of it last time.

I mean just think what St Peter is going to do to this fella when he gets to the pearly gates!  I wouldn't want to be in his shoes!

He can't just go on like he is.

They say that practice makes perfect.  Just because he made a botch of his first born again episode doesn't mean he mightn't do better next time.

I mean he's got nothing to loose by trying.

"As long as you do this to these , the least of my brethren ---".
Ooooh, I'm afraid that Morrison's in deep trouble.

He'll have to  try something.Perhaps, as long as Morison's next born again attempt is a vast improvement, you could have him there as the preacher?

But refreshing? You find him refreshing?

I find him just about as refreshing as having a bucket of nasty stuff thrown over me on a cold day.

I wouldn't call Morrison refreshing.

You also say he doesn't hide behind anything.  What a pity!

Someone else suggested we could use cardboard replicas of Morrison to scare away arriving boat people .

That would be worth a try. 

With Abbott waving the replicas they'd quickly see the error of their ways. They probably wouldn't stop till they got to Siberia.
I mean Putin's bad, and the place is cold and desolate, but no one in their right mind would want to live amongst people who elected Abbott and Morrison.  Next thing you know these people might start wrestling an old tyre. Almost any madness is possible.Hey, Mr or Ms Roddo,

Try Google Earth, and dim your eyes a little so that you don't notice the national boundaries,

You can, in just a short time, do a sweep across Africa from Liberia to Kenya, then cross to south and south east Asia including Saudi, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and through SE Asia to Japan and China.  From there you can travel west on either of the old Silk Roads.  You can follow the river and the cultivated fields from Urumchi to lake Balkash.

From there you can travel through  ancient Sogdia where Alexander met his sheilagh, and go down the Oxus or the Jaxartes to the Aral Sea, and see what a bloody mess governments can make when they really put their minds to it -  and that's just a beginning.

If you wish you could read "Empires of the Silk road".

If you draw back a little and dim your eyes further you may get the illusion of an ephemeral flickering on the face of the earth as the myriads of dynasties, tribal areas, empires and nations come and go over the millennia.

"Parliament is sovereign. Not the UN"

Do you imply that it really does matter what a few dimwitted ignoramuses in Canberra say and think?

We all have a duty, founded in our very essence as social animals, to care for all our fellow human beings, world wide.

Don't take too much notice of what the clowns in Canberra say.

They don't understand very much at all.  

"Why is the Abbott government now introducing the new offence---"

Because Abbott's only chance to retain leadership of the Liberal party and his government's only chance to retain government at the next election is to generate a climate of stress and fear and then, pretending to a statesmanlike stance, as he advises everyone to remain calm and go about their normal lives.

What a hypocritical farce!

As if there wasn't anything worthwhile for the government to do - but these dimwits don't know about it.

Perhaps they are hoping to destabilise the more stupid in the community in order to carry out their transfer of wealth from the poor to the rich.

At least Napoleon had the honesty to spell out just what he was doing when he increased taxes on the poor - because you can't get it from the rich - they have too much power.

It would be too much to ask for such honesty and understanding from this rabble of ignorant and malevolent drones.
And that would make the falklands war one of the most powerful ever!
