Following on that trajectory one should not forget that it makes a huge difference to the person if one has been PM for one year or less. A DD could therefore not be scheduled before September. 

Didn't Palmer say before the elections that he was going to shake up 'Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum'? He kept his promise.I second that. Religions do more harm than good. 

(As I was trying to read the article, my computer froze, rien ne vas plus for a while. Then it beeped violently, and all came back. I have never experienced this before.)I would actually not limit it to organised religion. All religions condition people to obedience which can be repoled to leaders like the Fuehrer. It is my belief that the dictators would have had less hold on power if they hadn't had subjects who were so used to obedience through a religion, although of course disobedience and independent minds must have limits.If the ISP passes on the text of an email to anyone, they are breaching copyright. The writer has the copyright of letters and email texts, and any use without authorization is disallowed. They have to set the Berne Convention of Copyright aside if they want to look into an email unless they are physically present in the premises of the ISP. The copyright then passes on to the heirs.

This came to light with the death of the Princess of Wales. Her letters could not be published unless the heirs (her sons William and Harry) would issue an authorization which of course they did not. Even those individuals to whom Diana had written those letters and who were in possession of the pieces of paper had to respect copyright. 

It is doubtful that this government can set the Berne Convention aside in this one area. The many email texts which emerge in trials or Royal Commissions show me that they keep the contents already, so why are we talking about what has been common practice?I really only wanted to throw that in the mix. But the fact that the content pops up, often older than 2 years. means that the content is stored somewhere, not just the metadata. But it's really a little too technical for me. 

Anything that goes onto a computer or an electronic device can be accessed by someone so anything I assume anything I do will be 'public'. 

Today there's a hacker conference in the US and here is a sentence from blackhat.com: 'This talk introduces a new form of malware that operates from controller chips inside USB devices. USB sticks, as an example, can be reprogrammed to spoof various other device types in order to take control of a computer, exfiltrate data, or spy on the user.'

I would find it naive to assume that the 2 years storage of metadata isn't tapped.The reason why the American business people, and German business people like Thyssen, financed Adolf is: The Bolshevik Revolution had nationalised all assetts in Russia, factories, banks, land, everything, and the Komintern was actively planning to bring the Revolution to Germany and beyond. 

No entrepreneur wants to lose their assetts, so when the only other force is the Nazis, that's where your support goes. See Walter Krivitsky's memoirs for the Soviets' efforts in Western Europe. The German industrialist Thyssen gifted a house in Munich, the Brown House to the Nazis so they could have an HQ. That was their motivation. 

The motivation of the German population was simply 'it couldn't have gone on, the street battles between Nazis and the communists, that is'. My parents were there, but never active in the system in any shape or form.Hoops? Are you suggesting we could win a war on these three fronts, simultaneously or one after the other, China, Russia, and jihadis?  

Please wait until I'm pushing up daisies.As soon as the word sanctions appeared, German posters argued against it, because it would only 'weld China and Russia more together'. It has been happening anyway through the Shanghai  Cooperation Organisation which makes the different mindset of the West and the East really apparent. They don't engage in grandstanding, big words and phrases like the Anglos. They do not worry about photo ops and don't issue a lot of press releases. Check them out on wikipedia, because the English language page on their website seems to be regarded as non-relevant. 

America is fighting the wrong enemy when trying to damage Russia and China. The enemy is not their systems, the enemy in common are the jihadis, and if we cannot manage to unite in that fight, all arguments against Chinese communists and Russia pursueing wrong economic strategies will be laughed at in 30 years - if people wil still be allowed to laugh. The Crimean issue will look like a pimple in world history.

The mainly American strategy to crush Russia will backfire badly. 

Their weapons could fall into Afghan hands if they are not taken out, and Russian rail would have been the best option. How much money Russia spends on policing the heroin route from Afghanistan to Western Europe is up to them. 

If Russians are punished too badly for supporting President Putin, a wave of asylum seekers will hit Europe. From Germany I know that ONE reason for good relations with Russia throughout history has always bee nto prevent excessive numbers of people rolling up at the Brandenburg Gate, now open. President Putin's nationalistic phrases and policies keep their emigration to a minimum. 

The more efforts America makes to crush Russia, the more Russians will dig in.In my generation, German history lessons (in High School) ended with Hitler seizing power. We could never identify with this war or any war. How could we, with so much of the destruction still around us? When you have as much destruction around you as I had in West Berlin, you conclude that no reason is good enough for war. 

In later times, I have always regarded WWI as the seed for WWII. 

In later times still I researched Russian history a bit more and found that the Brits in particular quite liked the idea that Germany and Russia would be at war with each other. Germany was obviously regarded as a rival since the country matured after Bismarck's unification in 1871 and made the mistake to build up a large navy. The system under the Tsar in Russia, especially land ownership, made British investment and progress in Russia quite difficult. Witte tried but was not successful. So it was thought that this war could crush Germany and Russia at the same time like killing two birds with one stone. This is one of the lesser known undercurrents of the time. 

Wars do not have the outcome that some strategists think they would have. But humankind cannot help themselves, then and now. Germans try hard. they learned. Just think about this: Algae in Lake Erie leaves millions without water while a US spy plane trespassed into Russia, then hastily escaped unauthorized through Sweden.We should probably draw a longer bow with this particular PPL scheme. 

'They' are determined to make tertiary education more expensive through deregulation. Once universities are showing up good profits, there's 'assett recycling'. 

With higher fees comes higher debt so many women will strugge with their repayments should they choose to have time off for babies. 

This leads to many women considering their options early and opt out of becoming calibre women which shrinks the customer base for universities. 

It is in the interest of potential buyers of universities that women do not opt out of tertiary education. If you look at the Murdoch education company amplify as potential university buyers it made sense not to run this proposal past the LNP party room before going public to prevent a defeat. 

It is perfectly logical that Abbott ran the proposal past Mr. Murdoch first but it is also imaginable that it came from Mr. Murdoch himself and Abbott only presented it as his. 

This PPL scheme paves the way for privatisation.  
If you look at it this way this PPL scheme is perfectly rational.These measures are in the main budget issues, but why budget issues are always discussed with the only focus on domestic policies is somehwat beyond me. Australia insists on punching above her weight internationally and that costs AUD. 

There are large areas of oceans to patrol, participation in international defence projects like the F-35, sniffer dogs to be flown to the Ukraine. West Africa has an Ebola outbreak and Australia must research. There is democracy to be supported in Myanmar, refugees to be taken in and funded. Every year there are more armed conflicts, refugees to be taken in and funded. Snooping also costs money, but it seems to be an international obligation. 

The demands on the Australian budget go on, but when the budget needs to be fixed, only domestic issues exist. If the Australian population is to tighten their belts, we want to see that also in the area of international obligations. 

In my observation, most jobs (outside fruit picking) are passed on through networks of friends or relatives, and are advertised pro-forma. There have always been girls who get themselves pregnant to get into public housing to avoid having to go to work. The baby bonus was not helpful.My observation is that it may be ideologically unsound for government to accumulate money in a sovereign wealth fund like Norway does. Isn't that idea very close to socialism? The fact that Norway got away with it does not mean everybody else will. The prevailing ideology is that when you have a surplus in taxes you must return it to the people immediately or better still do not create a surplus in the first place. 

Long term thinking like from Norway is at home in the colder countries. My other armchair analysis is the question if politics should sit above the corporations or the corporations above the politics, sometimes, in which areas etc. 

My vote would be for a sovereign wealth fund from exported resources because populations grow faster than job opportunities and one needs to take care of softening the blows.Leave it to the Dutch by all means but replace that Dutchman who said 'we are sick and tired ..'. This is disrespectful. He is, after all, talking about a territory that's not theirs. The way I know Eastern Europeans they'd say 'ah, a UN resolution. Never heard they've been of help to anybody here in this neighbourhood'. 

On quite a different level: We hear about 'access to the site'. Maybe someone does not like the idea that the delegation picks out the bits they are interested in, but leaves 'the rubbish' to remove for the locals? These fields need to be cleared before ploughing begins in spring. Maybe making such an offer could get things moving? Just an idea.As long as it is ensured that they do not leave the locals to it. Reasons do not matter to the locals who could be left with doing what's not their job. 

I came upon this distinction because they always talk about 'site access'. They do not say 'clearing the site' and the vehicles that we see look like passenger vehicles not small trucks. Maybe they ought to clarify occasionally; they seek to take all and everything. 

The disrespectfulness was in the tone and wording; you just do not talk like that to or about these people. Just one more little thing how they don't get it.If everybody started doorknocking, there'd soon be signs 'no vacancy - please do not ring bell' on all business doors because nobody can pay a receptionist to spend her time to tell hundreds of people each day 'sorry, please go elsewhere'. 

It is a difficult area but we will have to get used to the fact that there are more people than can be put into work. 'The dole' is not necessarily a socialist idea, it is a Christian idea that society must not let the poor starve. Like everything it seems to be abused in parts, but that does not alter the mathematics that there are more people than livelihoods.When you mention billlions of Dollars please do not forget the ballooning defense expenditure. They send a large contingent of people to Donetsk who are worth probably 100,000 per individual. In Ukraine the average annual income is just over 2,000 so sending a small delegation of experts and hiring locals for 1,000 $ (for this task) would have saved money and may have achieved more. The government spends money very easily only when it comes to spending money on people, it must be vilified.... however, wherever Islam and another religion coexist, it's not a peaceful coexistence.No, religions should be relegated to the background to demonstrate that they are irrelevant in every day life. Only when religion no longer matters will there be fewer fanatics.

In the short term, it would be better if the bigger countries united in their endeavours to fight jihadis. After all, Chechnyans fought for a Caliphate in the Caucasus Mountains. Russia nabbed that, but how great their appetite will be now to prevent the Chechnyans gaining ground elsewhere is a new wildcard.Maybe we are looking for a solution that does not exist? We are not the only ones in this boat: From Britain I have read 'you cannot train 3,500,000 people for 500,000 vacancies'. 

I know it is verboten to say, but maybe John Ehrlich was not so stupid when he coined the term population bomb. I see this development as exactly this, especially when I read that if India did sign the new WTO agreement 600 million farmers there could be unemployed. Even if this figure is exaggerated it is still frightening because they're only across our moat.  

Coming back to Australia, I wouldn't want to be in the shoes of receptionists whose work will be interrupted by maybe 20 jobseekers a day. That's not productive, it's a hassle, and soul destroying for the jobseekers. 

Companies will soon put out signs everywhere 'no vacancies, please do not ring bell.' Would it not be more intelligent that companies send in their vacancies, so pointless efforts are avoided? But even that would probably not do the trick because most jobs are filled through the networks of the workers anyway, is my observation. 

There is no solution when populations everywhere grow at a faster rate than the vacancies.You are forgetting that having very little money means you have to do a lot of things in a more time consuming manner, i.e. wash socks and dishes by hand, spend more time searching for the very cheapest special offer and that sort of thing. 

You even need to check if you've still got money on the pre paid phone ... we just pick up the phone and dial. They haven't got a car so going anywhere takes more time. They couldn't even use that phase or existence to be a puppy raiser for the guide dog foundation because there are prescribed activities in specific locations for which you need a car. All I'm saying is, that yes, the dosage is too high. And then think of all the businesses who will be hassled by armies of unemployed coming through their doors. It will have to be pared back.I agree with you, but the waiting strategy will result in not being able to do anything at all. Frost, winter storms, and snow will be there soon, four weeks I guess. In practice, it's all over then. 

My brother died six years ago in Berlin in an apartment fire and I will never know whether it was from his own hand or if the new investor/landlords sent the heavies with some jerry cans of petrol in the middle of the night. Sometimes we have to live with the scars of uncertainty and justice remaining elusive. There is no other option. 

In 1982 I knew a women who visited her home village in that area. That was the time when people buried welded zinc coffins coming from Afghanistan. They could not even look at what was in the coffin, and in the vast majority they had lost their only son or child. They had to live with it, killed by western weapons. Well, shrug your shoulders, that was the geopolitical structure of the time and mothers pay. 

It will go on for a long time to come, especially when Ukrainians start to understand that the EU and NATO require contributions.Just realising, if the Ukrainian military did not get paid from 1st August, which is Friday, the hostilities might well stop altogether, because I believe the various rebel groups will not shoot at each other, not immediately anyway. 

If they do get new money it's probably EU and/or IMF money prolonging the hostilities, nice one. You can always sell them another loan for rebuilding. 

Canberra definitely does not understand that region at all. It is one of those regions where people are poor and if you want something from someone you cough up appropriately, valuta = Euros. 

The best thing that could happen is that the money for the military does not come through and local help gets paid properly. Then things could get done before the snow comes.I'd join in your praise for Stephen McDonell for all kinds of reasons. 

The situation in Ukraine was not a good one at all, but what help they had from the locals was remarkable. It would have been extremely unhelpful that DFAT wasn't of more help but I see that as a liability issue. At some point their legal eagles might have said 'don't give out advice any more because if something did happen, they'd say we gave such and such advice.'27 comments in one hour revolving around  'fixing the budget' and no mentioning of the new massive military expenditure, Darwin, F-35 etc. 

This spending doesn't come from the budget I take it.That is one way of putting it. My sky will not fall in if I have to pay 5 or 7 $ but I see it as a shift to charge the population more so we can pay for the ever increasing military costs. Billions for fighter jets that turn out to be a pie in the sky and then charging grandmothers 5/7 $ to see the doctor. I object to the payment for ideological reasons; austerity for the people but billions for the military - no. 

The idea mentioned above to hand over a fiver is not even realistic. I have known teachers who come to school without any cent in their walletts because they can then show that empty wallett to children who beg for lunch money.It will drive up wages or take out turnover from other areas of the economy. As long as they are aware of it. It won't happen overnight, but it will happen.I bet my bottom dollar that 'they' are working on tearing down that mask right now and if you invent a new one, they'll tear that one down, too.

Our Australian ISPs may store the data for two years only, but I would bet my second bottom dollar that the people across the Pacific will use that period to access and store everything in their black box, probably forever. 

This genie is out of the bottle. All we can do is adjust to it and see what good can come out of it. E.g. exposing governments' malfeasance has become possible for experts. Disappearing paper copies no longer means that dirty deeds have disappeared forever.This is kind of verboten to say, but I'll try anyway. Do we not know where the potential terrorists assemble? We know where they are, we know from their names and languages and yet, everyone is suspected. We can't turn the clock back and opt out of digital but the idea that a targeted approach is impossible, is pulling wool over my eyes.Kerry's idea of a 'stable Iraq and inclusive government' is delusional. We have elected the wrong global leader. Until they acknowledge the reality of divisions there we should say 'sorry mate, we don't want to spend our hard earned on your wishful thinking'.I only know these people superficially but they have a severely disabled, now adult child who needs care 24/7. One or two children died before, and as genetic technology advanced the parents were told they had incompatible genes. 

The parents are now in their mid 50s, I think. Neither go to work; they both seem to be on the carer's pension because it's so involved. Is this a life that one says to people is alright, bear and grin?  I cannot ask them what they might have done, but we can all contemplate the case. 

Should that disabled child die, they'd be on newstart I guess. This is the worst case scenario but in all other situations we try our utmost to avoid worst case scenarios. 

I also find it peculiar that IVF and surrogacy are  perfectly acceptable but other interventions should not be, but that's my personal opinion.Victoria Nuland has already said that they are destabilizing the financial markets.

The more countries are under sanctions, the more they will cooperate with each other. 

And then there's Exxon; last time I looked the oil business in the arctic was not affected. Of course the sanctions will hurt Russia, but I don't think they'll achieve the desired regime change.Putin has not experienced combat but would have heard a lot from his elders about the siege of Petersburg/Leningrad. When later stationed in Dresden he would have seen many photos, and maybe some scars were still there, too. It's not that simple that he has only experienced a happy little world, but Obama certainly has.Religion is a private matter; it has no place anywhere except in someone's home or place of worship. 

People can become passionate about their religion - and then you'd end up like in the Middle East. 

This is to be avoided, and only by reducing religious exposure including education can there be any improvement. I just read that the new Indian PM's passion for Hinduism is a threat to the unity of India. God help us all, if we can't drive religion into the background - oh, I forgot that I do not believe in a  god.The campaign started when Khodorkovsky was disallowed to sell out to foreign interests.Nah. The desire of Eastern Ukranians for not wanting to be ruled by Kiev is comparable to Kurds' desire for not wanting to be ruled by Baghdad and the Kosovo not wanting to be ruled by Belgrade. 

In the end, people do get their way. Only Stalinist methods can keep people in. But the price to apply Stalinism is sky high and bombs .... it'll take  probably a 10 years of production to fill Russia with cluster bombs like Laos so that they can be reminded for decades that they needed to be punished.Okay, let's ban Vladimir Putin - and you think that Russia (and the independence proponents in Eastern Ukraine) will change their views and language? People counted the days until George W would be gone - it didn't change a thing. 

Does any country ban the entry of those who voted for setting the ME alight through invading Iraq? I really hate to say it, but the downing of MH 17 is not in the same proportion as the Iraq War and what its consequences are. Can we start with banning all Congressmen and women who voted for the Iraq War plus the banks and other enterprises who made money from it?One can still read comments from Americans who deplore the fact that Germany refused to partcipate. The German secret service knew Curveball was a crackpot. 

It is still vivid in many German minds that Germany thought they could gain some land in the East, but it turned out they bit off Stalingrad. Not learning from experience does not go down well in that part of the world.   

With the result in Iraq now apparent, the invaders were extremely naive to assume it would all go their way. Saikal says it would be 'difficult' to put Iraq together again. He must be an optimist and  Kerry is also entitled to his views and illusions. 

They have set the ME alight, and the GFC was, in my view a side effect, because the wars sucked so much money out of the US that it affected their house prices and set the avalanche adrift. 

I agree that the invaders need to acknowledge that they achieved 'operation successful - patient dead' and that next time they want to drum 'freedom' into a country through sanctions and invasions they ought to consider it mightn't always go their way. 

The then German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer said diplomatically 'we are not convinced'.I was prepared and am still prepared to contribute to reducing air pollution. It is harmful, and longterm, too. I heard in the 1960s that the ice cores from northern Scandinavia clearly showed layers of the air pollution which came from the German Rhein-Ruhr area during WWI (nearly 50 years earlier, thousands of kilometers away). 

I then look at the rockets, the missiles, the new big tanks, and the bombings on my big screen TV, even the new re-armaments, and 'see' the air pollution from manufacture, use, and rebuilding - so what would be the point in spending anything on this issue? I'd love to, but it's pointless.My impression is that vested interests are seen as the best interest, trickle down economy and all that. Unfortunately, not enough is trickling down. There are too many 'down there'. 

In every town which is a one industry town, the people there need to live on that one industry or move away. Australia is fast becoming a one industry town, especially when the government doesn't even buy boots for the military locally.  

The mis-developments that are currently evolving will probably play out for a fair while until the course can be corrected.... they cannot send a bill to the Feds without there being some kind of legislation, just like I can't send my medical bill to the supermarket. 

The ink isn't even dry yet on Alan Kohler's descriptions of the unfortunate rorts in the retirement village system - regulated by the States. So we want to hand more power to the States?I very much agree, but in their all or nothing dogmatic thinking they are exactly as the Coalition. It is also an illusion to think that public transport will be embraced by most when the roads are run down. When you work 9 to 5 in the same location you can use public transport but so many jobs are now irregular, require travel, carrying tools etc - I wonder where the Greens live. 

Just go and ask the young generation. The first question an employer asks is if they can drive and have access to a vehicle and all that doesn't even take into consideration young women on shifts outside 9 -5.That is loaded language and doesn't solve anything. Abbott tried to bypass and ignore them but cooperating is a democratic necessity. What else would he be doing except for a double dissolution which probably gives the same result? I expect cooperation from the politicians.I don't think Abbott &amp; Co are reading things right when they claim that 'the Australian people' voted them in because of the cahb'n tax. 

Was that really the one issue why they came into power? If you'd do a survey and include other relevant issues, then ask 'what was the most important issue for you' - I personally doubt that the cahb'n tax made their day.Thank you for pointing this all out, Alan. Pretty shocking, and hopefully I won't ever need to go into such a facility. 

Allow me a long bow. Those in the retirement villages today are the ones who had fairly secure jobs and could make those savings to go to a retirement village. 

The next generation who is on contracts and may not own their own home will not be able to go there, especially if they miss out on a shot in the arm when the parents pass away. Then think of people like taxi drivers who are said to make on average 29 K p.a. They don't have superannuation and cannot make savings from that income for living in a retirement village. Except for calibre people the industry is phasing itself out through their practices. Make hay while the sun shines, preferrably with offshoring profits, too. 

How did we get to this?Germans ship their oldies to Poland or other cheaper countries. In part this is a necessity as the children do not always have the means to pay their required co-contribution.That can be difficult when newspapers become election pamphlets. It takes more time to explore other channels of information. I wouldn't censor or regulate, just have half a day of media analysis in classrooms, studying the local paper, other than the sports pages.Why is everyone making it all so complicated? There are far too many aspects to follow this topic and really understand it. 

Cleaning up air pollution is not a reform that we need. It was just a 'reform' for politicians to feel important and have an opportunity for grandstanding on the world stage, capisce?Let me be heretic: When I was a kid in West-Berlin before the Wall was built, and still with lots of rubble about, all schools, the busses, trams, and the underground train system, water, gas and electricity were government owned. One famous government owned company was Volkswagen. 

West-Germany was rebuilt with government property and it did not fall over. We used to get a special magazine for government owned entities because my late father had known the founder. 

I came to Australia before the big drive for privatisations because I had been here before and liked what it was all about. When were electricity supplements for pensioners introduced? I think after privatisation. 

The 'intertwining' between government and privatised companies is bad enough but worse is that private utilities are 1. usually bought by multinationals who have the capacity to offshore profits to avoid taxation. 
2. The sales contracts are confidential, but knowing what business wants, government would have to promise that they are not passing legislation which could reduce profits. 

Somewhere I have read that the proposed and seemingly unstoppable TPP will prohibit the establishment of new utilities in government hands. 

On the psychological level, if my government no longer owns anything I have very little reason to identify with this nation apart from the military. But having played in the rubble of West-Berlin I abhor militarism. 

 The world is full of backscratching, I agree with ENFORCEMENT. They are not losing enough when it comes out."Another offence concerning 'illegal' dealings with intelligence material will carry a maximum penalty of 25 years."

How do the two guys in Germany, one from the secret service BND, the other from the Defence Ministry, who sold intelligence material to the CIA fit into this if that happened in Australia?What's geopolitics? US dominance? 

Germany's cooperation with Russian/Soviet gas goes back to the 1960s. We were connected in Frankfurt in 1970 or 1971. The reason was and is: Must give them something to make money with or they'd all roll up on our doorstep. More important than US friendship, a lot more important.

It is a perfectly feasable idea that the first hint who to nab came from Moscow, solicited. After all, the population is rather averse to the idea of that 'Partnership' and a serious reason must exist to pierce that cuckoo's egg. Merkel or no Merkel, Germans have a lot more in common with Russians than with Americans. 

The answer if such a case as occured in Germany would occur here, and what Brandis' law would say ....Some of the reasons why tickets etc are becoming online exclusively may be that certain people find it easier to know where you're going and what you're up to. 

Now, "... network of BitCoin users, who consensually authenticate it in a process that takes about 15 minutes. The transaction does not complete unless the network agrees to it." 

What would happen if this consensus is not happening? I couldn't pay the electricity bill? 

There have been apps on smartphones which were more than what they said they were, Angry Birds for instance. 

Some people cannot take a risk with finances, and that should applauded because after the Storm disaster, Centrelink pays a few age pensions to those who fell into that hole. 

No online banking for me, no smartphone for me. I certainly hope that this decision will remain mine.The desire for breaking the duopoly has been here for a while. Now you write "Some will baulk at the risk that wealth can buy power, bringing with it the worst elements of American politics." 

It is precisely because he has that wealth that he could go that far. Whether he will abuse it US style we don't know yet. The circumstance that he seemingly has no debt so the finance world and institutions can't hold sway over him is extraordinary.  

All other third forces were smashed like Pauline Hanson's One Nation, or was mismanaged like the Democrats. The Greens do not count in my book as a third force. 

To me, the ideal Senate would be one where no group has a majority so the government will have to argue for a majority vote in the Senate for all of their legislation.I wonder if a substantial portion of resentment to the carbon tax doesn't come from the way it was brought in, not necessarily from the carbon tax itself. 

But be that as it may, and regardless of what's being done in Australia, if and when schemes to reduce air pollution are in place in China and the US as the major polluters, we can buy a system off the shelf, so we don't have to worry our little heads now. Sit back, enjoy the circus and let them invent the wheel.There are, so I have read, no gas ports on the west coast of Europe plus no pipelines that could make gas flow from west to east. I don't much understand gas technology but it's said to be not that simple.Russia is not the historical enemy, just like the US is no historical friend. Sometimes you have common interests with someone, sometimes they evaporate and then you don't. 

Two generations above me, Germans were taught that France was the hereditary enemy.If our situation was so dire why then did the Abbott government take on new financial commitments, like paying the Marines in Darwin, their facilities, and ordering more flightless birds. War orphants have a 1000 $ or so per annum taken away, and billions are spent on this? 

This is not proportional. It is even a double whammy, costing us money that we do not have and jeopardizes our earning capacity by being a provocation to our best customer. 

Balance the books in a balanced way. This budget is lopsided because it is ideological. 

I find the noise more extraordinary than the event. 

Palmer had said that he wanted to compell the energy companies to pass on the savings. You need legislation for that. Then you need sanctions if they do not comply, like in any other contract that you do. 

Sanctions can't be missing out on Christmas cards, they must cost them money. If the energy companies know what penalties they'll have to pay it is better than taking up time and resources of the ACCC. 

Compelling them to financial penalties requires a bill from the Reps. That wasn't in the repeal bill obviously, but needed to be there. 

You don't trust the people from the Reps when they say 'we're gonna do that next week'. If you want the goods, the money must be on the table. Any promise  from Pyne or whoever was in charge from the Reps has no legal value since he/they cannot give a legally binding undertaking that their majority in the Reps will indeed vote in a particiular way. 

So you say, well get the money, but for today I'll pack my goods and keep them at home until you show me the money. 

It is astonishing that Bob Day, who had campaigned in several federal election campaigns praising his business experience, should have been involved in that. He must have had a fair weather business. 

I don't think we should use that one event as tea leaves for what Clive Palmer wants. 
What I find really extraordinary is that the Abbott government has known for 10 months what kind of Senate awaits them. They have chosen to operate ad hoc, and that has surprises. They could have used those TEN months to negotiate and sign a contract like Gillard did. We'll get more of this if they don't, but it's a free country.   
She was old and experienced enough to understand that she should not have cast this vote. If she fell for 'the propaganda' she is not competent. Acknowledging now that her vote was wrong is after the horse has bolted. I would also question her sincerity; it's (in my view) just the words that she knows are expected of her and which will further her career.  

Her PR agency is to be admired. Few other has- beens can command this much space in the media. 

Regarding Australia, not that I would read her book but there is this quote in the public space that Australia is too close to China and/or even two-timing the US. Could someone explain to Mrs Clinton that before we can spend billions on fighter planes, millions on US military in Darwin, and more millions on being one of five eyes, we have to make that money. We cannot make that kind of money with exports to the US. 

Mrs Clinton and all US politicians should be grateful for our business with China or we could not be part of their military network. Her critique shows so much lack of understanding that the idea Mrs Clinton could be POTUS is truly frightening. If the US has nothing better to offer than Clinton, Rubio, or Bush III who might well drag us into the darkness of war again, we need to cool this relationship.I would like more transparency in the trans-Pacific trade pact, and that with the trans-Atlantic trade pact it is part of a network that we should know more about.

In addition, the asylum seeker debate takes up a lot of room for this phase one. Everybody talks about how to get them here. I could be seeing things, but I see a phase two, e.g. where are the plans for building houses?I self-censored."Living in the best country in the world, a good democracy, ....." and we would like to keep it that way. 

This may be verboten to say: We do not need people who speak ME languages and whose sons go fighting for ISIS. Yes, I know we are talking Tamils in this instance, but tomorrow it's probably Hazaras, Uighurs or so. The 77 million Tamils in this world are looking for a homeland and as 88 % Hindus wouldn't they adhere to the caste system?I am a greeat believer in gradualism and while I cannot claim to have all the answers, I would shave off a little from negative gearing.

The interest is regarded as costs of business and normally that is fine. What is not fine is non-deductability of childcare fees as cost of business, abuse by a multi-national company like taking out an inhouse loan to shift profits in form of interest overseas, and buying businesses with a 70 % loan. The latter only makes the banks rich and is a fair weather structure, toppling over as soon as one variable in the equation changes. 

If negative gearing is a problem apply gradualism and shave off just a little, maybe a little more in three years. Any anomaly needs addressing but not in a way that provides shocks. 

If or when there is downward movement on wages there will be a decrease of investors.I come from a renters' country; in my youth in a city practically nobody owned their own home. It creates a vastly different society which was/is actually a lot more selfish than Australia. When people deplore less participation in clubs and political parties that has something to do with a renting society, too. Why spend time and money to go to meetings when you ought to save money by maybe cooking your meal or some such like, or make an extra $. 

When somebody wanted something for nothing, people used to say 'I have to pay rent, too.' Volunteering was unheard of although we could read about it in the newspapers when there was some natural disaster in the US. A renting society also needs more job stability = less flexibility, which is the opposite of what people strive for here. In those phases when people have to find another job they could easily be faced with being tossed in the street if that phase is longer than they can keep up rent payments. 

I would say that you ought to be careful what you wish for. Reglementation and rules in rented housing is quite a bother, too, close to a psychological burden.It's actually the modern thing, e.g. blame Abbott for everything. You may have noticed that everything that happens in and around the 142 million souls of Russia is Putin's fault. And with the US it's Oh Obama. 'Labor's mess' is another one from the list of prescribed messages - what's good for the goose is good for the gander.  

I am actually not sure where the famous middle ground is. Some policies are acceptable from one side, others from the other sides.But the political class is also excluded from a very relevant issue. E.g. the TPP negotiations are not done by the political class but by business delegates. Official information is practically not available so maybe it is better for people to join the economic class than the political class. Although TPP is very political in its far-reaching consequences, it is now in the business section.That would be alright if they didn't try to bring their lifestyle and rules to other/our countries. So we are involved and if they are Australian citizens we need to take them back, fund medical treatment or prison if they don't re-integrate. 

It's hard to say what to do, but not granting citizenship so easily might reduce the problem. It should take 10 years to get citizenship, and by the time that happens, the fighting urge might be gone. If they are not Australian citizens and travel to fight, we should not take them back.I wish to lodge my agreement with the view expressed. I read the news in my old language often. If more people were bilingual they could see the international context.  

I do not need to know the details about the asylum seeker boats and that's the one and only area where I agree with the coalition government.Occasionally one tends to guard against an undesirable development before it occurs.

Thank you for reading Kelly for me. I have stopped reading NewsCorp media for a while but in recent years it has come to my attention that they make and break Prime Ministers. This makes them political players and I would not pay a dime to read political pamplets (avoiding the word propaganda). I am entitled to this freebie, and I insist that entitlement is not taken away. 

The quote "shifts media power downwards" actually makes my day. The media have power, but using that to play the electorate,in mostly one ideological direction now, is abuse of power. The more that shifts downwards, the better.You write 'The Great Depression was entirely orchestrated by US and NWO corporations...' No, not entirely; there was a mis-development that you couldn't really orchestrate. There was another contributing factor, mentioned in a magazine (printed in St. Louis) from the time, which said 'if Germany is not put in the position to buy American goods, many factories will go bankrupt.' They obviously had that oversupply of factories then which Alan says exists now. Due to the Versailles Treaty Germany was not in the position to buy. I can prove that, but it would take me a while to retrieve that bit from my pile of magazines. 

Another factor, although I cannot say how big or small it was, were the US war loans to France. The French did not give priority to the repayment of these, rather gave loans to the newly independent Poland. How significant that was, I don't know. But someone who doesn't get his money back causes ripples.

It's complex and complicated. 

Our Post Office in the nearby shopping centre is always full. Quite a lot of people pay their bills there to avoid online banking. 

Just last night I saw on TV a couple who had paid their builder 98 K, or so they thought. The invoice had come in by email and 'someone' had altered the account number and now the money is lost, through using online banking. The ANZ says 'nothing to do with us'. 

This is a big warning and more people will move away from online banking, then pay their bills at the Post Office again. Somewhere I heard that the credit card companies will no longer refund money lost through fraud so easily. That will also have an impact, maybe a positive one for AusPost. You can also take cash at AusPost, no need to look around for an ATM of your bank or pay fees. 

Germany was mentioned for six day delivery. Their 'reforms' have led to many post offices in villages closing. This has led to people moving away and bus services being cancelled. Now rents are cheap there, but those who get tossed out by landlords in the cities cannot move there because without a car it's not possible to live there. It's all connected and we should think twice before dismantling successful structures.I am fascinated by the debate that facebook and similar services are used for other things than people thought when registering. 

These are free services, and they can do anything they like. If you walk past a salon that advertises 'free hair cuts' you might well discover that it is one particular type, you'll be filmed etc. 

Whenever I see a free service, I ask myself what's in it for them? Only when I pay do I have the right to make specific demands according to the level of my payment. 

It is not nice what they've done there with this new type of brainwashing, but since when do you look a gift horse in the mouth?My very best congratulations on you being such an optimist. Terms and conditions, they're a great read, whether they come with a software update, from the electricity supplier, gas company, phone company, insurance company, bank ... just to name a few. I'd love to know what's in them, I really do, but I haven't got a secretary to read them for me.We had 3 billion in about 1958. Whether that was a better time than now is for other people to assess, but I think it was.This aspect is taboo, just like the carbon footprint of military hardware and its use in Iraq (or other places) is taboo. It is my view that we already live in the first phase of the slow motion explosion of the population b^mb, but my view does not count. 

Farce or tragedy is not the right question. It's nothing else than the dance which Lenin described as '2 steps forward, 1 step back'. They wanted to delete all carbon actions, but ended up with killing only some. 

My hunch is Al Gore knows more about that conference in Paris than what we've been told. Maybe something there will trigger the unusual ETS proposal. 

The comparison with the US is limping. They subsidise wages with food stamps, thus allow below existence level wages, and then they have crumbling schools, roads, and bridges. Deutsche Bank should know better than comparing apples with pineapples. 

We have better wages and many other things that are better than in the US. We do not need those Frankfurters to give us good advice.In Britain they have had 'austerity' budgets since Cameron &amp; Co came to power. Hockey's budget goes into that direction. When the Brits became a little unsettled about never ending austerity measures in budgets and some people said that this degree of austerity was not needed they were told that austerity budgets also followed the policy to reduce government spending and tax take long term. I do not remember if they gave a figure or who said it. 

Hockey's budget can also be seen as an austerity budget that seeks to reduce government share  of GDP long-term, so I'd like to see the formula. What is acceptable, 25 %, 30 %, 40% of GDP? Would we not deserve to know their goals? And what exactly are they trying to do about fixed expenditure which is not fixed, e.g. prison costs, emergencies, health and educuation basics, roads and bridges etc. 

It is fascinating enough to have a budget discussion with taboos (defence, surveillance), and now we have a discussion where the mathematical formula %/GDP is not revealed.Just for once, I am pleading for a political correct term. 

The term 'honour killing' must have evolved from some translation and was then taken into the English language without thinking. Killing and murdering a person has nothing to do with honour. It is murder. 

There is no excuse for murder, except very occasionally in self-defence like murdering a torturer. People who believe it is honourable to murder a person, just because he/she has not been obedient like a dog, have a warped mind. 

I do not accept cultural parameters that seek to justify murder by giving them a slightly less objectionable name. The term needs to be discarded.Secrets are the fertilizer of suspicion, the suspicion that we are sold down the river with wool over our eyes. "Trust us" - not any more anyway and certainly not after the budget. 

Deregulated industries attract rogue operators. It is often breathtaking how quickly the rogue element muscles in as soon as an area without proper regulation/oversight has come into existence. Example: Home insulation scheme. How long after the announcement or legislation was it that rogue operators picked up untrained youngsters in pubs to work for them? 

The excessive deregulation of the US financial system was the cause for the Global Financial Crisis, which 6 years after the event is not over. Why does the public have to rely on leakers to assess if the government's plans are not excessive? When the legislation is debated in Parliament it is too late. 

We have no appetite for a GFC encore and secret negotiations are creating fear and alienate us.... "19th century politics," with its outdated "spheres of influence" in Eastern Europe." 

Isn't the proposed Trans-Atlantic Partnership just another 'sphere of influence'? 

I can't quite see why Russia is kind of fighting so hard for influence in Ukraine. All they need to do is sit back and watch the Ukraine and the EU going bankrupt. They continue to get loans and spend them on the military - a non-yielding expenditure. It may not be the friendliest of actions to sit back and grin when they turn the Ukraine and then the EU into another Argentina but - people on the move cannot be held up. 

Working together has not worked, so those Russians who want to exit the WTO will probably prevail. Russia should maybe even bring out the blue-prints of the Berlin Wall and erect one along that rather artificial border between Ukraine and Russia, so there is proper control. 

I have had long-standing ties with Russian culture, but do not speak the language (my balalaika speaks them all). There is a non-compatibility between the Ukrainian and Russian mentality. I wish I cut put a finger on it, but Russians and Ukrainians simply do not go together, comparable to Serbs and Croats. Check it out with a Russian and/or Ukrainian Community Centre if you have one in the neighbourhood. We must take that into account, and Russia must, too.Renewable energies are about long-term thinking and that simply can't be done under this government.The comparison with the Greeks, Italians, and Vietnamese limps, because they did not have religions which pervade every nook and cranny of life. The threat comes from people who claim religious freedom for a large set of rules, even the ones that we consider should not be ruled by religion, i.e. women's issues, banking etc. 

The right to freedom of religion needs to be re-defined.We didn't experience bad service on Qantas 30 years ago, so that may be relative. 

Your latest experience, however, reflects management directives, and only sacking Joyce would do. Please remember that telstra went a lot better since Trujillo left Australia.

There were many warning voices re Joyce, and nobody listened. I can't help the thought, because it's now been going on for such a long while, that some competitor has an interest in deleting a this competitor. On my spouse's last flight we decided against Qantas because being in Dubai did not feel right.I am also uneasy with comparing the US share market with Australian's. 

US companies control most of the world's capital and are therefore in a unique position. Before the 2008 crisis they controlled 75 % of global capital, which would have fallen by now, but it has probably not fallen to the level of global population = under 5 %. The US market attracts investment because their companies have branches in many countries, which is not happening to the same extent with Australian companies. When people buy shares in a US company, they buy a share in a global business. When they buy a share in an Australian company they buy into an Australian business, maybe even one managed like Qantas. 

I read a similar thing from Japan where they have been trying to lift the share market by encouraging young people to buy shares. It's not happening, the younger generation there puts their savings into bonds and cash. Several rounds of incentives have not produced the desired result. To me this is not a surprise because the new employment flexibilities often translate into job insecurities and you therefore need your money accessible for periods of redundency and unemployment. Shares are longer term, they have an inbuilt risk like all businesses so you can really only buy them at a later stage when you might have a redundency reserve fund in addition.  

If Australia didn't provide these incentives for shares income, we'd end up like Japan.That might have to read GFC III.

GFC I = 1929, GFC II = 2008.Yes, figures always help but there is an even bigger issue with the $ 7 co-payment. 

"Medical research" sounds good but as long as we are not told what kind of medical research they mean we are kind of duped. It could well fund research that should be undertaken by profits in the pharma industry. 

As long as I do not know that this is not going to end up as an indirect subsidy for the pharma industry/big pharma I will not support it and will vote PUP if that's what it takes to get it off the table while there's no transparency.

When you ask me to pay, I am entitled to know what I buy. Or have they ended this entitlement, too?Are we really that powerless that 'they' can rip us off at every turn? Maybe 'they' can but then I'd like them to say it.There is nothing wrong with capitalism as long as you have capital. Those who have to borrow for an education, get paid for their work not much above costs of living are not partcipants in capitalism until they have saved up some capital to buy their ticket in.You do not fix a budget with a co-payment that does not go into the budget-fix. 

Neither do you fix a budget with new commitments, i.e. saddling big corporations with a levy for PPL and new, substantial defence expenditure for 25 years. 

It's too irrational for me; I feel duped.The islamists who cause us the current headache operate under the protection of 'freedom of religion', but do not restrict themselves to matters religious. 

Regulations about banking, eating, obedience of daughters etc are declared to be religious, but they should never be protected (or even respected) by 'freedom of religion'. 

If we could only separate the religious from the secular elements, we'd be gaining a mile, I think. If they want to believe in a god, that's their prerogative, but imposing that belief on their children in a hereditary way because they have a muslim father is completely silly. That would be my plan B.

My plan A would be to make all religions superfluous. They condition people to too much obedience and submission, making them unfree. The worship for a god is also too easily transferred to a leader/dictator. It is my belief that the worship for Hitler and for Stalin could not have developed in a non-religious environment.  Germany was very religious under the Kaiser and Russia was highly religious under the Tsars. 

We might not solve all problems in the ME if we abandoned all religions but taking religion less seriously would also mean to take the differences less seriously, thus reduce hostilities.The old cultures did not have law books and people could not read. The religions then, before literacy and parliaments, served as laws. The fear of god was instilled in people to do as told. 

Germany is now, just now 25 years after re-unifcation, in the process of 'deleting' over 1,000 churches. People don't believe that much in religion any more and the percentage of muslims in the population has increased significantly. When a church has to be 'deleted' some try very seriously that it doesn't become a mosque.You are talking about hardware while Troy seems to mean the manpower, i.e. longer compulsory military service, for men AND women. Even foreigners go to Israel to serve in the military and they also have reservists' exercises, but the details for that escape me. That's plenty of hours, and with the hardware from America that makes a sizeable force. But nothing is forever, although I would prefer not to live to seeing it.Honestly, little Australia can achieve nothing there. It will just be more loss, more blood, tears, and treasure. Ask the Europeans, they are closer. They realised that Curveball was not genuine. 

This problem requires a joint effort, not of the previous coalition, but with Russia and China, because they have similar issues, with their Uighurs and the Chechnyans. If you cannot enlist such a big coalition then all efforts will not achieve anything. We cannot afford a repeat performance of what we had.  

The support for the Kurds has a built-in issue that you must be aware of. They have wanted an independent Kurdistan which includes the Kurdish areas from Turkey for hundreds of years. Turkey has always rejected losing that territory, and Kurdish independence would also mean losing territory for NATO and possibly Iran. How you could support the Kurds in this fight and not grant them independence, I can't see.  

Fossil fuel use in Australia is probably not going to do much in this context. 

One topic bubbling underneath ('Assad must go') would be the Qatari gas pipeline to the Mediterranean which needs Syrian territory. Its purpose is to sell gas to Europe and eat into Russian sales. There has been some to-ing and fro-ing with negotiations and contracts not signed - so I read. 

I say 'Qatari pipeline', although there may well be others beyond Qatar who have financial interests in this going ahead. This is worth checking out, I do not know all the details but I somehow seem to remember that the 'Assad must go' campaign gained momentum when it became clear that Assad was not going to sign on for this pipeline. Don't take my word for it.The Murdoch group has long acknowledged that they must shift their business focus because their traditional business model was under threat. So they moved into entertainment, TV, sports, and movies, now education. These now yield billions because we keep reading about their merger and aquisition plans. 


For a long time I refused to believe that the Murdoch media were out there to steer the political landscape but I did not come to Australia before 1983.  I was stilll a subscriber in 1997 when Tony Blair was elected and remember how the paper praised him. When we look back at his involvement in the Iraq War and what he does now, the memory of 1997 tastes very foul. If I want to read a propaganda pamphlet, I expect to get that for free. I will never again buy anything from the Murdoch media because their pro-Iraq War bias is unforgivable.  

Some people describe certain other media as too leftie, but if the Murdoch media weren't so one-sided neo-con maybe they'd focus less on the left. There should be no state funeral for The Australian.Team Australia seems to be to approve of what the team leader says without asking questions. 

For instance, say yes to the co-payment and the research fund without asking 'which research'. It could well be research that makes huge profits for big pharma in a few years. They'd commercialize the results and commercial confidentiality would prevent us from ascertaining if they paid a proper price for the patents. 

If the research fund was for something that big pharma refuses to do, i.e. antibiotics and anti-viral research, there'd be a benefit to Team Australia, but they're not telling. 

I am all ears and until then I'll be on observer status in the Team.'... provide billions of dollars to the North Korean leadership....' Should that not read Yuan or Rubles? I don't think North Korea can sell it on the world markets, but to their neighbours they can, unless we bomb them. But wouldn't we run out of missiles when rare earths are again rationed?

I am not sure what can be done to change things in North Korea. The area was awarded to Stalin/the Soviet communists in the Yalta conference for their participation in WWII. Yalta has not been set aside, or has it? 

Less hostility against China might generate some cooperation, but the West is not ready for that. 

Iraq is not really the subject of this article, only as a  lesson that you cannot graft another system on a country, however desirable that may be. In our private lives we need to accept bad situations sometimes, maybe this is true in the international landscape, too, and nothing lasts forever, not the good times, not the bad times.The court decision (from OLG Hamm) which covers the issue in Germany was only made in February 2013. There they decided that your right to know your origin overrides the right to anonymity. There can be no appeal, but they haven't enacted legislation. 

Australia normally has a great reluctance, and I think that is good, to make retrospective legislation. It is normally called shifting the goalposts, and it is not a good experience when you find yourself governed by retrospective legislation. 

I watched both episodes and wonder if, after all this time, one couldn't appeal to the donors to register and then match people through that. 

Or all donor conceived people could take DNA tests to discover possible half-siblings. From there, you might be able to discover the donor, but you ought to be prepared as well that you may not discover him if he has since passed away or no longer lives in Australia.I have no problems with mandatory sentencing. If the courts are not seen as dispensing justice, then more is at stake than just a good old principle.  

The same with the bail system. It has been proven to have been too soft and the damage from re-offending has been massive. 

We should probably look at why the parties need such big sums of money for election campaigns = where is it spent and who makes the profits. There are TV and radio ads, newspaper ads, pamphlet printers, T-shirt sellers, etc. Maybe limiting the number of ads could be the answer or part answer. Then the industry groups will probably fund some ads direct, but at least it would be more transparent which group supports which party. More public funding does not lead to more honesty, as I experienced in Germany.It'll just be an embarrassment for a day, like John Howard's when he realised he'd been had with the 2003 Iraq invasion.These agreements are not a problem as long as the country enacts the legislation that prevents losses (or makes profits possible). Adopting the system that they have in Germany would be bizarre, though. 

Swedish (government owned) Vattenfall wants billions from the Federal Republic of Germany for legislating to phase out nuclear power - the court is in Washington. All Germany needs to do is repeal the legislation. Not good. Yukos is not such a clear cut case.Repeal the legislation that phases out nuclear power. That ensures Vattenfall's continued profit - so there is no case to conduct a court case and no billions in compensation. The old legislation that they never complained about would become valid again and everybody should be happy. 

Now that's one thing and legally it would be that simple. In practice though, there is no safe resting place for the nuclear waste. Gorleben has been closed for new deliveries after the corrosion of the barrels was discovered. For decades they were telling everyone, that it was safe. Demonstrators were arrested etc. Now the nuclear waste has to be accumulated in the power stations which can't go on forever.Thank you. This treaty encroaches on the sovereignty of Germany and her legislators. The Germans should have cancelled it before enacting the legislation and if someone does not accept that exit, bad luck. If it does not have an exit clause it would actually not be valid under German law because contracts where one party has all the rights and the other all the duties are invalid.  

I am confident the Russians should be able to prove that Khodorkovsky did not aquire Yukos in a lkosher fashion and that his proprietor status was sus. Nobody in the Soviet Union could have legitimately aquired funds of the magnitude that bought him such a big company. Whose money was it?It was not for Cheney's and Halliburton's profit alone, it was for the country. Saddam Hussein had signed a new contract with the French elf Aquitaine oil company, coming into effect from 1st April 2003. Payments were in Euros, not Petrodollars, so Cheney &amp; Co. defended the Petrodollar by invading before April 1st. But like the good businessman that he is, there was probably a bit in it for him, too.You are right, in between. The Murdoch media are not a news service obliged to neutrality (or even truth). They are a business and entitled to present any which viewpoint they like. 

Rooting for the Iraq invasion did not show good judgement, but they were and are entitled to champion whatever they like. As an American company their loyalty is obviously with American interests. 

If we are curious whether there is another side to the story we can read alternative media whose addresses we know or we can put in search words to find what else is out there. Then we read carefully. 'Informed sources' and some such like is not a source. If someone can't put his or her name to it, so I was taught at Associated Press, we question the content and don't run it. 

As far as Abbott is concerned, his paymaster is the Australian taxpayer. What the international stage, whose actors and extras are changing faster than we can remember their names, thinks is less important.Russia is a very complex topic, and saying nothing is probably very wise. Generally speaking though, I also find the opposistion stale, but that's just my opinion.Since you mention the soldiers' paycut I would like to mention that the US Marines in Darwin are now getting paid by us. I find that the ultimate insult, taking from your own people to fund outsiders, or whatever you may call them. I know it's a taboo to talk about it - and for all these reasons I am also fired up. Would be nice if Lambie and/or Shorten would mention that. 

G20 - partying like a drunken sailor.A smile is not enough for the people affected. They look for improvement, cling to straws perhaps. 

The people in the media do not live in a vaccuum. They are likely to have relatives and neighbours, and of those some may have trouble with the lack of employment. That makes them more sensitive about the topic, so they write about it. 

Last not least - it was about time that someone pointed out that growth does not equal more jobs. Jobs are the raison d'etre of these organisations which are far too costly to the taxpayers to just give them a smile."It's confusing having to constantly watch for deliberately misleading adverbs and adjectives..." You get used to anything, they say, given time. 

What you describe was called propaganda in another era. When I wrote advertorials I participated for a few silverlings.  

I feel for you, but since so much of the media is partisan these days, trying hard to pull you on their side, we have no choice but to look right through it.Gee, you are very cryptic about ECHELON and that makes us more curious than we were yesterday. It sounds as though they pursue a sinister purpose, and you know. I am just reading a book by a former US airman who was involved in things in Berlin 30 years ago. He also talks of airplanes baiting the Soviets and civilian aircraft being modified for intelligence gathering purposes. I'll see at the end of the book, what to make of all this.

After Abbott said that such Russian ships often turn up in international waters near conferences, I conclude they do exactly what the NSA does, just a little more mobile. Good for the goose, good for the gander.The US do not act in their interests, they act for democracy and freedom I read in the Readers' Digest when I was young.Not quite. It says: 'We already knew Russia spends more than double what Australia does on its defence budget .. ' This statement is incomplete as it does not say whether that is in absolute terms (understandable as Russia has more than six times our population) or per capita. Until I know this I cannot say whether Russia or Australia is more militaristic. 

It reminds me of the critcism some time ago that China had a far too large military. We now find that they have 2.3 million while America has one million. America is 1/4 of the size of China populationwise so China could have 4 million people under arms to have the same ratio. Figures need correlations.It's the weather. Do you know what the November weather is like in the northern hemisphere from the Atlantic to the Pacific Coast? The sailors deserved a bit of sunshine, it seems. 

The talk of power completely ignores that rulers should be preoccupied with the lives of their citizens, not grandstanding on the international scene, projecting power and threatening to 'use force'.Self interested people and countries are more predictable and predictability counts.

The Australian voter does not vote on international affairs; check over the last election campaign ads and pamphlets - all domestic topics. The Australian taxpayer is happy to help out internationally, but when it becomes a permanent situation to expend resources on outside issues, then choices must be made for the outside issues that most affect us. The Australian taxpayer does not pay taxes for international leadership. Where Australia is taking the lead, I am reminded of the old record label 'His Master's Voice'.That is actually extra dangerous "... the USA has enough on its hands as it is ..." because such situations have often been 'resolved' by distracting the population through going to war. 

Putin and his advisors would not be so stupid that they can't see through the charades. Democracy is to be a 2-party-system, glasnost was good for Gorbachov's Russia but the West continues to have a secret club like Bilderberg. There must be transparency in the Asian Development Bank but not in the trade negotiations which affect us all a lot more. 

Left or right is not the question, Putin and his men must keep Russia together, build more metro in Moscow, build many new gas pipelines, one to end that hassle of sending gas through Ukraine. Their rocket to the space station did NOT blow up and the astronauts came down safely, doesn't happen by itself. There's a lot to do and catch up on, there's no time to study the western democracies and make decisions which parts are worthwhile taking over.A conflict between Russia and China is highly unlikely in the current phase. When the sanctions first came up, which deleted between 10 and 20 % of German business by about 6,000 enterprises the opponents of the sanctions said that it would A. hit the EU significantly (happened) and B. would serve to weld China and Russia closer together (happening). 

As long as they have adversaries in common, they will battle on together, because they need each other. One day this might change, but from what I read Russia does not give a monkey's a3se how China governs herself, and China does not about Russia, as long as the resources flow to supply the population. Russia's vulnerability would be that they need products from China; China's vulnerability would be that disturbence in supplies could trigger unhappy people taking to the street, and as they are very many in China, that needs to be prevented. There is an interdependence that would prevent a war between them. And don't forget, been there, done that.Fair go. I do not recall that particular scene but when you are surrounded by people who do not speak your language, it can feel odd. Maybe we can see that scene again. Maybe he had forgotten for a moment where they said he'd have to go next? I have certainly not much time for Abbott, but long days in foreign language environments can be exhausting. There could even be something like 'now where did they say the boys' room was?' Honestly, reading the tea leaves here is really pointless. 

We should also be mindful that we do not let ourselves distracted by this Putin/Abbott conflict, even though the media give it wall-to-wall coverage. 

When we were mesmerized by wall-to-wall coverage of the Ukraine conflict in March/April, we missed the Ebola crisis developing - a tragic and costly mistake. There are things lurking over the horizon like that trade netword of TTIP and TPP, which would also require our attention, especially as it excludes our most important customer. Please make some room for other things than just the Abbott/Putin issue, especially when they could  affect the nation for generations to come.I was/am very happy with the strict Australian regulations for financial institutions, and so should everybody else be. 

When the US Bankers Trust went bust in 1991/92 I was shocked because I had some of my nestegg with them. I was relieved to learn that Australian regulations made the local BT a standalone branch that was unaffected. Phew. I then proceeded to ring them if they had anything to do with Andersen&amp;Andersen. No, was the answer. Had the answer been yes, I would have pulled my egg. Had my BT investment bitten the dust then, it would  affect my part pension, year after year, until I bite the dust. 

Good regulations save money long-term.I agree with Lambie. The Australian soldiers are obviously seen as easy pickings and that is unfair. There is unlimited money for surveillance and other items on the strategic alliance sheet, but those who can seemingly not defend themselves are targeted. 

It comes at a time when the recruitment ads are everywhere.That tradition developed because it makes the parties more predictable. 

How would you feel if you donated 10 K, only to find that one person in the party comes out loud and clear with the exact opposite of what you had in mind with your donation, heh? It's the system! 

Disunity is death, everbody must think and say the same 6 second grab. I prefer people who don't follow prefabricated thinking, but I was born odd. 

The price of the house may crash, but that is only on paper as long as you can still service the mortgage and can continue to live there. What is scary are business loans which are dependent on the state of the economy which those for negative gearing essentially are. 

All loans can be sold and then you have somebody different to deal with. So all loans need to be taken on with caution and a security margin.I understand that, but short of price control and serious tightening lending by the banks, which is both not doable, there is not much possibility to do anything. And with employment no longer dependable because it's mostly on timed contracts, the consequence would be that very few can buy. 

The current situation is a misdevelopment measured on the results so somethings needs to be done. What should definitely not be done is shock treatment like abolishing the current system altogether in one step. It can only be done in small increments, like reducing the negative gearing to maybe half the loss, just off the cuff.If you follow that train of thought you end up with the Qatar/Syria gas pipeline. 

I remember reading 21 years ago about the difficulties to get a pipeline through Iraq and Syria. Human Rights and democracy are used to justify interference - but as shown in Egypt they don't matter in the end. How the ME, including Iran, could ever embrace Human Rights is not quite clear to me when their religion says quite clearly that women do not have the same rights as men.The word 'conspiracy' is often used when 'collusion' would be better. 

I found the idea of unravelling financial regulations especially charming. So, there's another appetite for 1929 and 2008. Good luck to them because most outside capital will then find a more trustworthy home than Wall Street. Twice bitten ...That's the 2-party-system, and more of it seeps into AUS every day. The only thing I am angry about is that for quite a long while I actually believed them, that this 2-party-system is democracy.Why was he then called 'the most powerful man on earth' when he did not even have the power to do half of what he said he'd do? Just lies to get to the cookies, or Anglo grandstanding?As part of the 5 eyes we are obliged to have the surveillance system anyway. And while we pay for it, it must be accessible in criminal cases, too. 

In the British Parliament someone (from GCHQ?) said, from memory, that their data could not be made available for open court cases because then the general public could conclude what they are doing. Now that we already know, they might as well make it available, although there is a fear of data forgery. 

Consider this: The Goman Clan in the German city of Leverkusen is targeting the old generation to defraud them of money, much like we have heard from Japan. They use the phone book, select old-fashioned names and then they tell them some cock &amp; bull story to separate the pensioner from his/her nestegg. If the Germans had proper data retention laws and made them accessible to criminal cases they could have proof for banging more up. It is a very large family/clan group, so you'd never catch them all, but you'd probably make a dent. The only thing I am worried about is data forgery, because some organisations have access to all passwords and could alter records of people they want in prison.

Not only movie holders own copyrights; there are also 'small' people who are hit, but do not have the resources to fight an international site that engages in piracy. So if the movie studios pursue their cases and maybe get some of these sites shut down, that would be a good thing. I certainly hope so for my case. Illegal copying, piracy pressings of music has been going on for decades. It will never be eliminated, but reducing it would be good.

It is not realistic to think that the blanket surveillance system could be abolished in the foreseeable future. And while we pay for it, it's use can't be restricted to an elite few.Then a new phase in history will begin with considering a population policy, but there will also be a significant segment of the population that is disgruntled and unpredictable, requiring some action unless new surveillance technologies could keep them in check better than in previous times.  

I also think that our legislators are paid by Australians and what the world thinks is up to the world, although our freedom ends where our actions impact adversely on others.

For the time being, the dice has fallen. There will be more trees; good, but when will they burn? The rest of the world seems to be moving; China will have to take the lead, not only because their own population is impacted but because they are rational people. Their clouds of pollution drift all the way across the Pacific Ocean to the American West Coast and this cannot go on. When these dices fall, we will simply have to comply with what standards they are setting, just like we comply with IMF, World Bank, OECD etc standards. 

I cannot remember having seen solar on the vast roof space of shopping centres. They probably get  sweetheart deals from the electricity companies to avoid more alternative energy?Attempt to explain (although I am not a Liberal or anything else, I'm just me, sorry): All closures of dirty power stations, which we essentially want, cause losses in the finance industry. Banks protect their loans, so they protect the business models of their clients. Do banks donate to the Liberals? 

It would be interesting for instance, how much money Hazelwood owes to their bank. Should Hazelwood be closed/go bankrupt, some bank would probably lose a lot of money, that's why the Liberals protect business. Part of that is justified, but if that is taken to the extreme, nothing will ever change. We'd end up with "Change we can believe in' of the Obama-kind.... that is because the whole ideoogy is so interwoven with religion which is to be accepted.I was shocked to hear the bearded man on TV say that he/they want to be 'slaves of god'. We want to be free and being a slave of god or man is an abhorrent thought. For me personally, there was a clash of mindsets, maybe civilisations.Didn't Greg Hunt say it twice, after the agreement with Palmer, that 'this was good/a win for the government'? He did not say good for the country. Maybe he said it elsewhere, but not in that press conference.If every American billionaire came to tell us what we'd have to do in Australia we could be really busy listening. What is it with these people, Murdoch telling Australians, Soros giving advice to Europeans... They have proven that they can be very successful in business, but when you want to enter politics, you get yourself elected. 

Murdoch hasn't told us what we did not know already.In places where people live in rented accommodation the willingness to spend time without payment is a lot lower. 

There is a huge distinction between helping out here or there ad hoc and a solid ongoing committment. Add to that the no longer secure jobs so people's thoughts are not with the community but what to do when the current job runs out. They'd still help someone but taking on an ongoing unpaid committment is not taking care of your future when 'they' tell you that the pension will run out.  

Roping in the unemployed is theoretically a good idea but the one thing to avoid is that they come to the conclusion that they are only good enough for unpaid work. I do not know how you could play that.

I know a group of people who chucked it all in. Some regulations and circumstances changed, so they had to take a course, fill in time sheets for something that they've done for decades. The paid overseer still rings sometimes, but now they don't have time and the next generation is doing other things.Complete fee deregulation fits - me thinks - with privatisation plans. It's the only way for them to turn a profit and when it's a healthy one it'll be flogged off. 

Abbott's overgenerous paid parental leave scheme seems also linked, because women would find it difficult to pay back elevated fees and have babies. It's a long bow, but both helps potential buyers of the universities. Does anyone know of a case where deregulation has not led to privatisation? 

Every year I become more allergic to the word reform.The principle of fuel excise indexation is one that I can support. But does it have to be this much and twice a year? And does it have to be a flexible number, like inflation which cannot always be foreseen? Has anyone thought of raising it by 2 % annually or half of inflation? The more you raise the price of fuel the more upwards push on wages and inflation you get. The GST component on the fuel excise is probably not legal as it is a tax on a tax.  

As for the government's tactics, I find them sneaky.These young men are also lifted to celebrity status when the media show their clips over and over again with full recognisable faces. How about putting a black bar across their faces; I believe that would dent the lift into celebrity status. 

We had a similar issue with car chases. When TV stopped to feature them, they reduced markedly. The same would be true with some fires, I guess, the more you show them, the more you turn these people on. 

Put a black bar over Abdullah's face, not a blur, to prevent celebrity status in the mainstream media. In their own rants that will still be there but when people look at them online, at least they can be traced.The GST is also a 'hand-to-mouth' tax. As soon as people have less money to spend, be it through the state of the economy and/or downward pressure on wages, there is less collection. Reinforcing 'hand-to-mouth' creates more vulnerability. In our 'budget emergency' situation Abbott has created a new expenditure item for the US soldiers in Darwin. If that were transparent we might be more willing.Payroll tax was supposed to be abolished.From what I have read the TPP will have a far deeper impact on people's lives, especially if it has a negative impact on our China trade. I cannot help being cynic; it is a distraction to bring the federalism debate to the fore at this point in time.It is not compulsory to download a particular movie on a particular day - many of us grew up without the possibilities of computers and we are not zombies.

It is an excellent opportunity for children to learn that they do not have to do absolutely everything that the peergroup does or the peergroup demands. It is a skill necessary in life to free yourself from peergroup pressure when the situation demands it.And when they are first off the mark on such a topic they are accused of pushing their own barrel. Freedom of speech and reporting has already been severely dented by banning books through super-injunctions. The new law has the potential to set up journalists that's the worrying aspect to me.I am not sure that it is Germany who takes in the war wounded. There is at least one US military hospital in Germany, near Wiesbaden I think, and my admittedly superficious observation from people who were 'taken to Germany' says they were always taken to a US facility there. With 100,000 US soldiers stationed there (General Dempsey) there could well be a second US facility. But they couldn't just 'take' them, they need to be equipped for these special patients and the medicos trained. Please add the language issue. An Australian soldier is better off in an English speaking environment, like a US military hospital.I agree with you.

The article says that the gunman had been in prison on drug matters. It indicates that he was converted there. 

The consequences of that could be to imprison fewer on drug matters and/or do NOT put them together with people who'd convert them. Thirdly, in this world people who have been in prison have practically no chance for employment and become loose cannons, lone wolves, or bikies. They need a 'home' and some find it in religion.  

That's the analysis, whether we can put fewer people in prison, segregate them, or find employment and a 'home' for them after they get out is another matter.As a former journalist I'd hate to see the ABC bite the dust because without it the media would be out of balance, but I sometimes wonder what gets coverage and what not. The neverending Pistorious reports went very much up my nose, because THAT relevant he and his case were not. And he is not even Australian and has absolutely no connection to Australia. I have been shocked in recent days to read how things happen in the German media and if our media follow that same influence (described by former participant Dr. Udo Ulfkotte), ... well, it would be at least an explanation.The belief of the Hong Kong students that candidates in our democracy are not vetted they are naive, in my view. It is just a different vetting system. 

I think it's a lot less open than anyone thinks; anybody who would not be in line with what the corporations aim for, would not get up, as candidates are dependent on corporate donations.

 An example would be the proposed free trade agreement network which excludes China. Have we heard anything from any candidate or position holder who would criticise the secret negotiations, backroom deals in common parlance? Any candidate who'd oppose the secret negotiations  would not pass in the vetting process - my conclusion. Trade agreements have more impact on the people than the coming and going of candidates.100 million is an optimistic figure, I guess.They won't react because they would not know. As far as I have read, the talks are secret, confidential if you like. Only the photo-ops are public as will be their resolve 'we're going for growth'.I read up on it, lived in two countries, and last not least observation. I actually looked for an achievement of the G20, but could not find any.  I have also been a journalist for three years, and the advertising revenue from corporations is important. All anti-pollution measures cost money - and the advertisers don't like criticism that costs money. I am looking ford to G20 media reports, hopefully I will find something constructive and productive, not just words or a group photo.The follow up costs that nuclear places on further generations are immense. 

Check out Sellafield in the UK which still costs an arm and a leg, even though it's been closed since 1981. 

The final waste depot is still not resolved, either. Gorleben in Germany is being closed for new deposits. For decades they told us (in Germany) that Gorleben was safe. But reality mugged the nuclear power industry in Germany, where they have decades of experience which now falls under the category 'seemed like a good idea at the time'. 

There has to be another way that doesn't saddle future generations with massive costs. It is even a clumsy way of operation. You need to register the radiation exposure of individual workers who need to get in, and have a roster so they don't get more exposure than they should. They used to have Turks for that in Germany, Turks who'd return home. And cooling water .... where's that going to come from?CO2, heat, or particle pollution .... we need to reduce air pollution. if they want to conduct the campaign around global warming, it's not so good, but anything that leads to air pollution reduction has my tick of approval.I agree with the general assessment and am saddened by it. I express it sometimes as 'they will not rest until they have recreated Dickensian times'. It all has to go a lot further before a change can develop.Good. I knew it; the thawing of the permafrost is an illusion from the propaganda department. Like everything in Russia it must be Putin's fault.Some of us do not have a choice with our nesteggs. Put it all in shares and spend my twilight years staring at the indices? Buy a rental property at inflated prices and partcipate in 'pot luck' with tenants?  

People speak of the GFC, but it really was (mostly) the result of too much deregulation in the US, infecting the rest of the globe because we had, and still have, a financial monoculture on this globe. Something fell in a heap in the US, and we were all infected. This is the lesson.i have never liked poetry much; maybe that needs to be extended to poetry specialists if they are that unpoetic.The loss of democracy is most evident in trade matters, where traders and corporations can override democratically enacted legislation. The case against Australia by big tobacco through a Hong Kong branch is well known. 

Another case is Swedish Vattenfall in court in Washington to get the German government to pay 4.7 billion Euros as compensation for legislation that phases out nuclear energy. If Vattenfall wins, the German taxpayer will have to pay these (probably) 6 billion Euros, but the court case is conducted secretly. Could our people in the two-party-system learn from that? 

Trade matters have such a big impact, but negotiations continue to be secret. That is not democracy any more; the two-party-system is no longer fit for purpose. There were demonstrations all over Europe on the weekend - who wants to take any notice of that?Australia is not important to Russia.I can only hope that the Russian and Australian interpreters are well chosen because Abbott's colloquial language is not taught profoundly in interpreter colleges. His level of language can lead to disastrous misunderstandings when interpreters are not familiar with colloquial or local special sports terms. 

People often forget that leaders do not speak directly to each other but through interpreters. Other than that, the Putins, Abbotts, and Obamas of this world come and go; it is pretty silly to have this war over personalities when the underlying structures are what makes the cake. 
That growth idea is an illusion. Germany won't do deficit spending and rather take the long term view. Through Russian sanctions the mojo in the economy is dented. They're not acting against their convictions and saddle future generations with debt when lifting the sanctions could go a long way to address the lack of German and European growth. The longer they have to wait, the less business will come back because it has been taken up by China and India.

They're not allowed in the G20.Thank you for telling us what was in the other media. It now starts looking like a witch hunt or propaganda campaign. 

Had they not made such a fuss about Putin not coming and everything that he and his team does, he might have stayed away, because the G20 is nothing than an expensive photo op. I went to wikipedia to ascertain what achievements, if any, can be attributed to the G20 since their foundation in 1999 but found none. Now he has to attend, or else he would have had his schedule determined by outside forces. Russia should save her costs for this pointless conference theatre and exit the organisation. 

The downing of the airplane is a tragic event but Ukrainian/Russian politics have been toxic as far as we can look back in history. Why did Malaysian Airlines not exercise more caution and avoid flying over Ukraine when flying over Russia would have been safe? Surely they have to take some responsibility, too, misreading the events in Ukraine.Personally, I do not believe photos, videos or audio recordings. Both sides have been known to lie and concoct evidence. At the moment I could not tell you whose judgement I would believe if there was an outcome of an investigation. The airplane got caught in a power struggle that IATA and Malaysian Airlines should have taken notice of.My friend in the energy sector in Europe said we'd all choke if/when all the methane in the permafrost thaws. I believe him. 

We may however, see a bit of movement after the Pentagon has now acknowledged there is indeed a  problem. Abbott and IPA will not dare to contradict the Pentagon.The 'mainstream' media would not tolerate opinions outside their boxes and many debates, even facts would appear not to exist. 

I have contemplated it but think that the blowback risks are so big that whoever might have had these thoughts would have dismissed them. 

Medecins sans frontieres said the other day that the outbreak started in March, when all the world was focussed on Ukraine. It was back to back coverage and there was no room for a little outbreak of Ebola. It is an example of wrong priorities and reading the wrong tea leves, in my view. Now it's getting more expensive in every sense of the word and we cannot do a lot beyond trying to save our own skins.What exactly is this business cycle? 

Debt is certainly something to be handled with kid gloves or we could end up like Argentina and Ukraine. But unlike these we still seem to have the capacity to service loans. The freedom of a debtfree existence would mean we could have independent foreign policies, ah, I forgot that's not wanted. If we could have an independent foreign policy I'd pay a bit off the country's loans. How much is it, per head?Of course not all Muslims are bad. What people and the media have trouble with is the melange of religious ideas and lifestyle commands. The latter we would call secular and we believe they are goverened by laws that can be changed and adapted, not eternal laws. We ought to distinguish between the Muslim ideas which are religion and others that are lifestyle. 

But where do you begin? I watched a few minutes of Emma Alberici's Lateline interview last night, where the interviewee was talking about 'Muslim lands'. Land does not have an allegiance to a religion or belief system.The situation is the natural consequence of the structures that were put in place by the IMF and some such like, so if they seem surprised and complain, a mirror would be the order of the day. For years, people have been writing 'the poor get poorer and the rich get richer' and while this is an extreme slogan, the result proves it to be true. Now we discover that the 1% cannot keep the boat afloat. Add to that Russian sanctions hitting Germany and Europe, enormous costs for the Ukraine and unproductive expenditure for wars with now 'pestilence' added on, we do have a perfect storm. I do not have all the answers, only this one: The IMF should not be listened to. If this is the result, they are part of the problem, not the solution.I can help out here: Australia has about 0.3 % of global population, 23 million. 

7,000,000,000 total population, 
10 % = 700,000,000, 
1 % = 70,000,000. 

Our 23 million is less than 1/3rd of that 1 % 70 million, ergo 0.3 %.I have problems taking 'the vast majority of Australians' on board. When I studied sociology in the old country a long time ago when we learned how to load questions and samples.Ian, you said that on air, too: "For whatever reason, October traditionally is a rocky month for markets."

I had observed that for a while and wondered. Recently I checked about the US financial year, which starts on the 1st October. This must result in companies preparing for paying their tax bills for the preceding year, i.e. not buying shares or even selling some to have that cash for the tax office. I am only an armchair analyst and hope someone will one day check out this hypothesis.

And as long as the financial world is so highly influenced by the US, this is not likely to change. If my conclusion turns out to be a significant influence, we could then call it a seasonal influence and panic buttons could be left unpushed.Just read that the S&amp;P 500 put most of the earnings into buybacks. Many of them have 22 year old plant and equipment, according to the site of the former New York Mayor.  

And before that today, I was naughty and pottered outside the mainstream media where I discovered that Russia has a 'no deficit budget', and from the oil revenue they set aside a bit for a rainy day or maybe that should be an icy day. 

Longterm thinking, though, has not been abolished here completely. This had me really worried (from an AUS mainstream site): "The future of South Korea is under threat with the Asian nation suffering such an alarming declining fertility rate that it will cease to exist by 2750 ..."The government rules over the streetscape but not buildings. Buildings are owned by someone and he/she/they are free to admit or not admit a person into their airport, shopping centre, or home. The latter is not a public issue and I do not think there is a legal right for me to enter a building when the owner does not want me to be there.

I believe that the face covering was very useful in the desert where their rules were written.Warring parents are truly toxic, regardless of war or no war. There was a movie by Rolf de Heer which starts with the little girl peering around the corner  - I had to switch off because that little girl was me. It had been 40/45 years later, both parents were dead, I still could not watch it.

The long term effect of warring parents is that the children get less of an education because they need to move out on their own at the earliest possibility. That is the lesson that I would give; think of your children's longterm future and think before you have children.Are young people really buying into the 'housing market'? I think they are buying a roof over their heads and the stability that your own home can bring when jobs and many other things have become less stable.

'The market' seems not to have worked out to satisfaction here, but maybe those economists won who claimed about 20 years ago that Australia had too much capital tied up in ownership and should be turned into a renting society. I have always found that odd (because whose capital is tied up should not make a difference), but have no answer to the general problem beyond increasing the housing stock (in the affordable category) to drive down prices. But 'the market' dislikes the affordable category, so we'll keep talking, I guess.Wherever there is a group of dissenters, 'the powers that be' tap in to destabilize so they can come in, rescue and dominate. It's been done by all the biggies and why it should be different in HongKong, would not be logical.

Someone should tell the students that all systems vet candidates to ensure they get only 'system-conform' candidates on tickets. The methods are different, though. If one slips through, his/her life will be made difficult so she/he cannot be effective. 

It would probably be productive for Australia to be on good terms with Beijing; maybe they see it within their scope to declare the clause in the Australian/HongKong trade agreement invalid that allows the cigarette companies to take Australia to court for plain packaging. Look at the positives of strength.
