I guess they should be made to stay home and die in their own countries.

In reality they should be delivered back to the beginning of the cue, and returned to the refugee camp closest to their point of origin, not returned to the country where  they faced persecution.

It is so easy to feel no compassion, men who beat their wives and abuse their children are great at it.You are correct, that no country has room for all the worlds refugees.

We should be doing more to ensure that governments who persecute their people and brought down and people as safe in their own lands. Then there would be no refugee problem.Isn't he lucky the never gutted that department and sacked all those public servants, other wise he would have been forced to actually think for himself.

Thought the upside would be that he might have come across as being a little more genuine.He is just following the international consensus.
Though he is pretending to be the one in charge.
Seize the day ol' chap.
If it backfires we will be laying the blame at his feet, but it is a gamble he has chosen to take.
So much to gain, so much to lose.
I just hope he hasn't left the kids locked in the car.Sad isn't it.
From one extreme to the next.
Seems Julia was the only one who was genuine.Currently our interest rates are way too low.
Interest rates should never be allowed to fall below the housing price inflation rate. which is currently running at about 18%

Low interest rates encourage high inflation and greater debt levels.
If interest rates were tied to the housing price inflation rate, our inflation rate would fall to almost zero in no time. and our productivity would double along with it.Giving up a bit of liberty to ensure our collective security sounds a little too communist for liberals doesn't it!

They only ever want to take liberty away from some so that their supporters can have more, for their own security, not for the security of all. ... that's the opposite to communism.Personally with what is happening I'd be more afraid to be a Palestinian. Even though some of them do deserve persecution.

That aside it is so sad that the Jews and Christians are no better.

I'll save all my respect for the True Hearted Atheists thank you, they never hurt anybody.How is it more efficient for the consumer when the business has to add extra to it's price so that it can make a profit?
And any profit is never enough for long.During a period of high inflation everyone thinks they are doing really well until they start running out of rope.

Then they all start looking for someone to blame.

Currently they seem to want to blame those who have to have pocketed the least; the unemployed.

Give an unemployed man a dollar and tomorrow it is back in you pocket, give a rich man a dollar and you'll never see it again.The economy must be doing wonderful if he is entitled to it.Was it a performance based increase?I like their idea of increasing tax on the wealthy (let's get some money back off of those who have it all), but their 1 or 2 percent proposal is just a laughable token gesture.They wont mention the racial vilification changes again until after the next election in the hope that they might get re-elected and then they will claim a mandate.
Just like howard did when he back doored us with his GST.Perhaps we do need some sort of welfare card, but it is our wealthy who are wasting the big bucks, and our poor have to work real hard so that our wealthy can afford to do it.

Who do you think buy up all the shares when ever they privatise one of those utilities.
It seems that when you have plenty, you can just sit on your butt and you get handed more and more.

Self funded retirees are not real self funded, some one still has to do the actual work for their super nest egg to keep on growing.Perhaps those with the biggest investments had someone else doing all the work for them.
Those long lunches sure take it out of a businessman don't they.Only allow the cards to pay for stuff manufactured in Australia or services supplied by Australians.
That way, at least the unemployed could create jobs for themselves even if no one else wants to.What Ben? did they have to change one word so that it read partner, where it once read, husband or wife.

I'm not against polygamy, providing that you also legalise infidelity. No one should ever be someone else's slave.

And as recently proven, multitasking leads to less efficient delivery of service.The whole purpose of the Abbortt reforms are to force unemployed youth into accepting slave labour conditions as opposed to staying on benefits.

Years ago when I was unemployed many potential employers were offering me work cash in hand at reduced rates and saying I could still get the dole and thinking that was fine. When I turned down their insincere offers saying I would be happy to go off of the dole and work for them at the full rate of pay, they labelled me a dole bludger.
Though it was actually them who were trying to leech off of the system.Howard made it so easy for them to florish with his ABN's and individual contracts. workers don't have a chance in the game.And Abbortt has done exactly what to create employment so far?

All his posturing hasn't even gained the members of the AFP access to the crash site in the Ukraine yet.
All he has managed to achieve is to have gotten people more opposed to cooperation.And some too blind to see.They will need one million gaol guards when they lock up all the  20 - 30 year old unemployed.I wonder if it also piracy if someone picks up the newspaper you leave on a train and reads it.
My guess is that with the price charged just to access the internet, most people think they should be able to get something for their money.
Pity we didn't have a system where you were only charged for what you downloaded and the internet service provide then got a small commission.Surely stealing from someone who has very little is a bigger crime than stealing from someone who has much. unless of course everything in the world is actually black and white as the more unimaginative see it.You are talking about two separate and different crimes, one is theft, perpetrated by an individual, the other is extortion perpetrated by a business. I wonder which is worse.Here is Abbortt accusing Putin, while the Ukrainian government shells civilians in apartments and townships in the disputed area.
One mob is as bad as the other it seems.All talk and no outcome.
The members of the AFP still can't get near the site.
Somehow this supposedly makes Abbortt a success.
Don't need to be very competent to achieve that.I'm more worried about the well being of my daughter and the future of my grand children than I am about snatching more than I need from the economy.When will we be smart enough to introduce laws and a tax system that prevents the formation of monopolies?

Once we allow one man to become the richest man in the world, does he serve us or are we all serving him?Providing monopolies are owned by the people (the government) and profit are going into government infrastructure or into improved infrastructure then that is fine, but when ever private companies chose to compete with government owned businesses they cry foul.Too many eggs in the one basket, and now half of them have gone rotten and the others are getting stale.
It's not going to be a vary pleasant omelette, and out economy is headed to being a basket case as a result.Yes it was effective, at encouraging investment and expansion.
But it did need some tweaking, and now is the time to do it.
simply removing it just as it is about to deliver would make us even bigger fools than not introducing it in the first place.and much invested in locally manufactured and fabricated infrastructure, contracting local businesses employing local trades persons.No they still need pure fresh water, although the fresh water can be cooled using sea water through heat exchange units, but then those units are prone to failure due to damage by the corrosiveness of the salt water, which is dangerous in itself and therefore expensive to avoid.LOL dam the Brisbane river and all you have is a huge shallow evaporation pond.
Almost all the best places to build dams have already got dams, unless you just want to destroy more of Tasmania's forests.Half of us baby boomers are already cursing the other half for squandering the resources and the environment.
It isn't the children of parents who had large families that are doing the damage, it is the children of wealthy families that are being driven by pure greed that are doing it.

How frugal are you?Hate to tell you Burke, but bananas don't grow on trees.

The resources left in the ground are like money in the bank, they can be used at a sustainable and non environmentally damaging rate, and they will return a greater value when used wisely.

Coal will be essential for the smelting of various types of ore for a long time into our future, so why are we wasting it on generating power for things like heating and cooling our homes, and lighting up billboards? Seems pretty dumb to me.We have some of the lowest taxes in the world. the reason manufacturing companies have moved off shore is that our slaves are better paid here.Six broken and 12 delivered would be 33%, still not a good score.
Strangely though, so far he has only delivered on the worst of them, everything he was voted in for he has reneged on.
Watch those voters swing.$550 better off a year!!!!

If someone had the balls to scrap the toxic GST the average Aussie would be $5,500 better of a year."No cuts to education health or pensions". 

Care to comment?Debunker couldn't be more wrong.
Just look at the difference between the liberal and Labor views on refugees to see who's hearts are filled with hate.

As with social inequity, Labor wants unity,  while the libs want division.
Can't get more hatred than that. Nothing would make me happier than no person to be poorer than myself, and the economy would be better for it, yet the aspirational rich don't feel that way.

I hope debunker is never worse of than I am, even if he does deserve it.When it comes to refugees, we need solutions not deterrents, other than being forced to die at the hands of your oppressor which is certainly not a humane solution.Guess he might be lucky enough to hang onto his job until 2016 then.
Then he can write his biography and retire to oblivion.They need to build on the only good bit of their budget.

The levee on high income earners.

Let's start right at the bottom.
A 1% tax on the minimum wage.
A 2% tax on those earning twice the minimum wage.
A 3% tax on those earning three times the minimum wage.
Don't stop there, keep on going.

Tax the wealth, not the people.Tax the money ... not the people.The most sensible solution is to not require unemployed people to apply for work personally. Let the job network agency organise position for them.

In fact get rid of the concept of the "job network agency", and replace them with labour hire companies that will actually find them real work, and then offer a bonus to the company if they can get a casual worker signed up as a full time worker for any of their clients.
The government could also offer paid casual part time positions as "volunteer work for the dole jobs" to the labour hire company operators to fill so that participants could be assessed.

Encourage people to better themselves by offering them real work or training not by forcing them to do pointless activities for no real reward.

More carrot and less stick. and we all know that carrots are good for you.

The best solution is to get rid of the parasitic employment agencies.
Labour hire companies aren't much better but if they were offered a bonus from the government for every one of their workers they supplied as a full time employee to any of their clients, it would work great.

Someone willing to do one days casual work through a labour hire company is worth far more that anyone who is willing to apply for a hundred non existent jobs a month.Abbortts definition of a dole bludger is someone who is either unable to work, or unable to find work.

Perhaps he should get a real job. I'm sure they would give him a job at mackas.fuel tax indexation is the only one of Abbortts ideas that is even worth thinking about.
I wouldn't stop there though, I would introduce a fossil fuel tax on all imported or locally extracted fossil fuels and also on the fossil fuel component of all imported goods, to replace the void left by the destruction of the carbon tax and to further improve on the idea.
A tax on fossil fuel being far more direct action on the true root of the problem.A tax a trading scheme or a levee a fee or a fine? who care what as long as you get the right outcome. I will support anything that delivers the right outcome, and the libs have just delivered exactly the wrong outcome.No debrare, while it is true that their are a few factors influencing climate on the planet it is not a case of either / or, one or the other, they all jointly have an effect.
I would be the first to admit that CO2 would not have a chance in hell of warming our planet if the sun were to fizzle out tomorrow.

Each item of influence multiplies with the next, not merely adds to it.
de Brere

Each can be measured, and the only one increasing by any great degree is the percentage of CO2 in the atmosphere.increased by 30% over the last 100 years.
Can you name anything that has increases by a greater extent?

Which one then is the major multiplier?
Which one is the driving force in the equation then?Those temperatures measurements in the 1930 have been discredited time and time again, as they were only recorded for places that were experiencing extreme temperatures and not calculated by averaging temperatures world wide.

Once again I will point out that it is not about the retention of heat or whether it is hotter in any particular spot on the globe. It is about how our planet divests itself of the heat it absorbs naturally on a daily basis, whether that mechanism has changed and the effect of that mechanism on climate.

Heat is only part of the whole equation, but most peoples minds are way to small to envisage the whole picture, and many have minds way to small to even begin understanding it. They is it hotter, or is it not, and think it is only about heat, and are unable to think one step further.with a power bill of about $1,000 per year I doubt that I will be even $10 a year better off.Most of our industries moved off shore even before howard though of signing up to the ETS.
IT had far more to do with China having an abundance of slave labour.Co2 is a multiplying factor. a decrease in solar activity reduces the outcome of the multiplying factor temporarily, diminishing ice sheets would be another temporary reducing influence.
Am I clear? or are some people too thick?

X x Y x Z x T = outcome.
We are aware of the influences, even though the outcome is not perfectly clear. 
personally I predict that reducing the rate of radiated heat loss could be the trigger for the next ice age.
It would be a direct result of cooling as a result of convection due to the effects of gravity.

I doubt the average denier would ever understand it though.If you understand CO2's role in the atmosphere then the so called pause in warming is easy to understand. it is all about the effect of gravity on barometric pressure, for hot air to go up, first cold air must fall.

So what is the role of CO2 in our atmosphere? I'll give you a hint, it is not just plant food.

Most peoples brains are way to small to understand something so basic.
even some of those with the best brains still can't fit the puzzle together.
but it isn't so hard if you clear your mind of all your past misconceptions and let the pieces start falling into place.

It all starts with understanding that believing the statement that hot air rises is the biggest mistake you ever made.

you can't build a temple on rotten foundations.Even as a child on our farm we had a wind generator, as it was cheaper than running a diesel engine to do the same job.
No subsidies there.Why wouldn't you tax horses? 
It is well known that before the auto mobile took over, horse dung in the cities had become a major health hazard and a major cause of disease and sickness.
Of course knowing now what we do about fossil fuels it would have been wiser just to have slaughtered all the horses and made shoes from their skins and started walking again.Probably only one in four want income tax, should we scrap that too?

Speed limits, there's another.GRF is obviously talking about some alternative Germany in some parallel universe.I guess John has never worked out why it is cheaper to heat water in your electric water heater at night.with the use of solar power and hydrogen fuel cells, hydrogen can be produced during the day and stored at low pressure to be used at night to generate power.
Trouble is many believe hydrogen is too dangerous. though it is no more dangerous than LPG.Thermal mass.
Either heat it and cool it during the day and draw off of it overnight. all it takes it to have a plastic rainwater tank in a central enclosed courtyard.
SO easy.
Solves all you heating and cooling problems, the greatest part of any power bill."It is sad to see a great country with over abundant resources go down the tube".

Dr B S Goh, Australian in Asia must be referring to the cocaine in Columbia.

All that exportable Cocaine and no one wants to import it. Sad isn't it.But wasn't Abbortt before the election claiming that the carbon tax had resulted in a doubling of our power bills? Then surely if that is correct our bills should halve.I want to keep paying it, with the proceeds going to the Climate change commission.I stopped beating my wife before I even started.

It's easy, legislate for power and gas companies to reduce their prices and then allow any individual to call it to the notice of the ACCC if they have evidence that any company has had it's costs reduce without passing that saving on to it's customers.
Most businesses will automatically reduce their charges to avoid any risk.There are too many taking large rewards from the economy and giving little in return. We do need to introduce some new taxes and they should be directed at the hoarding of assets and wealth that occurs at the top end of the social and economic ladder.So far so good.
I imagine his main objection is to people who claim to have a mandate.
I even suspect Julia could have worked with him fine.
At least she understood that the minor parties and independents earned their right to be part of the system if and how ever they chose to be part of it.

It's all about making allies and not making enemies. I think the LNP had already made an enemy of Clive.We are fully aware of the danger Abbortt poses though.
Trying to scrap the carbon tax when the rest of the world is moving to embrace the idea.
And that's just one of the loony things he wants to do, so having Clive in the equation can't make it any worse.I assume you are talking about Abbortt and the libs then.

No cure, true, but sometimes stupidity does make way for moments of lucidity.

We can only hope Abbortt wont have the voters fooled next time.

I'll bet even Shorten could work with Palmer if he had too, but it is obvious that no one can work with Abbortt.Seems the wealthy and their supporters are trying to pocket all the silverware before the ship goes down.
You know who will be the first to the lifeboats, as there are none on the lower decks.
I guess we will get the last laugh when they find their saviours unreceptive, and unsympathetic and they are turned around and sent back to the sinking ship to go down with the rest of us.Negative gearing is no more than a scam for the wealthy.
Just get rid of it outright. the only ones that will lose are those who already have plenty. prices of businesses and properties would fall to their true value and scammers can declare bankruptcy and go directly to the bottom where they can start again under the same rules everyone else had to live by.
their businesses and assets would be put up for sale at a sensible price where they could be bought by someone who will happily pay their tax for a change.Susan I agree, but to own a whole street seems to be overdoing the retirement income thing.
Perhaps it should be capped, besides if you are earning enough that you are paying "too much" tax then you really don't need to be subsidised with negative gearing.howard sure created a mess. Most people only noticed the short term gain ignoring the long term pain.Why should you have you interest subsidised when the standard owner buyer does not.
What exactly do you give in return?
Absolutely nothing.Greed and gluttony are perfect example of class war.just another scam so that the rich can avoid paying tax and stuff their pockets full even faster.And what exactly is wrong with the citizens of a state or nation jointly owning shares in a company that they control via the government they elect and the choices that government makes.
We need more public businesses at least the profits benefit the people and not just a select few.How many children will you have to have before you are eligible to get subsidy for a nanny I wonder, considering that child care centres have to work on a ten to one ratio, then how would introducing subsidised nannies do anything to help a child care worker shortage. it would only make it worse. We have never ever had in our history a government as dumb as this one.

The only upside possible is that the older unemployed might have a chance of picking up one of their jobs, but it would take having a Labor government in power to ensure that enough unemployed were trained adequately to do the task.How will subsidising nannies help solve a child carer shortage? will they be having to look after all the kids in that street?
child care ratios are currently about ten to one and you want to subsidise one on one nannies.
Trust you dumb liberals. what hair brained scheme will they come up with next.For once I agree with you Peter.

Though I would still recommend that government regulate the industry to ensure that customers receive a value for money service with adequate child safety checks.For once peter I agree with you.

Though I would recommend that government still regulate child care to ensure value for money and child safetySo now the libs want to subsidise their wealthier supporters to be able to to get one on one tutoring for their spoiled brats, while everyone else who will be paying for it will be left with a third rate service in comparison.


Seems that if you are a victim of any disability of injury, you get little help unless you can afford a good lawyer.other john
where do you think we would be now if we had had no disability commissioner?
we are about to find out, and with Abbortt's attitude I suspect it wont be pretty.

When it comes to funding for our most vulnerable, we shouldn't be asking what can our nation afford, we should be asking what can our wealthy individuals afford.

There is too much fat on our sacred cows.There is no crime in wanting what you need. It should be a crime to refuse to help others when you already have far more than you need.perhaps the bosses niece was also applying for the position,  or one who wore a shorter skirt, perhaps even both. Nothing surprises me any more, I always imagine the worst.
Dismiss it you will miss it, even when it is right under your nose.zing 
I notice that you too have a profound disability, it is called attitude. It usually manifests itself as a extreme failure to exercise compassion or empathy.

I wouldn't be employing you as a result of your disability, not sure about stellar, but I suspect she can exercise hers quite readily.You do realise zing that it costs more for someone with a disability to live than someone with no disability. when you don't add in all the non essentials that most able bodies people expect.
Luckily some people with disabilities know how to stand up for their rights.I doubt that Australia has ever experienced a government as vicious as this one.
I seems having compassion and empathy for you fellow man is out of fashion and being vulnerable and desperate is now a crime.Yes and don't the gullible fall for arguments like that! They actually think it is logical and legitimate.I suspect The Other John aren't blocked, as he seems to be able to hear people like Christopher Monkton and Pilmer quite well, so well in fact that I begin to think he works for the "Climate denial ministry of misinformation. rolling out the same old carefully constructed half truths.

Everyone knows that a glass of scotch sitting in the sun doesn't get much warmer until all the ice has gone.

Keep an close eye on those Antarctic ice shelves, the glaciers are already progressing at a greater rate. We can only hope that the increase in global evaporation, and precipitation keeps those glaciers topped up.
Trouble is all that water vapour isn't headed for the poles, and medium rainfall areas are likely to become flood prone as it is very unlikely that it will suddenly start raining on the worlds deserts where high pressure cells more commonly form.

The reason the models do not give accurate and definite answers is just like the problem with "deep thought" in "hitch-hikers guide to the galaxy".
To understand the answers, you have to first ask the right questions.
Until you fully understand atmospheric dynamics and all the things that drive it, you will never be asking the right questions.
Well John, I recently bought the family home in a coastal town, it sits only one meter above high tide level. I know that it is likely to start deteriorating more rapidly as sea level rise due to the rising salt.
By the time I die, I suspect it will be unsaleable.
My father had it built where it is, and I would feel guilty selling it to someone else, knowing they would be buying a property where even the land the house sits on would eventually be worth nothing.Not to mention medical science.
One example is a greater spread of things like Dengue fever, due to an increase in heat and precipitation.The trouble is that doing anything about Climate Change will hurt the rich.
That's why it is so hard to get anything done about it.

Of course the increase in severe weather might stop the boats even more successfully.

That will hurt the rich too. No cheap illegal labour.Lisa, he wont believe it until he hears it from Andrew Bolt.Lisa
I would also suspect that the increase in CO2 levels was immensely larger in the last year of the century compared to the first year of the century. 
So you might need to almost double the average to get a current estimate.I hope you remembered to factor in the coal we export to Asia.
If we weren't here they wouldn't be burning it would they?JohnM
Do you have any evidence that CO2 played no part in that warming?

We all know that all heat originates from the energy given off by the sun, just as all rain falls from the sky. But it doesn't pay to oversimplify.So mortan we can sit back and do nothing and when the rest of the world develop the solutions and we are forced to adopt them, we will just have to borrow and go into debt to purchase their technology. considering that we wont be exporting any coal to pay for it. Brilliant. sounds like a liberal party plan.Then lets take the politics out of it. Let's take the facts and act.
Burning fossil fuels is the problem, releasing previously sequestered CO2.
Impose a fossil fuel tax.
Make the tax high enough and spend the windfall on mitigation, where you spend it is mostly irrelevant although possibly beneficial.

Collected tax is entered in both the liability and asset columns of the economic ledger. Tax is neutral in financial terms, though positive when either taxes or funding is wisely targeted.We could make do with having even less roads if employers had to pay for their workers travelling time,and were given the right to discriminate against employing people who live to far from the workplace.
The result would be that employers would only employ people who lived near by, preferably in the same street, amd employees would only apply for jobs nearby. Business would also relocate to areas of high unemployment for their own benefit, and the unintentional benefit of the whole of society.Better public transport frees up road for those who need to use them.
We would do well by increasing the fuel excise and spending it to make public transport free.Yeah Alfie, I suspect both Palmer and Abbott were silly enough to have thought that they had won.Then I wonder just how much is being dragged out of our pockets by retailers and manufactures to pay the commercial channels, it's kind of like a GST, extra profits need to be made to pay the billions it costs the run those commercial channels. 
Billions we have to cough up every time we buy their crap so that we have more total crap shoved in front of us every time we go out to the local hotel for a meal, which is the only time I ever get subjected to having to watch that god awful commercial TV.

Could I have discount on my purchases please, I don't even watch your stupid adverts.You are correct. Current legislation allows businesses to charge whatever the market can bare, so why would any business drop it's prices when they know people have already been willing to pay the five or so percent extra.

Much like the drought in South America in the 70's that doubled the price of coffee. The coffee price never dropped back to it's original price. perhaps that drought never ended, but I doubt it.Businesses only ever invest if they can pull more money out of the economy than they intend putting into it. The private sector only ever serves itself.an indirect subsidy to compensate for the carbon tax encourages people to embrace efficientcies. a direct subsidy would not.
People are not subsidised in accordance with the volume of CO2 they produce, but are however taxed on it. Therefore being proactive has its rewards.
Abbortt's direct action plan encourages nothing but more waste.The debt will continue to grow while Abbortt continues to destroy both consumer and business confidence.
For revenue to pick up, the economy has to pick up, and to do that the masses have to have enough cash coming in to feel confident that they can safely part with it.

The success of the economy is not measured by the accumulation of wealth and assets by individuals but by the amount of money that changes hands and the rate at which it does it.
The greater the quantity and rate the more tax is collected.

Tax accumulated wealth and assets and they become a hot potato, you know what you do with a hot potato, you pass it on.I'm all for increasing the fuel tax.
Providing it applies to all fossil fuels.

In fact, I would prefer it if they just introduce a straight out 15% tax on all fossil fuels and called it what it would be, .. a fossil fuel tax.you're right. The current fuel excise is purely for raising revenue. they should scrap it and raise revenue by taxing accumulated wealth and assets instead.In the real world, if we were all rich none of us would survive.
however, if we were all equally poor we would all more likely survive."a clean slate policy whereby upon death everything you own goes to the government for redistribution to the masses and your descendants start from scratch"
Sure sounds fair to me. everyone should be judged on their own merits.Greed trumps envy any time."Just because Gina Rinehart is wealthy it doesn't mean that any person is any poorer."
Yes it does.
she only maintains here wealth by "TAXING" the efforts of others, just as any wealthy person does.Perhaps your rules should apply to people like Gina and her fathers estate should have gone to the government so that she could have started with a clean slate.
I would be happy for all my wealth and assets to go to the state when I die, if it were to mean that mine and everyone else's offspring all start on a level playing field and are judged on their own merits. 
In fact I'm seriously thinking of rewriting my will to donate it all to the tax department.Higher welfare spending.
But spend it on more education, health, training, and rehabilitation.
Those are the thing welfare should be mostly about.

I look at rich people and wonder how I am going to get my share back off of them, and how I can avoid giving them any more of my meagre share.

Australia's enviable situation came about because the early settlers relied on the welfare provided by the countries original inhabitants. A whole country, there for the taking. and our Aboriginals didn't even realise that they were being tricked into giving it all away.

Leoboy
which bits can't you believe? or are you in total denial?Ben
Surely you are smart enough to know that government and politics are two entirely different things.
Though I suspect it serves you to have others believe that they are one and the same.If we can reduce our emissions then the whole world can.
If we come up with the ideas and put them into practice first we will become very rich. if we have to buy what others produce then they will become rich.
Best not to sit back and miss that boat.AJC
what a perfect example of a denialist argument. A great lot of word that said absolutely nothing.
Are you denying that man is releasing CO2?
Are you denying that more CO2 reduces the rate of heat loss due to radiation?
Are you denying that more CO2 increases the rate of convection?
Are you denying that more CO2 increases the rate of evaporation?
Are you denying that more CO2 increases the rate of precipitation?

Please be clear about what scientific facts you are disputing.So you are saying that because something usually happens naturally, man can not be held responsible when he also contributes.

Using your argument, murder would be OK because under natural conditions far more people die due to other causes.

If there was no naturally occurring carbon release the planet would freeze. There would be no water vapour.
Water vapour is a very poor GHG as it tends to lose it's heat to the upper atmosphere and fall back to earth as rain.
The energy we receive from the sun is quite stable and constant, where as global atmospheric CO2 levels has increased by around 25% over the last 100 years. Compared to this this the heat energy and CO2 emitted by volcanic activity over the same period is as stable as you can get.

There is a direct correlation between the the atmospheric CO2 increases over the last century and the amount of fossil fuel extracted and burned by humans. But you of course chose to deny any of this.

One day the public will be wise enough to know that "the leadership" is not important, as leaders are actually steered by their parties and interest groups. (like the IPA).
Then voters will start to actually vote for policies and ideals, instead of fake media manicured personalities.I like to drink my scotch on ice.
What is amazing is that the scotch does not get any warmer until all the ice has melted.
The atmosphere works a little different of course, as when the radiation of heat in the atmosphere is slowed, convection aided by evaporation. condensation and precipitation become the main mechanism for any heat loss.

Most of the planets rain falls over the sea, striping heat from the atmospheric CO2 as it falls. Oceanic convection draws that warm surface water towards the poles, where it increases the rate at which the ice sheets and glaciers are melted, and increase the activity of low pressure cells in the region encouraging the growth in high pressure cell formation above the pole and ice sheet.
High pressure cells although extremely cold, tend to be extremely dry also, which forces the ice sheet to spread out in the short term due to the refreezing of the melt water.
The ice sheet covers a vaster area although becomes thinner.

So in summary, our frozen wastelands at the ends of our earth might keep us safe for a while, but there will be only so much that they can take.
Keep you eye on the poles, because when the tipping point comes it will be relentless and unforgiving.Chemotherapy to cure a melanoma is not much of a choice when there is the option of simple surgery.

Going nuclear is like swallowing the spider to eat the fly.Without going into addressing all you other misinformation, the period 1978 to 1998 was obviously the period where less heat was being diverted to the polar caps.

Which is what the ENSO thing all hinges on.No one is denying a pause in the rate of increase, neither are we denying the increased rate at which the permanent polar ice is melting, and the increase in the rate at which annual sea ice is forming.Unions just want wages for the members they represent, that are fair and just, in proportion to the outrageous salaries drawn by the greedy and lazy managerial masters and CEO's.

Given that you rarely find a company with more than ten levels of management then how come a CEO earns more than ten times that of the lowest level? .... only one answer. ..... GREED.Are continuing salary increases sustainable john?
how about continued property price rises?
Continued electricity prise rises?
food price rises?

Don't you think wages need to keep up?Burke
I totally agree!
A good CEO is worth ten times the average worker, (the average worker on the minimum wage doing the average job).
But no CEO is worth more than a good CEO.
Pay10% more per each managerial level.
No one is worth more than ten times the minimum wage.yeah john1, I guess some one has to buy all those houses that the poorest workers can't afford to own for themselves huh?The new policy will be named "Choice Workers",
                  ..........           ............
because everyone else will be thrown on the scrap heap.

Choice workers are the ones that never complain, will do any thing they are told no matter how dangerous it is, and will work for the least, all at the same time.The gulf between rich and poor will eventually get so wide that the whole economy will fall into it.

That is how you make a third world economy.
When the needy can't afford what the greedy want too much for.The reform we need is to ensure that no one is considered to be worth more than ten time that of their lowest paid employee.

Then we could afford all the safety measures we need, and current production rates would be more than adequate.

Get the fat snouts out of the trough.

Tax the money, not the poor.In order to have enough to by one of those cars the worker must first have enough to pay for all the other necessities in life (accommodation, food, medical, education, even some leisure), and I'm sure Henry knew that.

Under pay your employees and you slit your own throat in the process.Money never flows to the lowest point, it is continually seized and dragged to the top.

Give a rich man a dollar, and tomorrow he will have two.
Give a poor man a dollar and tomorrow the rich man will have it.The business that offers the lowest cost service is usually the one that pays it's workers the least, but rarely the one whose management pockets the least.Real poor people can't afford underpants! if they are wearing underpants they need to have their payment slashed to encourage them to get off of their butts and put in an effort to help the rich get even more richer.I guess it would stop those wasteful pensioners from putting half their benefit into the church collection box on Sunday, or from giving it away to any of those other charity organisations that they do. What gives then the right to give my hard earned tax dollars to the Fred Hollows Foundation.
Who do they think they are?  ......... Bill gates?Tom they probably first started feeding their addiction when they were employed and being paid by their employer.

I know that was when I first started smoking and drinking.
And I kept doing so when I went through a period of unemployment, of course, I was lucky enough at the time to score a derelict house for which the owner was asking no rent, so long as I looked after it.

I was later lucky enough that I had the willpower to finally kick the smoking habit and now rarely drink, but, how could someone afford to spend money on their addictions for long if they had to pay the rent at the current exorbitant prices as well.

Instead of charging an extra seven dollars per doctors visit perhaps they should be handing out free nicotine patches and helping people kick their addictions.
This mob however prefer to take the opportunity to give those who suffer misfortune a good kicking while they are down.The minimum wage for a single adult is $1,280 per fortnight, so $510 per fortnight sure sounds like poverty to me.
$255 per week, ... try paying your rent feeding yourself and keeping yourself clothed clean neat and tidy for that.Who exactly will be the main beneficiaries of this research funding?
will it make pharmaceuticals cheaper or doctors more wise?

How about we just take the seven dollars out of what the doctors already charge, put that into research and the pharmaceutical companies that will gain from it can give the doctors sets of golf clubs and holidays to island resorts for seminars to make up for it.As $7.00 is .0005% of the minimum wage, then perhaps the surcharge could be .0005% of each individuals wage per visit, just give the doctor your TFN each time you visit and the tax office could be informed so they could calculate your total annual charge and bill you in your tax bill at the end of the financial year.Team Australia where the team members who carry the team are rewarded with encouragement, and the "Team Leaders" are rewarded with medals, trophies and monuments.We aren't short of jobs, we just need to share the work load and share the rewards, and some people need to stop being so damned greedy.I shouldn't even have to answer this when the answer is so obvious.
The unemployment rat is 6%, and a proportion of the workforce get so few hours that they barely earn above the poverty line.

Use your brain, work it out.People here conveniently forget Keating's 18% interest rates which put the brakes on inflation and made housing more affordable for about ten years until howard wrecked it all again.Dead right rattan
some fools here conveniently forget or ignore the principal cost of housing, concentrating only on the cost of the borrowing.

You could pay your interest forever without paying anything off of the principle, but if you did you would never own the asset and might as well have just been renting.AE you job would be worth nothing if the Chinese didn't have anyone with some money to purchase the stuff they manufacture out of the stuff you mine. so the stimulus di pay to keep you in a job.

"Checkmate in 3 moves".AE if the western world had not had the stimulus packages our workers would not have kept buying product manufactured in Asia made from our raw materials which you were lucky enough to be employed to keep mining.

Nothing to do with Chinese stimulus. All to do with Chinese exports.

How simple does it have to be before you guys get it?The federal government is also not responsible for one single road, but do have the right to fund any road they believe is important enough.The one thing that binds us is that we all hate tyranny, and we all hate cheats and liars.
The trouble is some of us were too easily tricked into believing lies about who the liars and cheats were.
Luckily those who were tricked are beginning to wake up, and we are becoming united again against the biggest liar of all.

So Abbortt just can't win by uniting us, can he.It is illegal to leave the country on a fake, stolen or borrowed passport.
It should also be illegal for anyone to fight for any other force if they are not citizens of that country, other than in cases sanctioned by our military forces. 
It should also be illegal to hold citizenship on more than one country. As soon as you acquire citizenship in a second country, citizenship in you first should be revoked.Simon
this government is doing far more for the wealthy in our community than the Rudd/Gillard government ever did.Just get rid of the stupid GST, as it serves no other purpose than collecting revenue and mostly from the poor.

The perfect tax system would be a progressive one that charged
10% on the first $36,000 the minimum wage,
20% on the second $36,000
equating to 15% of $72,000 1 to 2 times the minimum wage,
30% on the third $36,000
equating to about 25% of$108,000 2 to 3 times the minimum wage,
40% on the forth $36,000
equating to about 40% of $144,000 2 to 3 times the minimum wage,
50% on the fifth $36,000 
equating to about 60% of $180,000 4 to 5 times the minimum wage,
and so on until you reach 100% where any extra work would be done at the taxpayer own choice for no further reward.
or they could take a holiday.

People could still be wealthy, but the gap between the richest and the poorest would be much less.We are talking income.
When people cash in their investments they become income.
the longer they leave it to cash it in the larger the sum, and under my proposed scheme, the greater the tax paid.Gregory
you are correct
There was an error in my rough calculations
but I'm sure you get the drift
I would mean that some one on $360,000 pa would pay about 75% tax
making the income of around $500,000 the highest amount one could earn, pretty generous I reckon, in fact probably too generous, but I don't want to change the whole world in one day.Gregory
You also seemed to have missed the line "and so on until you reach 100%"Mid-high income earners pay a larger amount of GST, but those on lower incomes pay a greater share of their income in GST.Envy verse greed Peter.
It's all about sharing the load and sharing the rewards.
Something the greedy don't like doing.By "Rent seekers" I assume you mean lazy people with money to build property portfolios.Why tax consumption and not tax the accumulation of wealth?
We currently tax consumption and then subsidise wealth accumulation.

Tax the money, not the people.Yes oh- owe
Money passed on to beneficiaries should be taxed at the standard income tax rate, so as to discourage hoarding.
Businesses could be signed over a little each year to the offspring of business owners to avoid their children having to pay one huge lump sum, but once again, it is usually greed that prevents it.You have missed the point of the equation, only the tenth and above $36,000 is taxed at 100%, so you could never take the whole of their income, at $500,000 they would still retain around $250,000.
Though greed would demand that this was never enough.Caffettierra Moka

Seems you are suggesting that it would make no difference to them.
Then why aren't you demanding something be done to change that?
I see you have no ideas, only criticism.
Seems I'm the only one with any.

So here's one.
Higher business taxes, with rebates for wages and salaries and dividends paid to Australian citizens who are paying tax in Australia.Exactly V, the GST just made the black economy worse. The howard government dropped the ball on taxation and as yet it still hasn't been picked up.They avoid paying both the tax on their income and the GST on their service and the GST on any mark up they charge on materials.

When a trades person offers to do a job for cash we should report it to the taxation office, because when they dodge paying their tax, you have to pay more to make up for it.No one can explain the complexity of the GST still.
but that's not what makes it such a bad idea.

A lot of things are hard to explain, that doesn't make them a bad idea.For once I agree with you Peter.

Don't say another thing.Marko
Peddling the same old misinformation does nothing to advance the argument or encourage any effort to find a solution. The air temperature has not warmed at the same rate as it currently was, and the oceans are now warmer than they have ever been since man first evolved. But CO2 is still a problem.

Even though much of the heat still escapes the planets surface by means of convection due to evaporation, and precipitation, there will always be an equal and opposite reaction to every action, and many of those reaction will have a downside, one even being the freezing events due cold dry air returning to the surface via massive high pressure cells, a direct result of decreases heat radiation and increased convection.Where is your answer Greig, or will you just continue to ignore the problem, or would you prefer to create a whole new world wide problem by going nuclear?"australia as a whole contributes bugger all to global warming"
and yet the idiots argue that Al Gore contribute so much in comparison.
China of course contributes so much, so how lucky we are that we can supply them with all that coal and gas, buy all their manufactured exports and them blame them for any damage that results from our extravagant high standard of living.
So lucky to have a scape goat, or a few billion of them to ease our conscience.Perhaps we could argue that much of the heat is hiding in our raindrops.
AS many regions are experiencing dryer winters and increased summer rains.
Most of this rain ends up in our oceans, in fact most rain falls over the oceans, and the warm surface waters trend towards the poles, which is why the ocean around the Antarctic is warming, melting ice produces fresh water which tend to float atop of salt water for a while until it mixes the water sinking to the bottom there is salt water which is warmer than it has been in the recent past.

Ask yourself just why the Antarctic is so cold, it is not simply because it receives little sunlight, as atmospheric convection plays the greatest role in the cooling.You're kidding me!!!!!

Then let's compare what the western society contributes compared to China, or perhaps China could measure their contribution by individual provinces, much like you are doing. 

Let's then measure the contribution of those who live in Sydney against all those who live in the Simpson desert.

I hope you never buy anything that was made in China Bev, because surely that would make you responsible for it's consequences.

I doubt you would ever accept any consequences for anything if you could just pretend that someone else was to blame.
What you really mean stupendious, is that the planet can cope with recycling 97% of the CO2 in the atmosphere which occurs naturally, and the extra 3% that man contributes is unfortunately accumulating, leading to an increase of in CO2 of 25% over the last 100 years.

Water vapour is not a green house gas as, as it increases in volume it convects to a higher level in the atmosphere where it reduces the incoming sunlight and then radiates it's heat to space and cools, condenses, and falls as rain (the water part, as opposed to the vapour part, of "WATER -VAPOUR"). Green house gasses can't do that as they remain gasses as in "GREEN HOUSE GASSES". 
Ah! so! if we only produce per capita emissions and never gross emissions everything will be OK?
I wonder if that also works for civilians killed in military conflicts?
We could make war OK too.Let's blame the Chinese or even the Indians.
After all they have so many shoulders to carry the blame and the poor of the world have been carrying our wealthy for so long now that they should have the strength to carry anything.Looking at total emissions would make those who emit the least responsible for most of the contribution of those who emit the most.
Perhaps we could also look at incomes in the same way so that the wealth is spread evenly through everyone's bank accounts.
I'll be looking forward to receiving my cheque in the mail.Seems the poles and wires are the expensive part of the infrastructure, and you need even heavier poles and wires if you have a coal or uranium powered grid.'they respect and understand our position'.
like they respect and understand Ukraines position.
LOL.
He may have said something but it adds up to nothing.
Abbortt did some pasturing and the rest of the world took some action.Trouble is all of Abbortt's deals have made us, the average Australian, worse off.
It's going to take a little while to work its way through the pipeline, but we are going to regret all these free trade deal in a few years time.
The only people that are in front now are those who own shares in foreign and multinational companies.
Get ready to face the working poor, only with Abbortt they will just be the poor.Spot on Luke.

How big a bribe do these companies need to operate here.

This is why we should have import duties, and higher company taxes with offsets for local ownership and employment.
If every country did it they would all be better off.

The Global economy only works when local economies work, otherwise it is just global thievery.
I'll respect her when she does something for the country and not just for those wealthy shareholders and her own salary package.

She is no better than the men who are driven with the same lust for power and greed.A good education isn't about what you are taught but what you can learn.
What is this woman's legacy? other than setting an example for other women's greed.When it comes to education, there are those who can remember everything they are taught, and then there are those who realise that some of what they are taught is nonsense.
Guess which ones end up with the degrees and teach the next generation.At least some politicians have some ideals.Many of us men wouldn't want that sort of job either.
My level of compassion and empathy would see me sacked by the shareholders in no time.Yeah, and the libs can't seem to scrape up any that are really worthwhile.

Seems everything any liberal says has been fed to them through their earpiece.surrogacy would certainly be one of them.Gail Kelly might be worth revering if she now chooses to dedicate the rest of her life to volunteer work rather than greedily chasing more money.A tax on luxury items and services should do it peter, a tax on wastage, a tax on greed.
They would all work well to catch those people you are talking about, and I've been advocating it all along.

The only problem you might have with it is that those measures would be bi-partisan and non biased.Perhaps then the denialists would be happy then if we were to start culling some of the population.
Better still perhaps we could just cull the most wasteful and greedy, to ensure a more effective solution.Arguing that its not pollution, its population, allows them to keep blaming India and China.
Which of course they would never do if they lived there.

Never their fault, always somebody else's, no matter how greedy and wasteful they are.Exactly Yank
These two problems go hand in hand.
Here in Australia we have a fairly low birthrate, but continue to keep importing people  (good for the economy we are told).

Good for multinational companies anyway, (pushing wages down and production up), so they can run off with more plunder.

As I said, population and consumption two problems with similar negative outcomes and similar causes, that both need addressing.Please site one freedom that you know it will take away, and we'll tell you if it is one you should have in the first place.

All laws and changes to laws take away someone's freedom to do something.

Climate change will take away so many freedoms from future generations they would be wishing we had stuck with a carbon tax and tripled it.You have to read between the mumbo-jumbo to salvage any sensible point from some of these posts, but if you look hard enough they can sometimes be found.
Some "freedoms" impinge upon the health and well-being of others and therefore should be restricted.
With this I do agree.Peter
For once you have given us a sensible comment that we can agree with.

Some freedoms are freedoms we should not have the right to commit, because of their negative and damaging effect on the health or well-being of others.Picard seems to be there in the front row.If I proclaimed that I was going to get drunk, and prang my car, should I be proud if I were to achieve it?

"Help the worlds persecuted", "reduce the emission of green house gasses", now there would be a couple you could be proud of achieving.I personally prefer Douglas Adams infinite improbability drive.
Where once you calculated how improbable it was that you could be somewhere, all you had to do was generate enough improbability and you would be there.

As soon as someone mentions the idea that worm holes exist, the improbability becomes infinite.Light is a wave of energy travelling through a sea of dark matter. It can only travel as fast as the dark matter can absorb and re-emit it.
Light of course can have it's wave length change by interactions with other forces, which might explain why Black holes emit x-raysBut a wave, not being a particle has to have a medium to move through, and space itself was never considered to be enough.
Tell me one place in the universe where dark matter is believe to be in short supply.
How would we even know if photons were reacting with it is we did not know how they react with it.
We all know that gravity has an effect on light. What sort of reaction are you expecting from a particle that has no mass?Assuming that matter would take an eternity to travel from the event horizon to the singularity, then one black hole could eventually easily contain all of infinity.The event horizon is the point at where the reflected light has slowed to the point where light is no longer reflected out wards, up until that point the appearance of time being slowed is purely an illusion because of the delay in any image reaching you.

Even light leaving our sun takes longer to get to the suns surface than it does to travel from the sun to us.Ah! but one could say that the Big Bang, (or one of them), was the creator of the all nature as we know it, but it would be wrong to say that it was the creator of the universe. 
The universe has always existed, it is just that it may not have always existed in this form.Nature is the law of physics, you can't get any more absolute than the law of physics,  but who amongst us really knows and fully understands the law of physics.
Even as children we were taught that hot air rises, as if it has some kind of anti gravity property.
Of course it doesn't rise, heavier things push it up out of the way.I'm with both of you,  But only a fool would choose to tackle only one aspect of the overall problem.
I would choose to tackle both, over consumption and over production, and anything else that proves to contribute to our  problems.Peter
I can't wait to hear you start whining when the price of beef goes up. That of course wont be the end of it as our dollar is now falling because of falling export prices, so expect all imports to start going up in price as well, The only outcome we can expect is a  lower standard of living, which you will just blame on the poor as usual.

There is nothing good in these free trade agreements, they will reduce us to being just another third world economy.
You should be smart enough to realise that, unless you think we are suddenly going to start farming the Simpson dessert.Yeah right, we will be able to go out and open up all that lush farmland in the middle of the Simpson dessert and start growing magic puddings.
Better get Burke and Wills onto that one.Hope you have your spade sharpened to start digging up your back yard for all this extra food production we are supposed to deliver on.
What's in it for us again?
I assume you must think you know something we don't.Blame K Rudd and Labor? For capitalism and greed? you sure?Perhaps you should only be allowed to borrow money for your initial place of dwelling. If you want a second house then you should save the cash to buy it, as I did with my first and only.Don't worry AE they wont be for much longer. To many they are only affordable when other essentials are neglected.AE it keeps them poor and keeps them in slavery.
Rent should never be more than 25% of the minimum wage.

And with food prices about to go through the roof because of recently signed free trade agreements along with increasing prices on imports because of our falling dollar, and our increasing unemployment numbers, current rent prices are going to be pretty hard to find the cash to pay.

Not to worry, your rich mates will continue to do fine, even if they are complaining much louder.Properties don't make money while they are subsidised, the subsidy just goes towards taking on the next mortgage.

The profit isn't made until the properties are sold and a pittance is then paid in capital gains tax.AE
So you are making a profit.
So glad that you can find tenants that have jobs that pay enough to keep you living in the luxury that you have grown accustomed to.
Better than working for a living I suppose.Peter the greed of the right trumps the envy of the left every time.
You you guys weren't so greedy whe would have nothing to be envious of.

Not only does the tenant pay for most of the investment but the investment property owner is subsidised by tax payers that have to actually work for a living.
The envious only ask for their fair share.  How much do the greedy want for nothing?So Peter, you are saying that government intervention is only good when it is for the purpose of delivering inequality!Interest rates too low, salaries too high, a recipe for disaster.

Just like the government, they should not make promises that they can't keep.The accumulation of property assets does nothing to stimulate the economy, it just leaches the life out of it.Sheer hypocrisy that Abbortt had the gall to attend after doing everything in his power to destroy the legacy of this great man.

A fitting tribute to Gough Whitlam would be the retention of free education and healthcare.

Our current PM disgusts me, because he will not be happy until he has destroyed every thing that Gough ever achieved."Warmist"
No, it is not a reference to the fog of war as found in most computer games.

It is a unimaginative and poorly descriptive term chosen to label the opponents of your typical climate change denier.
I would prefer "Realist""Did it ever arrive?"
Good point Sam.

Have you looked at NASA's info on the current solar maximum. It has been only emitting about half the energy of the last four.
So although there has been some warming, it has been minimal.
This would give a pretty good explanation of why thing aren't as bad as scientists expected them to be.
Just wait till the next one in eleven years, it might be a shocker.
Expect a lot of broken records if it is.

Ten out of ten for asking the right question.
Zero out of ten however if you didn't get the right answer.Weather is not climate you say!
How then do they know what the climate is if it is not the re-occurrence of your weather cycle average.

Surely reoccurring extremes must change your average.
or do you suggest they should be deleted from the data.

Is it ok then if denialists ignore or remove data to back up their argument?Did you just read the headline and then go on a rant.

What is being discussed here is the politics behind discussion.

Seems you fell right into the trap.

Most scientists are of the opinion that CO2 is causing a problem, Most people believe that most scientists are right. Sure, consensus is not proof, you don't have to agree with any of them, and you probably wont.

But, obviously none of them will be agreeing with you either, which leaves you pretty much on your own.
If you don't want to remain on your own on the weak side of the argument, then you need to come up with a convincing argument that will have people switch sides to agree with you.

Good luck with that, but, if you do have something unique to say that you think will change our minds, I for one would really like to hear it, it might be something we missed.Swan dive
No where in my comment did I say that I could not prove anything was happening.

I was not talking about the science, I was talking as the article was about to politics supporting and denying the science.

Your comment to my post was a perfect example of how politically biased some people are, so much so that you can't even see what information is in a piece of text and are convinced it is saying things that they would prefer it was.

People in denial are oblivious to and ignorant of any truth that is placed before them.Housing bubbles burst when they correct themselves, all it means for it not to have burst yet is that it still hasn't corrected it self yet.
The bubble will burst when interest rates rise.
Interest rates haven't risen yet because wages have been kept in check.
The bubble wont burst while we continue to sacrifice more and more Australians to the scrap heap, but if we keep doing that eventually our whole economy will collapse and the whole house of cards will eventually fall.

In a failing economy it is always the wealthy who are the last to fall. While they retain some wealth they can afford to sit on overpriced assets.So, we can help the elephant in the room by ignoring it!
What about when it gets hungry?

Now, are you saying that immigration is not part of the population problem? and that only overseas countries whose immigrants we take have an overpopulation problem?

Of course, I should have realised it is always there fault, and never ours. Not our fault, not our problem huh?
I guess we can just send them all home the next time we have a series of drought years and we run out of water again.

So, if you don't love it leave hey Peter?

Governments are here to serve the people, but this government serves no one but its masters, and it fools the people so that it can keep doing it.
If only our Australian population were smarter, then this government would never be seen again.

Team Australia .... I think not. They are just cramming their pockets full while they can.
I'll stick to being on Team Planet.Ebver lied yourself AE?
So have I.
The severity of the lie also need to be considered.
But if I have lied once, then Abbortt has lied a thousand times. 
You might have considered Labor to be useless, bat as Abbortt has done nothing so far but wind back the few things Labor actually got through, then that makes Abbortt less than useless.

Let me know when this liberal government actually achieves something positive and substantial.

The libs "Moving Australia Backwards".More people means more profits, Big business would never stand for a population policy.Parties are good because you know what position they will take on various issues because of their manifesto or their parties ideologies.
When it comes to independents, you don't have a clue (Clive is the perfect example) and if you are going to vote for someone for whom you have no clue of their stance then you might as well not vote at all.

You ether really have to know the guy you are voting for or you have to know just who they ally with."No schedule, no plan, just more reports and other delaying tactics", pretty much sums up all Abbortt has delivered in government so far.
He's great at putting an end to things, (Abbortt this, Abbortt that) but not so good at getting any thing worthwhile going.

He even wants to put an wnd to our just and fair society by increasing the GST and making those with the least pay even more. If increasing the GST and making it apply to even more of our daily needs is good, then so would be a pole tax, or even a tax on poverty.

What a greedy, vicious and hateful bunch they are.I have a great idea for their direct action plan and it incorporates self regulation. The libs should love it.

Make every vehicle driver connect a hose from their exhaust into their cabin, and allow them to self regulate their own emissions.
You could of course only drive so far before and it would be necessary to pull over and get out for a walk before continuing, rather than risking passing out and crashing and never driving any further.
Those who didn't pull over soon enough would no longer be part of the problem.
You can't force someone to volunteer, but you can reward them for their effort.

Here are two ideas for you.

Rewarding volunteers seems like a good use for the emergency services levy.
If it went to rewarding volunteers, decent people would be happy to pay it. 

If you want more volunteers, then how about encouraging the unemployed to pitch in by doubling the dole for any one who signs up to a 24 hour per week on call emergency workers schedule.So you wouldn't trust you colleagues to be team players if you were part of the metropolitan fire brigade, who are paid employees.

In that case why would you ever trust a doctor?
They get paid too you know.Do you want a job done?Don't whinge when no one steps forward to do it for nothing.The employers want them working while they are young and highly mentally active. as far as they are concerned they can raise their children when they are retired and senile.I feel so sorry for any rich man who can't afford to be any worse off.
Luckily our poor just take being worse of in their stride.

Perhaps our wealthy could learn something from them.A bit like increasing the GST jimmy. A rise in the price of everything, and the libs want it.if it costs any of them an extra cent, then they will add ten.
business people are there to make as much money as they can, and ripping off their customers is the best way of achieving it.
Remember the laws allow them to charge what ever the market will bare, and if the customers are dumb enough to think the rise is justified, then  they will get away with it.

Tell them you don't believe it is justified, every time you pay, and make sure you do it in front of as many of their other customers as you can.
"Maintain the rage"How about reinstate indexation, and increase the fuel tax as well, give half the money to the states, and then scrap both of howards stupid ideas by removing the GST on everything else.

Targeted taxes, deliver two direct hits with one blow.My last bill went up.

I'm still waiting for this amazing reduction in price which will deliver me the equivalent of one days work over the next four years.Pity that the multinationals who own the mine you work at are being subsidised or let off the hook for all the pollution and damage they cause. all so we can supply the multinational owners of industries in China with cheap ore to go with the cheap labour, so they can sell us those products at hundreds and even thousands percent mark up.Ruth is complaining that Abbortt pretends to give with one hand  (a reduction to the cost of living by the removal of the carbon tax) and actually takes more with the other hand (an increase in the cost of living by an increase in in health care charges)

At the end of the day when everything has been added up, you will undoubtedly find that Abbortt will have ripped more out of the pockets of the poor, just to put more in the pockets of wealthy shareholders and executives.Sadly, in times of lower employment demand, working harder often just does someone else out of a job.It would have been nice if all those whingers hadn't been complaining so much about a pretty insignificant carbon tax too.

Then look at all those mining company executives and shareholders that complained constantly about the MRRT which evidently raised no money anyway.
LOL, what were they complaining about then?I think he meant the average housing estate would save $550.For me it's one days pay over the next four years.

Woohoo!Now just watch you bill go up over the next five years as the next solar maximum arrives.
Air conditioning is not cheap, and you're gonna need lots of it.Billy
Why do you keep dragging out the same old nonsense. only a fool would believe you.
Still, I guess there are a lot around.Billy you are correct in the fact that we are on our way to the next peak in the solar maximum.

We are however experiencing much weaker solar activity than the last peak in 1999, so this explain why we have been experiencing a cooling trend since that peak, however the next solar maximum after this one is due in about ten years time, so let's hope it isn't as active as the one in 1989 which was a rather powerful one.

If the next one is not a weak solar cycle as the current one is, then we will really get to know how bad all this extra CO2 is.Bigger dole cues mean lower wages.
Abbortt knows what he wants, .......  or at least he knows what his masters want.Why would you want to store power?
the sun shines all day when it is hot.
Make power all day while the sun shines and store the energy in the form of chilled water. Then in winter store the energy in the form of hot water.

It doesn't cost all that much for a water tank.Hydrogen can be stored at low pressure with minimal risk, which is perfect for heating or cooking.
It can also be used to produce electricity with hydrogen fuel cell technologyPaul01
Do you really think any one believed Abbortt's statement on the GST, even his supporter knew that one was a lie. He will do all he can to increase the GST, so that he can further reduce taxing wealth.
Much easier to tax the poor, because they don't have the power to rock the boat in protest that on rich man has.I think we need to need both. they both have different roles to play.
Some things are best done on a local level, others are best done on a national level.

Though I think only people who have served for six years at a state level should be allowed to stand for federal election.howards removal of guns from our society had reduced the number of accidental shootings and number of incidents of guns used for suicide.
Criminals however can get hold of illegal guns however any time they want one.interestingly, 99.9999% of all the guns howard got rid of would never have been used in any mass shooting with in the next hundred years.

That figure is only a rough guess of course, the real figure would be very close to 100% of the actual number of guns that were destroyed, but it would be close.Everyone loves to receive a gift, but no one is happy when they receive a bill for it.I will admit that I never voted for Whitlam, as in my youth I was foolish enough to vote liberal as my farmer parents did.Ben, we weren't building houses in China.
Even mining companies were laying off workers.
What would have happened if we had let our building industry collapse as well?It sure would have dumped a lot of young workers onto the unemployment lines.

We were lucky that the government stimulus gave our employers confidence that they were going to survive it.Thanks Snake.
you saved me the trouble of trying to convince an arrogant and ignorant individual of the bleeding obvious.

I couldn't have said it better.

Perhaps Ben could attempt to give us some proof that the libs wouldn't have once again sacrificed the poor to protect the rich. Though I suspect he would fail dismally.

You don't need a whole sector of the economy to totally collapse to see a great number of trainees, apprentices and labourers discarded to the dole cue."worse than it would have been if the industry had been allowed to donsize naturally as a result of the GFC."

"Proof please."

What rubbish!

P.S.
You have appalling spelling for someone who claims to hold a  law degree, I guess you meant downsize, but, you really need to get a secretary who can take better dictation and type, or at least know how to run spell check.Yes, the pink batts program was great. 

Though sadly a hand full of small business operators let us down.For a lawyer Ben is sure hopeless at building a convincing argument.
He's a bit like the Monty Pythons sketch.

Ben makes claim, something like, "Wayne Swan was worlds worst treasurer".
Labor supporter says "That's not an argument, it's just contradiction".
Ben replies "No it isn't".Tony Abbortt, the "cappuccino man" (all froth no substance) prefers to through three word slogans around rather than money, and his one eyed supporters are gullible enough to think that he is actually doing something, when they allow themselves to be brainwashed by his inane nursery rhyme chants.Rudd was dumped by his team as captain, because of his arrogance in the way he was treating them.

They chose him as their spokes person, and had every right to dump him if they weren't happy.

The only people who voted for Rudd, were those who voted Labor in his electorate, and as he still retained his seat, those voter have nothing to complain about.No, I expect a Prime Minister to represent the politicians that we electors voted for.
Otherwise it would be a dictatorship and our votes would be superfluous.Perhaps they were of the view that some time on the back bench had made him more willing to listen to the concerns of his colleagues.
Does no one ever deserve a second chance?

Even shonkey businessmen who claim bankruptcy are aloud to start again after five years. Although I think they should never get to have a second go until they have repaid all their debts to all those they ripped off, even if it mean working as a labourer for the rest of their lives.Good to see we agree on something Peter.

My argument is that, I voted for the person in my electorate who most represented my values.
Who he/she chooses from his/her colleagues to represent him/her as his/her spokesman is his/her choice.
The main thing is that I expect whoever won the seat in my electorate to be represented, if they have similar values to the majority of all those elected in all the other seats.
IanM
You have you big and small "L" liberals, we have our big and small "L" Labor members.

Rudd was known to be a little on the conservative side, a little further to the right than most of his colleagues, but, you know what happens when you upset big business and media, and Rudd knew how to appease them enough to lead them slightly back toward centre, or slightly left of the far right.

No good when the guys with all the money get their backs up, because you wont let them make all the rules, and want to take their ball and go home.

Look what happened to Holden. You have to know how to butter up a spoiled child, because they have no empathy for others needs. That was what Rudd was good at, but he failed to spread the "Love".Future generation will be busy paying to fix their atmosphere and paying to repair the damage done by a more greatly energised climate. The importance of economies will pale in significance.Logic trumps consensus any time.
Both of which the denial argument totally lacks.Once again, you have failed to keep up with the latest facts and the most recent information on the issue.

AGW is soon about to rush up behind you and kick you in the butt.
Stick your head back in the sand, ... and take a deep breath. Just let the rest of us responsible ones sort out your mess for you.

I'm with the youngsters on this one.Not is we actually start teaching them some real science in schools John.
The liberal curriculum however will focus more on a version of bastardised history and bias Christian religion as it's choice.We as a part of western society have been stealing off of these third world countries for so long  that we really should do something to repay some of our debt.State governments and Councils can only approve wind farms that are accepted by the majority of the rural community members and individual land owners.

In rural regions most of those individuals vote liberal or national, many believe that wind farm will make them sick, kill all the wedge tailed eagle that they haven't yet shot, are a danger to ultralight aircraft, are a communist plot and that climate change is a money making scam run by greenies.

So it is no wonder wind farms take so long to get approved.Yes fredn, LNP voters are so easily lead, by the sentiments of their parties spokes people.What are you suggesting we do Peter?
Go in there and halve their population for them?

each of their individual citizens currently emits less than half of our average individual citizen. Should they be denied the right to own a stove perhaps, or a fridge, which most of them don't. Perhaps no lighting.

You just don't understand and can't see how stupid your statement is to blame individuals who contribute less to the problem merely because of population density.
By you reckoning the guys living in the Antarctic produce the least CO2 in the world, do you see how dumb that statement would be?

CO2 output can't be measured based on tones per square kilometre, it has to be measured by tones per person, based on ones usage and consumption choices.

The problem is a global one, the cause is wasteful and greedy individuals.Let's face it, the guy got away with murder.

Let's hope his fellow inmates are more responsible than the judge who failed her duty.

I wonder how much she was paid.Jimmy surely you are joking.

If Steenkamp had murdered Pistoious by shooting him several times through that toilet door you would still be screaming for harder justice even if she received a death penalty.Perhaps she thought locking the door might stop a hail of bullets.If that was justice, I'd be tempted to take my chances and go and settle a few old scores tomorrow.

Luckily, I am wise enough to know that that was not justice.Right on Peter. Neither you or I are fooled by this travesty of justice.How would he have known if it was or if it wasn't, unless he knew who it really was.

My guess is that he knew it was a woman, and what evidence can you offer that would convince me otherwise?I put coal in the same category as crystal meth.
Sure it might make life feel good, until you have to pay for it with your future, and your environment or your soul.

"Let's sell all our tomorrows for a little more of today".Didn't they sell of the LNP to many varied vested interests?
I'm sure even the tobacco companies still hold a few shares don't they?
The cigar thing was an endorsement wasn't it?The difference is that The Labor Party takes donations from unions that are hell bent on moving us forward into the 21th Century, and not imprison us in the LNP's preferred era.Personally sunset,
I think the wiser move is for we slaves to unite and rise up, form a union and fund a political party that will ensure that we are no longer treated as slaves and have our efforts appreciated.

Of course the option is already there, and has been since the formation of the Labor Party.Peter will use the trusted LNP magic pudding recipe, and just cook the books to deliver the required outcomes.To Peter nothing is an essential government service. All could be delivered by private enterprise.

Why even our police force would be cheaper if we privatised it and contracted the Hell's Angels to do the job.

On the books at least.By uping the profits, I assume you mean making people pay more for the services.
Well at least our wealthy will still be able to afford health cover.
I guess they'll just dig a big pit down the end of the road for the others to drop themselves into.PPL is just an incentive for the wealthy to have more children.
Make the rate the same for all working mothers, ( the minimum wage for 26 weeks) and you might encourage some young unemployed would be mothers to find a job before getting pregnant, it would actually be an incentive to them.
I would recommend a clause demanding repayment if they terminate their employment within seven years though.
Sure, use our coal for making high quality steel, and then export that.

But why the hell are we using it to air condition our homes.One of the major requirements of making bauxite into Aluminium is electricity, where as the major requirement for making iron ore into steel is coal, so if QLD is already producing more power from solar than they have markets for mid afternoon, why are aluminium smelters getting special treatment when it come to coal fired power generation?Perhaps we can teach people not to get old as well and take the pressure of of aged care facilities too.

I will agree that big new hospitals might not be the whole answer, but we can't do without them.

But this is a problem we are having with all our major infrastructure, the lack of decentralisation.
Trouble is it is all the fault of big business who all want to set up in major cities, where workers can be discarded and replace without a care.Whitlam's values and ideal don't serve those who are driven by greed and arrogance.Trouble is all the markets are driven by big business. all big businesses want to set up in the big cities, where land prices are the highest due to high demand.

We need to encourage businesses to decentralise, and set up in regions where land prices are cheaper, and make those regions prosper.

reduce the costs levied at business if they set up where land is cheaper and more available, and people will happily relocate to these areas to reap the benefits.

It is these over bloated big businesses that are killing our economy, and we need to fix it.

The key word is DECENTRALISATION.Jimmy
For once we are on the same page, we have to stop dancing to the tune of the big multinationals and encourage more regional decentralised small businesses.So Tossie, you no doubt would also claim that deforestation is good because it supplies cheap building materials.Staying in power is all about keeping those swinging voters happy, and who knows what they will be expecting next.When I read the news item, I thought the emails were purely satirical, with the intention of holding a mirror to LNP values, to induce reflection and embarrassment as a way of waking people them up to their bigotry.

I still can't believe they weren't.
How could any one person be such a  perfect example of what the LNP stands for.

Could it be that Professor Barry Spurr is the master mind behind it all and perhaps even the guy feeding Abbortt his lines through his earpiece from behind the scenes?What should be discussed at the G20. is the stupidity of free trade agreements and how they only benefit tax avoiding multinational big businesses, and not economies.If there were already wealthy and less well off before Gillard was elected then it shows that the class divide already existed before Julia was even on the scene.

So what you say is total nonsense.Considering that climate change will deal a severe blow to our world economy it would be rather stupid to not to bring it up.
I hope they bring up the fallacy that free trade agreements are good for our economies, when the only ones they really benefit are tax dodging multinational big business share holders and CEO's.We don't know who this guy is now.
Every day he astounds us more and more.

Look at the actual quote from just the other day
It was bizarre!

"Look, I'm going to shirt front Mr Putin!  ... you bet you are! ...... you bet I am,"

Seems he got a little confused about the messages being fed to him by his puppet master through his earpiece, who was perhaps drunk, either that or Abbortt's a schizophrenic with multiple personalities and has just let it slip that personality two is not quite in sync on the issue.

So who is he really?
To coin a phrase
Will the real Tony Abbott step forward?
LOL.


What? Can't read Burke?I want one with
"Australians are all morons! 
Sadly I'm one of them!"
on mine.

Something more positive might be better though, something that might encourage hope and unity, perhaps something like, "Australia, if you don't love it, then help us all change it".

Now, that could be the electoral commissions new voting enrolment slogan, or perhaps even a new Labor  party slogan.I guess if it is in writing then it is not exactly free speech, free printing, maybe.An excellent comment Redfella.

You can't improve on any situation once you leave.

The T shirt seems to be advocating asylum seeking, it seems to be saying, that if you don't like the country you live in you should seek refugee status elsewhere rather than staying and trying to fix it.

After all it is exactly what the boat people who arrive on our shores have been forced to do.

Now that I understand exactly what it all boils down to, I'll just assume anyone I see wearing one of those T shirts is in favour of accepting more refugees then.
Gerard
The people you argue with would rather see them murdered in their beds by those who oppress them, than to see them given any hope of escape.A housing market and share market crash might make our aspirational greedy pull their heads in for a while.Abbortt is like the big mouth in the pub, and we will never hear what he actually says to Putin face to face in the end.We all need to stand together against those over grown "school yard bullies".
Don't let go of your lunch money, and don't give in to do their bidding.

Perhaps it's time for a new chant of defiance and unity, "Sticks and stones may break our bones, but we'd rather meet our end, than be their friend".The members of our military have been offered a miserly 1.5% pay increase a year over the next 3 years (half the expected rate of inflation), I wonder how much our captains of industry will be stuffing in their pockets.Thanks guys, another great piece.
Perhaps people will start seeing through the liberal lies eventually when they eventually realise just what they stand for.
It's all about slavery, and getting rich and getting there by riding on another's back.I don't, if I don't need it to remain a active, contributing member of this society.

Your solution then, to beating the school bully, would be to stop attending school. Real smart.Let's start with the peasant workers of China.The lies have always been bigger under a liberal government, it's what the liberals stand for. The right to be dishonest.God help us.
More accountants.So how do you turn the situation around to give all kids an equal and fair chance, if their parents never succeeded to gain a good education, how do you expect their children to ever succeed any more than their parents did.
But of course that is not yours or gd's objective here is it.

It is because you know that everyone can't succeed, because if they did, everyone would be equal, and no one could have more than anyone else, and that world would not suit you.I certainly does require a certain level of gullibility to aspire to becoming a member of the liberal party in the first place.

You have to be able to believe that the members of the general public wont be able to see right through you, and vote Labor instead.John
To me it appears the coalition want to lose the next election, they have recently even gone to the effort to ensure that they will not be receiving the armed services votes by offering them pay rises over the next three years that wont even keep up to inflation.

You wouldn't want to be in power while inciting your military towards revolution, because there are no guarantee that Abbortt would fare anywhere near as well as Captain Bligh.

Tax the money not the poor.
The money is all in the pockets of the wealthy.

Why should our pensioners be expected to carry the multinationals and multimillionaires.

Talk about lifters and leaners.

The only lifting the wealthy do is out of the pockets of our frail and elderly.Yes 
welfare for the rich needs to be scrapped too.

All of us on low wages are forced to support the rich who just want more and more.

Can we afford not to go to war?

Can we afford to allow aid workers in foreign countries to be beheaded just because their god has the wrong colour skin?Eric I wouldn't want to risk loosing my head over a little debt.The trouble is any kind of predator will seek out a position where they can have easy access to that which they crave. (Money, Power, the gullible, The vulnerable).

That is why their are so many instances of corruption in our society.
You average garbage-man is not likely to harbour any ulterior motives.Abbortt is being just like the CFS firebug.

Get the fire going, fan the flames and when the public are all horrified he rushes back in with the fire extiguisher to save the day.

Anyone who thinks he sees the wearing of a burka as a case of individual rights is a fool.

After testing the waters of public opinion he is just going to jump onto the populist band wagon and attempt to cadge a free ride to the next election, and their will be plenty of voters dumb enough to fall for the ruse.So Roger, how come Bolt isn't savaging our current PM for his incompetence and habitual lying then?

She was savaged merely because she was a member of the Labor party, and didn't stand up for the wealthy conservative side of town.Any responsible government would have modified the tax to make it work effectively, not scrapped it.

The libs work for multinationals, and just do their bidding.

We need a government that works for the people, not for their rich mates."Gonski? DNIS? These are not and were not funded, so killing them off means they don't have to be yet more burdens."

Killing of the disadvantaged, the weakest and most vulnerable seems to bee the only solution the libs and their supporters can come up with. It's a greed driven political ideology that seethes with hatred.

It's time we stopped the selfish and in-empathetic  cheating lying and scheming for the short term gains that only benefit the wealthy and started making some effort to work towards building a real future for our coming generations.

Stamp out the greed.

In the nineties they tried to convince us it was good, and now the same leaches try to convince us that aspiring to social equality is bad.It is a problem Ann, Some retiree's have huge superannuation investments and property portfolios that deliver them an income that even a couple of starry eyed newly-weds couldn't spend if they tried. 
These investments syphon cash out of the economy as profits and dividends. 

Most of them are not really retired at all but are still sucking money out of the economy to be accumulated and hoarded just so they can continue to further spoil their children and grand children through their wills when they die.

This is why assets and cash gifted in a deceased estate should be taxed as normal income.
Knowing that half would be taken by the government, retiree's would be far less likely to hoard wealth, and pass it on before they die.

Hoarding wealth does nothing to help an economy, it only helps the one doing the hoarding or those it is eventually gifted to.Graeme
why would they be forced to sell if the price of housing were to fall, unless they were foolish enough to borrow more than they could afford in the first place, leaving themselves no leeway for rising interest rates.
People need to remember that rates once hit 17.5%, when they borrow, or did they think it could never happen to them.

The best solution to this problem in the first place would be an assets tax, or to only allow capital gains to be claimed on an investment for only the first year of ownership.I'm with the egg
I own a home not an investment.
It could drop to 10% of it's value and it would still adequately serve the purpose I bought it for.How about we change the CGT laws so that you can only claim on the asset in the first year of ownership.
Then bring back the FBT to ensure they don't just do yearly change overs.It is actually investors who are pushing up the prices, but FHBS should be scrapped as well, along with ending CGT after 12 months of owning the investment, then FBT should be reintroduced.
Then no one will be pushing up the prices.If the price of housing and land were to fall, would the local council reduce our rates?
LOL, I must be dreamin'.So true jack, it benefited everyone up the line other than the home buyer.I agree jack,
I would also go further and suggest that our tax system should favour Australian investors that invest in Australian companies, and not Australians investing overseas, foreign investors investing in Australian businesses or foreign owned companies setting up in Australia.
We should all think locally first and globally second.LOL Your still dredging the line about somebody knifing somebody else, you don't have a clue about how politics and leadership works do you.

The only people that fall for that stuff are the extremely gulible, so are you a pedaller or a receiver?I thought the big issue was the liberals plan to punish the Labor party for the evil Rudd's sinister plan to electrocute all the employees of ceiling insulation installers.
It was a commie plot you know.Of course she had a mandate, it was supported by a majority of the elected members of parliament.
What more of a mandate could you want?

I wasn't of course her preferred option, for which she had no mandate, the emissions trading scheme, So she accepted second best, the thing a majority of elected politicians were happy to settle for.

It doesn't matter how bad we believe or know the conservatives are, we are stuck with what these current bunch of idiot serve up to us because there are not enough elected members who are willing to unite against them.
Perhaps you don't quite understand how a democracy works, and I don't think a a dictatorship would suit you better, but we can only hope that the swinging voters will have learned their lesson by the time the next election comes around.The point I'm making is what they promise means nothing, because they may not be able to deliver it even if they get in.

What they deliver when they are in is what is important, and that should determine who you vote for next time.

People voted the Abbortt government in, and yet seem to be getting something they didn't expect, so will they be silly enough to vote for him again I wonder.Most of the gullible swinging voters were certainly convinced that Labor was incapable of governing themselves, but then most of them will often be fooled by even the least artful conman.

Most of them will actually believe that they are being given something the moment a salesperson claims to be offering them a discount.
"Discount! ... I'll have two then".Greig, you have heard the evidence a thousand times. Why are you still asking to have it explained to you again?
Could it be some form of  CO2 induced dementia?is it catastrophic? ... YES.
Just ask any relatives of any of the people who have died in recent heatwaves in Europe, or bush fires in America, or even here.
You could even ask the relatives of people who died in the severe cold snaps in Europe and America, though I suspect you don't understand atmospheric dynamics enough to under stand how a severe cold snap might be caused by the effects of increased CO2.

There in lies the problem, the inability of deniers to understand the basic laws of physics.Climate and weather can not be two different things, as one is the result of the other.
It is only their area of effect and their time span that is different.

All fact is based on theory that are not dis-proven. 
When one supports another it is usually accepted.
