The state and federal governments and all the tobacco corporations should be charged with collusion and conspiracy to injure its population, lacking duty of care and negligence from promoting a product that has not been safe and creates addictions.  The tobacco companies have a duty of care to 'fully inform and fully educate' the respective governments in their respective countries of the dangers and health issues from smoking.  Where has the 'burden of proof of evidence' to be proven safe before any product goes on the market?  The governments have failed to use that clause because of the monies from the sales so they are (nonfeasance failure to act where action is required, perhaps misfeasance is the willful inappropriate action or intentional incorrect action or advice, and malfeasance is the willful intentional action that inures a party) in their actions for the safety and health of the population.   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Misfeasance

We now know conclusively that is is harmful to health and creates $billions of dollars in lost revenue, sickness, disease and finally death.  Please add another 25% in excise asap each year keep it going!  I'm sure a case could be brought for genocide of populations.  If governments do not actively protect its populous who will?  The courts can take this up to define and fine those involved.The Zionist Israeli's are protected and supported by the  bias Zionist Press and media, protected and supported by the Americans with $billions of US taxpayers funds, protected by the UN Security Council despite over breaking 120 UN Resolutions.  Israel has given up on diplomacy decades ago as they invaded Palestine and they continue to occupy Palestine in an open air prison.  The Australian politicians have been coerced by the Zionist's'/Israelis to drop the 'Occupy' now.  Tell me how words can work here. 

The media and press that are not connected to the Zionists are afraid to even use the word Zionist/Zionism against Israel when they use it themselves.  So a correct and proper description is stifled and blacked out as no genuine dissent is allowed.  Even as we speak the Middle East is being remapped by the Israelis and the US amongst others all the while the Palestinians are trying to resist with all odds against them and everything in the favour of the Israelis taking more and more of their land.  The Palestinian issue is one of the major issues that have stirred up  the Islamic world.  Even Israeli Jews are protesting against the Israelis Zionist for decades in Israel.It is not only the Abbott Government or Liberals Tim, as both sides of the political spectrum have been in this special support with the corporations and the main stream media and press for decades!  It is called  Corporatism when corporations and the government are complicit and collude together.  You have bribery from the corporations called 'donations' and you have the state and federal governments providing taxpayer corporate welfare to them, discriminating against small  and intermediate businesses.   This should be economics and political science 101.
Partnerships.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatism  

Its called transference  in psychology when you attempt to shift the blame to others and not take responsibility to resolve any problem.  The politicians are experts in this area of double-speak! Both political parties have supported globalisation and privatisation in the past twenty years and allowed the country to be dismantled in the area of manufacturing for a start. Now that we have less industry, there is less jobs as there is less income coming in from the businesses and there is less coming into the state and federal governments coffers which means there is less money for the ATO to collect as they too are laying off more employees once again as are the state governments.  The installing of the TPP or the Trans Pacific Partnerships is already underway from those highly secretive talks from the Australian politicians and the US corporations.  they are just getting started there is much more to come!

Duh  that is a hard one alan but I will just take a guess and say its both!Trust is one thing "but for democracy itself, which depends more than anything on an informed public if it is to have any meaning or vitality at all."  When was the last time any politician fully informed or fully educated the public on any issue?  When signing a contract there needs to be 'full disclosure' of being fully informed.  We are a long way off from some quick sound bytes compared to full disclosure.  What happened to to simply 'report' without 'fear or favour'? 

The public is always 'betrayed' at the mouth of politicians and the main stream press and media who are complicit and colluding in this never ending cycle.  It is espionage against the democratic process by an abuse of process on a regular basis.  They do no justice to cozy up against each other as they prostitute the truth and give selected and bias material to the masses.  We receive disinformation, lying and denying frequently so why are we now suddenly concerned?  If the proper standards and protocols were kept in the first place at arms length they would not have to worry about this 'incident'.I wish someone would do some solid research into the past 20 years on those who have been on the dole and have not sought genuine employment or been motivated to skill up.  Of course there have been many on the dole who are lazy, drugged out or mentally capacitated etc.,  however the taxpayers money needs to be spent wisely and fairly for those who are genuinely disadvantaged not for the bludgers who shirk work and do not contribute to society at large.

Both  political parties have supported globalisation and privatisation in the past twenty years and allowed the country to be dismantled in the area of manufacturing  for a start.  Now that we have less industry, there is less jobs as there is less income coming in from the businesses and there is less coming into the state and federal governments coffers which means there is less money for the ATO to collect as they too are laying off more employees once again as are the state governments.

It is a bit rich to ask the unemployed or the forced casuals to spend a hell of a lot of time going for 40 applications per week when it is not their fault in this area of context.  It is 'highly unreasonable' as there are only a limited amount of  jobs or positions out there with more people than jobs to apply for.Politicians are never tongue-tied!  They speak with forked-tongue and tell many untruths.  It is a war of semantics with them and us and they change the meaning of words to suit themselves or their issue or their ideology.Co-payments do not have to be created at all!  This is yet another 'scheme' for the benefit of the medical fraternity at the expense and discrimination of the allied health providers.  The government panders to the AMA for many inexcusable  reasons and you have the AMA remaining silent.

Government is once again conniving and colluding with the medical mafia concerning this latest issue. There is an annual $4,000,000,000 medical fraud and over-serving in 'medicine'! There is another $ 10,000,000,000 approximately in the cronyism of 'medical referrals' to GP's. Any of us should be able to make a simple appointment with a specialist or whoever without the 'referral system' of GP's. Where is the freedom of choice or option to freely choose? Are the politicians simply stupid and devoid of common sense concerning the math or are they pampering to the medical mafia and big pharma once again to get those taxes. There will be enough to go all around without hurting the disadvantaged if you get the doctors out of the pigs trough!Government is once again conniving and colluding with the medical mafia concerning this latest issue.  There is an annual  $4,000,000,000 medical fraud and over-serving in 'medicine'!  There is another $ 10,000,000,000 approximately in the cronyism of 'medical referrals' to GP's. Any of us should be able to make a simple appointment with a specialist or whoever without the 'referral system' of GP's.  Where is the freedom of choice or option to freely choose?  Are the politicians simply stupid and devoid of common sense concerning the math or are they pampering to the medical mafia and big pharma once again to get those taxes. There will be enough to go all around without hurting the disadvantaged if you get the doctors out of the pigs trough!The sham caliph is no different compared to the Roman Catholic Church-State where the popes have murdered, assumed power, issued pompous edicts, have several mistresses, falsely claiming they are the only church to be saved, counterfeiting Christianity and counterfeiting documents ad nauseum...On what grounds are we to have trust in government?  On many occasions the government of the day has violated any trust and consideration we are to have for them.  We are to be wary of government and keep them in check.  That is what the electorate is 'supposed' to do.  If the citizens of any country are not continually vigilant than they are negligent in their duties to maintain and keep a democratic society free from tyranny and over-stretch in their democratic principles.  Big Brother should be labeled 'Bad Brother' as they are not protecting its citizens to the utmost.  

The price is always much to high when you start 'operating' outside the framework of a often touted democracy. It is 'supposed to be three main areas for a truly democratic and fair due process called the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. When you start dismantling this long established process by concocting, conniving, colluding and conspiring to deliberately misinform the public we go down the road of Fascism, as there are many examples historically.  The government has already 'breached the principle of due process' and are eager to continue to dismantle and weaken what democratic principles we have left.Why are the politicians constantly lying to its population, as it undermines any confidence in the political process of this country.  Just look at the corruption process in New South Wales alone!  One law for them and the other for us. 
 
These politicians are signing ungodly treaties with the US to follow in lockstep regardless of the consequences... We hear different versions of what they are going to do and are none the wiser as they always take it well beyond the parameters of what is said publicly and what actually takes place in secret.  In the end governments can not be trusted and it is always up to its citizens to keep them in check. 

The question is never allowed to be asked, "Why has all of this so-called 'national security' taken place since the false flag  war of 'state sponsored terrorism'  by the US and other Western countries of 9/11 by invading Muslim countries for the last 13 years being no threat to the US or to any other country including Australia being complicit in US hegemony. We need Australian intelligence officers to speak out once again to tell the truth as did Edward Snowden.The price is always much to high when you start 'operating' outside the framework of a often touted democracy. It is 'supposed to be three main areas for a truly democratic and fair due process called the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary.  When you start dismantling this long established process by concocting, conniving, colluding and conspiring to deliberately misinform the public we go down the road of Fascism, as there are many examples historically. 

The 'terror laws' are a way and means or a tool that takes away due process, the presumption of innocence and Habeas corpus. The lightning speed in which the draconian terror laws were legislated was profound!  The special powers of ASIO are unfounded and unparalleled and I would suggest 3 judges instead on only one judge as a further check and balances for the protection of fairness, justice, due process and the appearance that justice has been seen to be done.  This criteria must be met regardless of the rants of these politicians to maintain democracy.  Remember they are politicians and not to be trusted under any means.  The various politicians cannot even clearly articulate precisely the collection of metadata and the protocol required to access and maintain all of this information.  I would not be too hasty or zealous to announce that 

"James Clapper, asserted that the program complied with the relevant legislation and was therefore lawful."  His pompous edicts and assumptions are not correct! 
NSA's phone surveillance program probably unlawful, US judge rules
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-12-17/nsa-phone-data-snooping-probably-unlawful-judge-rules/5160482"I cannot imagine a more indiscriminate and arbitrary invasion than this systematic and high-tech collection and retention of personal data on virtually every single citizen," Judge Richard Leon said. The US government insists that collecting metadata - the time, duration and destination of calls, but not their content - is not unconstitutional.  But Mr Leon argued that American founding father James Madison, one of the authors of the US constitution, would be "aghast" at the government's breach of citizens' rights to privacy.

Take note of Gerald Robinson a former law firm partner, contends that the FISC judges have become enmeshed in the executive branch, and "abdicated their independent judicial function".Sanctions without proof are even more dangerous!  We get' social media'  fluff  with false accusations against Russia by the US and Australia instead of satellite reconnaissance, intelligence reports and radar statistics.  Another failed false flag from the US and their proxy war with Russia with their 'installed' Ukraine president.  another blatant and reckless attempt by the Neo-cons and as per usual we are puppets for the US who are the ventriloquists.Amen to that!  With faulty science and super duper computer models 'predicting' what do you expect from a health skeptical electorate.  In addition a massive 'alarmist' propaganda campaign that we have never seen the likes of before with taxpayer money.This has been going on for several decades and who is going to be responsible in the end.  Who is going to be sued?  What safeguards were not put into place?  Who allowed these to open and operate under what terms? It is  always a faceless bureaucracy in the end and more sordid excuses.First of all it is not just the political donations that need to be 'fixed' as there are many other areas that need to be re-established to bring back the semblance of democracy, due process, fairness and accountability.  It is a mere facade of what it should be operating as.  We have seen these so-called 'government proposals' before without being effective and genuine. We need more than five panel members to get a wide spectrum of ideas and recommendations for NSW to follow the Australian Constitution without fear or favour.

There has not been the 'forum' to openly discuss with dialogue not debate concerning the return of the democratic process and judicial penalties for those that are and have been corrupting the whole process with bribery and cronyism.  

1. Establish a NWS Ratepayers Association to keep local councils in check like the Orange Ratepayers Association.  (South Australia has a statewide ratepayers association so there is not the corruption and cronyism as in NSW)
2. Political editors and journalists should declare their political alliances to the public
3. # 1 of "Proactive disclosure of government documents" should never be secretive.  Secrecy is what has brought us to this point in time for corrupting the process.
4. #2 "Real-time publication of ministerial dairies -on a daily basis" is a must as quarterly is far too long and much damage can be done in that 3 month period perpetually.
5. #3 "A system of contesting commercial in confidence" should be transparent and exposed after all tenders are in.
6. #4 "Larger penalties and jail time for breaches" is imperative and the sooner the better.  The politicians and the lobbyists have taken advantage of  creating 'their system' outside of the democratic processes.  What happened to the Oath they took?
7. #5 Establishing a citizen's jury is an excellent idea as the electorate has to be part of the democratic process similar to a Grand Jury in the US. The explanation is a bit ambiguous here.
8. #6 "Professional public servants should be the main source of government information" Whatever it takes to claw back transparency is a must and at times the executive have to much power with no checks and balances for the benefit of due process and honest governance.
9. #7 "Greater transparency surrounding decisions made by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP)"  ICAC needs more funding, more personnel and more teeth to continue to investigate  those breaking the law and corrupting the system.  How else would the public have found out all of the corruption that has existed in the past few years?
10. #8 "Political donations reform: the New York model"  All political donations should be banned and public monies or taxpayer monies should not be used in their political ideology propaganda press and media campaigns.  
11. #9 "A public fund to support tVoluntary pledges are virtually useless for those who are always out to manipulate the system for their own ends whether it is power of money.  Simply take a look at the US President when he takes the Oath yet ignores the US Constitution as do others in Congress.  Self regulation or self oaths are no match for proper 'checks and balances' outside the influence of an individual politicians.   Peoples Referendums have not been allowed to be utilised for the benefit of the nation and for the best possible outcome for the sovereignty of NSW and Australia as a whole.  Politicians make edicts for mandates which they have no right to do and it simply over-rides the peoples rights and objectives.  It is supposed to be 'deliberative and participatory' democracy.  In other words the constituents are to participate and they are to be allowed to participate and not be set aside as our present system is. https://www.boundless.com/sociology/understanding-government/democracy/participatory-democracy/  It is supposed to be representative democracy hence the term House of Representatives.Successive governments and political parties constantly and consistently justify anything...It is not a revelation Greg.  Regardless of the false science and the massive propaganda at taxpayers expense, the majority of the electorate see through the lies perpetuated by those who have most to take advantage of this  carbon scheme/scam.  Unfortunately 'economics' is the false god of our 21st century instead of caring for our country and its citizens.  People are being trampled to the ground through false economics, false ideology and a false philosophy.

You certainly don't seem to understand the word 'reform' Greg according to this article.  The electorate know full well when these politicians double-speak about reform which started with ex PM Howard.  It is code for oppression or suppression of workers rights, conditions and privileges. It is not about the genuine improvement of a wrong or bad legislation or what is corrupt  or unsatisfactory for the common good.  It is making amends or an amendment for the better of all instead of instigating changes that are morally wrong, unjust and unfair.First of all NSW has always been a corrupt state for decades, either with the police or with corporations on a local or state level.  This issue has been around for decades yet it never gets resolved for many reasons.  It is about time the political donations have been linked to the word bribes or bribery as that is all they are.  I brought this up over a decade ago with many others.  It is improper and an abuse of process for fairness, justice and good governance to maintain what is left of our democratic process which is merely a facade compared to what it should be.

There should be no political donations whatsoever if we properly understand the definition of donations connected to favours or bribery.  No means no!  These politicians are cunning and conniving and they always seek to find a loophole or to mask the problem for their own benefit not the electorates which weakens democracy.  To have the Department of Premier and Cabinet continue to administer the lobbyists is outrageous and it is simply the fox hoarding the chickens in the coup.  We have seen and heard of all of these false promises before all to no avail.  To have a self regulation 'Ethical Standards Code' is meaningless with lobbyists and human nature always prevails for the worse in manipulating the system for their own purposes and agendas that are not in the best interest of the state of NSW.

Enforcement is definitely required meaning jail and penalties of money to stop this reeking of the 'The Stench in this Parliament' that John Hatton wrote about.  When someone breaks the law their is a penalty of jail and politicians should not be above the law in this area as the repercussions and ramifications of corrupt  and criminal activity goes far beyond what is acceptable in a democracy if that is what we are going to call it.  http://stenchinthisparliament.blogspot.com.au/  One of the measures is to interview Mr. Hatton and take his advice and read his book about corruption in politics as he is a wonderful Australian that is honest and he too tried to stamp out corruption in NSW.And the previous Labor government was not itself "an agent of chaos"? Is not Parliament itself 'chaotic' most of the time?  Its always about theatrics and sound bytes instead of sound policy with politicians.  The honourable Clive Palmer acted in honour for the electorate for "PUP amendment to guarantee that the savings from the carbon tax repeal by energy producers, gas producers, and electricity producers would be passed down the line to consumers" did he not?This article is one to expose the failures of Hillary and it is about time.   Regardless of what the main stream press and media write or tell, there is a hell of a lot of omissions left out and it needs to be revealed of what type of person she is.
http://www.globalresearch.ca/search?q=Hillary+and+Bengazi 
 
The Main stream press and media refuse to reveal that there was a CIA Annex  for their black-ops in Benghazi with their regional operation in progress.  It was simply blowback and rightly so.  She lied in the Congressional investigation and they have tried to cover it up ever since.  It will come back to haunt her.  Hillary is in league with the Council of Foreign Affairs who want 100 years of war with 'The Project for the New American Century'.  She is an undisputed Neo-con.
It certainly 'appears' that the federal government or the Minister of Immigration
Scott Morrison has jumped the gun by trying to manoeuvre or out manoeuvre the various laws in place.  He loudly proclaims to be a Christian, yet his actions undermine his proclamation and again it appears the federal government or the minister has acted illegally and is immorally inept trying to dodge certain legislation in place regarding the multiplicity of laws.  They jump from one law to another trying to skirt their obligations.  

"This case therefore raises profound constitutional questions about the accountability of the executive to Parliament, and the principle of the rule of law. The rule of law requires the executive to act in accordance with the laws of the land, made by the elected Parliament."  You have raised a very important issue as have others concerning this debacle! When Australian citizens break the law their are consequences to pay.  What consequences are available for the government to break the law or one of it ministers who is in charge?

It's about bloody time someone from the medical fraternity has come out to speak concerning this controversial issue!  The problem with the state authorities and the various churches is they think they know better than the person dying.  It is an arrogant and ignorant claim on their behalf.  To intrude or intervene into someones life  and conscience without knowing the full circumstances is shallow and unthinkable.

It is up to the person choosing of their own free will and it is between them and their Maker if they are Christian.  If they are not Christian, it is up to their own moral choice and fragile circumstances of illness when to take their own lives.  Many of the medical doctors, big pharma and the private hospitals (good for the shareholders) continue to give patients drugs that may or may not be working for pain.  In many cases they don't work and patients live in agony of pain and bedridden with bed sores and hygiene issues.No doubt the US government consultants and the CIA will be behind the scenes as usual to again install another puppet dictatorship as that is what they do world-wide for the benefit of the military industrial complex tran-scorporations.  A return to the good old days of over-throwing governments, murder, and sabotage by the Fascist Americans won't be forgotten hopefully...Maus you have to decide that for yourself.  Just because someone brings to your attention the historical past of what the Fascist Americans have done with the collusion of the CIA does not mean I dislike Americans.  I do dislike and hate what the Neo-cons are doing to the world by over-throwing governments by covert and overt operations  by invading, murdering and occupying another country for their resources and geo-political significance to try and contain Russia and China and so should you. But that is your freedom of choice to choose.

I wonder how you would feel if another country did that to Australia as the CIA did with Whitlam?  We don't have to hate the Americans but we do have to hate what the Neo-cons who have infiltrated a once democratic republic and turned it into a Fascist police state that uses the military industrial complex tran-scorporations for war, raking in hundreds of $billions of dollars per year killing innocent people defending their country.As an ex veteran I totally agree with you on your article Alan but unfortunately governments do not tell the truth, they deliberately omit information as well as suppressing information with the help, assistance and collusion of the mainstream press and media.   "it should tell us clearly and honestly why we have gone to war, and what that has meant for our nation.  They certainly did not do it for 9/11 and the "official story" actually perpetuates the lies of fiction and follow the same story as the US.  The same goes for Iraq and Afghanistan.

Now how long has the Australian government, meaning both political parties that have been in office over the past several hundred years been honest enough to write honest and accountable history about your present subject?  They haven't, hence that is the sole reason of your article.  I have been very interested in the past two decades of suppressed history, secret history or hidden history.  This issue is one of these subjects and falls into those categories. What happens is various scholars or historians that are not aligned with the government will write a book on the subject as has Henry Reynolds.  Unfortunately none of those books of real truth and genuine history ever end up in the education system or it takes years to finally accept the truth wherever your find it.  Perhaps an excellent movie or documentary will come forward to help expose this scandal to bring it to the attention of the public as the political system and the politicians are deceitful beyond our imagination.

If people are persistent and tenacious enough through a very tough slog as that is what it takes then the long arm of the law will eventually catch up with them.  It is not about Rolf or Harris it is about why has this taken so long to come to fruition?  There will certainly be a number of people that covered this up?  What about the perversion and delay of justice by the police and others?  It is truly sickening to have anyone molest children let alone a celebrity that was obviously protected all these years! :-(
Governments and corporations are always going to be against transparency if you follow history and evidence.  It is a no brainer!  To believe otherwise is foolish and living in La La Land.  Simply look at the court cases of corporations and you will find plenty of wron-doing.  so much for the often touted "corporate governance."  Obviously no one has bothered to check to see if this charities are legitimate and genuine.  Obviously many are, but if the government just wants to collect the monies for registration and ignore their 'background and intent' that is not a positive step in maintaining a democracy accountability or transparency.

It has always intrigued me why there is no investigation into these areas.  Even in the event of those draconian anti-terror laws it is hard to believe there is no background checking by any government authorities especially ASIO or the Australian Federal Police for possible fraud or illegal activities by some of the 60 thousand.  A bundle of money each year just to register them!  Another bad tick for government I say with a $55 billion dollar enterprise some will obviously be a racket and they need to be weeded out.  What is the definition of a charity that has been acceptable by the way?That is the million dollar question is it Australian law or is it International Maritime Law or is it the ratified UN treaty that was signed called the Refugee Convention.   What's it going to be?We know that lawyers are good at skirting or manipulating the law whatever it may be given various and endless interpretations they put forward.  Obviously the smugglers are also excellent at skirting the law not coming from a country of origin, landing in Indonesia as one example and then sailing in the hope of arriving in Australia.

There are obviously a number of exceptions to these rules or laws as in 1989 ex PM Bob Hawke allowed forty-two thousand students on temporary visas to have permanent residence from the Tiananmen Square massacre.  However these students came in lawfully and were already on Australian soil.  It is interesting to take note or observe why hasn't the Australian government taken in more Tamils?  The answer is simple apparently and the answer has been given by the author of this article.   "While Sri Lanka has not ratified the Rome Convention, and is not subject to the International Criminal Court (ICC), other measures are now firmly in train. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has announced a major 10-month investigation into genocide and war crimes committed during the Sir Lankan civil war, with the aim of establishing "the facts and circumstances of such alleged violations and of the crimes perpetrated with a view to avoiding impunity and ensuring accountability ".

Is Australia going to continue to operate as the local deputy sheriff mimicking the US or are we going to act in honour of the documents we have signed?  There is always the moral questions but Australians can decide for themselves if given the opportunity to have all of the facts revealed to them instead of this undgodly suppression order.


CBA's scandal response falls well short of restitution!  Doesn't it always? Criminal behaviour in white collar crime always gets and keeps the upper hand with the banksters!
This is not just a couple of persons who were defrauded by the embezzlement and corrupt practices of the bank in and the banking system, but a decade long of a systematic series of criminal activity.  Where is the Australian Federal Police?  Where was ASIC?  Where was the Consumer Protection Agency?  Then the bizarre long silence....

They should also be charged with:
Nonfeasance is the failure to act where action is required - willfully or in neglect.
Misfeasance is the willful inappropriate action or intentional incorrect action or advice.
Malfeasance is the willful and intentional action that injures a party.

Who is going to be charged in the end as the CBA have the sole responsibility and obligation to make good plus interest to those who were defrauded or robbed of their savings.  Where was the duty of care?  Where were the checks and balances?  It was obviously a conspiracy for that length of time for that amount.In 1949 Australia?s population was only eight million people. The nation needed engineers, technicians and tradesmen, as well as machinery and equipment.    http://naa.gov.au/collection/snapshots/power/index.aspx
In 2014 the population is now twenty-three million or nearly 3 times the size!  Any country  will eventually reach a limit on the type of peoples it allows through their borders, the types of different religions and cultures of the immigrants and  lastly their skills and financial  base in the so-called multi-culturalism which is not working well as we have vast numbers setting up and not freely integrating with society at large.

Countries can be overwhelmed by immigrants and it is also used as a weapon to weaken countries, ie the UK, Europe  with vast Muslim populations and the US with their illegals.  Australia is a vast country but it has its weaknesses with the overuse of water and the over-burdening of infra-structure through lack of planning.  Any country can only take a certain amount in their total population with cultural  and religious differences, lack of resources, lack of employment and proper long range planning for the inhabitants already here with their generation to come.  Unfortunately corporations lobby the government for their own ends of profit instead of the long-range planning required for peace and stability.The pseudo science is hocus-pocus on climate change.  It has taken roughly a decade for all of the corporations and groups connected with this biggest hoax on the world.  It does not allow for a Creator.  It does not allow for the rhythms, cycles and seasons from the universe that is connected to all of the planets.  It uses vast computer models that are unsound and unrealistic.  

Yes mankind is destroying and polluting the earth and climate change is happening but it is not being created by puny mankind.  It is simply another scheme for the corporations and government for another tax without representation.  It is profit for them at our expense as is always the case.The only thing all of this privatisation does is to weaken the national sovereignty of Australia and to sack more employees.  Good for the corporations but  bad for the country and workers.I think most of us know by now that governments intentionally and premeditatively under fund, under man and under legislate the terms or conditions which are usually restrictive or limited for proper investigations and proper criminal prosecutions.  Corporate governance is a oxymoron as they get away with far too much and the citizens always lose out.  There are plenty of court cases and bankruptcies to verify this.  The politicians are slack, weak-kneed and lily livered and don't stand for too much in the way of fairness, openness, accountability, honesty,and  due process.There was no case whatsoever for invading for the so-called Weapons of Mass Deception.  There are no grounds legally, morally, militarily as the West has simply destroyed the fabric of society by their false flag war of invasion, occupation, dislocation of the population, killing millions of innocent civilians, wounding even more.  They have done the dirty work and the next group can come in and continue their destruction of the population.Racism has been around for a long time and it will still be around for a long time more unfortunately...  It doesn't matter about colour as their are blacks that do not like other blacks and there are Asians that do not like other Asians and so on.  It does not have to be black and white as in this example or yellow and white to be more precise.  Australians, whoever that breed of people are, have reacted in defence of the black male barista which is a healthy sign, particularly the employee who resigned.  Most people would not react with such conviction of losing their income.  There will always be those who take a stand for those who are oppressed in one form or another but it is never the majority.There is nothing "poor" about the Reserve Bank!  The use of all of these semantical words and terms is nothing more than a bail out at taxpayer expense  for principle and interest from those criminal banksters and the politicians who are in cahoots with them.  Banks are finally being fined in the $millions for their criminality yet have made $billions in the process.  We know that by deregulating the banking industry created massive fraud and deception.  Borrowing money to bail out banks and corporations is a pretty poor demonstration of a complete lack of sound economics.  It is a flawed ideology with unsound principles that proves  Treasury Swan was not paying close attention and not astute  enough to prevent such as massive payout to the banks and to the Australian economic system and cycle. It is always interesting when he pats himself on the back regularly.  The test is to be judged from an outside independent agency that is not in league with the government.PM Abbott was merely echoing what the US had previously said.  Despite the hype of 'genocide'  or 'possible genocide' there was no proof just more killing.  The US and its allies has killed more than ISIS so why is it not called genocide?  We haven't misread we blindly go along with every war the US concocts as a docile and submissive ''client state'.

We have been told so many lies and exaggerations about the reckless and foolish invasion and occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan by both governments and the mainstream press and media are complicit in colluding with them.  We are definitely not any safer and we do have enough problems in our own country and in our own regional area to deal with them appropriately than to continue to waste time money and personnel in these foreign wars conjured up initially by the US Neocons.

"The Middle East's problems arise from the gradual breakdown of a sclerotic order, manifest in the assertion of particularistic ethno-religious identities and, paradoxically, a Pan-Islamic identity purportedly represented by the Islamic State." was created by Israel, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the US, NATO and their allies in their ever mounting proxy wars to remap the Middle East.  This article is yet another apologist for the US and their continued global hegemony.  They have used the Hegelian principle over and over to bring chaos and weaken nations.  The  mention of 'crusaders' is nothing more than the principle of 'Dominion theology' that has been embedded in the US military thinking which is flawed yet creates a mindset that God is on the side of the West.This whole sordid affair has been 'a controlled spin for the protection of players'! They have even convinced the mainstream press and media to use the word 'supplements'  instead of drugs, steroids or hormones or banned  and illegal substances as often as possible.  It is a farce to protect the rugby industry and the public has no confidence in such a scam!  Shame on you!And all this time I thought the government was supposed to  represent its electorate not all of the dealing and wheeling with the opposite political party. What ever happened to "Government of the people, by the people, for the people?"

Our government by the people is supposed to be a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the people' and exercised directly by them or by their elected agents under a free electoral system.  The common people of a community is supposed to be  distinguished from any privileged class; the common people with respect to their political power.  A government in which the 'supreme power is vested in the people' and exercised by them 'directly' or indirectly through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections.It's really not that hard to work out Ruby. Previously a white dominated neighbourhood 30-40 years ago that has all changed.  I think there are only two black police working in the entire white dominated police force.  So what do you think is going to happen?  It was just a matter of time unfortunately.  To be shot 6 times with two bullets  in the head is over-kill don't ya reckon?PM Abbott is up and down like a yoyo on so many issues its hard to follow him! The ventriloquist US and our puppet PM are not in sync. I have never seen or heard of a PM that says one thing and odes another in such a shirt period of time.  Me thinks he is too impulsive...has poor advisers and cannot keep up in time to sing the same messages as the US.Well that was clever in the first sentence human rights jumped to economics straight away!  Communist North Korea has had some dreadful and ungodly treatment of its citizens there is no doubt about that historically.  I do understand and appreciate the hypothesis of work and economy, however the system must change otherwise the corruption will be compounded under a Communist or Stalinist regime. Just look at the corruption of the capitalist free market and all of the corruption with a free reign after dismantling the the healthy regulations in the market place and stock markets.  We are already seeing this REDISTRIBUTION taking place and Australia is not gaining from it.  Australia has been an embarrassment in the Security Council thus far despite all the hype!

Regardless of its atrocities Australia has no business spending huge amounts of money, when right here in Australia we have 1 in 10 in poverty!  There should be no excuse whatsoever of this except we have been wasting money giving aid overseas.  Our health system needs to be improved in the area of dental and preventative instead of drug medicine.  Our education of Australian citizens is getting out of reach for many and many are illiterate.  Many are homeless in a country that touts "Fair go."  We have been entangled in these US false flag foreign wars wasting billions of dollars at the expense of our national sovereignty and our independence is being white-anted from privatisation  and globalisation by dismantling Australia's manufacturing sector.  Many will never be able to afford a house or unit because of the excessive high prices for youth trying to get into the market.We have three layers of government with the executive, legislature and the judicial.  If the Parliament decides that the judicial system has been soft on crime and sentencing and I would agree it has been, then the Parliamentarians are entitled to enact new laws that conform with public outcry and opinion in concert with a more appropriate punishment and hopefully a strong deterrent! 

Unfortunately common law is not so common anymore.  The law is to protect its citizens from those who seek to do harm either premeditated or not.  The law also has to be enforced properly if it is going to be effective and the public has  to see that justice is not only done but seen to be done. 

"Discretionary sentencing is a fail-safe mechanism to prevent laws conceived in the abstract from becoming absurdities in practice."  It is not and has not been a fail-safe mechanism and it is unrealistic to think it is.

"Judges must have the flexibility to impose sentencing in proportion to the crime, taking into account all the circumstances and specifics and the necessity to punish those who have done wrong."   If the judges have failed in their duty to execute the appropriate punishment  and there has been far too much leniency in the eyes of the public, then hopefully the Parliament (A full Parliament) will vote and decide and the Senate (The House of Review) will approve such legislation.  It is very dangerous for the executive to make laws by edicts without the approval of Parliament.  That is not due process nor the democratic process that is to be carried out.Unfortunately New South Wales has been a corrupt state for decades in so many areas from the local councils, to the police to the politicians right across the board. There have been a number of Royal Commissions,  and enquiries to all of the above and a certain number (a small fraction) were jailed and the rest were allowed to resign and some had to pay monetary restitution.  In all cases there was corruption, abuse of power, intimidation, breach of duty, etc. etc.

Obviously there is a moral issue with a lack of profound conscience for personal gain and power.  There is a complete disregard for the legislative laws, regulations and rules by many of the politicians. There is no tool or instrument for the public to have a 'Recall' and vote these corrupt politicians out from criminal activities or from issues not wanted from the electorate when they declare a 'mandate' to do as they wish instead of 'We the People."  They are to actively 'represent' the electorate not continue their political ideology or agendas.  Open referendums need to be established on many issues that the electorate want and need compared to the wanton ignoring of the electorate in favour of the political parties ideology. The overall benefit of Australia and its inhabitants need to be re-established as the political system has been hijacked against the electorate and against democracy.

There are still a wide variety of corporations who are able to donate funds to the political parties which is bribery.  We would totally agree with you concerning the tough deterrents including  huge fines, jail time and 'completely' banning a politician with no time limits regarding possible conviction who is found to be corrupt and also fining the political party as well, but the fox is guarding the chickens.  The public also does not want their hard-earned taxpayer dollar to go for the advertising of the propaganda campaigns of each political party and the mud-racking that it entails against their opponents.  

Why didn't the AEC do anything about it is the $million dollar question! ICAC was not in legislation for a number of reasons and excuses...Democracy is no longer active in this country or more precisely it no longer exists in the US.  The myth is perpetuated by the main stream press and media and by the politicians themselves.  They would not know what a true democracy looked like if they fell over it!

The Bush jr. election was a complete fraud in so many areas and in so many ways and yet it it was never reported properly.  It the past two elections there has been wanton corruption by the Liberal and Labour political parties.  Governments try to pass legislation  by stealth including local councils.  Each level of government tries to and succeeds subverting the course of democracy without due process.  They always abuse the process by legislation that is unfair, unjust and undemocratic.

We do not have a "Compulsory voting system!"  It is a compulsory registration system.  We do not have a democratic system either.  Where is the 'Recall system' to throw out the corrupt politicians who do not represent the people.  We do not have a 'Peoples' Referendum to vote on major issues and the direction that the government should take instead of the government arrogantly making false edicts they have a mandate.  Australia is a long way to go before we re-establish a true and genuine democracy of 'Direct Representation'The so-called main stream press and media have severely maligned Putin and created false scenarios about him.  Why has there not been any interviews with him asking him about the MH17?  They have 'blacked out' any reference to the MH17 and they do not want the public to know the truth.  They continue with false accusations against him and the US refuses to release any information, satellite or radar images to confirm that Russia was not behind the downing of MH17 it was Ukraine where all of the evidence and facts lead to.  Russia has released all of the data and the US continues to use cartoons and animation for their case instead of releasing technical data like Russia. 

As a docile and submissive 'client state' the foreign Minister Bishop and the PM blindly parrot what the US Neo-cons want the government to say to continue with their obsessive and compulsive lies. Abbott is way out of his league and depth with Putin and he is a flip-flopper.  He has made many embarrassing remarks ever since  being the new Prime Minister.  Putin enjoys an 87% by the Russian electorate and Abbott with a coalition is a mere 41%!  Putin is helping to keep the US hegemony at bay instead of having a rogue country in a unilateral  power  vacuum invading and occupying with their false flag wars.We live under the 'guise of democracy which is a myth of complete fiction.  The accurate description is Corporatism or a Corporatocracy plus blatant Corporate Cronyism in so many areas..http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporatocracy  We have legislative laws that benefit the corporations at the expense of the ordinary citizen and Australia at large.  We have constant corruption by one agency or another of the government.  The electorate have no instrument to thwart this insidious impact on society like a 'Recall" system or a "People's Referendum to decide which direction this country should go.  We have corporations who have their tax havens in foreign countries to avoid tax which increase the burden for those who remain in this country.

"Society only tolerates one change at a time.  The first time I changed the world I was hailed as a visionary.  The second time I was asked politely to retire"  David Bowie as Nikola Tesla, The Prestige.  Australians know what the bribes called 'donations' do for the interest of the corporations instead of the interests of democracy and its citizens at large.What you have failed to omit is the political corruption of the Liberal and Labour parties as well!  It is a one-sided myopic view Paul.Ok I will try once more and point out to you that the correct F word for Foreign Minister Julie Bishop is she is clearly a Fascist as she blindly supports the Fascist Neo-Cons in their false flag wars as she is clearly a right wing hawk with her stated opinions.  She is nothing of a 'Feminist' despite what the image is trying to project to the public.Unfortunately being a politician and the chief law officer of Australia being the Attorney General speaks with a 'forked-tongue' as most politicians do.  They have contrived and concocted the most draconian legislation not in the best interest of Australia and certainly not in the best interests of Australians ever since 9/11 which is the point of time in history of the creation of all of this contrived tyranny against its own citizens.  We are not to trust in politicians as their past history is a sordid indication of what is to come. To rule by secrecy instead of governing by honest, open and accountability is an anathema to any country that claims it is democratic with due process instead of an abuse of process especially when one 'person' is given ultimate powers instead on a panel.  35P of and for the ASIO Act is a 'dictatorial device' that should not be tolerated by any Australians. 

There is not much left of the 'Fourth Estate' to defend the democratic process and to expose the errors and the illegality of government actions.  This will surely be another nail in the coffin of freedom of speech and the defence of democracy...what we have left of it in Australia. 

Australia is being lead down the path of Fascism by the US Fascist Neo-Cons. connected to the military industrial complex trans-corporations who are behind all the false flag wars for the benefit of US hegemony, to carve up and partition the Middle East for the benefit of the Zionist Israel and to try and to contain Russia and China.  The US and its allies have created Pandoras Box' which we all see is a Frankenstein that has put us at risk not safety by their insane invasions and occupations.  The Australian politicians have been the compliant, docile and subservient 'client state' for the US and we have placed Australia is harms way both physically and by draconian legislation to quell dissent.To which 'scientific view' are they warming to by the way, the hyped up hypothetical computer models, the extreme mathematical views, the outdated and incorrect man-made Al Gore hockey stick view etc etc.  The public have finally wised up over this bogus claim of 'climate fearing' of the Fascist science that the media has bombarded the public with for several years now so the previous Labor government who has been in collusion with the bogus snake oil salesman to get more taxes from its citizens.

Our universe has so many factors, rhythms, cycles, different forms and types of radiation that effect the planet Earth with its seasons and they are never discussed.There have been dire warnings for decades concerning the 'income inequality' for employees compared to the corporation's profits, the shareholder profits, the bank profits etc. etc. and nothing has been done to rectify the vast gap.  Just look at the huge masses of corporation buildings in Australia compared to the debt of the house buyer.  Just look at all the people who have lost their homes in the past five years alone compared to the taxpayer funded bailouts for corporations.  Rupert is a bit behind the times just like his son Lacklan talking about the severe curtailing of press freedoms.

In addition we have has the insane globalisation and privatisation scheme/scam implemented with the regular price increase increments for the private corporations again at the direct expense of its citizens.

In the Illawarra region the unemployment rate has been as high as 16.5% let alone the youth un-employment.  Then to add insult to injury we have thousands of teachers who are on casual and have been on casual for the past 5-7 years.  Of course there are other areas of casuals as well which is unrelenting until they can get a 'full time' position if ever!  Just think of the daily anxiety of these people which is not healthy for their mental health.
We don't have 'Direct Democracy' hear in Australia Richard like other countries do!  Many of these so-called 'think tanks' are usually not for the benefit of its citizens at large or for the sovereignty of the nation.  

The problem is we need to develop and build more refineries instead of shutting them down.  We need to re-develop our independence as a nation right across the board instead of being 'dependent' from the globalisation/privatisation process that has severely weakened Australia.  We peg the petrol price to Singapore on the world markets instead of being independent and having our own refineries.  The motorist would pay far far less for petrol in the end but the Australian government wants more taxes and the corporations want more profits by monopolising the system and we are locked in.I can't believe that there is so much concentration of a 17 year old!  In many of the wars from the past there were 16-17 years olds.  Here is a yet another limp excuse of why a handful of individuals are leaving Australia to go into battle against the Neo-Con Fascist Americans, Nato and all of these allies including Zionist Israel to carve up the Middle East.  This is just another 'Story-teller' masking the real motives behind those we call terrorists when Australia is complicit with the Neo-Cons who have invaded, killed and occupied innocent people especially women and children under false pretences and outright lies.  The nation-state sponsored terrorists are those countries that have invaded other countries who were no threat to the US or Australia.  It's shameful!

Remind yourself who  created this chaos, strife with these multiple false flag wars.  Remind yourself that it creates hatred and revenge from these wars that have spent thousands of $billions of dollars wrecking countries and dispersing millions.  Remind yourself if you had a relative or loved one in one of those countries how would you feel if they were killed or maimed for life. Remind yourself if you lived in another country and had loved ones here in Australia and was being falsely invaded and occupied how would you react?

I would consider the senator and senators who blindly support these wars to be the 'dickheads and clowns' when there was no evidence of mass weapons of destruction and it was a complete fabrication.  They believe their own lies and the lies of the untrustworthy Neo-Cons.  The selective and bias material that is pumped out incessantly by the mainstream press and media is the 'apparatus' for propaganda and not truth.  Is there not one blogger or one journalist who is courageous enough to write articles that are not apologetic towards the war machine for the sole purpose of US hegemony.  
These weak comparisons or trying to relate to the seriousness of national security of 'created terrorism' by the West, NATO , Israel, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UEA and other countries in this conspiracy, and then creating anti-terrorism laws against its own citizens is a national security threat to the nation at large.  It is sedition at the very root and basis created by both political parties.  The very bad psychology and insane  ideology

Seditious Intention
Section 24 defined a seditious intention as [a]n intention to effect any of the following purposes:
(a) to bring the Sovereign into hatred or contempt;
(d) to excite disaffection against the Government or Constitution of the Commonwealth or against either House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth;
(f) to excite Her Majesty's subjects to attempt to procure the alteration, otherwise than by lawful means, of any matter in the Commonwealth established by law of the Commonwealth; or
(g) to promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of Her Majesty's subjects so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth;

Who is involved in the immoral and illegal false flag wars of invading, killing, occupying the Muslim lands who were no threat to Australia or America?  who is responsible for the dispersion of millions of people and the wounding of hundreds of thousands and the killing of over a million innocent people mainly civilians. For the mainstream press and media to highlight a 17 year old and a handful of individual compared to the thousands of $billions of dollars expended in ammunition, bombs, mortars, depleted uranium, white phosphorous and claymore mines against innocent civilians, who is the greater evil?  What needs to happen is to say NO to these false flag wars created by the American Neo-Cons that only create strife, hatred and division amongst the population of Australia.Hooray hooray Hooray!   Both political parties have been Centralising centralising and more centralising and we are "supposed" to be a Federation but we certainly don't act like one nor do we operate like one.  Why has it been allowed to go so far without correcting it?

It is all about having the right people in the right frame of mind to continue to develop the sound principles of Federation.  States can actually be more restrictive and draconian if allowed and it goes unchecked.

No mention of the 'People's Referendum' or a 'Recall' to throw out the corrupt politicians who do not represent their electorate that is operating very effectively in other countries.

No mention of one vote one value instead of this criminal 'preferences' to other political parties.  We have a long way to go to restore and reform the true democratic principles that Australia thinks it has.I'm sure many of us would totally reject the premise of your opening title.  Unfortunately it is a privileged responsibility to write articles fairly, honestly and without spin or decrees.  The Australian
"Fourth Estate' has disappeared and hijacked some time ago as we have the media and press monopolised by a few instead of a wide range and array of journalists, especially investigative journalists which have been lacking for years.  Many of the journalists have become 'embedded' to a particular political party or ideology and we have apologists for them instead of just reporting all of the news not a selection or bias myopic view that suits the party's agenda.  

This statement "There's no way to take politics out of Australia's democratic institutions and processes" is absurd I would respectfully reply as Australia is not as democratic as it should be and as a matter of fact it us along way off the mark.  The next sentence "While democracy continues to rely on "the people" to exercise their vote" is also absurd and full of contradictions as we all know the trans-corporation lobbyists control the agenda of the political parties, in other words the corporatists with their 'donations' given as bribery to the political parties. There are no 'People' Referendums' or 'Recalls' to throw out the corrupt politicians that do not and have not been representing their electorate.  Once an adviser who is payed to 'spin' particular events or issues is still with you Paula.I must say I am appalled at such a lenient sentence considering the explosive atmosphere, his arrogant past history and negligence on his part with firing four shots without knowing and without any harm  being done.  There was also the evidence presented that Reeva was afraid of him. 

Everyone I know is shocked and unhappy with this long drawn out hum drum court case drama of South Africa.  There is always a loophole for those who do evil unfortunately.    He will never be able to get a corporate sponsor again that is for certain and he has to live with himself.  I'm sure people will take it out on him somewhere along the line...A sad decision which disgusts most people who have common decency.  It obviously shows what most have said for those who have money there is a different type of justice.This sentence is pure fiction when it invades, kills, occupies  and disperses millions of innocent citizens from the illegal and immoral false flag wars of the American Neo-Cons who have infiltrated the White House for the benefit of the military industrial complex trans-corporations and to try and fulfil the  American hegemony.  Craving up the Middle East  for the benefit of Zionist Israel has not made anyone safer it has created chaos and massive catastrophe! The highest percentage in these invasions is the civilians.  Where is the respect of their civil liberties and freedoms for them?  Respect must come for other countries not just your own myopic view.

There has been huge multiple  military blunders in both invasions and huge corruption for the racket of war.  What do these countries expect when you falsely invade, kill and occupy their respective countries who were no threat to the US or Australia.  The opium  has developed 4 times the amount since the invasion by the Americans.  It is always about god.  Gas Oil Drugs. We follow down this insane road of draconian laws and legislation every time there is an 'incident' compared to the thousands of $billions spent on war.  We have been thrust into this insane war that was a complete fabrication as was Vietnam.   We have heighten levels of threats that we never had before.  We have division among ourselves with the Muslims in this country. Australia does not have the courageous men and women to defy the US in their false flag wars.  As an ally we can say no but we are merely 'yes men' to the Neo-Cons which proves over and over again we are a docile and submissive 'client state'.

The "pettiness and soundbites over vision and substance" is one of the most detrimental issues of our Australian parliamentary system that  not only lacks vision but lacks integrity and the courage to protect the sovereignty of Australia.  The political parties have their flawed ideology and are coerced to make decisions for the benefit of the Neo-Cons Americans.  Their patriotism towards this country is highly questionable by the decisions they make which 'mirror' the same decisions the White House is making.

We need  'statesmen/women' to act for the benefit of our nation first and foremost.  Their decisions in Parliament do not reflect a sovereign nation but a 'docile &amp; submissive client state'.  This country desperately requires political reform by re-establishing the democratic process, the rule of law, creating a People's Referendum, and with-drawing from the Neo-cons in their false flag wars.  The intelligence was false and the public know it.  There needs to be parliamentary reform concerning going to war at the drop of a hat by the say so one politician.  A full parliament with a 2/3 rd or 3/4 vote and 'reviewed' by the house of review the Senate.  Australia has wandered far from its democratic principles.

The mainstream press and media have been complicit in the lies, omissions and exaggerations of these illegal and immoral false flag wars.  We need to print our own money instead of borrowing 'foreign capital'.  We need far more 'integrative medicine' with the complimentary health practitioners as there is far too much drugs and medicine which have been allowed to monopolise the whole 'health system' at the direct expense of the taxpayer and the nations health at large.  The over-serving and medical fraud is pandemic and must be curtailed and to establish a better 'health system' that is fair and non-discrimanting.  
The public is entitled to know who is living amongst them if they have sexually abused a child or raped an adult.  They have lost their rights and privileges as citizens.  To rape or sexually abuse  children is a horrific crime and there needs to be strong laws for their punishment to thwart the possible desire of abusing under age children or raping adults in which there is absolutely no excuse in our society and should not be tolerated in any way or form.  The victims have a life time struggle and many commit suicide as we already know this from past experience.  If any male commits a second offence they should be chemically castrated as obviously they cannot control themselves and are perverted.

It is not up to the government or authorities to find them employment it is up to the individual himself.  The statement "borne out by the evidence that suggests" is rubbish!  Suggestion is not factual or evidence.  Your hypothetical of a sex offence occurring 30-40 years ago is interesting.  Do we know what else he did in that period of time and was not caught.There is a vast difference of being a student compared to a journalist.  There is a big difference in what you want to print compared to what the editor wants.  There is a big difference between what your ideas are compared to what the corporation wants.  We need great journalists today particularly investigative journalists.  I wish you all the best but I would love to see how you are going in five years time.  The so-called main stream press and media omit, exaggerate, lie and they are bias with their prejudices and of course the propaganda the exudes from them daily.Just another distraction and tactic from the real culprits and criminals of the false flag wars for the American Neo-Cons who invaded and occupied under false pretences and outright lies with the aiding and abetting of the main stream press and media.  These sole individuals have done nothing compared to the bombing and the killing of civilians and those countrymen who have tried to protect their homeland from the invaders. 
 
Iraq and Afghanistan is devastated with depleted uranium white phosphorus, ecological destruction, birth defects and the compete breakdown of society and corruption creating a religious war compared to handful of individuals want to protect their country.  would we not do the same?Several years ago a friend of mine and myself wrote a 13 page SACE Review South Australia Certificate of Education.  It was a bench mark paper and accepted officially by the South Australian and the National AEU.  It was widely accepted and hailed as a great paper with sound principles for education, not indoctrination.  The South Australian Government simply rejected it and dismissed it as most government usually do whether it is state or national.

The political party in power called 'the government' has its own agenda and political ideologies that are widely differentiated from educators.  Many of these 'ideas' are simply from a UN agenda or from the US where after 30-40 years they have seen the dumbing down of its students and population.  These ministers calling themselves the 'Minister of Education' are not educators but administrators of a flawed education system and ideology.  It is not a 'policy' that is ambiguous but a concerted effort to constantly derail proper learning placing indoctrination and false values upon its students.The trouble is the politicians or the political party is chosen above the electorate. They are elected but they do not 'represent' us as Australian politics has morphed into corporatism, cronyism, and elitism.  Sure we vote, but the multi-national transcorporations are way ahead of the pack lobbying Canberra incessantly and giving the bribes they call donations the the political party/parties.

Then we have the constant ignoring of issues by the parties like the false flag wars of Iraq and Afghanistan, with the constant corruption and getting our nation into untold debt to borrow money from the Fed, an outside source when we could print our own money.  Is it no wonder that Australians have a disdain for politics which are not acting or administrating democracy with due process?  Next we have the tantrums in Parliament with the adversarial system, who on earth wants to watch that?

The electorate does not have 'Direct Democracy' nor does it have an instrument called a 'Recall' to vote them out if need be before major elections like other countries possess.  No we are not democratic  country despite the hype from the mains stream press and politicians.  We have nothing like a true democratic system that respects the rule of law.  If certain measures were installed to reconfigure a genuine democratic system it would work, however the political parties have a choke hold on their flawed political ideology and their political agendas and the Electoral Commission is in league with this distorted system that they refer as 'democratic'.  It has been hijacked from the electorate and there is no 'People's Referendum' to decide on important issues and the direction of this country by 'We the people'.  True democratic reform comes from the bottom up not from the top down.Here we go again with the overuse and abuse and misuse of the word 'phobia'.  The homosexual community also use this extensively and inappropriately to suit their semantics for their agenda.  The definition of Phobia according to Webster's: An extremely strong dislike or fear of someone or something.

Like myself I do have a strong dislike and loathing of this type of old fashioned garb that has been created by the tradition of men or males in a religion that suppresses females in a number of areas.  The covering suppresses the female in many ways.  It has absolutely nothing to do with your heading "From Islamophobia to Islamysteria."  Countless Australians abhor the burka and will never accept it regardless of what people choose to wear.  I personally loathe to see it in a predominately Christian and secular society as Australia.
  
It is the custom and tradition in Muslim countries not in Australia, regardless of the multi-enthic culture that is established here.  Many do not mix in our Australian society and create parallel societies and suburbs foreign to the Australian way of life.  It has nothing to do with fear regardless of how the main stream press and media are trying to whip up more hysteria.  I find these articles are myopic and unbalanced and if you have another alternative view is gets suppressed.Whatever happened to one vote one value?  Percentages to unions or percentages to electorate councils is not democratic.
We have had a corrupt system for decades and it has always been covered-up or not reported to the public about the stand-over tactics used by thugs.

These articles are always about reform of the political parties never about the reform for the electorate.  We do not possess a democratic process despite the hype by the main stream press and media.  There is no 'Recall' instrument to throw out the corrupt politicians and their practices and there is no People's Referendum' to decide which direction this country is to go.  Instead we have to deal with their flawed political ideology and political agenda that the party decides instead of what the electorate truly wants.As long as medicine and big pharma have a monopoly on this very emotional issue it is going to be 'business' as usual!  As a wholistic health practitioner of 30 years of experience, I am appalled at the way the mental health model is allowed to continue without much scrutiny with the prescribing of drugs endlessly to sedate patients!  I have had first hand experience with patients not being tested for deficiencies of vitamins, minerals and enzymes which have a massive effect of patients if they are deficient.  The next is toxicity of heavy metals and other organics which is ignored and again effect the body and brain to a vast extent.  Then there is the issue of testing hormones and a whole range of other tests that are again ignored by medicine unfortunately it is the motto of 'prescribe and sedate' endlessly.

As long as there is this monopoly by the medical mafia and big pharma you will not make any breakthroughs as they have in other countries when they properly and thoroughly test patients to get a complete diagnosis instead of medical and pharmaceutical quackery.  The government continues this outdated system to being in the taxes whatever the cost.  Health ministers are really not 'health' ministers they are administrators of this toxic system.  The shareholders system in this drug induced society that over-prescribe are morally bankrupt.  Wholesome nutrition is simply not thought of my medicine as they do not learn even one hour of nutrition is med school.

Real health starts with wholesome habits prior to pregnancy and not smoking, drinking and drugging while pregnant  and after pregnancy.  We now have more drugs, medical doctors, more psychologist, more psychiatrists, more mental health institutions than ever in the history of mankind.  As a direct result we have more people on drugs in and out of society than ever before.  Obviously like the war of drugs and the war of fat it is simply an organised advertising hoax by medicine as what they have been doing for the past 4-5 decades is just exacerbating the problem.  Until the above tests are being used regularly it is business as usual unfortunately as the problem is getting bigger and bigger with no results or positive changes in our society.  They have discussed this for decades and they still go back to the preferred model that makes money for the toxic system.It is the 'Apparatchik' for political purposes Jonathan, I'm sure you are very aware of that.  The elites have developed a model or system of sound-bytes, exaggerations, omissions, lies and disinformation to the public.  At the height was 9/11 with the 'official' government statements with no questioning, no dissent and no proper enquires to provide the evidence that was available and still is available.  It is called Corporatism or Fascist Corporatism today as again I'm sure you are aware as it is self-evident to anyone that cares or dares to investigate.  As far as the 'fourth Estate it is more like the 5th Column working to the detriment of this docile and subservient nation as a 'client state' and towards the agenda and ideology of the particular political party.Bullocks! Coming from your present background we are not the slightest bit surprised that you are propagating the governments status quo puppet line.  The real criminals and war criminals are those countries that invaded Iraq and Afghanistan under false pretences and blatant lies for the Fascist Neocons who have infiltrated the White House with the aiding and abetting of a docile submissive media and press with the full support of the global US military industrial complex trans-corporations for their global hegemony.

Those Muslims that are leaving Australia and going to fight are defending their homeland meaning the country they came from, or they are assisting or engaging in humanitarian aid to their respective or chosen country.  Your statement "the proposals may assist the police and ASIO to prevent a terrorist attack in this country."  may not as well!  The country of 'origin of terror' is the US, the UK and its Nato allies and of course Australia.  The above named are the attackers and occupiers in every sense of the word.  Trying to shift or transfer blame from the country of origin to a few individual people is nonsense!

It is no wonder while maintaining the apologetic US and Australian pro war stance the australian politicians are also taking the Fascist road in draconian legislation and trying to stymy people going to other countries to support their country of origin.  We know the war OF terror is not going well for the US which have also created ISIS or ISIL as Vice President Biden and other prominent Americans readily admit.  It has opened Pandoras Box and now they want to draw Australians into it as well.  Many Australians do not support the troops nor do we support the false flag 'perpetual endless wars 
against innocent nation-states that were no threat to the US or to Australia.  All of the additional legislation will have a further negative effect on this country and further divide the Muslims from those who are not.

It was ramped up ever since 9/11, yet no one wants to discuss or debate the very fact that "an Australian government talked so much about freedom while doing so much to undermine it."  It is obvious in so many ways  docile and submissive Australia simply follows suit to the US, the UK and the military industrial complex trans-corporations in sustaining the 100 year Long war for war profits, in attempting to surround the dragon and the bear for containment, for geo-political advantage, for economic advantage etc.etc.  Remember talk is cheap and the politicians do a lot of that...You can't blame Abbott initially, as ex PM Howard was bending over backwards for the American Neocons. 

There is no public anxiety...it is being manufactured by the government with the vast array of their spin doctors with a compliant press and media that do not question or investigate facts or evidence as investigative journalists.  It is a two tier policy of manufacturing consent and quelling dissent.  Just where are the military intelligence officers and intelligence services who should be speaking out against the constant manufactured lies by both political parties placing this country in jeopardy as we have had 13 long years of premeditated lies.  Who is going to stand up and speak out like Assange and Snowden?

The government lies, omits and constantly exaggerates  which is natural, do you expect anything different from them as they continue down the road to rule by secrecy instead of transparency and accountability?  The Fascists Neocons have been targeting the Muslims and you would have to be deaf, blind and mute not to see the invasion of Muslims countries.  To say otherwise is absurd and simply another whopper!  Where are the genuine patriotic Concerned Australian Citizens instead of the highly divisive and nationalistic jingoism war mongers?  Politicians never champion human rights. It is always an association or private organisation that does.  Governments do exactly the opposite.  I actually agree with the Immigration Minister concerning "This parliament should decide what our obligations are under these conventions - not those who seek to direct us otherwise from places outside this country", such as foreign courts or the United Nations."  The final battle is national nation-statehood or globalisation of erasing all the boundaries on nation states.  The UN is nothing more than a Communist organisation.  It is certainly undemocratic in its operations and many many failures.  
Public policy my aunty!  they simply go to war at the drop of the hat with the Neocons Americans.  The Prime Minster simply make statements and off they go.  No discussion with off to the Senate for the House of Review.  They are presidential edicts virtually. 

War is unsustainable in so many ways not just economically.  The Communist UN has been touting a tax for years to receive approximately $1 trillion dollars annually from signatories to the UN.  We are entangled in foreign wars and creating Pandoras Box.  the sovereignty of Australia is being weaken each year by this insane globalisation and war.  We are a docile 'client state' that submissively o beys its masters instead of standing up and saying NO to false flag wars by the US and its pincer movement ally the EU with NATO.

John Howard was mesmerised by the US and their fanfare for him on the world stage and definitely was not thinking clearly nor did he listen to the military intelligence officers.  The Middle East is a complete catastrophe created to destroy and remap for the benefit of Zionist  Israel and to attempt to contain Russia and China for economic reasons.  Australia already is in a down-turn since 2008 and war will only cut vital services and create problems on the home front.  Australian soldiers are not well looked after concerning health and injuries that they have sustained in war.  I do not support the troops nor do I support war with the Americans.  We obviously do not have the courage and fortitude to say No thanks!Unfortunately the NSW police have had a sordid reputation over the last few decades in matters of corruption, bribes, drugs, cronyism and coverups to name just a few.  How will the public ever know if there was "no complicity between the organisations" by the police investigating the police.  Where is the independence of the judiciary, an arms length government agency with our system of the 'separation of powers' for a truly independent investigation to gain the confidence of the public  as the police have created a reputation placed in disrepute.

It has been revealed and we already know that the Roman Catholic Church-State has acted inappropriately and by their criminal actions of simply removing the devious priests into other churches and covering up their crimes for decades. There are several books and papers written by Roman Catholic scholars who have revealed years ago that the last pope Benedict covered up much evidence and created and shortened the time any victim could claim for damages. For a complete and 'independent enquiry' there should be no person in the upper echlelon or of high influence that is a member of the Roman Catholic Church-State, for as members of this sordid organisation, they take an oath to this organisation which means they take the oath which supports a foreign power.  

If you look at the previous NSW Premier Barry O'Farrell, he stopped any funding going to any of the victims in the Roman Catholic Church.  Is there not a conflict of interest of being a Roman Catholic and supporting your church and the Vatican which is a state to the detriment of those poor souls who were abused by those deviant priests.  I would have any police officer who is in a position of influence to stand down or disallow them to participate in this PIC to ensure a full and unbiased Commission.In all due respect sir, the battles may have been won but the war has been not been won.  The false ideology that the US is establishing democracy is pure fiction as they go in to establish dictators and tyrants.  The false notion that any sort of democratic process is taking place is absurd.  Australia has been drawn into this ridiculous, foolish and reckless mindset from the US Neocon's false flag wars and proxy wars for their own global hegemony and benefit.

ISIS or ISIL is basically a creation of the US fighting a terrorist organisation that it created just like the al Qaeda was created by the CIA. It is a creation of the US and her Middle East dictators who have been funding and training  with NATO and their allies of Turkey, Israel, Qatar, Bahrain, UAE, Sadia Arabia, Jordan etc.  Your suppression of this vital information is appalling and untrustworthy with the continuation of false information that is bias towards war.  

The Middle East is in this catastrophic mess created by the US from all of the above countries.  The mainstream press and media continue to suppress vital information to deliberately mislead and deceive the public.  Doing the "right thing" would have been not to get involved with the US with their sordid adventurism in Iraq and Afghanistan which we know beforehand was an outright lie!  Doing the "right thing" would be not assisting the US in carving up the Middle East for the benefit of Israel and the US.There obviously is no going back to revealing the truth about 9/11and the false flag inside job of the 'enemy within' who have infiltrated the White House and infiltrated the Australian government and intelligence agencies.  We are on this steadfast course of 13 years of lies, deception, omissions and exaggerations for our 'allies', the Fascist Neocon Americans to continue their proxy wars for global hegemony of 'full spectrum dominance'.  We have suppression of evidence and no dissent is allowed.

While we have courageous Australian and US whistle-blowers who have once and for all revealed the hypocrisy of the US and their duplicity in the international arena of geo-politics, our intelligence officers remain mute to speak out to reveal what is false and detrimental to the sovereignty of Australia.  We see precious taxpayer funds being diverted and cut backs for 'national security' while the country is constantly weakened and remains in a state of high alert.

This country has left the democratic stage and is a docile follower of the US in their war OF terror into Muslim countries where there was no threat to either country.  It is on a path of Fascism, secrecy, draconian legislation, heightened levels of security and worst of all it is clamping down even further to stop future whistle-blowers from speaking out.  One of the most democratic actions is to dissent against any government that goes off the rails.  By excluding the judiciary with a panel of three instead of one which is the Attorney General we have no separation of powers and we have the Executive branch once again acting out the role of judge and jury.  We are on a very precarious path in which we may never return...Thank you Professor Twomey for articulating and clarifying this issue.  The public already has  this feeling and past history of distrust &amp; disgust of politicians which "develop an atmosphere of distrust in governments generally, polluting public support for the democratic system and undermining public engagement with government."  The corruption has been overwhelming in the state parliaments with the Liberal fiasco.  Prior to that the electorate had to contend with the Labour politicians in their uncouth deeds. 

The electorate has no tool or instrument  like a 'Recall or a Referendum' to bring these unsavoury and corrupt politicians and practices to heel, particularly when state and federal governments constantly tout about being transparent and accountable.  It is a myth of fiction and mere words do not cut it with the electorate!  The electorate has had to endure this far too long as the politicians have brought disrepute into the Parliament and disrepute for the running of government. We do not have' Direct Democracy' and policies are chosen on and by political ideology instead of democratic principles.  

The Founding Fathers created a 'Federation', yet both sides of politics continue to centralise policies.  Can you say that Australia functions as a true Federation?  It has been stymied over the decades by politicians and their so-called 'declared mandates' in which the electorate had no say nor did they agree.  It is all very well to talk of the principles of federalism and the jurisdiction but are we really operating as one as devised originally? Perhaps this opportunity will provide an inside look to see if functions need to be updated and broaden for the benefit of democracy as a whole, as the past couple of state elections in New South Wales alone have been appalling.  We have shysters at the helm.

We are dumbed down for a myriad of reasons.. Governments always want more control over the populous.  We have a docile  and submissive complicit press and media who spoon feed us with a generalised range of opinions and views from the box and papers instead of investigative journalism which is rare these days.  We have the pressure of being 'ruled not governed' by the outside by the US, the UK and the trans-corporations that lobby diligently to the 'client state' that Australia has become.

The education system is also in league with the government or the government makes sure what is taught and what is not taught to the youth.  We get no hard questions and in many cases the journalists are sympathetic to a particular political party of politician so a 'fair and balanced account' is never realised to the public.  When you have an adversarial system as ours then it is obvious that you are going to get opposite criticism, mud racking by sordid scandals, politicians defending their corporations donations instead of representing their electorate ad nauseam...

The electorate has no instrument to thwart the politicians ideology nor their corruption which does not make Australia a real democracy.  Referendums are rarely used for the benefit of the electorate and Australia at large.  For example  why should Australia be the depositor of spent uranium bought by other countries?  Whoever buys should deal with it in their own country.  There is always a hidden agenda from the politicians that the electorate does not agree with in the first place hence the NO vote.  The false nationalistic jingoism and fear campaign that Howard initiated and has continued ever since is beyond belief with the constant propaganda campaign by the politicians to ever exert more and more power and control over its own electorate.  Is it any wonder that the electorate is apathetic and does not pay attention and stay vigilant concerning the government of the day?
