Yank
'See if he can put as much heart into those situations'
A budget that tracks toward a surplus and stops un-necessary spending!
A policy on immigration that sees no deaths at sea whilst he has been PM!
A heartfelt reply to the demands of the Australian people I would say.GJA
In some respects, it is thought that we reflect what we are or what we see. It is a shame many positions on the credibility of our PM appear to be based on the same theory.
It's very likely PM Abbott and many PM's before him, saw little of their family and friends especially during a crisis period such as the Malaysian Airlines disaster. We however,by enlarge, get to go home and enjoy dinner and family, oblivious to public opinion of how we sometimes jump to conclusions that are baseless.Jonathan
I agree that Mr.Abbott has shown compassion and a high degree of skill over this situation of the Malaysian Airways.
It is to his credit that he is representing the people well at this difficult time. So much care has to be taken with the handling of such things because the on-going trauma for those families involved, is immense.
Your article is interesting, but one must argue that it is for another time, a time more appropriate, when the families and the country have reconciled their grief.
Do we really need to be looking at polls and opinions on whether Mr.Abbott has said just the right thing at the time required?
This is not a game and to treat the tenure of Mr.Abbott as a game of 'Let's catch him out' would be wrong.
All Prime Ministers as with all people in authority, must be given time and space to do their jobs, after all, why would we elect and appoint them? Mr.Abbott is a highly educated person with skills that I could never muster personally, I say this also of Ms.Gillard and all Prime Ministers before. The people will have their 15 minutes of game when they go to the ballot box, that's how it works! For now, can we not just back off and let character have the chance to develop for our own benefit if nothing else.
It should be noted that not all movements a person makes, denote a degree of calculation and planning, compassion is something that all people share and it cannot be falsified. Authenticity will always win out and the people of Australia will get their chance to comment on that - but not now.We need to ask ourselves what it is we want from Political Parties and Politicians.
Politicians won't be able to clean our teeth for us, it's just a fact that some things need to be done 'For ourselves'.
The more we expect from Pollies, the more we are disappointed.
This has all become too personal and to expect perfection in anything is foolhardy.
Yes! Australians will stubbornly vote for their favourite Party and do so blindly in a lot of cases, but we are becoming a nation of whiners wanting only the top shelf stuff and not prepared to do the hard yards to afford it.Ramsey
'Labor leaders, they don't do bastard things'
Whatever you are referring to, it's un-likely that any PM would seriously set out to harm any person.
We have to ask: is watching refugees drown at sea after changing policies because of a failed ideology a 'bastard thing'?
                         Is signing up our country to long term debt a 'bastard thing'?
                         Is saying no to every Budget measure proposed a 'bastard thing'?
Some PM's just have a little different field of focus but all PM's share a deep desire to help the country regardless of what we, the public, make of it.GJA
Obviously getting off the gist of the article written by Jonathan, however it does sound as though some are still attempting to bring their own confused hate of Mr.Abbott into any particular discourse.
It might be best should we stick to the points highlighted in the article and keep our comments civil, especially in such circumstances.I have often thought of PM's in the situation of conflict and how particular Australian Prime Ministers (or would be PM's) would act.
Some are great orators and make the world swoon at their ability to say the right thing at the right time. Some are diplomatic and are careful to the extreme. Others take a stand and make the call.
This happens in Business also and defines the leadership, or lack of, by any CEO.
'Cometh the moment, come the the man/woman' is the old saying (slightly modernised to include both genders) and this is the moment that will begin to define Mr.Abbott.
Whilst Annabel and others may see this as a chest beating 'Toe to toe' encounter, I actually see it as a normal response from a normal person of whom feels harm in the same way as anyone.
We need to realise that all people are equal in life and in death. Those in high office can and should always act on their personal basic instinct as a feeling soul when taking decisions for our Nation.
I want a PM who will stand up for me and understand that polls and day by day argument success, are not the main game. To that end Prime Minister Abbott has represented me well and, dare I say, represented the families and friends of the deceased passengers on the Malaysian Ailines Flight, in a manner befitting.Breakfast
'Sucking this horrific tragedy dry with political opportunism and to garner popularity'
Actually the guilt lies with those condemning his actions for the simple reason that, should Mr.Abbott have remained quiet - He would be critisized, should he have gone gently,gently - he would have been critisized . In fact, the Abbott and Institution haters are the ones using opportunism here to feed their fire of rage that clouds every moment of time.
It is for the Abbott haters to cease using such events to their own political hate-end and realise that, even PM's have feelings and understand grief.
Time to get a perspective on life.It is said we see what we wish to see and by clouding ones understanding of a difficult situation, with a pre-disposition toward a certain end, we are not comprehending all of the factors presenting themselves.Alan
I see there is a move on for Mining Companies to get involved in Technology, so perhaps Teltra could find a gap in mining - dig up some Rare Earths and stuff.
For now, my humble dividend is still humble and looking to become less so. 
As Woollies becomes our Next-Bank, Telstra could begin to offer cheap loans or even expensive loans, just to offer that point of difference.
No, the real future for Telstra is in good old fashioned service. Amazingly the latest ploy from Telstra and other " Big-Guys" is to be as "Helpful and friendly as can possibly be". There's a new and interesting sales technique that could very well work.
Telstra has worked through some tough times to gain this position in the market. They have been Government owned and then sold. Then they became wholesaler's to themselves and others followed(brilliant). Then they char med the Labs and promised that the people would be grateful and the Labs went for it.(Not that difficult). Now they have all of this dosh to throw away.
One massive dividend to all of the shareholders and a penalty payment to everyone who has had to sustain those dinner- time calls from another country selling tiles and cladding. Now that's progress!I have the NBN connected to my place of work and my home and my life has changed.
Downloads happen before I think of them and the euphoria surrounding my day is palpable.
I am eternally grateful to Mr.Rudd and Mr.Conroy for bringing this superior system to my door.
    OR
I can't tell any difference. Nothing has changed. Everything is as it was. Enjoy your $billions Telstra you earned it and to the NBN sales team- well done. The Labs must have thought they were dealing with a Government Department when they made these deals - wanna buy a scrap metal tower in Paris?Roger
That would be a good fit Roger. Might be interesting though given that the freighting side of AusPost is bouncing along and this is a cumbersome, basic form of business that would be very competitive.
I would assume that AusPost tied in with a BillPay/Electronic Transfers and Financial Control, would be ok.
AusPost would have to sold off soon before it loses all of its relevance.SteveJF
You speak of "substantiate" and I wonder if you would be kind enough to name the "Recent doctor"you referred to in your comment. Just want to clear up a point what signifies "regurgitated" news. Thanks old fella!Chris
Well chris, it's hats off to Mr.Shorten and all of the negative nannies for the job they have achieved.
Not only has the Budget been mis-represented and caused undue alarm, but to add to the splendour of the Mr.Shorten's scare tactics, we now have a Government looking as if it is failing on Border Protection.
Yes! True, can anyone possibly believe that given the boats have stopped - this Government has somehow shown themselves to be incapable of holding their portfolios. "Mr.Morrison has lost control of his portfolio" was the cry from the Opposition.
At what point did Australians actually begin to believe this stuff.
So it's for the Government now to decide: 1. Do we want to be popular like Mr.Shorten?
                                                              2. Do we continue with a Budget that has successfully been mis-represented?
                                                               3. Do we go to an election?
Ah! Mr.Shorten you are to be congratulated. Like Mr.Andrews, you have successfully hammered away and eroded any kind of Faith in Government and I guess like Mr.Andrews you too may come under some scrutiny at some point.
It is now clear just how powerful Mr.Shorten is and how he broke the power bases of 2 Prime Ministers. I'm getting on board, this is how politics is played in Australia and I'm not going to back a loser. Bring on the dirty politics and the mis-representations I say and let's have it all out there to make our decisions. - or perhaps we could just tell the truth!By the number of comments that have found their way to my comment, it is easy to tell that ITS PAY BACK TIME!
Every comment regarding Mr.Abbott is related to the fact that he( Mr.Abbott) acted this way so it is absolutely right and proper that the actions of Mr.Abbott ( so condemned by the Opposition as "Dirty/Grubby/ Bitter/ sexist") be incorporated into any campaign put forward by the current Opposition. Double standards are such a wonderful, useful tool.Mr.Abbott should not be given the chance to re-deliver anything!
Let's have Labor back in power! They knew exactly what to do in a crisis! We want stable Government and we know how Mr.Shorten could deliver that!
So I say don't give Mr.Abbot any more chances - He stuffed up immigration and kept his promise, he stuffed up the Carbon Tax income and welfare stream and kept his promise, he is attempting to stuff up the  finances so Australia can have a decent future and that is un-forgivable. Let's have him out now! 
Mr.Abbott has been a complete failure in foreign relations.He has negotiated free trade deals, dealt with Leaders on refugees, led the way in the Malaysian Airways disaster. But don't let him get away with these things, they are typical of a bad Government!
Really - does anyone actually believe that we need to re-jig something that works? Selfish Australians are more content with luxury and having others do their thinking for them.Scott
I'm afraid Scott they are not "My Party" they are "My Government"and I'm prepared to let them do their job.
It would be interesting to see just how many of us would put up with so much scrutiny and bullying before chucking it in.
The resolve of the Government is to be admired. Under enormous pressure from interested "groups", they(the Government) have stood firm.
We want a Government to back itself and not curl up in a little ball every time someone critisizes them.
Because it is "My Government" it means that the work that needs to be done is getting done. If I don't like it, my vote will always respond at election time. But to openly critisize the current Government at every turn over some iPod the most trivial things, is just beyond comprehension. 
The critics are quite professional and are to congratulated. They have begun to erode anty semblance of belief and faith we have had in people doing their jobs. It might be interesting to see what the world according to the experts would look like should all of their demands come through.
I will always vote for a Government that will concentrate on the job at hand and, always at election time, make sure that if a Government is guilty of caring about itself and its Party more than the people, then I will vote against them.
The previous Government were interested in themselves and ultimately became un-willing to do their job - we should never allow such a Gobernment to ever be in power again.Scott
There have been good Governments on all sides of politics.
It just so happens that the previous inept Government happened to be Labor, but that doesn't mean there will not be a place for Labor again in a future where, perhaps, Socialism becomes king in our country.
This Government has not nearly shown the fractured look that was the previous Government. Grand programmes such as the NBN and the NDIS , all had their genesis in the Labor Party. But ideas are worth nothing if they cannot be carried out. I could offer Mr.Abbott a multitude of ways to do away with the grief he must be feeling from the "Interested Parties" that are offering the same advice. But the fact remains that LABOR brought these ideas to the people and made huge promises and now they are either met or done away with.
It so happens that the present Government has chosen to continue with these programmes, albeit in a more calculated way, so to do so and meet the happy support of the public, certain measures need to be taken.
Labor were quite wrong to offer the public such remedies and goodies at a time when they knew that their Government power was slipping to a point of no return. So promises made to the un-suspecting public are never going to be met. Mr.Abbott I think referred to these promises as like traps set into the future so as to ensure that the next Gobernment could never satisfy a selfish myopic public.
It is likely that should the Gillard Government have not been un-workable and Mr.Shorten had kept his hands away from the steering wheel, then Lanor would have been re-elected. All of those wonderful things promised were too good to pass up for a hungry public. This would have been quite simply, a disaster for our country and would probably have seen the end of LABOR FOR GOOD. So in a way, The Libs won a hard contest and Labor must be forever thankful that it's Mr.Abbott taking the heat and not Mr.Shorten.Diplomacy is the only course of action!
But dialogue seems far from the minds of everyone concerned and the lead can come from what we see in our own day-to-day dialogue.
Our own dialogue appears to be that outrageous claims and counter claims, can be be put forward and if they are not defended then an assumption is made that there is a guilt being covered up.
The dialogue we as citizens of Australia engage in, reflects the up-coming troubles for the world at large. 
Statements are made just to outrage opponents and stir up trouble. Claims and counter claims are a blight on our own country and will cause trouble throughout the world unless we begin to understand that people will fight if cornered.
Ridiculous statements are being made about our local politics and our international engagement in politics. These statements are then countered and take all of the energy out of reasonable argument and re-direct that energy to survival.
Israel,Syria,Ukraine,....... all have statements of "fact" being put out and we the public are making choices.
Those choices are driven by experience or the lack of it and we are relying on un-biased reporting to bring us our information.
The more we close our minds to facts and be driven by emotion, the greater the trouble will be to bring us all back to a dialogue that can offer grounds for negotiation.Jim Middleton
So how exactly is this another fail to Mr.Abbott? 
It must be jaw-grindingly hard for the anti-Abbott lot to actually begin to see that this Government is actually getting things done.
The powerful ABC and associated supporters such as Fairfax, are making it increasingly difficult to get any reasonable credit for anything that this Government does.
My support is always with the Government in charge - if the people have spoken then let the Government do its job. That in life's not attempting to hamstring them at every turn just because it suits a certain few.
Mr.Abbott and Ms.Bishop have represented the families and friends of the Malaysian Airways disaster with great distinction, even the Opposition Leader to his credit, has understood that this is an important task to undertake and should be supported. But the media and the anti-Abbotts make it seem like there is an ulterior motive to everything attempted to be done by Government.
When it suits the ABC they will print something and they(ie:the Moderator of the Drum) have allowed some terribly offensive things through today, however many of the things that I have written haven't " suited" the Editors ultimate aim.
I am not a supporter of the Abbott Government, I am a supporter of Government and without it we are frankly stuffed. Just beware what you wish for, because if respected journalists such as Jim Middleton can't actually back the Government or finds it jaw-grindingly hard to do so, then it will be interesting to see how Mr.Shorten fares should he ever rise to high office.Kitty
"Taking great pride in abusing the defenceless"
It is just the kind of 'Speak' that gives discourse on serious matters, a bad element.
Many people are involved in the organisational requirements of handling the situation of people arriving in boats and un-fortunately accusing them of "Abuse" is out of order in the extreme.whohasthefish
Thankyou W for your open and reasonable comment.
As it happens I was not only referring to physical abuse here and I agree, if there is a problem take the politics out of it.
Mr.Morrison has remained quite silent on many of the matters concerning the border protection actions and it is here that politics has caused a problem that has resonated throughout the detention camps and beyond.
It is for fear that Mr.Morrison has not contributed to informing the public on such matters. Fear of the climate of blame that is so palpable you could cut it with a knife.
Mr.Morrison has stopped the boats, which the % of Australian voters wanted him to do. Politics is such that even if the slightest thing goes wrong ( I am not referring to children being detained here) there is a slapping that is not equal to the praise that should be allowed. He is doing his job and through a culture of fear cannot trust the media or the public to deal with information in a learned manner.
This is wrong! It is wrong to not disclose. It is wrong to have children in detention. It is wrong that a trusted representative of Government ( and Departmental officials) feel the bullying of the media and associated interests so as to make errors of judgment. It is wrong that Government cannot be at least acknowledged for achieving the seemingly impossible (at least under 5 other Ministers)
What is right is that this system for the greater part is working and whilst there is still a number of un-resolved issues, for the most part the public is getting what it wanted.
Politics aside - Ms.Plebisik, Mr.Shorten and Ms.Milne need to let this happen without the bullying, this goes for the media and advocates as well.
 - Mr.Morrison and Mr.Abbott need to cut the secrecy and let the public in so they can understand the situation for what it really is.
Politics is complicating every decision of administration to a point of critical. If we the public don't start backing off our own selfish desires to bring down a Government or establish a political fortress, then we will lose badly in the long term.Dr.Elliott
With due regard to the intentions of your article,they being the ultimate protection of the health of the young people; I challenge you to actually run a story on just how bad things were under the previous regime.
Your intentions I share, you are not alone as most Australians of any understanding would agree that no child should be in detention much less a child with health issues present or potential. However, there needs to be some clarity here as well.
If children are sick and if there has been a "Cover-up", let's understand why this has happened first and how does it track with historical dealings with the same situation.
Yours Dr.Elliott is a noble intention, and that is to highlight the dangers of involving children in a political debate that has only one outcome - children being harmed. But let us be clear about this, from not necessarily a political point of view but a balanced one, this has happened before and it has happened in numbers.
I trust that when we research your earlier contributions on the previous matters, that they held the same passion of which I am certain you would have portrayed.
Your article is timely and we need professionals such as yourself to actually put a true meaning to what is happening, but it must be balanced and show that things are better or worse than previously, after all in your job you would work on the same basis.QLDSteve
 These are but facts you are quoting Steve. The old saying "Don't let the facts get in the way of a good story" could very well apply here.
Ms.Christine Milne
Firstly, referring to anyone in high office, especially that of Prime Minister, should attract the decency to refer to a title of some description. Referring to Mr.Abbott as "Abbott" is both objectionable and denotes the hatred and contempt that pumps through the veins of the Greens.
A Mining Tax was a bad idea, still is a bad idea and anything that stops companies from making profits and causing jobs for Australia, is generally a bad idea.
The Greens are so stuck in their "Save the planet" ways, that they have no idea of how the real world works. Business is not just a cash cow for the "Save everything" people and the darlings of the welfare set, business is operating to generate cash and jobs.
If the Greens ever get any power in this country again( and that is un-likely given their past record) then Australia will suffer.
Saving dogs, cats, possums, trees and water is one thing, but there is a real world out there that the likes of Ms.Milne and the ever- helpful Ms.Hanson-Young, will never be able to understand until they get some real jobs.Mandas
Good question Mandus!
I have possums in my walls that get better conditions for living and greater protection that many of the people on the street.
Ms.Milne wants a Mining Tax and to make sure that those demons of the country (my words) "Gina" and "Clive" ( I would use Ms.and Mr.), don't get to make all of that money. 
Now where does that money go?
Chances are that both of these successful Australians do exactly what the rest of Australians do. ie; we spend a bit, we save a bit and we invest a bit.
You see money doesn't really belong to any one person. It is of no value unless it is dealt with in one of the 3 ways above.
Of course it could be given away - or in fact spent on possums, but generally the 3 methods apply.
Every time that money is moved, someone services that movement - that's called a job.
Ms.Milne shows that Socialising the money is far better, provided that socialising includes saving the possums and things like a desalination plant in a rich water state.
Ms.Milne would have it that a mining tax builds all manner of things when in fact all Ms.Milne wants is a re-distribution of money to those who aren't quite as rich as the fortunate couple above.Jammer
Editing is a wonderful thing in retrospect as well!
About so- called "Renewable sector jobs", I happen to think this is a business initiative and as such will attract some new money through natural Business interest.
Don't think for one moment that Climate Change or Possum saving drives this - what drives this is profits! 
I can see a "Renewables Tax" being applied in years to come, because some poor soul has had the audacity to make some good money and provide some jobs.
Ms.Milne will socialise the renewable sector as soon as she can, because, you see it's socialisation at the heart of  ms.Milnes motives.Ted
Ah! But Ted, it will effect the polls. But why is that a bad sign? I would have thought the beloved polls portrayed the "Real picture"?
What is there to be afraid of?
All of the poll driven euphoria was coming from the Victorian Opposition and now when it looks as if it may well "Turn", those devotees of all things poll are starting to dis-associate themselves from them.
Mr.Andrews was found out under his Health Portfolio and he will be found out under the pressure of scrutiny again.It is actually refreshing to see that, finally,Mr.Andrews is being viewed from both sides of his character.
For too long Mr.Andrews has been able to get away with just bagging anything and anyone from the Napthine Government.
It is his right and privilege to do so, but please, if you are going to through these huge rocks that have been flowing ad nauseam from the Andrews camp, then let's see how he responds to a little of his own gutter politics.
Mr.Andrews has proclaimed that Dr.Napthine is everything that the people of Victoria should despise, if the sun didn't come up today then Mr.Andrews wouldn't blame Climate Change (Immediately) nor would he pin it on the grubby company greed (that's already happened) no, he would blame Dr.Napthine for somehow extinguishing the very light that gives us hope and warmth.
Oh! Yes. It would be dramatic, but then that's what Mr.Andrews is - all drama and very little substance.
My vote is never bought, but I can assure Mr.Andrews of this; I would never vote for person who represents such poor politics and stands for nothing but drama and blame.whogoesthere

Somehow it still seems like a "It's Tony Abbotts Fault" 
What is it with everyone so engrossed with the idea that Mr.Abbott needs to be mentioned with every phrase ?
What a popular chap he is and so capable having effected every possible world disaster, every local problem and most of the personal problems that people encounter.
Mr.Abbott is FEDERAL and Mr.Andrews is STATE.  This has nothing to do with Mr.Abbott. He must be such a remarkable person to be capable of such destruction and harm. He might just get his own "Evil Monster" character in the next super- hero movie.
Alpo
I'm pleased to read that your hate for Liberal people doesn't stop at a Federal level. You are just as "Interesting" at State level.
Nice opportunity to squeeze a "It's Tony Abbotts fault" in.
Unfortunately there is nowhere to hide on this one. Mr.Andrews has some serious work to do to gain any kind of credibility in Victoria, and whilst the "Beloved polls" may say one thing, the thinking people of Victoria actually see through this facade of "Drama and blame" that is the mark of the Andrews' Opposition.
Mr.Andrews has questions to answer and blaming Tony Abbott or the dog, or any other rock or stone; is not going to cut it this time.Not even the Unions can save him now.Dave
Yes Dave the journalist in question is unfortunate indeed, these things happen and in a kinder world, they would have had no consequences.
However, the squeaky clean, don't do anything, blame Napthine for everything, Opposition "Led" by Mr.Andrews, didn't play by the un-written rules. Good enough for piousness when it comes to Green Corridors or Level Crossings; easy to bucket the Government and lecture to them on their lack of care and consideration, but not quite the same under the un-written codes of action toward privacy.RS
Not sure but I think its Fairfax at the end of this one, so maybe the Murdoch bash could have missed.
Pollies need to trust journalists and journalists need their trust. There is no story if no-one talks and after all, that is what makes the news.
This is a grubby situation and apparently handled with a little bit of zealous-ness from some info-spreaders. You have to be first in this game of headlines and click-bait, the temptation must have been massive. Typically, it appears that little regard was given to the consequences but lots of interest in the personal gains and kudos.
Maybe Mr.Andrews has begun to realise that "Blaming and Dramatising" everything might have its day biting his own bottom.Jonathan
3 word slogans are part of the way that Australians get their news today. The "3word slogan" is click-bait for the average reader.
If there is a word that is recognised as favourable or a phrase that angers, then the reader is "In like Flynn" having their say and making all of the important points.
It's just the way society has developed. No longer do people become scholars of a subject, they "Click and Forget".
Alluvial knowledge makes us all experts for a short time on any particular subject, until someone drills down to find that most of the comment is reactionary and politically biased. "Common Knowledge" has become a literal term; as a more common way of thinking has probably never blighted Australia.
Australia is becoming a more involved country but less educated one. Experts are the person sitting next to you or the person who lives around the corner - they are everywhere - in fact, like everyone on this forum even I may be an expert at some things. But we need to drill down.This is where Journalists and other News-Hounds need to lift their game.
While we the consumer buy into the 3 word slogan, it will be used. Don't buy it and it will disappear, it just so happens that it suits perfectly the "Neo-Informed Class" that so consumes the airwaves today.Not Such A Golden Oldie
I actually agree with you. Especially on the "Group think" point. Were I to use a derogative term, I would refer to this as "Sharing a brain". One person does the research and the hard study, the rest just follow and incorporate new ways into their lives/businesses/politics, without really understand why- it's just the trend.
Experts are self defined usually, generally allowing the label to be used to describe themselves. It is our own "Group think" that allows them to get away with 'being an expert'.
So many "Experts" are welcomed onto a news forum after an event, usually a retired expert or a current trending one; their offerings are insightful and philosophically press the right buttons that we the humble public greet with adoration.
This group think is why we have a fashion industry and explains the "brick wall" effect when attempting to discuss facts with political zealots, it will be seen as current or out of favour.
NSAGO
it does genuinely concern me when slogans are the collateral used to basically research and promote our views.
No political Party can be blamed for utilizing this as a way of continuing their message transmission. That applies to positive and negative use also.
But the overall method by which we "get" our information is becoming a real danger to the authenticity of what we are attempting to gain.
These are early days in the big picture that is the Internet. We have not yet mastered the ability to discriminate the information available into real value and fashionable value, this presents us with a whole new set of understanding.
Also, we are still bombarded by someone breaking new ground and everyone else,keen to be on a winner, following and creating a new frontier. This is of course how business operates, but it is with trickle-down effects that the genuine is separated from the easy grab.
Seminars continue to play their part, educators I guess, but who are the educators? Some lucky son of a gun that "fell" into a situation that worked ; wrist bands maybe, and after making $millions, was then able to gain a cult following of desperate would-be business people. Is this qualified and is the person a Master?Gordon
Very wise advice Gordon.
Unfortunately even if this mission is successful, and it's increasingly more difficult by the day, the 'Too hard - walk away' set will still deny it ever happened.
Political opportunism only works whilst egg is not on face!Thankyou for this article. It shows understanding and clear argument for not over-doing Australia's involvement.
You have steered away from the cheap political point-scoring that has engulfed this whole process and I commend you for that.
It is possible that Australia may, like other interested Nations, find themselves in a situation that gets out of their own control.
But our choices here are limited. As I understand it, time is important as you yourself have pointed out and should we not take the actions that need to be taken fairly soon, then it may well be less likely they will be effective at all.
I feel you understand that whilst Australia is keen to take the appropriate steps to resolve this situation for the people grieving, you also understand that the foolish deployment of others into a dangerous situation would be fool-hearty.Having said that, we must give some reasonable credit to the Departments of all of the Nations involved, to make the decisions that ensure safety for all. 
For us to make un-reasonable assumptions from the position of citizens observing, would be counter-productive and just guessing at best.Alpo
It would be so easy to live in the glass bubble that yourself and others do. A kind of Utopean place where no facts are important and everyone speaks the same political junk!
Unfortunately there is a real world out there, where people are having a go at making things better, not sitting back and taking pot shots at processes that are quite beyond them.
Were life as easy as just waltzing up to the crash site and doing what needs to be done, do you think that would not have been done by now?
A little bit a common sense here would be useful.Stephen
Owning 27 houses is not necessarily greed old chap. Business is business!
There is probably 27 families dependant on this business-person providing accommodation, where those families have either chosen to go with the rental way or have been forced into it because of their own circumstances.
It may be just possible that a developers 'Greed' has provided your good self with an income stream over a long period as we all find ourselves effected in some way.
To remove the deductios claimable by owning property, would satisfy the Socialist-lust but provide no real assistance to the housing industry or rental market.
Everyone can be accused of greed at some point it just requires an understanding of the perspective it is viewed from.ee
'27 families priced out'
Maybe they realised 'they' were never priced in the game! First home loan and all doesn't necessarily mean that people can still actually afford a new home. Earnings are the key, obviously. If earnings cannot substantiate a purchase then there is not enough capital production- that means it can't be afforded in the first place.
While figures may show a desire for purchasing of a home, actions speak louder and many young people today are simply spending capital as they obtain it. This is a phenomenon that has been building over recent years and if you were to speak to retailers they would tell you that the young money is king. They have plenty to spend and little to show for it and personally, I believe this to be a reasonable approach dependant on your personal desires.
I agree with your assessment on Super Funds. It is crazy enough without injecting a whole new player.Ann
Glad to be of service Ann!I will make a prediction that James Hird will never coach again. Not because he will be sacked, or for that matter because he is a bad coach; neither of these things is true. No, James Hird will never coach again because he has nothing to gain and the clubs have nothing to gain.
It is likely that, already, an agreement has been bargained to see a friendly parting of the ways. Good for the Club and not career destroying for James.
There will be the mandatory law cases and the arguments to and fro, but overall the deal is stitched up already. James gets to leave on good terms, the players have a good character to reflect on and the Club can say that they 'Helped' James at every turn subsequently being sorry to see him call it quits.
I hope that's how it goes. I hope James Hird can come out of this with some dignity and I hope that the AFL understands that no matter how much they control in their quest to socialise the game that players are still the masters of the games future.the Yank
'It is just macho behaviour sending people into a war zone'
C'mon Yank, shadow some sense of understanding here.
Nobody is wanting this to happen. It was a situation that resulted in many lives of innocent people being lost and if we can do anything, we should.
If Ms.Gillard had have done the same I would have cheered her on, my wonder is, where would the hard-hearted ones be on that front?Jake
'Why does he have to put more Australian lives at risk'
At what point exactly did Mr.Abbott or any other person suggest that the investigation team should risk their lives to assess the aircraft downing?
You are over-stating a point that has not even been suggested.
There is a time for partisan politics to have its ugly hard, but please, stay with the facts as they are and not how one wishes them to be to suit their own petty political outcome.
This is the Prime Minister of Australia and, as previous Prime Ministers before, he has Australia's people at heart. It should be obvious that no Prime Minister would want harm to come to any citizen. Please show some genuine understanding for the situation and don't be sucked into this hate campaign that has so infected our country.Brian
Apart from sharing the same name as yourself, I cannot agree with your biased view on this particular situation.
It would be worthwhile appraising yourself of the situation that has brought this action to the fore.
It is a shame when obvious political bias clouds good peoples' judgement. People have lost their lives here, nobody wants any other loss of life. Is it possible that some of the opponents of this action would be politically well-served should someone be unfortunate enough to be killed doing their duty here?
Do we really believe that this is a political move of ever-reach? What an absolute cop-out for healthy Australians to take this course of thinking. A disgrace!Hello Dancing in the Dark
You make a valid case to just let this discourse be what it is. However it is not right to mis-state the facts in an attempt to cloud the opinion of others.
I completely understand that opinions are opinions, however well informed, but it is the facts here that are being distorted just to gain a political edge.
My bias is always toward the Government in power. It is my duty to allow and demand, that a Government get on with business, after all, we do the same in our jobs.
To under-mine the Government at every turn is both wrong and dangerous. It has implications for our Nation in on-going administration and can destroy the publics faith in the high office of PM.
the facts are that Australia is assisting in the investigation of a serious incident with global political outcomes and we would do well to realise just how important it is to see this through and allow for the effected parties to reconcile their losses.I am at a loss to understand how Australians have become so heartless as to link the retrieval of those killed in the Malaysian Airways crash, could be so blatantly a political ploy by Mr.Abbott and Ms.Bishop to enhance their own political standing.
At what point in Australia's rich history did we decide that every move made by anybody in high office, has to be a pre-determined move to negate comment and positively spin a story to suit?
Have we really become such a cynical society that we must rip the heart out of all of our leaders to put them in a category of cheats and power-hungry, just to suit our own political ends?
Surely Australia deserves a better response to a positive attempt by Government to assist in a difficult matter?
The writer of this article has obviously had experience in International Politics, but one needs to ask, if that experience was sound then an understanding greater than the view proposed should be forthcoming.
We are all aware that this is a war-zone and it doesn't take a genius to realise its a dangerous mission, that has been determined and verbalised by Government.How fickle we are when our emotions show one week the genuine heart-felt grief for those lost and another week deny our fellow citizens the opportunity to see this situation resolved. We owe it to the families and friends of the people killed, to do whatever we can and I challenge anyone to seek the opinion of those folks going into the area as to their desire to complete this mission. They will say it is dangerous but they will also say, they want it to happen.Steve
congratulations on your elevation to guru status now that you are 'old and ugly enough to recognise a political stunt'.
I expect now that you have found white to really be black also.
My understanding of political stunts is a learning curve, however smelling a rat doesn't always mean their is one. The smell is sometimes right under our own noses.Economic Refugees have to take the consequences of their actions.
If you want to vote in NZ then take their conditions as well.
Thanks for your labour whilst you have been here, but it's time to go, we need to make room for the Greenies.National Lottery - great idea but maybe could be confused as a 'Levy' or a 'Co-payment' that would excite some caring souls.
Athletes should have a share of the take! Especially in the AFL, where football appears to have been completely taken over by one company. Since when did the AFL own football?
The confusion over what signifies a 'Workplace' still exists.
How is it possible to call a football field a 'Workplace'? It is only in war that bodies are subjected to horrific injuries such as can be found by playing this 'Game'.
People play football for the fun and for the money. If they want to protect their health, and I'm sure the current Health Minister and Shadow Health Minister would like to comment on this; they would not be 'Playing' such a sport.
Call it the AAA or the AAAAAAA. It still adds up to be just another layer of regulation that only a rich country with Socialist whims could afford.Good point,my mistake. In a lottery your chance a of winning something a re a million to one. With a co-payment everyone wins.
Mind you, some of the players of these gruelling sports resemble monotremes.SC
Paid sport is a privileged career under financially strong National conditions.
Were it the case that Australia was running a Recession, then the things to go are things that are the non-essentials.
Many businesses fold in a recession because of their unique market place re-action to the public closing down their support.
Sport is one of these operations. There will always be sport and more than likely, there will be sport contributors paid for the privilege, but to confuse the sporting field as a 'workplace' is quite wrong.
This is why our country suffers when it comes to making decisions. We are hard on one thing and too soft on others, our double-standards apply to make us tolerant of difficult things and hard-nosed on the easily tackled.
Sporting people are attacked physically in a lot of situations and inflicted with pain as part of the game in others. Sure they get an ambulance and good medical care after the event, but where is the Medical Corporation when it comes to promoting good health and well being when someone is being physically attacked so they don't kick a goal?
The sporting field is no workplace because what Union Rep. in their right mind would allow such physical situations without a hard hat and a yellow (Union Member) vest?Kerrie
All sounds very honest and meaningful and perhaps would work well at community level (where it basically doesn't count), but the crunch comes behind closed doors where leaders do show their honesty, integrity and skill. We don't see that, all we see is what the media, the spin doctors and the advocates want us to see.
You sound like you know how it works at one level, but that's just politics and really can't be trusted as being the real story.
More often than not decisions and outcomes are arranged long before 'Meetings' take place. 
Meetings are a wonderful, warm and cuddly thing, but outcomes arrive from hard nosed decisions made with integrity with an eye toward what the future would look like by not making those decisions now.
Lots of people hate the Budget that was handed down. That's not news and it was to be expected, but Australia has a choice and the Government has a choice; make the 'feelgood' decisions now and be popular like Mr.Shorten, or make tough decisions that you know are un-popular but will set up the country for years to come.
The Government could always create a min-budget and sweep away a lot of this 'hardship', thus making them popular again and appeasing the people's whims, but to do so would be bad Government and after all that's what we wanted the Government to do.Sir Trent
'People don't dislike the Budget because it is tough'
Very interesting change of mind beginning to infiltrate even the soldered on opposers.
So let me get this right; The public are ok with the Co-payment/the scrapping of the Mining Tax/ the changes to Higher Education/ the PPL - BUT they just think they will have a whinge because Mr.Abbot apparently deceived them?
This is the problem of Australian politics! It is not a school yard!
Australians think that they will just oppose something that is important just because they are being tough?
What a strange and un-predictable climate this creates.Kerrie
Congratulations, you are at least able to articulate your argument without abuse and denigrating your opponents.
Kerrie, I take your point that the community would like a say, however it has got to a point in our society whereby it has become a mine-field of special interest groups with great resources and thus causing decisive action s to be far from appealing.
This is not to say that we should forget involving the community ( I believe this to be a dangerous course) but at some point the public need to be told that 'This is going to happen'.
Now, to wrap this up nicely is pleasing and warm and cuddly, but it doesn't get the job started, much less finished.
We are, un-fortunately headed down a Socialist route in our country and this will be to the detriment of the Australian citizens in the long term. Involving everybody in everything is all very well but that's really a rich country past-time.anote
In the era of Mr.Howard, there was a push to 'involve' the public in decisions, thus giving them(the public) a sense of ownership.
This worked well for the then Government and it appeared to be listening to the voters.
Times were pretty good way back then. Surpluses as far as the eye could see and voters convinced they could afford anything the desired, sometimes believing they would never have to actually pay for it.
Then Mr. Rudd came along. Remember the 20/20 coffeefest? Everyone being helpful and involved in all things important. There was a selection of important people and a few not so, and ideas just flowed. Wasn't it wonderful and so heart-warming.
Caring and sharing is all very well, but things need to get done also. Today is a time for someone to take control. There is a barrage of media power through social media and regular sources, so to please all of the people all of the time has become impossible.
I personally believe that Mr.Abbott doesn't care whether I or anyone else for that matter, actually likes him, that's our choice. But he seems to be getting the job done. He has stopped the boat influx. He has scrapped the Carbon Tax ( no help from the Labor Party after saying they would scrap it also). He has represented Australia well in a difficult time of International Diplomacy.
So what if you or I don't like him? If that is a dictator  and it sets Australia up well, then I'm ok with that.anote
'Things got done under the previous Government'
They sure did and most of them involved Mr.Shorten and some very interesting political manoeuvring.
I'm not sure that getting things done really equates to having 3 Prime Ministers, 4 Immigration Ministers and multiple other in-house disruptions.
Maybe that's just me!Paula
Firstly, Labor have not abandoned the Carbon Tax!
Secondly, the diabolical situation with refugees no longer exists - or have you been asleep!
Thirdly, Mr.Shorten is showing leadership in the manner he knows how. That is; rally the rank and file and bargain your way on every issue thus ensuring that every situation takes longer than it it should to be resolved. Typically a Union method of attempting to hold a powerful position whilst not being able to create same.
Our leaders need to get on with the job. We don't need whiners holding up progress simply because they want to gain 15 minutes of fame.
If Australia keeps on this track of delaying good policy and leadership, then that is our choice. But be careful what you wish for because it usually comes true and we may just end up like the battling countries of the world that don't get a choice in these matters.Kerrie
Sorry Kerrie, but the PUP have only 4 Senators and Labor has 'Many' more. The PUP didn't hold up the Carbon Tax scrapping, that was down to an obstructive Opposition looking to make themselves look important.
Barrie
"Back to you Barrie" is back!
Ah! The dear old Class Warfare,
Australia is in the most enviable position of countries of the world. Never would I have thought that our humble country could be so wealthy and yet have such a dearth of compassion, so as to see the destruction of characters simply because of their personal likes and dis-likes.
Before I am roundly critisized for not understanding that there is a sector of the community that cannot afford food, it needs to asked why Mr.Hockey is being hounded over a statement which is obviously correct. That is ; simple mathematics, if you can't afford food then a car is probably off the table also.
Even Back to you Barrie believes that there is plenty of money around, so there is mixed messages coming out here. Can we afford a car and drive ourselves here and there and not afford food, or do we all have cars and will be penalised by Mr.Hockey's "cruel tax"?
Mr.Hockey is the same person as he was 2 years ago. The only thing that has changed is that people have begun to cut him down from his privileged up-bringing ( oh wait! No it wasn't) and the media has begun a new line of selling.
Australians are selfish and self-centred. Incapable of letting anyone make their way to a position that allows for anything more than they themselves have. Our Socialisim continues and grows by the day, Mr.Hockey hasn't changed but we have decided he is too big for his boots now!Evan
"I'm sick of posts by fools who don't know their history"
"Unfortunately reality is more complicated than simple maths"
Given the busy morning, it has become difficult to remain on message and that is the 'Rise and fall of the Treasurer' as perceived by back to you Barrie. However, maths is reality in itself. 1+1 will always =2
Should a budget require input of monies = only available from people with money.
That's reality.Blue Flame
However "critisizing his actions as Treasurer" does not include mis-interpretation of what he actually said and of course, what was actually meant.
It is one thing to critisize on facts, it is another when personalities are attacked over disagreed interpretations of what was or was not said.
This is petty in the extreme and if Mr.Hockey or any other politician is to be condemned for perceptions of every word they utter, then "glass houses" may be a calculation for the future.Chris L
"The high income people who benefit the most from society"
To presume that high income people ( as if they are from another country) are stripping the country bare of its assets and sponging up welfare payments, is just ludicrous. Without so called high income earners, we could not afford many of the benefits that this country enjoys. To presume that because someone has found a way to make some money, is somehow to be answerable for their actions, is naive and were I to be in that situation, offensive.
Choices are made and choices have repercussions. If someone in Australia is struggling, then our duty is to ensure that our system of fairness sees that person through difficult times and allows them to get back on their feet. Should the situation be chronic , then, we as a compassionate nation should be ready and willing to provide for this also.
But to say that one group or another is a demon because it is presumed ( ie; without knowledge) that this group is ripping the system off, is wrong and harmful to the on-going welfare of our nation.Jonathan
"Climate Change is the great moral issue of our time"
"Seas are warming and engulf most of the low-lying nations"
"SARS" Swine" "Cancer" 
"Financial ruin" "Global Financial Crisis"
"Terrorists"
Emotive talk is not that unusual, but you are right to point out that it is becoming the norm rather than a useful tool to motivate people in a crisis.
I had heard the story that swearing was part of a reservoir of necessary re-actions, so that people had  somewhat of a pressure valve within them, to use in situations that would otherwise call on them to perhaps physically respond. As we are now aware, swearing has gone to new heights as a day-to-day part of our dialogue. Nowhere else to go but physically respond.
Sales are a desperate effort by shops to clear remaing stock from shelves, or promote sales in a declining trading atmosphere.
It's either go out of business or act.
Politics is just a reflection on where society stands at a given moment in time.
It is becoming increasingly harder to have rational conversation in many aspects of politics, because politics itself is seen as an un-necessary factor, separating jargon from the facts. It gets tainted by the most clever of the protagonists and that character is rewarded by an un-suspecting multitude at election time.
In other words, we are responding to what it is that gets us active. Be it physical harm, emotional distress, environment changes; we are seldom interested or for that matter, involved, unless there is a "hook" to make us such.
In advertising we are suckers to the "hook" and Politics is no different. 
Tip a glass of water over a persons head and they will respond the same way every time. So "Fear" is the glass of water and whilst the bearable level of fear has risen (through being de-sensitised), we still re-act, just takes us a bit more to get of the couch.Terry
The deal that is apparently being discussed by the Government and the AMA, may well be a point of contention, in that it has not been made available for public scrutiny but frankly, things are just not getting done otherwise.
Should this proposal be made public? Well yes of course it should, but not at the expense of seeing yet another plan be torpedoed by the multi-interests that would see this and most other efforts to get on and Govern.
We simply are not getting things done in this country for sake of making political points and blaming others for our own conditions.
Sensationalism has become the main game and every announcement is just another "feed - bag" for the hungry, celebrity and sensation driven, social other current day media.
In a different world, a world where rational argument and debate can be held about such things, it would only be a Dictatorship that would attempt such a with-holding tactic. Alas it is not a different world, it is a world of "One up manship", where anything can be said and will be believed by an un-suspecting, but instantly gratified public.Unfortunately we don't have access to each individuals job process.For example, it could be argued that the jobs people carry out everyday, should be submitted to the social media daily before they are attempted.
 Clogging  up the works with un-necessary discussion and interference, will not expedite an outcome. Qualified people need to do their jobs and be allowed to do their jobs, just as we are allowed to proceed without interference.Steve
You have put an interesting spin on this article and it does beg the question "how did it get to the point of asking"?
As with most articles delivered, there is available information to support a general understanding of the topic, the difference is though - this particular topic has been presented.
My brain always responds to such questions with a degree of skepticism but also compassion for people to whom the particular question is an important issue.
There may be anecdotal evidence that Down Syndrome has become the pointy end of further ethical questions regarding advances in medical research, presenting options to would-be parents that have never been made possible in the past.
My view is that such a topic raised in a genuine and readable way, allows for further discussion in a less clinical manner and consequently opens the door to compassion and assessment that may be missed under more professional circumstances.Struck Dumb
You are right with so much of what you have written. I wonder if the so called ethical dilemma of termination of a pregnancy, has a particular imaginary line drawn that separates proceeding from that termination?
Maybe the standard set is what society will allow. For instance, as was written in response to the article, "Down Syndrome children are highly regarded in some societies". Our society views the matter differently. But at what point does something become a passable social norm which offers a choice to be made and for the participants of that choice, to remain part of society and not a social out-cast?
Lord Erebus
The media will do what the media will do and you are so right to point out that this issue is "not easy".
Having a child is natural and having a healthy child is part of that natural process. Should circumstances contain variants to that norm, then they will be dealt with as they arise. That is where our trust in professionals and with our own instinct comes into play. While many of us can make a guess as to what would be the outcome of such a situation as the prospect of a Down Syndrome child, the truth is, it's only a guess or perhaps belief that will denote our future actions.
It's a great pity that our country has become so intent on focusing on survival of Governments, that our attention to issues has become just a by-product of t he main game.
There is increased demand that in a sporting match, umpires be given the right to make calls without interference from the public or players. This is seen as benefiting the "Game" and thus maintaining the integrity of umpires.
If we take the above example of the treatment of umpires and compare it to Governments, then the difference is dramatic.
Our main aim in Australia is to focus on either supporting Government or critisizing it, but there is little attention either by the public or the media, to depth in issues. Just a play for the top ranking comment on social media and a willingness to strike the first blow in the "Downfall" of our Institutions.
Australia is verging on becoming a society of whiners, with little understanding of issues and consequently being led in a direction of having to think less and dismantle more.We are currently a wealthy country and a country that generally has good Government. Our lives are safe and free, but if we continue to demand "Heads on plates" with no consideration to the consequences, then our journey in the future may not be as bright.a pocket full of wry
That is a keen analogy and I do commend your obvious intelligence.
However, by making this point, it only serves to make my own point and that is; we care more for being smarter than the next person with our incisive comments, than taking on the hard issues.
I agree that each side of the political wall has its own systemic good/bad, but by we, the public, consistently fighting the good fight for our sides; we join in the "dumbing down" of the debate. This ultimately achieves the instant gratification sought by us all and re-directs our thoughts to the alluvial rather than the deep gold.
This article is written well, but of course it is directed to the sensibilities of a public ever-craving for that little bit of fame and power.ScottB
I don't dis-agree with you that opposing views to the comments posted have diminished. Some of the articles are well written and of great interest and deserve a response. Others are just play things for the un-imaginative.
The particular item we are commenting on today, once again draws into question the longevity of the present Government and the moves required to effect same. This is commentary on the score rather than the issues and is fodder for the un-informed to rally behind.
It needs to be understood that when comments appear to support a Government, that is exactly what they are designed to do. For without support for Government we have anarchy and whilst that does seem like a potentially utopian ideal to some, the price of supporting such a regime would be disastrous for our citizens and our country.
So, whilst your comment is clever and draws a response, it has no depth avoids the real issues and contributes little to the growth of our country.ScottBE
"I had considered making a post more pertinent to the topic but couldn't really make a meaningful point as I thought it was well covered by Paula M."
This is exactly why you should not have commented, because the article was quite shallow in its primary direction. It served to excite a few but left yourself unable to find something important enough to say. This is exactly why we should demand reasonable comment and ignore impotent talk.
Your reasonable response was to contribute, however there was actually little to comment on but for the crazies making their usual outlandish statements.
Paula Mattewson writes well and should be encouraged to continue, however if it is just to make "The Drum" seem relevant then we are the foolish ones for responding.
This is a quality forum but risks losing the genuine argument it desires should the topics remain as shallow as they appear to be.Curiously, with a title; "Abbot's survival relies on knowing when to fold 'em" this article has had few responses that draw on the question "How is this relevant?"
ScottB pointed out, quite astutely, that there was only 6 comments supporting the Government's quest to Govern and a match high of over 100 in support of bringing the Government into shame.
Unfortunately, this being what may appear to support Governance, such a comment may never see the light of day.
The bare facts of the matter are this: 1. The public desire a quick-fix for the gratification sought
                                                       2. Intelligent argument will only be achieved should the subject be worthy.
                                                        3. Elections are not held on a media social comments page
                                                         4. A "state of anarchy" sought by some will harm us all.
With this article and others bereft of decent argument, it must reflect the sad point that the content does not stand up.
Paula Mathewson is a good writer as are most of the contributors, however should there be sought a decent response then quality should be the aim. Who knows, maybe " The Drum" and the ABC generally may be able to win back some of the intellectuals that appear to have given up offering content, because of the published comment.Ravensclaw
'This country is not some socialist backwater'
Many would have it, that Australia is going to become the next Socialist Nation, so your guess that we are not a socialist backwater, is correct but just a little too late.
You've only need to look at the 'Caring and sharing' that has infiltrated every aspect of trade and business throughout Australia, to understand that profits and success are to be critisized but it is fine to share the hard work results with everyone else.
Too many Australians are living off the hard work and toil of those who have made things happen. The mining companies are big, but the question is always : 'What is the history of this company?'. Many times the answer will be that, someone took an opportunity and tackled risk head-on, starting from scratch, that results now in the companies we see and the people it employs.
High time we stopped the mining/banking/industry bashing in Australia and began to realise that they are largely responsible for keeping the Socialists in food and water.
We need to cease critisizing people for making good profits, make it easier for them to do so and provide a decent 'Safety net' for the ones that 'Really' need it.
Group thinking is a handbrake on this country and if we are to critisized a company or an individual, then we should name the person or persons and provide facts as to why they are 'Ripping the country off'.Ian
As an Economist you make an odd case for taxes that (a) didn't reach their objective and (b) were an impost on activity.
The Carbon Tax was never wanted by the majority of Australians and therefore never going to be whole-heatedly embraced. It (the CarbonTax) certainly raised revenue and to date we know not where it has gone , other than to say, some fancy windmills and lots of Government Grants presumably. In most cases prices simply were raised by business and the consumer paid; all for no good and valid gain.
The Mining Tax has widely been reported as a complete and utter failure, in not raising near the revenue it was predicted to raise. The nett effect of the Mining Tax was to remove some of the profits enjoyed here in Australia and, by selective engineering, allow other companies from overseas to gain that particular profit. 
The Mining Tax was also not supported by the wider Australian community and the attempt to buy off people by assigning benefits to some of the Tax raised, was a procedure that a first year Accountant could realise was a dud.
As the anointed spokesperson on finance for the ABC, a fair and reasonable approach is expected and more often than not, delivered, however blind Freddy can see the bias in this argument. ( I fully expect to have the moderator- moderate me here)Mark J
Yes and I'm about to win the lottery but just can't find the ticket. Must have been the dog!Alpo
Nice to hear from you A, and good to see that you haven't lost your sense of humour.As with history being written by the victor, I expect the 'Owner' gets the final say on things throughout the media.
Clearly, there is a bent toward a company view and in the case of the ABC, probably more a public servant view be that as it is.
We can't help but utilize all of the tools open to us to get a point across. Our ability to see things from the perspective of 'Both sides' is somewhat quelled by that view remaining completely within the bounds of our own point of view.
We are all magnanimous so long as we can do the driving.Political discussion has descended into name-calling and fundamentalism, so much so that it is now difficult to distinguish reasonable discourse from radical over-statement.
A consequence of this, is the taking of sides in the public and the resulting bun fights on-line and through the media.
Also, members of Parliament are seemingly more concerned, even outwardly, at keeping their seats and would do or say anything to achieve just that.
However, I see this as a reformation; a time when things are particularly nasty and grinding for the most part, but getting slowly and surely to a better form.
We are in a time where institutions and public authorities are under extreme pressure to perform at levels, higher than would be expected by individuals doing their own jobs and yet we feel free to demand this extreme level of performance, as our right.
It is true that we are entitled to have the best, however we need to be willing to offer the best also and that includes our standard of discourse and physical inter-action.HPH
I rest my case!Peter
Agreed. I think we need to go back to the 'Howard years' when referring to this phenomenon. It was, as much as I remember, John Howard, who began the method of ' involving' the public in decisions being made.
Of course, decisions are always made on behalf of and for the people, however it was Mr.Howard who incorporated this as a tactic to generate community support.
It has been like a genie let out of the bottle when one combines the advanced technology open to all and sundry, the consequence of which being every loony possible advocate, getting as much air-time as master of particular subjects.
When one sees the make-up of the Senate today, it is a clear indication that the ability to 'Push a barrow' depends on how savvy one is with spin and the modern media.Floss
I believe that to be the case. Describe this particular group as moderates or just indifferent, it doesn't really matter, their dis-engagement is cancelled as soon as they vote.
Voting is the great moderator and the natural centre. Through voting the skewed result is what is known as Democratic, but it is more like a 6.00pm swill that used to be the case at bars when 6.00pm closing was law.
This large group of moderate/middle dwellers, hold the power in what they do with their vote and un-fortunately when they vote, they vote according to what information was presented to them. The easy road is what is required.
Should the information presented have the 'Current celebrity' then the vote will generally follow, but this is not a reflection on the voter, it is merely a case of having to vote, having to be involved and becoming involved under circumstances that would normally not be required.MWD
Being equivocal is not being balanced or in the middle. Having your light 'half-on' is more being equivocal I believe.
No good can come from being half-hearted about anything, but we need to be careful that our opinion remains open to improve.
Also, this begs the question of 'Can something be done for the "Greater good" even if it is seen as un-lawful?'Greg
Let's not get too worried about reform and whether 'The only true reform was under Hawke and Keating',the repealing of the Carbon Tax shows reform.
Here now is an opportunity to remove the 'Toxic Tax' and introduce a scheme that everyone should agree on. It would make all parties delighted!
Simply have all of the lovers of Carbon Tax , incorporate a 7-10% increase on all of their personal power bills and goods! have it indicated at the top of the bill so the lover knows that 'We are taking action on Climate Change' and everything should be sweet.That all sounds a reasonable approach, maybe that would bring the debate back to a balanced centre whereby all decisions and their consequences are felt and backed up.
Not sure all of the suppositions are in fact correct, however the gist of the idea seems to have got some legs.Scott
Shouldn't worry too much about the repealing of the Carbon Tax. Just have the individuals who want a Carbon Tax to add a levy to their taxation. That would make them happy.
It is also heartening to hear that the obstructionist attitude of Labor/Greens has caused the Treasurer to consider going around the Senate and introducing cuts that don't need a vote. Now that's reform at its best!Robert
Hear!Hear! A nonsense indeed. It 'was' (past tense because it will be a was) a tax that could only be introduced in a clandestine way and will be always a 'Good times tax', one that would never see the light of day in a recession.
There has to be reform in this country, but reform is not just introducing things that are affordable at one particular part of the economic cycle. Reform has be be considered and accounted for so that in good times and bad, the value of that reform stands up.The science of Climate change has been handled so badly. To have such a person as Professor Tim Flannery out on the hustings, trying to sell the Climate Change story as if it was a new car, is degrading at best.
There is well likely a case for such a thing as climate change! I have no idea personally, as I am sure the percentage of the world does also. But what really is stupid is that a whole new economy could have been spawned through climate change and it's associated off-spins and all of those opportunities have been mired in crazies getting hold of a ' Save the world' theme.
Economies are built on the public having a belief in their fundamental robustness and well-based need. To miss an opportunity to kick start a new economy because crazies have taken over the theme, is so pathetic it's almost embarrassing.I too believe that there is room for another Political Party!
Although, a new Party should not be considered as just a replacement for the established arrangements, but as a buffer between the House of Reps. and The Senate in the form of a Party of Elders.
Given that the Senate has become a more vocal and obstructive group in recent times, we should in some way, offer the Senate a more equivocal, balanced view from the House, in order that The Senate can make rational informed decisions on legislation.And The President of the U.S., Mr.Obama won a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts at bringing peace in Palestine. That has not worked either.Graazt
I'm afraid the Labor Team haven't even got the 'glossy brochures' right either.
'Carbon Tax Terminated' / ' Deficit Defeated' / 'Surplus next 4 Years'/ 'Let the sunshine in'
All basically wrong and just showing the desperation of the Labor Party and for that matter all Parties, to spin and not just tell it how it is.
Mr.Shorten's free ride will end with a big thump, just as Mr.Abbotts did. The difference will be ' Has Mr.Shorten got anything other than Union raging and patronising statements?, if he (Mr.Shorten) actually has some depth it would be nice to see it.Malcolm
Given the ALP, The Greens and associated supporters love the Carbon Tax so much - when it is repealed the possibility still remains for the lovers to put their collective hand up and demand that their own power bills be levied the equivalent of the Carbon Tax, up to 10%.
This is a simple thing to do, just pay the extra and enjoy the ride.Malcolm
No problem.
Just pay the extra and that should work.Mr.Shorten is certainly having his day in the sun, but let's not forget, at some time he will need to start playing some cards and this will expose just how shallow he really is.
All of the 'Play' has been made by the Government and rightly so, however the Opposition and the rest cannot hide forever. Playing the 'Scare the pensioners' and the ' Save the whales' only goes someway toward making the public feel in safe hands and the Opposition and rest need to actually make themselves a worthy opponent by staking their credentials on Financial Management. Great ideas are one thing, mocking and scaring pensioners another, but that won't see a country run well.
Mr.Shorten - Please make us understand what it is you will do should you have the extraordinary luck to become the next PM?
Mr.Abbott has given you all of the opportunities one would need to actually say SOMETHING, but all you are doing is blocking and going back on your word. Some of us may wish to see the Labor Party get another opportunity at Government, to achieve that they need to show what it is they stand for - not what Mr. Abbott should not stand for.
I'm afraid Mr.Shorten shall always remain damaged goods given his behaviour in the outrageous events of the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd era. He (Mr.Shorten) plays a good game but some goals need to be kicked to win a game - defending and getting free kicks is all very impressive - but goals is what's needed Mr. Shorten.This is obstructionist at the very least.
Mr.Palmer, it is well understood, will sell anything that the public need and will give the media a story every night, however when it comes to this crazy game he is playing with the Parliament of Australia, we have a right to ask ' Why?'
Mr.Palmer is a clever person and the attention he is getting has been like a drug in its addictive nature. The more the media listen to his wild and generous statements, the more he finds to say. Also true of the other radical PUP Senators, until proven different.
Where is Mr.Shorten now? Why is he siding with the Greens and PUP in this gleeful wasting of Australia's time and money in getting on with Government?
Australia is headed for problems should we take any pride in what continues to happen in our political field presently. Unfortunately we are encouraging radical views to be expressed in order to get a (once mild and reasonable ) point across.
People are beginning to take sides in a pointless debating show that only proves to embarrass our Nation.
It's time for a lot of us to just 'Bud out' of the proceedings, and that goes for the obstructionists in the Senate and the Frighteners in the House of Reps., as well as the good hearted individuals with absolutely no idea of what they are commenting on.The endeavours of persons from within our own country  to undermine the Government of Australia, has reached a point that now threatens to see Australia held responsible for 'Piracy' whilst carrying out security processes.
AUSTRALIA WE HAVE A PROBLEM!
Should we continue to allow the voices from within and for that matter the voice of the United Nations and the UNHCR (of whom have no responsibility for our country's welfare) then we risk losing the very basis of what has made Australia a great country.
Australia has always made a stand as being a fair and friendly nation. It seems that now, given the power of international voices and connections here in out own country, we risk having our discourse directed beyond the realms of sensible local Government to a 'Pie in the sky' 'Utopian' type that is completely un-achievable and counter-national at its base.
Leading Australian Lawyers, Medical Bodies and Respected Community Elders, are breaking ranks at will and under-mining the endeavours of a democratically elected Government, to get on and do the work that they(the Government) were assigned.
It is the right and the privilege of any citizen to express an opinion on any matter in Australia, be it political or any other. However, when citizens begin to 'Take - over the day to day running and decision making of an elected Government, then we really do have a major problem in future years.
WAKE UP AUSTRALIA!There is a legitimate 'Need to know' basis about the current situation regarding refugees at sea, but just how far should that extend?
There was a time when Governments were encouraged to get on and govern, while we, the public, attend to the jobs we have.
There was a time when Opposition Political Parties would share information with Governments and, for the greater good would keep that information private so as not to jeopardise on-going programmes and systems.
Why it it so important that everyone 'Knows what is going on' with regard to refugees? Should crimes be committed then people will be held to account. If there is any truth in the myriad of rumours, then the Government should rightly be condemned.
But there is no truth as we know it, everything is supposition and 'Chinese whispers'.
Oppositions used to be trusted with information, but now the information they seek is just to blow the governing body out of the water in order that they can take their turn at trying to rectify a situation created.
Shame on the Greens and the Opposition for wanting to push their own agendas with this situation. To the Government I say, be accountable for your actions and, should any harm come to would-be refugees or laws broken, then you must take the consequences of your actions.I'm afraid to say your quite correct here. There is 'No credibility' with what has been suggested. It does seem that reports are made just so a story can get up. Should the reports not be denied - then, by default, they are true. Should the reports be clarified and rectified - then, by default, they are lies.
We would all be better off just dealing with facts here and with all of the 'So called' reports that ensue.There is an argument that art is art and it can be created by all, however, given the poignant timing it is appropriate for Mr.Harris's art to be removed from present display. History will show that many artists suffered from illness and at times were perpetrators of crime, just like society as a whole; but have since had there art displayed blatantly once a period of respect has expired. No way am I suggesting that the acts of Mr.Harris should ever be forgotten, but I do point out that society has a way of understanding things in time. I point out that Mark(Chopper) Reid, whilst personally I found this in-appropriate, published a book that was received without too much fan-fare. There is legislation that refers to the proceeds from crime, but I wonder does that refer to the likes of Mr.Harris, who pre-sums lay did not make money from his crimes.
The community needs to feel in control of its own destiny. When a crime is committed,( and in Mr.Harris's case such terrible crimes) the community rightly wants to make a statement. For this reason I support the removal of Mr.Harris's works of art from display,but I do so with an eye to the future and a thought for the past.Good point Michael, that would be the most likely way of re-directing any profit made from his work. I guess that in the course of legal proceedings, some money will change hands and be obtained by the victims of Mr.Harris. It would be interesting should a ' Victims of Crime' clause be included in the trading of items also. That way some on-going benefit could be made to victims.Nice work, calling Soccer for what it is - a communist plot indeed.
Just look at the way all of the fans jump up and down together, all walk together, all sing together - it's just scary.
They really share everything including a brain.
Soccer has it all for the budding Communist. Lots of rules to keep everyone from developing a thought of their own, plenty of umpiring to keep everyone in line and lots of pent-up anger that needs lancing.
Fancy having a World Communist Cup. The prize will be shared by everyone, they will all be grateful and will go home to their little plots to tend their vegetables, with the memory of what life can be like when the demagogy of soccer make such wonders available to a grateful public.
We'll all be ruined!It needs to be reiterated that Mr.Palmer is not the problem here, nor are the collective of Pollies that go to make up the Parliament. The quality that is, exists because we, the public put them there. The fault of bad communication lies squarely with the public given the inability of the public to disseminate correct information through the desire to be socially current.
The public are not getting on-board with Mr.Palmer, the public are simply re-acting to the information supplied to them and that information contains large doses (inordinate levels) of Clive Palmer this and Clive Palmer that!
The fact is that Mr.Palmer being the enigma he is, fascinates many of us. The media know this and they are aware that a story is a story and it is on the minds of people at the present.
We need to lift our game and educate ourselves to be capable of determining the difference between things that are required to conduct the business of Government, and things that simply entertain us and give us instant gratification.Excellent point Gordon
This is a problem far beyond the capabilities of our population to comprehend. We are encouraged to wage war and take sides, against another Political Party, thus inoculate ourselves with a sense of distrust and skepticism so as to not recognise a sound idea coming from the other side.
The very fact that the Opposition has that description, tells us exactly what they represent. Regardless of the soundness of an idea, it is criticised and opposed because that is said to be doing the job and representing the ones who haven't a voice. 
This, traditional system, has problems and whilst more and more the country wants to be considered as mature, it is being held back by out-dated concepts of Democracy.
Business and organisations throughout the world, operate efficiently and substantially well under the regime of Directors. They have problems and disputes, but fundamentally, they get on with the job and develop hopefully in a positive way. Governments, because they need to wait for the population to catch-up before implementation of ideas, are hamstrung and often mired in red tape and silly argument about who is getting more than whom.
Governments, good Governments, are there for the people and are willing to incorporate new systems as the population allow. But we are not allowing anything to proceed and are being stopped on every turn by a rampant social media,that is primarily a new phenomenon, holding the floor on every issue. This is like a war fought with sling-hots against cannon.Philip
Well written Philip!
You have hit the problem front on and exposed the situation for what it is.
I don't necessarily think that the media is the great big bad contributor, however it is guilty of laziness. The media will,if given the opportunity, take the easiest road to fill the job requirements. This is an un-fortunate quality of much of the present work-force mentality. It is up to every person who consumes the junk that can be generated, to say they want and expect better.
Laziness is the key here. A story is a story is a story! We control the quality by us demanding, through our own education, a better standard of journalism and political outcome.
We are on a road to failure as a quality nation. A nation which can have intelligent discourse about subjects, is a quality nation and at present, this is in jeopardy through our need to be fed tripe when celebrity tweeters /film stars / comedians and rock bands; take over the airwaves. Our response to the tripe offered should be swift and decisive.David
Thankyou for pointing out this pending crisis.
In business,we have our own terminology for the situation at hand. We call it the point of 'Grossness' whereby everything is up for sale and reached its throw-out date. All of the marketers have sucked the product dry for all it is worth and there is nothing left but to advertise the biggest sale of all time.
You make this point regarding the selling of messages in the political world that is is today.
Gross language and softly - softly, pandering to the public, has become the norm.
We are on course for problems of our own making unless the public begin to put politics into a field of educated people. We presently are letting the authentic politic be confused with the celebrity sell. We see actors,whom are great actors and have held up some really strong performances, being listened to on political points when they have had no real coaching in the field. They are using their celebrity to get points across at the cost of authentic discourse.
The Climate Change argument was lost as soon as Professor Tim Flannery all of a sudden became a television celebrity. This is a man with great credibility in his own field and to see him flown into a selling job was pitiful to say the least.
Clive Palmer is a man who can sell. If you needed a car, Mr.Palmer would have you going home at night in a vehicle that was both fitting for your needs and at the right cost. He is a salesman and the public need to know that selling is a different field to academic fields.
It is important for the public to realise that as our laziness in the thinking department increases, then the quality of our purchases decreases. If Mr.Palmer thought he could sell the public a lemon and that the public would be happy, then that is what he would do. He will respond to the needs of an ever-increasing dumbing-down of public thinking and research.Jill
I agree with you on this and it is unfortunate that it is true.
The so-called 'Protest vote' is not rank stupidity.Fancy actually voting to have a person disrupt the Parliamentary system simply because the Parliamentary system is already struggling. It is just crazy!
Mr.Palmer would be attractive because he talks the talk. Bur like all of the 'Appealing Politicians' they really have nothing to lose. They are never going to form a Government, never need to draw up a Budget, never have to act on important Defense issues and never have an effect on Social issues. All they do is disrupt and present an easily digestible meal of tripe that the dear un-aware public swallow.Thinking is our least regarded asset but our most profitable, it may be time to start some thinking classes.One of the problems of this 'Beautiful game' is the restriction on having contact. We thus see the poor darlings in the lovely long socks,falling about themselves attempting to convince  an umpire (lawyer) that they have been harmed or in some way, stopped from their attempt to make a draw so much more likely. The AFL under Mr.Demetrou were attempting to take away contact and we quickly put a stop to that, he(Mr.D.) having taken his footy and gone.
What do we expect when we see someone so frustrated by close scrutiny and checking? One can only use the tools available. The player can't bump, can't interfere, can't tackle, can't even make an ugly face and the umpire will red card them. That sounds like the way Australia might be going under the red/regulations.
The poor player frustrated by the rules and regulations is going to need some way of making his claim. He can't use twitter, he can't write a letter to the umpire, he hasn't got a union rep. to help him, he is on his own out there on the field of dreams.
So, he bites. Not for himself,not for his team, but for his lifestyle. He bites to save his freedom from the oppression of this silly game. He bites as a comment to all of the rule makers and umpires and fans throughout the world, that he cannot and will not be held down by these crazy rules that stop him from just wanting to get the ball and kick the bloody thing.I would like to compare the stats. on biting. Perhaps there is a category for contested bites and non-contested bites.?
Rugby Union has had its share of unusual usage of the digits and a bit of gnawing here and there, but AFL seems to be fairly free of that particular blight,I mean Bite.Mr.Palmer is having the time of his life. He is the centre of attention and drawing more and more people daily into his web.
The ABC love him because he will give them a story to peddle. He must be a God send for the media people desperate for a headline.
Un-fortunately this is not a game when it begins to have real effect and starts changing well thought positions.
Mr.Palmer epitomises the crazy situation we have in that social media guides many or most of the decision making we are involved with today. Not unusual given that it is a form of communication, but the problem is that most people just haven't got a clue and are making waves about things they know nothing about. This is bad enough, but it's the following a squeaky door that really presents the problem. People getting on board the train just because one of the glamorous social media 'experts' called it that way.
Mr.Palmer is not the cause of the crazy situations that are confronting the Government re: the Budget, he is merely the result of the lack of education and the rise of alluvial knowledge. People who think they are qualified to comment but confuse that with being popular.Oaktree
'I would prefer'

Then Oaktree it is encumbered upon us all to make decisions now that will ensure a financial and environmental healthy atmosphere for your grandchildren, and mine for that matter. That is the point, my grand children would like to know that they could have a job and some financial security. They will only get that,as with all companies today, if actions are taken now to secure the needs of the future. To simply have progress halted on the basis of the Leadbeater's Possum, will jeopardise the future for my grandchildren. 
Grandchildren are not the exclusive domain of the Greens. Many of us, other than Greens, expect to have Grandchildren also.Neil
'It is of great concern that we have Federal Senators who don't even know what Federal Government's function is'
Quite right Neil. It is of great concern, but the greater concern is that we,the public of Australia, actually gave them a voice by voting them into the job.
We, the Australian public, have exactly what we should expect in Government  and throughout Parliament. Unless we are prepared to actually do something about the quality of our choices, then we are in no position to argue a case for or against who is, or isn't a good choice.
Lack of understanding and a chronic 'She'll be right' attitude, has established Australia as a friendly country with open opinion.
It has also set us on a path of 'Also rans' as far as making informed choices in our politics. We are so young in our political understanding, hampered by a retiring class of Australians not willing to give up any of the hard-won goodies they world for.
Unless we get involved in politics, and by this I don't mean just dropping a tweet every now and then, we are on the road to problems. In a country where the education rates are said to be some of the highest in the world, it is breath-taking to say the least how we, as a Nation, could allow for such crazy idealist to take over our Parlimentry decisions.Paula
As you say 'Fear and Hubris' may account for partial ignorance of both minor Parties and individuals on the need for such a Budget, but it sure doesn't release those same numbers from the harm they are causing our country.
From the perspective of the Government, there was a situation that they determined and made a decision to repair what they deemed as 'A Budget Crisis'. As we are all aware, if someone mentions 'Crisis' then people will react as they have their whole lives. Some will run, some will fold, some will fight and some will be diss-affected, others will be plainly indifferent to the idea.
The Government has got this right on so many things, but their own 'Frighten them and they will submit' method of selling those points, has slowly destroyed their credibility. 
The Opposition for their part is playing the political game that is their want. They are in the powerful position of not having to do anything but further scare the public on the already shaky grounding supplied by the Government.
As for the so-called 'Minor Parties' the Greens and other Senators etc, they have shown that the game is just about memory or the lack of it. One day they support things, the next they oppose because they have found that people won't like them.
It is time for the Government to eat humble pie and admit a few other truths to go with their well-established and understood financial problems. Yes, the country could not sustain Labor's plans to make all and sundry lovely little communists, digging their own gardens and growing their own food, relying on dear leaders to pay for everything and they should want for nothing.
But the Government under-estimated the fact that people are basically selfish and for good reason. They know if they are. Not selfish, someone else may get the goodies and they will miss out. People need to have belief.
The Opposition need to get a life outside Mr.Abbott. It is all about M.Abbott. It's like there is a only one thing in the whole arena of politics and issues that effect this country, and that is Mr.Abbott. As they keep their collective team on watching and calculating the every move of the PM, they are not doing anything else. It is typical of a great politician to make him/herself the centre of all attention. - So grow up Labor and DO SOMETHING.
As for the Greens, well the 'Save everything because that's all we know' group of dis-located utopians, have nothing at all. No Budgets to speak of, no policies that we know of, no agenda other than to save the birds/possums/trees/boats/sky/not sky/ everything. They are filled with do-gooders that are capturing the argument by their constant ' We are the only ones who love the country and can save it from a catastrophe' so the sooner they go the way of the Democrats the better it will be for our country.
For us all as individuals, we need to realise that if we don't do our own homework and make sure the things we are being toldGiven the un-predictable climate of opinions on Budget matters, it would be the best path for the Government to move toward a mini-budget in September and remove all of the disputed arrangements. This would then reflect a Budget deficit outlining the over-spending that Labor/Greens had been so keen to keep going. The people of Australia need to be re-presented with the truth and take this important issue away from the mis-truths and vote-peddling that has so overtaken the argument.
Show the situation for it it is and let the Australian people see for themselves that their actions in opposing new Budget measures will cost the country plenty in years to come.Mr.Shorten is romping ahead in the polls, yes un- questionable, but at what cost?
Scare, scare, scare and appeal to the lowest common denominator. I believe I would be ahead in the polls with all of that!
Mr.Shorten will have his glory in the polls, because the public at this point tend to believe his rhetoric. However, given time and the community using their rational thinking, Mr.Shorten will go the way of most other Labor lights of the past.
Once the tables turn on Mr.Shorten, and they surely will, it will be interesting to see if he actually has anything other than his Union rally cries to get people behind him.In my own defence, I am not a supporter of any particular Party, just a realist!
That aside, it's so interesting to get read the number of gleeful comments regarding the Opposition Leader's current position of luxury. Mr.Shorten has done absolutely nothing other than point out the bleeding obvious.
Yes it's a budget that is going to bite! Yes it's a budget that brings in new fund-raising! Yes it's a budget that was going to upset the public! - all great points from the proposed next PM.
But what does Mr.Shorten actually stand for? He has no depth unfortunately and surprise,surprise has not come out with any clear ideas since taking on the Opposition Leader's position.
So, whilst the great support Mr.Shorten is receiving from the peanut gallery is similar to the triumph shared by the Australian Soccer Team - all fluff and no mattress.AJS
Well said and the voice of reason is always good to hear amongst the outraged and un-reasonable.I simply cannot wait until the day that Mr.Shorten takes the role as PM( like waiting to hit by a bus), and the wages start rolling on up. That will force cost of living up, pensions, the works and then it will have to be balanced against a Budget of 'No tax rises', 'Fairness and equality' and all the other garbage that has been emanated from this would be successor.
Bring on the wage rises and give the people what they want. We can have it all! High wages, swimming pools, cars and cash.
The people want it, we will never have to pay for it, that's just Liberal lies.
It's a bit like the 'Truman Show' everything perfect and nothing to do but luxuriate in the glory of the spoils, 
Ah! Australia - perfect one day- broke the next!Jerry Atrick
This Government has to be responsible for the in-equality of wages against cost of living - or was it Workchoices - anyway Mr.Abbott did it! 
We want Mr.Shorten in right now so our wages are taken care of. After all he has the contacts in the Unions and they run the country, so let's go! Free for all! 
Mr.shorten has the answers to our troubles. We cannot possibly get ahead under a Liberal/ National Government all they want to do is bring the Budget thingy back into some sort of equal ness or something. Anyway, bring on Mr.Shorten I can't wait to see how he gets the country tracking and pays for all the goodies. That is going to be so much fun.Jones 
Yeah! Bring on a double thingy and get rid of this lot.
Wages will grow under Mr.Shorten sure as the sun will rise tomorrow. So why wait?
Who cares about Budgets and stuff that sounds mean and tricky? This is a dog of a Budget and effects wages and stuff.
Mr.Shorten is the one for us, he will lead this country out of the darkness and into the light of years of wages and welfare growth.
He has the answers that this country needs. If only the money was there Mr. Shorten could do it all, we could all be in clover and have it all.
Mr.Shorten even has a plan to not raise taxes and ensure that we don't get slugged by a Government hell bent on harming the little people.
Absolutely cannot wait for this one!Jerry
I'm with you. Phony Abbott (I thought his name was actually Tony - silly me) well he has screwed up everything.
He went and tried to balance a Budget and look what happened.
No,it's time for him to go and bring Mr.Shorten out of the back blocks and on to the big stage where our wages will take a Great Leap Forward. We will leave that 70's feeling where it should be and embrace the new century with a star in our eyes.
Ah! Yes Mr.Shorten will lead us out of this.
Wages will grow under Labor. People will have money under Labor. The sun will shine in under Labor - no that was that other Labor guy. Anyway! It's got to be better than having to pay for things.Brian
'how many other new immigrants are out there ........ Blatently failing to abide by the law?'
Did I read this correctly or is racism just something someone else does and should be prosecuted?Toot
An accusation that racism is alive and well and that a political decision was based on that belief, is in itself biased and borders on insulting to the many Australians of whom do not go about being racists.
It appears that 'Any' story whether it be good or bad or indeed disappointing as this story may prove to be, is an opportunity for some to link it's very content to the nearest political slag.
Racism exists in many forms and is still something that finds its way into our way of life, it should not be accepted and nor should it be given any wrongful alliance in other views on political points or generalised views of society as a whole.awake
'The biggest worry is the $7.00 fee to see the doctor'
Given that Social Services Professionals are the 'Coalface' of public conditions, it would be helpful if this claim was substantiated.
I'm sure it would be of great help to me and others, if some actual figures were presented for us to consider.Leftover
Cheer up mate!
Most things in Australia are FREE, and if they are not, they will be taken care of by SOMEONE ELSE.
That's the great thing about Australia. Land of plenty and land of 'She'll be right mate'.Greg
No crisis! Nothing to see here! Move on!
I tend to agree that the language used to 'sell' the Budget, has been largely in the sensational realm.
But let's understand that nothing today is accepted by the people unless it has bells and whistles attached.
Everyone is now selling something and nobody believes any of it.
So the Government is left to salvage what it can from a situation they considered cut and dried.
Unfortunately the Government has fallen victim to the selling bonanza that has engulfed mainstream Australia.
So that makes the case for bringing the Budget under control, a 'non-crisis' ,it doesn't exist and opposition voices are having a field day.
The Co-Payment sell job is typical of an Australia willing to spend their hard earned cash on all manner of delights, but their Health has to be free. How hard can it be to convince Australians that a fee of $7.00 'May' apply to a doctors visit, ' If' someone happens to go to the doctor?
HEALTH SHOULD BE FREE! So says Australia "The lucky country" - filled with selfish individuals.
HOUSING SHOULD BE FREE! Why not ? It's essential as much as Health
FOOD SHOULD BE FREE! Can't live without eating - someone has to take care of me.
CLOTHING SHOULD BE FREE! Gets cold here.

How hard should it be to sell a reasonable consideration such as a modest Co-Payment?Stephen Welsh
'Health Care is not free'
By all accounts most of Australia is poor and by definition no tax payable. Therefore no charge for health.
Just a small fact: If I visit a doctor 7 times a week for a whole year - I would still pay less than someone paying health care insurance. 
ITS FREE! By all accounts.
anote
"They can attempt to frame and reframe the discussion"
Yes, perhaps the Government could present the Fuel Levy case as this: average cost per week .40c
                                                                                                       average cost per year  $20.80
Current cost of filling up a tank of petrol for an average family vehicle:                                  $100.00 ( +-)

It would therefore take close to 5 YEARS to have the Levy = 1 tank of petrol.

What is hard about buying one tank of petrol per 5 years as a levy?
Mark James
'Except the coalition promised voters prior to the election that it would not raise taxes'
No problem there and the explaining has been cloudy.
But a 'Let's not talk to them' schoolyard response is not the way of conducting reasonable relations with any party or any person.
Just saying no is all very well, but facts are just as important in saying no as saying yes.Chris
'The big one (Australian Stimulus Package of $42b) came in 2009'
This is the part I just loved about the GFC. 
The dire circumstances and the serious fiscal challenges that confronted Australia, were satisfied by - yes you guessed it - a stimulus package of $42b.
It always comes down to 42, when you can't give an answer that can be proved. How did $42b become the figure to throw at the Australian economy?
Mr.Swan and his cohort, did what they thought was right, however it is the premise by which the decision was made that is now brought into question.
If this was political and if it was to 'Appear to be doing something' it smacks of amateurism and poll driven opportunism.
I would hope for Australia's sake and for the sake of the Labor faithful, that there is no foundation for this claim.Esteban
It all comes down to a selfish Australia. An Australia that would prefer to have all the goodies today and stuff tomorrow. The past Treasure ( bless him) was keen to not upset the people and wrap it all up in 'Saving Australia' from the GFC.
I think from memory, Hawthorn won a Grand Final in AFL  after a passionate appeal from the coach at that time (Kennedy I think): "Do something" was the call to the players and they did, giving them the trophy. 
Should this story from Chris Berg be accurate ( and I do not dispute it being so) then the former Teasurer and his cohort should be rightly ashamed. Ironically, it may be deemed the greatest move of selfishness ever performed, as history was written that the then Government, 'Saved Australia' from damnation.
It worked for Hawthorn, it worked for Mr.Swan and a desperate measure it is without peer.Chris Berg
If you were wanting to 'Interest' a few people, reminding us of such heady times is just the way to get results.
However, once again I question the necessity of stirring-up the faithful. We must have some more relevant things to bring to the table?
Mr.Swan is as good as retired and his legacy is there for all to see. By his own admission he was a good Treasurer, I don't see the advantage in challenging that.Daniel
'Earlier mistakes of indifference or inaction'
Un-fortunately Daniel, this is the heart of the problem that confronts not only world leaders but general Governments and even citizens as they go about their daily work.
When is enough, enough? When should action be taken to counter any problem that exists or is perceived to be so?
It wouldn't matter what Mr.Abbott had said, nor would it have mattered should any other person have been in charge, the simple truth is that many options are available and unless something is hurting us personally or our family; then we as a nation believe that a state of flux is desirable.
So we remain good neighbours and good citizens. We watch as others 'King Hit' our community members and express our horror, but do nothing. We can't get past the argument stage.
We watch as people are be-headed and express our shock that the world has come to this - but we do nothing. We debate the finer political points that give us a little bit of personal kudos.
We see countries invaded by super-powers and stress that ' this is wrong' - but we do nothing.
Doing nothing can be an asset in itself. It can save us from destruction. But we are also citizens of the world and being selective to the point that unless it effects me personally, then I am not going to respond, is no solution to a problem that will ultimately engage us later.
This is what is known as the New Democracy that we are now living in. A democracy that demands argument from sources never involved in years gone by. The ability to have a debate ensue from a source that, in the past would never had been heard.
A democracy that allows 'All' argument raised to be anonymous to the point of having un-trained and mis-informed voices rate with the best educated in our community.
Being indifferent whilst 'Rome burns' is no answer, nor is un-refined and un-educated comment. 
Until we as a nation can accept that it takes a trained person to make decisions on matters, then we are hamstrung by the power of a small, vocal group of savvy non-professionals, willing to say anything to delay any action that should be forth-coming.
HPH
I appreciate your angle and agree to a point that practical things, such as oil, effect decisions. However that was not my point!
When decisions cannot be made for fear of un-educated voices capturing the narrative, then we have a problem in our society.HPH
Thanks for the tip. 
Changing one's mind is not what is troubling about a society more willing to accept the popular opinion of a savvy minority, than that of an educated and well-informed Department, Institution or individual. It is the sheer idiocy of believing something to be true and possible simply because it glittered and shone. Typically, this is why celebrities are keen to make calls on everything from Global Warming to Child Adoption, even if they have had little or no experience on the matter.
Professionals are just that and we should be relying on them to get the calls correct. There will be times that this does not work -that goes with the territory- but for the most part the call a professional makes will far and away be a more logical one than a celebrity actor or a.social media buff.Paula
With great respect Paula. Is that all we have got?
Your articles are usually drenched in interesting and topical subjects, however to resurrect the Budget as 'still' as topical as it obviously was; is a bit desperate.
The Budget is proceeding and there will be some give and take. It may be that the first week of Parliament could see even some agreement on certain things and thereby completely banish such 'Interesting' articles as this, to the 'chip papers' of tomorrow.
It's not your deepest and most interesting work and whilst it will get the faithfull up and running ( and hopefully that's not the aim), it will not generate thoughtful responses.I'm sorry to point out that, whilst Paula Mattewson and others continue to ' Flog this dead horse', the emphasis of discussion will continue to interest some of the 'Enthusiasts' however will not draw on quality comments.
The Abbott Government would be happy to draw out this 'Budget nightmare' as long as is possible. You see there will be other Budgets and once they are presented and the people are soothed, then any opposition that had built will stop in its tracks.
This will render opposition impotent as it would have followed the rabbit too deeply in the hole.Stuffed Olive
Whilst I admire the enthusiasm to comment on this 'Dead horse' topic, it only serves to prove the point I made ie; 'Enthusiasts will still find this interesting but inevitably will find that the rabbit has lured them into the hole'. Budgets come and go, the PUPS will have their day in the sun and everything will always return to normal.
Mr.Abbott doesn't need to work with the minor parties and the Independants, the Government has sold a porky and we are too willing to feast on it.ScottBE
The Abbott Government will take little or no notice of the commentary regarding the content of the Budget and whether they need to be negotiating with one Party or another.
As far as they are concerned everything is going along swimmingly and the usual opposing voices are doing what they are expected to do.
We can sing and dance about the room over the so called ' wins and losses' with Budget measures, but ultimately it means nothing. The Abbott Government is in power, they have presented a Budget, it is slowly making its way and when the next Budget is delivered - all will be forgiven. One only needs to remember the promises of Budget Surpluses promised by the RGR Governments to realise that even outright porkies are forgotten at election time.Paula
I reiterate, it will not generate thoughtful responses.Barrie
'A bit of biff' 
Let's keep some sense in this observation.
This is the Prime Minister of Australia who is being referred to as a schoolboy looking for a bit of a fight.
But it just so happens that this 'schoolboy' has lots of big toys to play with and a pretty big gang of others to call on.

Were Mr.Abbott not to consider all possibilities surrounding the disgusting acts being carried out in Iraq, he and his Government would be accused of being careless and not considering the welfare of innocents including visiting journalists.
Now that it is reported he ( Mr.Abbott) has been considering some type of counter action, he is again attacked for his willingness to 'send Australian troops to war'.

As the world has become more of a global home, it is impossible to confine activities to our own country, or at least to a regional interest. It is simply un-reasonable to think that people shouldn't visit such countries as Iraq, Iran, etc. However short of banning travel and selectively involving our country in what we consider to be 'safe' activities, then by default we are part of this global home.

Countries will attempt to lure other countries into their own problems and it is for Australia to play a role that is both advantageous to the welfare of the global home and to ourselves as an independant country. There is a suite of available resources to utilize when bringing other countries back to a sensible centre and bringing in troops is but one of those choices.
It is unlikely that any reasonable person, much less the Prime Minister of a country, would ' at the drop of a hat' or ' as just a ploy to effect public opinion' involve themselves or the lives of troops, in conflicts being carried out in other countries.

Mr.Abbott has been accused of many things and, like all of us, he is not perfect. We owe it to ourselves to rise above this petty accusing of our own country leaders and at the very least, treat them as we would like to be treated ourselves.
For accusations on this forum and elsewhere, that anyone would actually be spoiling for a fight, much less willing to see our troops be deployed for no good reason, be-littles the Austalian ethic of a ' Fair go' certainly doesn't represent the Australia I know.Good policy! Good argument!
At what point does it not make sense that if something remains free, it has to effect something else.?
If I paid $7.00 by attending a doctors rooms everyday of the year - I would still not pay as much as a Private Health Insurance.
If I paid .40c every week (on average) for my fuel, I would not pay for the cost of 1/2 tank of petrol in one year.
Yeah! This needs to be argued out properly. Give us all a break and start dealing with some truths. Australians are selfish and want to continue to get things for nothing.Are we not all 'Poor' and by that definition, don't pay tax - thereby not paying a health levy?graazt

'No-one is an island'
Quite true my friend. However islands, although surrounded by water though they are, only become defined as such when looked at in the bigger picture of the world.
In other words; islands don't exist unless they are part of an overall scheme.
Individuals as proposed by Rand, also are part of a bigger scheme and through their fortitude and resilience, maintain a direct link between survival and extinction.
Were it the case that all of the people of the world became followers and required handouts from some greater power, then that greater power would probably need to be 'different' to the rest.
Instinct is important and having an instinct to actually work and make some money - 'then' spend it! is a healthy reasoning for Budget control.graazt
I do believe we have consensus on some issues and what  a great way to see the week out.When a comment so blatently goes off subject, it is the usual thing to have it moderated. Not only is it off subject but it is offensive.
One needs to consider the subject at hand and not be drawn into responding to the many comments that up-hold a certain 'political' bias.
It has become obvious, as pointed out by ScottBE ( my apologies if not) that the number of responses in this forum, from Conservative interests; have fallen dramatically. Many things could account for this, but the willingness to allow a comment such as yours to be posted, suggests that the moderators are, perhaps, wanting to portray a certain kind of comment as the norm.
My suggestion to you is that you remain on topic and not fall for this obvious move.
This comment is likely to be cut from the responses, that is the way, but keeping comments civil is imperative.Stuffed Olive
'Universal health care is best for society'
A very sincere view and would work in Utopia. 
You've only to view the recent plan from the AMA to realise even the practitioners of health and the moral warriors for universal health, are actually no different than the rest of us and are looking to make a quick ' buck' from the co-payment proposition.
Unfortunately the AMA shot themselves in the proverbial foot, by wanting to not support a Government initiated plan for a co-payment on the basis it was unfair and administratively difficult - fair enough! However when the new AMA shiny model arrives, guess how much it is? Around $1.00 less; and guess where the money goes? Well I leave that to be best explained by the AMA.
This is the hypocrisy of debate in this country. Stop 'unfair and harmful costs' unless initiated by a respectable, health loving group, that only has a persons health in mind. 
Really, we can do better than listen to groups with a clear agenda. The Medical Corporation of this country is filled with great people, but un-fortunately this plan to save the country of a ' horrid and cruel impost', makes them no different than the rest of us and the ones that really understand the hypocrisy of this plan should say so.Artful Dodger
I feel slightly sorry for the interpretation as described.
Should it be my fortune to be trapped between a train and a hard place, I would expect nothing less of my fellow Australians.
The photographer,  I would be grateful to also in that, they would make some money with the shot. Also 'Get Up' does nicely with the promo of their "great" work. How much was that shot worth? 
Spot the commercial yet?Jonathan

Your facts are impressive and I'm sure are quite correct in relative terms. 'Relative' being the key here.
These are facts that show sectors of the Australian society from all perspectives. Relatively there is the so-called rich, the middle class, the working class and the poor. Nothing new in that, all societies have a balance of these categories.
With this being a set of 'Relative' facts, it should be made quite clear that Australians- as the rich- are not even near the mark of the rich from other countries. This applies also to the poor, in other countries 'poor' people are in a different set of circumstances.
Your figures, whilst probably correct, feed into the narrative that Australians are hard done by and dripping with poor people unable to make a living. The figures may back this up, but in a wealthy country like Australia, it needs to be pointed out just what determines a 'Rich' or a 'Poor' person.
If rich is having money, boats and apartments; then there is a large group of rich here. 
If poor is not having money to spend on groceries, not owning a home, and sometimes on the street, then there is a number of people in that category. That makes your figures correct.
From a different perspective:
If having Apartment blocks, Shopping centres, money and shares - if this is 'Rich' in America then there are many.
If living in squalor in a slum, drinking filthy water, dodging dead people in the street and living with no shelter - if this is poor in India then there are plenty of people in this category also.
Australia is a relatively wealthy country and as we push for higher and higher social reform and physical improvements in our living standards, we tend to forget what the relative facts from other countries of the world are.
Mr middleoftheroad
Yes I agree with you that there is that call of 'Help me, I'm sinking here all on my own' and it is real and honest.
Unfortunately, with the class systems alive and well, the range of top to bottom (whilst this may be stable) see the so-called 'Rich' topping out at one point and the so-called 'Poor' bottoming out at another.
That range, is different in countries throughout the world and, as we have been educated to expect more from our lives ( a natural extension of a healthy and strong nation) then our ability to cope ranges also.
Resilience, a natural human function, is also influenced by teachings and as we see ourselves being more wealthy with social improvements; we appear to adjust our resilience meter along with our expectations.
With due respect to Miranda Kerr for going about her work in a healthy manner, it is up to us to educate our society on the values that we wish to incorporate into our own society. Celebrities are just another type of indicator to where the world at large stands. To expect to live a life as they do is up to the individual, so long as that individual has been given alternatives that also make up our world.ScottBE
Let's keep this in perspective. Australians have medical and hospital cover and for the percentage of people most of it is free.
So Australians are well ahead of a lot of other countries.
It is not for any of us to judge another's needs unless we are in the privileged position of spending time with them. However, it is difficult to understand how a medical service for a growing population can be sustained as a free service and still not have the effect of new taxes or levies.
I don't think anyone is suggesting that these services be paid for ( although this is a logical conclusion) but to not understand the balance sheet at the end of this provision would be careless.
It mustn't be forgotten that a large number of Australians already pay large amounts for hospital and medical cover out of their own earnings, so to suggest that a small co-payment is un-reasonable is slightly obscure.JudyBee
Hi! Judy
'Team Australia' may stand for some things but I'm sure it would also stand for honesty and integrity amongst its citizens and associates.
The interview referred to, gives a clear indication of how ill-informed, propaganda and just plain nastiness has become the norm.
It is incumbent on anyone conducting an interview to have the facts of a question well researched. No interviewer should be allowed to ask such pointed questions without factual evidence to back the assertions held in those questions.
Mr.Hunt presented a dry account of a dry subject and because it was not sensational enough to inspire the red(and Green) necks, something had to happen.
Having Australia working towards a common goal, doesn't include using a nation radio station to attempt to embarrass a Minister aor any other person. 'Team Australia' is just what it indicates.Charles
Are you suggesting that Tony Jones was attempting to be sensational and create news?Paula
Mr.Palmer is who he is. When things get tough, we all resort to what we know best and Mr.Palmer knows no different but to divert attention from his own circumstances by throwing in some 'Red' herrings.
The bigger question remains here and that is, ' What is Mr.Palmer wanting to achieve by such stalling on Budget measures?.
It is looking more and more like Mr.Palmer is beginning to become better known and that his idea of standing up for this or that, depends on how it effects his own personal circumstances.
It is quite difficult to understand how any Party could align themselves with the PUP, by delaying Budget changes, because it now seems that the stalling tactics used by Mr.Palmer and other Parties has been exposed as selfish and short-sighted.
It is for the PUP and others with a similar set of ideals, to not put personal gain in front of changes that need to be made, in order that Australia can be as comfortable in years to come as it is today.
As for Mr.Palmer, he will say things like this again because that is how he operates. There is nothing new in all of this, just an exposure of character that is beginning to un-ravel in a Parlimentry sense, as it is for Opposition Parties and their supporters.ScottBE
Yes! I quite agree with you on the comments of Mr.Abbott re: Scotland. Can't quite understand that yet.
The Budget looks very much as if it is just fading away into the night and the problem is that Mr.Palmer and the Opposition have staked their whole future on this one particular thing. It may be the best political card has yet played.
Mr.Palmer will become insignificant in the scheme of things once the Opposition realise that the Budget is a dead horse.Whilst I don't subscribe to the thinking that all decisions are politically based, it is understanderable that some are generated from that, because Governments have been too slow to react in other, more sensible ways.
Mandatory 'One Punch' sentencing of 10 years, is an example of Community and Government having to take the big stick because of recalcitrant behaviour of a percentage of the Community for whom, reasonable social integration seams impossible.
Where has this behaviour had its roots? In bygone years, a Community would have 'Ways' of dealing with such appalling behaviour, an 'Honour amongst thieves' attitude, that provided for safeguards before such horrific results were encountered.
Now, with our advanced thinking about treating people well and ensuring that nobody is unduly harmed at any level, we have a situation whereby our people are being killed.
This is not just street brawls that ensued after a few too many drinks, it is a basic belief that any attitude taken is to be supported and, should there have been an injury from a brawl, then both the offender and the victim should be given all the care they need to 'Recover'.
Communities need to get off their couches and out of their coffee shops and start putting some time and effort into making the place they live in, safe. This doesn't require vigilantes and protection rackets, it needs people to stand up for their own rights as citizens and protect their children from such dangerous behaviour. It is not for a Government to keep writing rules, or a Judicial system to continue harsh sentencing, it is for is as the people of a Community to set standards and require the next person to abide by them. 
Our children and the children involved in these acts of violence, are largely the result of our own parents letting decisions be taken for them about situations requiring parental and community input.
So, if Government goes down this track of sentencing, it is not for us to critisize a Government for that; it is for us to ask the question 'Why has it got to this?'HPH
I appreciate your questions and of course any question is valid.
I refer to 'standing up for rights' 'protecting our children from such behaviour' 'Community standards' and ' parents letting decisions be taken for them' and my reply is this:
Rules are put in place to protect a community and instruct a community, as to the boundaries of social acceptance.
The roads have speed limits and this is a classic case of boundaries, but also a case of 'just another law that applies to some and not to others'.
You can see with road infringements, that the penalties have become increasingly large by standards of a generation ago, yet people still believe that they can travel outside the rules.
Once it is understood that a road law is actually a guide to a safe journey both for ourselves and other users, it can be viewed in an entirely different manner. Yet we don't indicate that we fully understand the valuable contribution that road laws make.
It is increasingly the case that, rather than work within the rules of the road, we are keen to 'out-do' the next guy and get what we can without being caught.
'Do what you can without being caught' and 'Make me a rule so I don't have to think',are mantras which have eroded the thinking capacity of us as a Community. It appears that if there is not a rule, then it must be legal and therefore I will exploit this until someone else stops me.
A person 'King - hitting' another person, is not a new thing, it is however something that has become more common and possibly, a more lethal process given the carelessness with which it is used. My question as to how we came to this point, asks: ' are we too disengaged from our own communities/families/social structure to accept that we, by our reliance of Government and penalties, to carry out a basic function such as controlling our own future, are guilty ourselves of indifference?'
Un-fortunately that indifference results in knee-jerk reactions and consequently we get mandatory sentences because Judges are accused of being too soft on crime.
I appreciate your questions, however without addressing each question at length (which is not the general way of this Forum), it is for yourself to either accept or not accept, what I have written.KK
Quite correct; castigating the Government is a full time occupation for some and earns those people a good living.
But I agree, where are the alternative solutions?
This appears to be the way of professional groups now. They work more as a lobby group than individuals with a degree of understanding as to the solutions, their sole aim appears to be critisizing.
"Put up or shut up" might be the next item of discussion.
The Government inherited a border situation out of control and the Labor/Greens were all at sea in their attempts to quell the numbers of arrivals by boat. The people in detention today are the result of that incompetence and as soon as a solution is put into place, then those that failed are first to start the dismantling of a programme that works.Daz
'No longer addressing the issue, just playing politics'
So, er, does the fact that there has been no boats sound like politics or good policy?Chris
The changes to 18c are quite irrelevant should Australians not take on board an approach of understanding.
People always need something to 'Run to' or 'Run away from' and currently the 'Run Away from' is winning.
As we are all aware, the amended laws will not effect most of us. They are designed to extend the strength of hand over the small few under-mining the security of our country. Our fight to either remove such laws, or reduce their power is of little or no consequence but for some personal satisfaction of standing up for some vague sense of freedoms.
What does count however, is our country's present state of fear as balanced with our sense of security.
Inevitably, countries slip into problems that have grave circumstances should they not be capable nor wiling to maintain a degree of optimism and general trust.
There has been a vacuum over the years of great wealth building in Australia, that has become filled by anti-Australian talk and, to some degree, by violence. This is a reflection of a lazy society where money was growing on trees and anything was available at a cost. A time that should have born ideas and opportunity, set out a plan for great dreams for our country, has been squandered and we are now left as a pathetic relic of the once great optimistic country we once were.
The new tightening-up of laws signifies a take-up of the lag in attention to detail over the 'Salad Days'. An over re-action for sure, but a necessary one because of the gap that has developed between sensible attention to law abuses and demands for rich country extravagant demands for rights and privileges that can only be sought in good times.whohasthefish
I think you will find we are not that far apart with our views, perhaps you are a lot funnier than I however the Government of the day would be quite stupid to meaningfully go about frightening people.
This is a knee-jerk reaction to a lazy society of whom it has become obvious cannot maintain a sense of responsibility in good times.
