The horrible event of the destruction of MH-17 created diverse and profounds consequences: for those aboard personally, for families and loved ones, for communities and for the work these people were involved with - including being who they were, for Malaysia and Malaysia Air, for whole home nations, and more.

It also had consequences for Russia, for so-called 'Russian-backed separatists, for the people who live in the areas controlled by Russian-backed separatists, for Ukrainians and Russians generally, and for Russian and Ukrainian leaders including Vladimir Putin.

These consequences produced possible opportunities.  If things 'could never be the same again' there was at least the possibility that this awful loss might spawn something that was better, even much better, than the local situation it replaced.

It is people like Tony Abbott who would assist the facilitation of the ultimate wash out of this disaster.  People like Chancellor Merkel, President Obama, the Dutch Prime Minister, and other European leaders especially, would play larger roles but Tony Abbott is and was a player at that table.

I suggest we observe some of the other people - Merkel, the Dutch, perhaps John Kerry, and Putin himself - before we get too high on what Tony is embarked upon.

How well he performs is measured by the results rather than by the cheers of his squad, especially his local squad.

Appearing statesmanlike and being truly statesmanlike are quite different things.  

Tony Abbott has chosen to take one version of the 'moral high road'.  In an extremely complex situation where the chances of a really creditable outcome are quite small this is the smart, the political, choice - this thing was going to end badly so I need to take a position that reflects well on me in that event.

What we might be much better with is hoping our Prime Minister might be the essential agent of a spectacular turnaround of a situation - things the Scandinavians and the Dutch have turned their minds to on a number of occasions.

How's Tony doing?  I think he's picked out a leading role in the least that we might make of all of this.  I hope I'm wrong.Thought provoking article.  The deeper causes of hatred and radicalisation are rarely discussed.  Instead, a distorted view of the ethnicity/culture/religion of the pre-radical, is presented as the obvious cause.    

Thinking about recent articles on this topic, I have some suggestions. In any conflict, there will be a perception of injustice on both sides. A negotiated solution which redresses past wrongs, with a fair and equitable outcome, is the only way to prevent further violence.  If problems are not addressed, even minor grievances can provide the basis for extremist belief. 

Parents are responsible for providing a safe and nurturing environment for children.  They need to identify their own prejudices and blind spots. Being able to talk openly about their beliefs, and showing how rationality and evidence can be  used to test the beliefs. Allowing children to form their own beliefs, is vital.  The child will grow up able confront extreme ideas with reason and will always ask for evidence. 

Parents must not impose beliefs upon their children.  If a rational argument cannot be made, please do not resort to threats of violence.  Being forced to adopt beliefs, contrary to their own reason and experience, is extremely damaging. Some will appear to comply and be left feeling fear and resentment.  Others will accept the belief, based on fear.  If this happens often, the capacity for reason will be impaired.   Equally damaging is use of deception.  This will sow mistrust, either of perception or authority.  In all cases, outcome, will significantly increase the possibility of radicalisation in the future.

The parents are responsible for what children are exposed to when they are young.  The ability to reason and arrive at their own conclusions, happens within a controlled environment.   As they grow up, their worldview remains heavily influenced by the parents choices.   At this stage, peers will only exert moderate influence, unless there has been a serious loss of trust.  Poisonous seeds only grow where lack of trust, resentment, fear, or loss of safety has   
already occurred.

I believe that the hypocrisy, spin and outright lies told by politicians and various 'experts', promulgated by complicit media, quickly leads to alienation, distrust and contempt.  This is especially true for young people, who have for the first time in history, the ability to get online and verify for themselves what they hear.  Selection bias is inevitable, especially when online, using increasingly personalised search engines.  The combination of easily verified falsehoods, and the not-so-easily-verified-'explanation' is fertile ground.  A young person witnessing horrific events in the land of their forebears, hearing our leaders supporting the oppressors, then finds evidence that our allies brought it all about,  has a rather large moral dilemma.By our acts of comission and omission, we make our reality.

We live in a (selfish) Political-Economic-Legalistic reality such as our own because most of us have allowed a very few of us to make it so.  We have even been so omissive that we have let ourselves be persuaded this is Democracy in action.

It would be one thing if Political-Economic-Legalistic realities had anything great going for them but look around - very few in the world, or in world history, sum to more than a tiny fraction of the sum of their parts and 'good' ones are only those that appear to observers with a particular bias that they are better than 'worse' ones.

The truth is that the great majority are behaving like scared little people until, over time, they do come to believe that what they are told is proper writ.

Over thousands of years, such thinking had man marking time, achieving slow progress in even ways of maiming other men or enslaving them in the pursuit of wealth and power that obsessed the few who made the rules.  It delayed the quantum leap in 'science' on which technologies would be based for millennia too and, when that age finally arrived, it corrupted the potentials that technology put in man's hands to achieve anything to the malignant ends of wealth and power - acting through the Political-Economic-Legalist reality they were able to foist onto the rest of us.

Now, as it seems inevitable all this nonsense has over-reached itself, such that the System itself and/or the underlying environments on which it feasts will likely collapse, the GateKeepers of the Mindset do everything that they can to patch up its cracks and to maintain its esteem and its control.  Failing knowing anything substantial to do, they do LOOK OVER THEREs and they bind their unthinking constituencies tighter to their rules than ever before - everywhere small minded rules and games of patriotism.

In objective reality, we have to do things much differently.  But first we have to re-discover human imagination and the courage to think.  Then we might understand democracy very differently as well.How long we have depends how we think and what we put into practice.

Following Political-Economic-Legalistic precepts (Conservative, Labor, left , right, centre, Green, - the various accepted ways - as practised very nearly everywhere in the world today), I'd say our bolt of hope will be shot within 15 years.

If, instead, we applied our imaginations and abilities, guided by the lessons our world has written clearly all about us, we should still be able to explore the universe of things imaginable for a very long time, wonderfully.

Couldn't agree more yank ... Operation Backflip is now on and should extend to the disgusting unfair and nasty budget.Vienna demanded a less substantial surrender of Serbian sovereignty than NATO's 1999 ultimatum over Kosovo.'

The humanitarian crisis in East Ukraine now surpasses the level in Kosovo before the NATO action.  Russia is demonised for limited aid to the separatists, while cities are bombed by the NATO backed government.

How things have changed since 1999.  The west now supports  two rogue states, simultaneously attacking civilian populations.

As Vladimir Putin well knows, he could never cite the Kosovo precedent to protect the East of Ukraine, for NATO  it is always do as we say, not what we do.   At least one world leader takes history seriously.From Wikipedia: Fascism

"Fascists sought to unify their nation through an authoritarian state that promoted the mass mobilization of the national community and were characterized by having leadership that initiated a revolutionary political movement aiming to reorganize the nation along principles according to fascist ideology. Fascist movements shared certain common features, including the veneration of the state, a devotion to a strong leader, and an emphasis on ultranationalism and militarism. Fascism views political violence, war, and imperialism as a means to achieve national rejuvenation and it asserts that stronger nations have the right to expand their territory by displacing weaker nations." 

Substitute God, power, dollar, 'freedom','democracy' for 'leader'.  Throw in exceptionalism, CIA, NSA, IMF, Bretton-Woods and World Bank, its about done.

"Fascist ideology consistently invokes the primacy of the state. Leaders such as [insert choice example] embodied the state and claimed immense power. Fascism borrowed theories and terminology from socialism but replaced socialism's focus on class conflict with a focus on conflict between nations and races. Fascists advocate a mixed economy, with the principal goal of achieving autarky to secure national self-sufficiency and independence through protectionist and interventionist economic policies."

Add 'promotion of values': 30+ (known) coups, insurgencies, invasions, transitions etc.. promoting fascist dictatorships around the world since WW2.

Use of nuclear weapons on civilian targets.

Elite group of client states enjoying special 'freedoms' denied to the rest.

Children are now born into a world where the 'Nazi's' have a friendly face, and the identity of the sociopaths remain hidden (apart from the obvious examples). 

As a citizen of a special state, I do welcome US forces.  Heaven help us if we lose the protection.Kacer and Coolie Monster

The very powerful and the very rich, who have arranged the rules and the rulers of the Way-We-Do-Things throughout recorded history, ARE to blame for almost everything they can be accused of.  That they justify their positions by arguments founded in the rules and the rulers they have advanced in their cause is no good justification at all - especially if, as with Great Power and Great Wealth, the schemes are rotten to their cores.

To me, the greatest tragedy to come out of WWI was the determination of the representatives of Great Wealth and Power of the Allies to inflict the 'blame' for the War, and so much misery and rubbing-their-noses-in-it, onto ordinary German people who had been as completely misserved by their Great and Powerful as the ordinary peoples of the allied countries had been misserved by theirs.

Our Billy Hughes is a good example of a ruthless agent of Power who, when the opportunity for wisdom presented, took the worst path possible and signed his name and our nation's off to the inevitable causation of even greater horror.

German memory of WWi and of its aftermaths led to WWII.  Russian experience led to Revolution and then to its horrendous betrayal (apparently ongoing) by the Rich and Powerful that it spawned.

Perhaps German memory, and WWII, also formed the German psyche that now does so much better for Germans and for Europe than most of the WWI/II Allies have come down to.

We say Lest We Forget which is completely proper.  The sacrifice of so many ordinary people also cries out to us to Learn From Their Loss.  Thus far, in this, we have let them down badly.  As someone here said - the losers have done their learning much better than we have.Wottha - I totally agree with your sentiments. There is a new discipline which is labelled Econophysics which is starting to turn traditional economic theory on its head.

It is a pity that forums such as this have not yet discussed this new develpment because it may prove to be very far reaching in its scope for positive change.Any of Sir Ivor's articles are worthy of serious consideration.  This is no exception.

I do think he holds out more hope for State-originated diplomacy than we should accord it: such diplomacy is based in the interests of States (or of Putinesque players in the States) rather than in the interests of the people generally.

I think it is likely that the polarisation of populaces to extremist groups of zealots of mutiple stripes and to a few bewildered mobs holding incongruent views of wither-now has much to do with a general perception that political States generally have lost a lot of their link with ordinary lives and hopes.  The aimlessness, extremism, intolerance are the sores that fester.

I think we need to apply the high potentials of diplomacy to ourselves and our society before they can ever succeed in the greater complexity of global relationships.  Who are we and why, and what are we about.

The hope of the world is in the goodness of ordinary people, I think.  

Good ordinary people should not settle for States that are very much less than the sum of their people-parts (as we have done).  We have to imagine and reach for a society that expands our potential for goodness rather than one that insulates people from the abilities to make a real difference.

Look around and there are very few political nation states that approach that ideal, and the reasons lie in their processes of their politification and of its delivery and self-serving rather than in the nature of the ordinary people who live there.

Ordinary people can solve big issues. None of the other claimants to that ability can - Lest We Forget.What utter drivel ...and the point of applying for jobs more often when there aren't enough??

I know its just good.  ???

Gotta say this incompetent fool Abetz is Brilliant!!!!

Sidlaw..... Why did Joe Hockey double the deficit? Or should I say 'Operation Double the Deficit' let me repeat that Operation Double the deficit'. Why does this budget make the deficit even worse? Why clearly and unfairly hit the poor vulnerable and sick and reward the rich eg PPL.

Is in LNP DNA to take from the poor vulnerable and sick ...and give to the rich and big business.

 Why you say - due to stupidity and incompetence...or Operation Incompetence and Stupidity. Operation Incompetence and Stupidity.

Hmmm Operation Tell Lies.Do you have any modelling to support this opinion or should we just take these assertions at face value? 
Although on the face of it I agree this looks to be a bad idea - when you look at the proposal more closely it appears to me simply a means of swapping savings from Superannuation into Housing assets. 
Whether or not this is a good idea appears to depend on whether you value housing or superannuation more highly.
This is an indivdual choice which all of us will approach differently. 
To see if it is good or bad for the country - shouldn't an attempt be made to calculate what might happen should such a policy be put in place? 
This is likely to be more productive than kneejerk reactions.Lol harvey - ...the point exactly that you so willingly and blindly demonstrate.

It must be true because someone told me a 'story' ...dont let facts get in the way.

By the way I heard a reliable story that the earth is not flat. HahhahahaThanks Greg - your article seemed to me to state the facts of the situation quite well. A cynic would think the government is just kite flying when it puts forward obviously flawed ideas like this.  We need these ideas to be debunked with facts and figures and your graphs are helpful in doing this. 
One minor quibble which others have already commented on - the charts often have the axes incorrectly offset which sometimes detracts from the arguments.We have to take responsibility for our own. we want to send the creations of other nations back, so we have to accept our own back. What was that island in shark infested waters again. Great site for a prison.There is no message to counter.
There are smiles on these people's faces. they enjoy the pain they cause and are not fit members of any religion or society. Even if a person believed that the only way to correct an error was to kill they would not delight in it like these do.

These are just sadistic thugs and there religion is false.

Lol Andie ...alll sensible people know that this debt was created by John Howard and Australias worst treasurer Peter Costello with their absurd tax cuts ...IMF note them as the most profligate in Australias history - yep even worse than Whitlam lol ...inconvenient but true - oh and IMF is apparently not a left wing org lolOf course thats what the LNP want - "Nothing to see hear ...move on".

Anything but this nasty Budget built on lies that will hurt the most vulnerable for simply philosophical reasons.

They  clearly know that the Australian people do not like being LIED to and simply will not forgive liars whatever the reason - and certainly not a confected "Budget emergency" that has rightly been ridiculed by all and sundry including the Treasurer in recent weeks.

It is why Tony Abbott and Bishop have so voer reached on the appalling MH17atrocity - they looking increasingly out of their depth as they continually call news conferences to repeat and repeat already known matters.

We now have an unarmed AFP force holed up in Ukraine - with an incompetent foreign minister calling for them to be armed in a war zone. Whaaaaaat?

I smell vietnam, Iraq, Afganistan etc - anything to distract from their deceitful unfair budget.

Campbell Newman knows about lying about nasty confected economic rubbish - 17 % swings - can tell you there are many many many Qld people waiting with baseball bats for both TA &amp; Newman.Oh for goodness sake BF.

You carry on about political bias then demonstrate it clearly ....I voted for TA and genuinely believe these absurd news conferences are going a long long way too far.

Frankly they are showing their (JB &amp; TA) lack of judgement and inexperience here.Hahahaha not involved. Would think some use of brain required here old FG - lol We have an incompetent and out of depth foreign minister wanting armed AFP in a warzone....hmmm let me think - nup no involvement. Pleeeease.Whenever the subject of econonmic inequality comes up - it always seems to provoke sometimes quite vicous comments. However what does not seem well known (yet) is that the inequality in our economic systems can be very closely modelled using techniques produced by the new discipline of econophysics. I.e. the inequality is ingrained in the mathematics governing monetary transactions and has nothing to do with means of production or so called human nature. 
If we can divorce economics from politics and marry it to science (specifically physics and mathematics) maybe we can actually fix the system to avoid the extreme hardship it typically causes.Dave - I agree lots of effort was expended on this in the 1960's - but they didn't have the computing resources we now have. This approach won't work overnight - but eventually it will reap benefits. 

Anyhing that gets away from the adverserial nonsence that currently poisons our political discourse (as evidenced by forums such as this) has got to be better than what we have now.Dave, 
       Thankyou for spelling out your position. Let me clarify mine. 

I agree it is not possible to divorce economics from politics but it is possible to use concepts from physics to investigate economic systems.  This has been done and the results have in my view been spectacularly sucessful in explaining why every human society which uses money as the medium of exchange (from ancient Egypt to recent communist and modern capatalist, from developed and developing ) quickly becomes unequal with respect to individual wealth. The analysis not only gives an answer as to why society becomes unequal but also how many people will be at different relative levels of wealth to an accuracy that can only be compared to the accuracy achieved by physics in working out the orbits of planets around the sun. 

Now that this body of knowledge exists it would be stupid for us to ignore it and continue slugging it out with pointless arguments over who is entitled to what (i.e. see some of the posts in this forum and others like it). We have an opportunity to create some real change based on firm scientific foundations simply by tweaking how the system currently operates. To do this we need to understand why the current system behaves the way it does - and this has largely already been achieved. 

Maths and physics may not be the same as democracy (i.e. you don't vote over a mathematical proof) - but the diversity of thought that is one of the hallmarks of democracy is also required for science to progress - so I reject your assertion that Maths and physics are not democratic.The similarity runs deep. 

The statisitics associated with inequality of wealth and inequality of income are directly comparable to other complex systems such as frequency of earthquakes or lightning strikes.Dave,
   It is impossible to predict the behaviour of a single human being - on that we probably agree. However when considering the behaviour of 1 Million people some statisical predictions can be made with a high degree of accuracy. 

One of those statistics is how wealth is distributed if those million people trade with each other. 

The accuracy of this prediction still astonishes me.DCO,

Sadly I think you  may be correct - but that should not stop us from putting the case forward. Eventually we have to hope that rational argument will prevail - otherwise we are doomed to remain in the world of medieval creation that we seem to find ourselves in.Alpo, Generally agree with you - divorcing economics from politics would be a first step in this direction.  Marrying economics with science would not guarantee decency but it would have a much better chance than it currently does.Not the Econophysicist: mathematics governs nothing!  It is a poor way of drawing a lifeless caricature of things that are beyond our abilities to fully express.

History has been determined by man adopting selfishness as his guiding idea - in fact a few adopted and prosecuted the idea and the large majority were subjected to and by it and them, until very recently, when many of the majority have come to accept selfishness as their compass as well because it suits this 'money-making' age.

Selishness is an idea of excessiveness, of more than you need.  In nature, it is immediately limiting - fat birds make easy prey or everyone reacts against individuals and groups that claim more than their reasonable share.  However, in the extra-natural world of History (since the realisation of farming segregated us from the immediate disciplines of nature), the possibility has existed that some people could be very 'fat' and could resist the reactions of very many who were left very 'lean'.  What was harder for them was to resist the predations of other fat or serious would-be fat folk.

Selfishness begat competition and ruthless competition begat 'rules' such that everything the 'haves' had was not spent on staying alive in the face of the worst efforts of ones competitors.

So fixated have haves been on competition that genuine progress was almost stopped for many thousnads of years.  No one invested in the level of knowledge acquisition and thinking that would seriously advance mankind.  Instead we have a vaguely recalled philosopher or two over ages, some small 'improvements' in the arts and technologies of killing or not being killed, and the growth of 'political ways': the arts and institutions of competition.  These things consumed all of the productive capacities of the nearly paralysed political states of about seven thousand years.

We went nowhere.

In the course of this waste of so many lives, we added to the language of having.  We invented property, wealth, money, law, rights, succession, precious, luxury, nations..... and some of the few thinkers took up considering the pragmatics of getting more from a man-made reality - proto economics.

Delayed for eons by the stupidity of those who misused the opportunities of mankind generally, technology fired up sensationally from about 1770 and went ballistic after WWII.  

Instead of applying this potential to doing things for everyone, the supply of a comfortable enough (and leaving people free to have fun with much of their live's potentials), the haves latched on to economics and created a world where 'lucky' people participate in the systems that make a few very wealthy and 'statistical people' are left by the wayside.

We are living in a 'bright' time but it is so bright it has blinded us to the truth that we are consuming far to much and spending most of it still on the pointlessness of competition and selfWhoever you are - please distinguish your handle by something other than "Bruce" - I am sure the people who read this forum do not wish to mistakenly attribute your views to be mine.I think we have to get right away from politics and economics as the 'sciences' on which we construct our realities: I think they are plain evidence that the road we are on is the wrong road.

I happen to think that the collective opinion of not so very many good people - about 30-40 and any 30-40 good people, on anything provided they are given 'good' advice in the speccialist aspects that have to be taken into account - will always run rings around the opinions of politics and of economics, and of law itself.

Just in case people cannot imagine that there are good people all around I say - HERE's ONE.

Congratulations, Ty.  Your wise and generous post warms the cockles of my heart.Employment - jobs - is perhaps the key to the existence of Political-Economic States: job-persons work to support themselves and their dependents and their Political-Economic States and its component systems.  

Patently, you can not have a high cost overhead like 'Australia' or the US or China unless that overhead can extract the economic energy it consumes from the economic energy generating sector that they can tap into.  Once was, this sector was defined by ownership of land with economic worth.  Now it is much more complicated - heck, there is even a 'global' sector that States compete over and almost everywhere is scared about the transferability of parts of their economic energy generating sectors that may leave them short of the wherwithal to keep their 'insert name of State here' going.

In such a situation, States are likely to fixate on jobs (which are important in their survival as-we-know-them) and Job-holders are going to fixate on their jobs because they are seen as placing them in a vastly preferable situation to the alternative abyss - no-jobbery: otherwise called unemployment.   Non-participants in the competition for jobs are those odd people too old, too young, too involved with non-economic concerns, or those walking to the beat of different drums from the doing-what-is-expected-of-them who hold jobs or want to.

People who 'own' the profits of work attempt to preserve and to maximise the profits they own.  Attempting to drive down the imposts on them (taxes and charges for example, or structural impediments) or to drive up the 'prices' they can charge is something they will 'unionise' or 'federate' to do.  But this activity - competition in action - takes over so much of their available energy that they become unable to deliver their basic reasons for being.

Such situations encourage entrepreneurship of the sort where 'business' removes itself to a new frontier where all the cares and problems of established, mature 'industry' can be minimised for a while.  Some people think this can go on indefinitely, but it cannot.

Like some huge, over-ornate clock that has never been able to keep time but that looks wonderful, the fundamental conception of big Political-Economic States, with all the systems and the trappings that they entail, are running down.  Reality will pass them by, helped by the fact of their having eaten themselves (with the assistance of the misuse of technology) out of the underlying resources and environments without which they are pure figments.

Will we hang on to these Hags to their awful ends?  Or will we re-imagine human society and how it works - and while we have it in our nature to be able to make things even worse, I think we also have it in our abilities to make it much better.

If we do, very little of our Political and our Economic mantras will survive.The disgusting LIEs that this Government have told and then ther nastiness to invoke extreme ideology on this country are to de deplored by all fair minded people.

Then there is the rampant incompetence look at the disgraceful performance of rank amateurs and unintelligent MPs like Julie (arm them ) Bishop, Joe Hockey, Eric Abetz, Christopher Pyne and George Brandis. All have been found wanting, not across their portfolios and have been an embarrassment to the country.

They have tried to reduce debate to  3 word slogans, then 4 word slogans with the word 'Operation' in front and now Team Australia - what fools.

This is the worst government in Australias history - I really did not think it (or any modern Government) would ever be a one term one but the level of nastiness mixed with lies and incompetence is making me feel that this will in fact eventuate - and frankly should in this case.

Another Broken promise to add to the mounting pile of them : "There will not be deals done with the independents and minor parties under any political movement I lead."

Abbott went to the election on "who do you trust" and delivered lies, secrets, punishment, arrogance, contempt, division and ideology. Trust is gone and slogans pathetic.LNP all over the country is slipping deeper and deeper into the slime .... by the way Brian loughnane has been 'reported' to know of most of the slimy ICAC stuff - Federal Lib Director who's partner funnily enough is Peta Credlin ..chief of staff(and bottlewasher for all in LNP) to Tony Abbott. 

The links are getting particularly close to Federal LNP people like TA &amp; Joe H.

This smacks of corrupt Joh LNP in QLd - with Newman LNP trying its darnedest to emulate and in fact appear to be surpassing Joh. Look at the muzzling of CMC, sacking a committee before it reports on your mate, removing fitzgerald changes that required a bipartisan appointee to CMC and appointing an incompetent above many many other contenders. Like Johs Terry Lewis moment and we all know what stinking corruption lead on from that.Dreaming up 'more effective' devices to 'punish' those they are inflicted on can hardly be the best course for Leaders of Man to pursue.  That's more or less the way we have come in all the great failures we call history.

We can do better than that. Let's give belittlement the flick and target a reality that raises ordinary people up rather than one that treats them as almost worthless pawns in some games of the power-mad.Realists not only live with what is, some of them make it so or entrench it.

When what is made, entrenched and lived with is a poor reality, the subjects of that reality and of its dominant realists can submit (which likely guarantees horror along the line) or imagine and realise something very much to be preferred.

The most dangerous practice of 'bad' realisms and their realists may be their misuse of incrementalism: something is better than something else, something is rationalised on incremental arguments whose underlying logics are those of the realism proclaimed.  Every now and then, better is to be desired.  Very often, though, what is claimed to be better just 'better' serves the bad reality.

Sometimes we have to throw 'better' things out with the shite.  The challenge is to transform the reality for something truly worthy of our respect.The Government (and generally, Governments) regard the best interests of the people as being a dependent variable directly depending on the performance of the economy.

Not only do most Governments appear to regard this as a no-brainer but they also appear to believe that the economies of their jurisdictions can only be as they are now: with the big money in the gobbledegook services that the complexities of the legal-economic system 'distinguish' as being of high worth, and otherwise in businesses that deal in high end luxury or in enormous scale.  What the ordinary people do is 'work' in the trickle down occupations that the businesses of the Big End generate, so it is a no brainer too that it is in the best interests of the ordinary to serve the financial interests of the Money Makers.

That is the top down way of thinking.  It is interested in the financial Wealth of Nations.

Alternatives exist that are interested instead in the social wealth of nations (including of the global nation of men).  Such a focus produces quite a different vibe of economy.

Germany and South Korea are nations at the 'economic' end of the spectrum of such thinking, with the Scandinavians somewhat more 'socially' displaced.  China and India are in the process of determining their own positions of choice but neither of these is ever going to take on an Economy Model like that of Australia (or of the US or UK).  We have to hope they do not fall into the trap of obscene oligarchy that appears to have claimed Russia.

The great challenge, worldwide, is how we can push much further towards sociability while at the same time dramatically reducing the gross real costs of our economies on our (and their) natural and social environments.  This is the determining factor in the future of man.

Increasingly, the economic Wealth of Nations, top down thinking, will be marooned in failing powers stuck in a disavowed mindset of national reality.  Demanding far more than one's share has had its day.

So I don't think this is a simple 'budget' problem in Australia.  It is part of Australia getting its head around who and what it/we want to be, and what this requires of all of us and of us collectively.

Tony and Joe (and I think Julia, Kevin, John, Paul, Bob and Malcolm) have given us a very good primer in how we should not go.



Point 5 is the only Quantum Leap point in all of these.

I prefer 'moot' to jury, and there is no reason there should not be several, or even quite a few if circumstance demand.

Moots of people drawn at random could replace elected parliaments to our great advantage: a (very substantially) de-politicised politics, government by the people.

They could replace large parts of the legal constructs we have now.

They could enable a society to respond to the major issue that face it rather than being hidebound in the constructs of history that are intent on their own survival and prosperity.

Point 5 deserves our very careful consideration.I would agree we are stuffed if we wait for the Defenders Of The Status Quos to determine that the Status Quos are stuffed anyway - amply aided by their ways of defending them - and then for them to actually do something real about things.

Given I think Royal Commissions are devices of Defenders I would not put much store in one to bolster our chances.

But, DO PLANT TREES, not just for rotational harvesting (which is a valid thing to do some of, and not only by chopping them down) but also for the regeneration of enough active habitat for biology to hold up its ends in balancing out climate effects again, as well as their being carbon stores.

However, and mainly, live outside the bounds and binds of Status Quoisms.  It's not that hard.  Just don't buy or buy into any more of their twaddle than you absolutely have to.

Oh, and Labor is as much a creature of the Status Quos as ever the various coalitions of Conservatives have been - perhaps even more so.In a governance system deeply infected by political parties the Senate is the house of the people.

These are not unrepresentative swill (necessarily) - they can be the counterbalance to partisanship that may have run off the rails of its responsibility to the people and to the identity (and its better qualities) of the whole national community they are in place to serve.

Now I happen to think that the newbies are a bit lightweight for the task they face but they are our newbies for the moment.  It is much to be hoped that we will elect many richly contributing independents to the Senate in its future.

Party politicisation is not a good thing, prima facie.  Too often it represents much lesser positions (publicly and privately) than those which would serve the electorate better and best.

Parties compete with each other, mostly, to become less and less inspiring of anything.  

The people, permitted to do so by standards of sociability, regard, respect and responsibility, can do wonderful things.  Governments that facilitate such progress are very desirable.  Governments that merely churn over their dogmatic ideas of how things should be do us no good at all.

While we have governments like these - as our present parties reduce us to - we need a Senate that is unaligned with the major parties at least.  We could ask for a better one, but the one we have is better than the Coalition or Labor would design for us.The slime and corruption that has been exposed around the Qld Governmenet is reminiscent of the Joh years ...that is the reason for the current state of the polls.

Cronyism, nepotism outright corruption look at sandgate redcliffe and stafford. Ministers resigning, MPs sacked, advisers resigning secret deals with donations and the NSW connection to the slime in Liberal NSW Central Coast goes directly to the Government.

I am sick of the blatant right wing bias of the ABC"We want your culture" ..... my my ..need to take a cold shower and open the curtains - tis not a scary world out there - the sky is not falling in ...and can reliably report to you that the earth is not flat - although I know you will pull your tin foil hat on and withdraw with your ACA listening, talkback radio listening flat earthers in LNP.

Can you be that afraid?

Go to your homes and await instructions ..... 

hahahaPete &amp; Mick: Between you, you may have summed things up.  The Last Lot (and you can go back a very long way on this track) were failures, and This Lot is unlikely to be any better.

My twopennyworth is that it is time our political parliaments grew up, which would require a wholly new mindset from the politicians who form them.

This zagging and zigging with each election, always to the lesser end of the philosophies that underpin political parties, is just plain nuts.  We need to be moving towards the better end of our options as a population and as a country (and a world) and to have parties that want to fight over the shreds they have torn opportunities into is hardly likely to be the way.

Presently, Tony Abbott and many of his side of politics seem to stand for their particular view of an Economy.  They conceive of us an Economic Society aligned with their ideas of rightness.

Whatever the Labor Party stands for is quite unclear to me.  The behind-the-scenes antics of the apparatchiks and the lack of any credible Big Picture and Big Way of Getting There makes them sometimes appear the lesser of two evils: what a fabulous choice they present - we are not as bad as them!

Hardly the agencies of a great Australia.

Most of the new independents seem unlikely to add much to the quality of Parliament, so we are left with about half a dozen folk, out of both Houses, who might get a guernsey if we ever elected a body of politicians close to what we might really need.

As a people and as Parliaments (the States' are as bad as the Canberra Mob) we have to grow up.

There are serious things to do, and there are things to do to that are joyous, vitalising and great fun.  Can we, please, change our public dialogue towards their achievement and leave this seething childish twaddle behind?There must come a time, and soon, that sees the end of economics-as-we-know it.  The idea that we will continue to be able to fund a system of thinking that demands freebies from the environment and 3+ percent rates of annual growth to even appear to function becomes more plainly ludicrous.

However, in its throes, economics in demise is likely to unhinge politics-as-we-know-it too.   It will do so by heightening tensions within and between political states especially as it bears down for the subsidies it needs to survive on the living standards of an incresing majority of a voting public - who will have nothing they would want to vote for left in the choices offered by dysfunctional politics and stranded ideas of government.

We are going to have to come up with something new.

Privilege, the rich-and-powerful, will probably aim to defend the high ground of wealth and possession (expect many more robots, or robotic humans at least), marginalising most of us in the process and adjusting present forms of politics and econoics to suit.  It will be like the good old days, before the masses became uppity, all over again.

Ordinary people could take up very different ways - sociable, mutually generous ways I hope,  But these will fall apart quickly if we think to direct them by the historical precepts of power, law, government, religion, civilisation, politics and economics.

It's a new world we need.  The hag of history has had its chips.Did we ever have control of our democracy?  Have we ever had democracy?

We have in turns been too fawning, too otherwise interested, and too self-obsessed to have ever held up the public end of democracy, I think.

Now we have a politics that thinks foremost within a blinkered view of Political Economics (a view that has next to nothing to do with 'pure' economics but that orders things in favour of the outcomes ordained by their narrowness of mind).

One of our reactions - as the reality of our masters' conception is demonstrating some of its simplest deficiencies in ways that affect the people formerly-thinking-of-themselves-as-safe - has been to play 'wild' cards: we have elected some.

This is just an early symptom of a system that would remove itself from ordinariness, but that is tethered to it by occasional general elections, and of an ordinariness that has lost sight of the merits of society and sociability by taking on self-serving choices instead.

If we want to turn this round, WE have to raise our own game - not to be Australians as the warped ideas of politics and the political- economics of selfishness would train us in, but as the Australians WE would want to be.  Then the governments we might choose may be democratic.  WE would would make it so.

Such governments are unlikely to include politicians and parties such as we have known for 100 years, but neither will they include such rabbits as we have recently put among the fat cats.

WE have to grow up.Poor old din. Look up the word mate. Howard still holds the trophy - worse than Whitlam... what a disgrace.

 The reason we are paying so much interest now is due to Australias worst ever economic managers Howard &amp; Costello.Mankind as a whole wears the political-economic nations (and the economic-political nations which have their different borders) of the world like a suit, a very uncomfortable, very ugly suit.

A global humanity consisting of small, flexible societies could adapt to what mankind wanted to do and could look great in the mirror as well. 

On the other hand, great rigid chunks separated by hard-as-nails smaller pieces and by bits and that are too worn out or old to function is hardly the fabric from which anything gorgeous is likely to be fashioned.

So I find it very easy to suggest that Kissinger has not learned what history makes abundantly clear - that the great power balance model is a road to nowhere.

That the post-Kissinger reduction of a bad old hag is failing badly should come as no surprise.

We have to learn from history - not to do so would be to waste the sacrifice of more than 100 billion human lifetimes consumed by Power pursuing its own selfish purposes.  

But the analysis Matthew Del Santo offers is the simplistic repetition of a tried-and-failed-and-failed-and-failed stupidity, and the way the world works today is just an inevitable part of the current cycle of its failure, yet again.Politics, and things political including the Law as it applies to ordering our reality, and political economics, is a deliberate dyfunction.  It imposes a bias on a people and their reality that is in favour of one or another major segment ostensibly - Them or Us - but in fact that is in favour of one or other of the tiny groups of truly powerful people who are actually playing the political game.

Labor and the Coalition are merely the black or the white squares on the board.  The game is played with chess pieces and the ordinary people of either persuasion are merely pawns.

The game is played in a state of constant stalemate.

What Jonathan Green and Paul Kelly are on about is just the dysfunctioning of the dysfunction of politics.  It arises because consequences, both natural and of the bias and the unconcern for anything but winning with which the game is played, are tilting the table the board and the pieces rest on.

That is inevitable.

Trying to solve such an outcome by playing the political chess on the board of politics differently is unlikely to make any sensible difference at all.  

Politics and political chess have offended powers that are quite beyond their power to contain.  All that is left to them is to cheat and to hope to steal the grubby game they are intent on.  

Their unconcern for what really matters is even more complete than it has been before.

Labor and the Coalition are part of the problem and are nothing of the solution.We actually 'know' almost nothing when that is compared with what we now think is ultimately knowable, and we probably only imagine as little about what is ultimately imaginable.  Which is to say, we have a small basis on which to adamant about rejecting hugely complex possibilities.  

Reasoning that there is no thing that might be termed 'god' is based on worse grounds than reasoning that climate change is a figment of the imagination.

Without remotely understanding what it might be, I can accept that there is an ultimate force for good - call it the go(o)d force.  What I am much more certain of is that people have corrupted the wonderful imagination of go(o)dness in countless different ways, and have proselytised their less or worse corruptions of the 'original imagination' to serve their diverse ends.

Now the world is full of secular and non-secular 'religions' proclaiming they are The Way to Good Outcomes which are nothing of the sort.  Radical ISIL-like corruptions of high Islam are among the worst, but Judaism and Christianity, and Politics and Economics, have cults and sects that are as bad and that have many times more adherents.

Religions (and there are not many in the mainstream which come close to this standard) that seriously try to advance the quality of man's imagination of high goodness seem to me to be what we need more of.

When you look down the sights, and examine the machinery, of religions and find that they are not intent on the better imagination of true goodness, then be wary.  

But that so many have lost their way, or never had one, is not to decide that the sincere contemplation of goodness is not an effort worth making.Brunski

That makes me an agnostic, but I am an agnostic who suggests that what I do believe is better realised by the practice of many behaviours that might be called religious, especially in the politco-legal-economic mindsets, and odd religions, of today.

Behaviours like generosity, kindness, respect, regard and responsibility - and the assurance that in every public matter, the consensus of a reasonable number of people acting 'faithfully' according to such principles will always be preferable to my individual opinion on the matter and those of other individuals as well. 

I am suggesting that there are possibilities for great good in some'religious' behaviours, some practising of better doing, and better imagining, that which inspires you.  

However, I also agree that dogmatising anything or seeking to 'congregate' people around symbol so as to simplify their expressions of being individuals is almost never a good thing.  

And Mitor, I think we can change the manmade reality we live in.  We have constructed it on the false premise of selfishness and if we hold to that guiding principle we will remain our own worst enemies to our bitter end.

Some things that may not be evident to you may be evident to others.  Or they may be dedicated to better revealing evidence rather than assuming this is it.Mitor

I had thought whatever the all-knowing might be like would be different.  Turned out to be someone who thinks they can know it all.  No space for imagination at all.

Hoodathunkit?

I must be a contrarian but I don't think that democracy needs a strong media, what it needs is a strong democracy.

We live in a politico-legal-economic situation that is grounded in selfishness, in the rightness of individuals and groups of individuals to control much more than they deserve or nees and to apply it other than for the greater good of the rest of the people who put the 'dem' in Democracy.

The 'strong media' we have had have generally served this situation - the 'free press' that criticises it is stamped out by politico-legal-economic forces, including the one where too few people give a hoot anyway.  We are happily brainwashed in the coils of the ideas that underpin the Themocracy we have.

Interestingly (I think), it is the other barons and baronets of the present order who have most to gain from a 'strong media', that is, one that is on message according to the preferences of the dominant status quo.  Rupert Murdoch is doing them sterling service - yet they are so near sighted as not to advertise with the man for 'economic' and 'business' reasons!

If Rupert's like fold, the Communication Age will fill the void with all manner of informants casting what they report and how they report it to suit their own preferred views.  Nothing will change for the better.

Until we get up and do the work required from each of us to enable strong democarcy to function.

Then, parenthetically, most of the tenets of politico-legal-economic contentions and institutions will be relegated to their proper place in the archives.We can only extract the essential principles that determine what folk stand by from their behaviours: what they say is a poor substitute.  

When I look at what the senior ministers of the government seek to do, I cannot extract much of anything I would regard as 'moral'.  It seems to be simplistic, and small and narrow-minded.  Team Australia, as such people would proselytise it, is not a team that speaks in my name - very hansonistic.

When I look at the efforts of Labour over the past 25 years at least, I hear a higher moral claim but see little in credible behaviour.

If all these people can do is to chant from their litanies and act in the tried-and-failed old ways political-economic simplicity has tried again and again, they offer next to nothing.

In their terms, we need Structural Change - not in the ways we impose upon the helpless or seek to justify our own imprudence, but in the way we think about what is right and proper and about what we want to make possible.  

We have to do quite different things and we have to do them in quite different ways.  Economics and Politics (and the Law)have become much more roadblocks to what we must achieve than they have ever managed to be conduits to it. 

If the LNP and Labor (and the Greens and PUP I have to say) are all we can think to lead us, pardon me.  If that's all there is, I'll just keep dancing.Enlighten me, Peter, as to what you see us doing to mitigate the impact of climate change fallout on those on whom it most heavily falls, and what we might be doing now to prepare for that role.

Thanks for that.But Peter the most 'egotistical little crusade' is surely Abbott's Direct Action joke, where for the sake of a Right wing ideology that big companies are more important than we are, we pay them to clean up their act?The greatest Australian is (and I think beyond argument, although the claim may raise some): Howard Florey.

Each of our Nobel Laureates and of our greatest scientists and technologists, also belongs on our Top 100 list. along with Nugget Coombs, Doc Evatt (for his UN contributions), Isaac Isaacs, Gurrumal Yunupingu and Don Dunstan.  

But, Peter Singer aside, who amongst Australians has made you think other than and better than you might have without them?  Gough did for many, and Jack Mundey did for me.  Bob Brown was locally significant - but who shook the way the world thinks about what might be possible?

Hosting the G20 and chairing the Security Council are not much to rest laurels upon.

We can be much more than that.

We need to be.Whatever the US and China do, two things are certain.  First, global demand for our dirty coal is on the skids.  Our Government's total lack of leadership on this issue, other than the 'coal is good for humanity' joke, has been revealed. Their unstated objective that 'if you cant grow it or dig it up', it doesn't matter is in disarray.  Second the multi-billion Direct Action policy with us paying the polluters is a cruel, syndical trick on gullible taxpayers. Our Minister Against the Environment must have the easiest job in Canberra.I'm another Bruce.

In the total Global scheme of dirty coal, our production hardly leaves a mark.  Most coal burnt around the world is, effectively, locally produced, and it is burnt because no better option has been made available to countries that have been entrapped into the awful spiral of 'development' according to generally Anglo-American ideas of how that should be done.

The US and other 'leading' countries have corrupted thousands of years of traditional practice of food generation in poor places with destructive 'scientific' methods that can be havested for their profit potentials - while destroying the buffers of fertility and water supply that have protected these places from profound famine for millennia. 

Economic Development under a Leading States model does the same thing for the whole society.  If we believed in the goodness of economic development we needed to support its emplacement in ways and with aids that made it a boon rather than a timebomb.

We gave them no coal-alternative, except nuclear and that is a bridge still far too far even for the most diligent of advanced nations to take on.

But Australia mainly exports coking coal and its end product is steel.

Now I think our 'infinitely circular' economies are a vast mistake and they 'demand' much more of everything than we can possibly afford them, but steel is a wonderful thing independent of all the other stuff we are talking about.

Steel can do good things for people and for environments.

I think we should continue to export steel-making coal.  I don't think this is some sort of open cheque - enough and not much more is what we should give, and recycling should then meet most future demands (including harvesting excess steel form profligate over-users of it like us and the US).

But I think Aussies chanting 'down with coal' have a profound responsibility to describe how they who have so little further essential need of it will contribute to the ways by which those for whom it seems a large part of their Hope can find their Hope some other non-coal way.It would niece if WE actually made something here perhaps Bruce rather than relying on the coal and iron ore exports in falling markets. Not that we get much out of the equation these days.Take care the Russians are coming!  Half their navy is north of Australia.  Quick Scotty and Tony, "Turn back the Boats"!!!!This is not a Rock (the kickback consequences of the things we do and how we do them) meeting a Hard Place (our economies and Economics and our polities and Political constructs).

These consequences have no regard for our conceits.  They will just roll over them.

So I think your prescription is most ill-advised - it accords with the logic of a time that events will entirely discredit, I think.

I believe we have to approach our future very differently.  I much prefer 'wisdom' to the 'logic' of highly dubious pre-conceived notions of Reason, including the Applied Sciences those risky sureties proclaim as no-brainers.

If 'economies' and 'polities' of the quite near future look much like those of today, I think we will be quite lost.

The challenge for technologists now, I think, is to develop infrastructure/water/sewage/transport/industry/medicine/model of living that work with what we will have, rather than attempting to prolong the agony of the mistakes we have installed thus far.

They need to give 'wisdom' as much as possible to work with.What would you say if the majority in the model you propose determined something very different from your view? 

Socrates drank poison.  He respected the system but he could not live with its edicts (properly found by that system's processes).

You?

Because the majority will rule, I think it is more 'politic' to be a bit less adamant.  Wouldn't do to be an Extremist.If you add that the inequity includes our inequitable treatment of the natural estate and of the potentials of human imagination and common sense, I'll stand with you John.

Hear Hear!

As to how to move towards making a real difference, I suggest we take on a New Paradigm path and consign the Experiment of History to the archives - except for the cautionary lessons it holds for us and that we have denied over again without limit - thus far.I contend that Politics and the Political Arenas are entirely the wrong place for important positions to be argued and developed.  Their rationalisms and processes, their biases,and those of Political Economics and of the Law that validates them, operate to put everything in terms of their agendas.

This is not an item for the Political or Political Economic Agendas.  It is an item for the concerted action of man globally.

We are, essentially, at war and our Politics, Economics and Law, and our States themselves in many cases, are collaborating with the common enemy.

We-The-People (taking advice from true expertise and wisdom) have to determine what we will do and what sacrifices we will make and, if our Politics, Economics and Law do not serve us as we direct them to, we have to disempower them.

We should clearly understand that whatever governance, economics, and regulation we may require need not look anything like the set that the History-that-caused-the-problems has foist onto us now.  Things can be very different and can also be much better - it's up to us.


It's sociability, society, wisdom and democracy we need, not something that just labels itself thus.
I recommend to you a whole different Universe.

The Universe of THings Imaginable, where 'galactic' possibilities exist but are only 'enlightened' (usually just by glimpses) by being Imagined into the light of our minds.

This is the great Space that man is able to explore.

The physical Cosmos is nowhere near as amazing, from the perspective of men.

Much more that matters to us has to be well-imagined (as ditinct from badly imagined - like Politics, Economics, Law and the institutionalising of Selfishness) than we will ever find in Cosmic Space.There is no more diversity in the whole of Space than there is in the bodily functions of a single human animal - not counting its mind.

Put 7000 million together in a Natural Environment much more complex than them, and mix in their minds and their workings, and Space is just a simplicity.

We love Space Science because, relatively, it is plain and simple science.

Imagination explores the possibilities beyond Reality and thinks on how they might be 'realised' (made real).

I think, Jerry, that you don't have the perception of the possibilities of Imagination that I am writing about.  The more you dig into them, the more astounding they become.

At the moment, we are as Flat Earthists and Ego-centrists: if we want to be much more than that we will get there by better imagination.  

Science will make a useful contribution but most of what we have to do is up to the Imagination of the minds-of-men.

I think 'reality' may become more astounding as we appreciate more of it.  

Science, after all is just an inadequate description of what actually is, written in language few of us can understand.  

It is just a rough drawing of something far more astounding than it knows or that it can describe.You might see my distinction between the Physical Universe and that of Thing Imaginable below, but no - I do not think that imagination is capable of imagining what the Physical Universe has to offer: although the imagination of scientists will help them.

Pure science is the field of our thinking on realities that exist independently of us.  It includes personal inspirations being worked on by a single mind, cutting edge theories, and written-down scripts.  With all that it will never get close to intimate understanding of the Cosmos or of Life-on-Earth - unless the quality of our Imagination lets us survive for millions of years rather than millions of hours, which seems to be our prospect at present.

So, from the perspective of men - as I noted originally - I think the improvement of our abilities of Imagination is vastly more important than nudging our picture of science a little further along.

If we cannot imagine and achieve a much better manmade reality than we have now, we are as good as gone.

And since our Imagination actually leads the 'evolution' of that better reality, I think human imagination has some very serious responsibilities that it had better take up.For those who missed it, I am not equating the Physical Universe (which is 'enlightened' by observation and hypotheses grounded in reality and represented in 'language' by pure sciences) with the Universe of Thing Imaginable.  

This latter is the Universe of things that have no necessary fundamental reality (although we tend to use languages informed by natural reality and our own experience to describe our 'thoughts' within it).

It is the Universe of things that we invent by thinking them, things that would not exist without our making them up. Small children are great imaginers. Less happy people dreamed up (in stages) Politics and Economics and Law.

In this respect it is independent of pure sciences, and (being an imaginative bloke) I love the revelations of pure sciences - which I do not understand but which stimulate my imagination further.

However, Pure Sciences and Imagination do interract in 'applied sciences', and so into the technologies and the applications and the protocols and the Synthetic Realities that flow, in part, from them.

There, I contend we have had a failure of good imagination.

We have converted the possibility to do anything to doing what we have chosen to do with it, for (or to) those people we have applied it for, and with what dissrespect we have paid to the total consequences of our doing so to our general - natural, social, imaginative - reality.

I think we lag badly in the abilities of good imagination in very complex systems.  This is what you might call 'wisdom'.

I think most of you entirely missed my point.  I am sorry I was not clearer but your responses are most instructive, if not very imaginative.

Are any of you serious pure scientists?What comes next?  Some reversion of history?  Let's hope not.

The great questions are, I think:

Where is everything that we need likely to come from?
How are we going to share it out?
What are we going to do with it?
What are the Loads of Consequences of what we take, how we share and what we do, and are they bearable?
Does all this make the great majority of us well, happy, and human?

If we compound the enormous challenges these questions obviously pose with the devious selfishness of personal, organisational, national and global Politics, Economics, Law and Prejudice as we have known them for a very long time and still - then I'd say we are stuffed.

I think a G20 could do much worse than think out loud on these questions and put their ambitions and their egos where they belong: nowhere that matters in the scheme of things.Thank you for your two contributions.

I think the context is more pre-WWI than preWWII (and today is a potent motivation to think about such things), although if push comes to shove it won't matter much.

Mr Putin is playing with unstable explosives in his hands.  The potential for the thing to go off half cocked is plain.

I think history has covered up a groundswell of the rise of ordinary people's self-respect and good opinion of themselves.   Economic Political Modernity has done a great job of distracting such people for a while but its days are numbered.

It would be a terrible waste of the sacrifice of a glorious Natural Estate and of a hundred billion ordinary human lives if a few misguided people wiped out the future in which such an ordinary community might flourish.   

The Powers-That-Be are doing their best to do just that.I am not sure that JT is not making points that you have perhaps refracted unfavourably.  Something of his theme if not necessarily his basic motivation (of which I know nothing) seems to be constructive to me.

Like him, I am anti the idea of The Big State.

I am entirely pro the idea of a global society of individuals stretching themselves in a context of generosity, regard, respect and responsibility towards each other and to all their situations and places: something not a million miles from a high traditional social way of life in the technological, natural and population reality we find ourselves in.

This involves a measure of coordination and governance, but much differently from what we have known historically.  Because we are not yet more than tyros in such matters, the 'unit sizes' of these communities must be small while we learn - so we may be a global society of 20000 'organic' communities rather than a conflict of 200-some very uneven 'nations'.

I found quite a number of your contributions to be highly acute but this time, and whether you agree with his intention or not, I think JT may have raised a point worth considering further."So the real question is, why isn't there more lobbying? Why don't firms spend much more money trying to influence the political process than they do?"

That's not the real question - although the answer is that the political process falls over itself for nothing to give what they think the new masters of the econoverse might want from them, so they don't need to spend much more.  It would just overfeed Pavlov's Dogs.

The real question is why do we have a political process and Profit Hunters like these in the first place.

Capital-Letter Politics, Economics, Law and Business have lost the plot.  Well they have lost OUR plot anyway.

The Wealth And Power Movement has completely overuled our society and has taken our life opportunities and those of the natural estate and converted them to their own delusions.

Wake up, We-The-People.  There are much better ways than these.Peter you old cavillier you.  Tell us what you stand for, in 50 words or less.

Actually I think Chris Berg has been producing a few more useful things of late, this being one.  He has sketched a sick reality and asked how that reality may be made healthy.

That's a start.

I think the course we need is to throw out the disease 

which I see as Selfishness and its spawn, like Politics, Economics, Law, Competition, Structural Entitlements an such 

and revitalise human, common sensical, sociable, society -

 which I summarise as generosity, regard, respect and responsibility towards onesself, all others and all places and situations.

But if we have to go the long, hard, route to getting to that, then Chris's piece is a tiny step.

If we are to take that course, I hope someone publishes a brief statement of what Good Consevatism entails.

If it is as facile as most of the agents-of-selfishness that clutter The Drum then it has nothing to offer.

But I think it much more important than that and that it bears thinking about by Conservatives and Progressives alike.

Simplisic reactionaries - to either of good Progressive and Conservative fundamentals - may make a lot of noise but they should never carry very much weight,Comrade

I think what the worst of Economics has done is to rebrand selfishness as self interestedness.  I think they are mutually exclusive things - one, the least we can be, and the other, perhaps the best.

If we can approach 'good' society of people who are as nearly best as they might be - including in their sociabilities: I think I could live with that.If someone's motivation for an admission of inadequacy is whatever it is that would not invalidate the statement of inadequacies he might admit to.

Christ Berg described a shonk.  I think there is no 'usual way' out of that situation and have suggested something of where a better path might lie.

I don't want to change Chris Berg or his motivation.  I want to give a better alternative a chance of discussion.

Feel free to join in.I suggest you are on a 'two wrongs' argument.

We would be nuts indeed to think that Selfish-minded 'owners' would not flout any set of rules.

But we would be even nuttier to think that more rules still would be the answer to anything.

We could, just as an example, have a Standing Moot of say 50 people selected at random in a region, from which number say 24 might be selected randomly to hear questions of 'unacceptability of practice' that were brought by a sufficient number of ordinary people.  If the 'owner' lost, he/she might lose the ownership and more besides and the project might be taken over by worthy managers or scrapped.

No more rules (and I note some regulations are well grounded, for good practice reasons or safety and that these would essentially stay) - just the reliance on a substantial number of ordinary people deciding whether something being done was 'fair enough' or not.I agree with your first two paras in general but suggest you think a bit otherwise on your third.

I think we have to make 'public discourse' the whole substitute for 'Politics' and thus wipe out 'Political Economics' too.  I understand that some 'econoics' alternative will arise but it will be a very different thing to the Monster that is all over us at present.

If we want democracy we have to meet the requirements that that imposes on us.  We have to contribute, we have to participate, we have to 'live' according to its simple tenets.

You cannot have good, populous society built on selfishness which is pure antisociability.  Good society, at any considerable number of people, demands sociability - which is the same as true self-interestedness although that concept has been corrupted by its takeover by Economics to give it apparent credibility.

We have practised Selfishness for 8000 years and got absolutuely nowhere - now in a world collapsing around us.

Giving it another go - which is what your last sentence suggests to me - would be fatal.

We don't need eductaion in the way things are, we need the courage to make them as we want them to be.Dame B, 

I would suggest to you that most of The Law was first formulated to legitimate what you probably think of as wrong doing.

Possession is nine points of The Law because nine parts of the Law validate possession, by the parties 'entitled' by that Law to possess things.

The wrong-doing bits are there to keep a lid on excesses of Possessive Behaviours - which is how the original Owners came to be in possession of so much in the first place.

Even then, the Dons of commercial and corporate corruption get sentences and prison conditions for their worst wrong doings that a drunk Aboriginal destitute could only dream of.My basic position would be that whatever a jury/moot of say 30-40 people selected at random concluded about some 'legal' dispute would do me fine.  I don't think we need trucks of Laws and lawyers and all the opportunities for deviousness that they permit - including their total non-affordability.

I think we have much more direct and certain ways to determine 'right', especially when the Law is full of binding precedents in cases confirming the Status Quo.How far short of what we could be is what we jump up and down about here.If what you are saying is that the sacrifice of ordinary people has been abused by the Political-Economic-Legal-ly self-appointed Lords who have pirated the potential of peoples, places and times throughout history, I would agree with you.

What China and its people may suffer in the washout of The Great Leap of Economic Faith they are involved in now worries me sick.

What the people of the world have suffered from their local Lords trying to ape the American Dream - the reduction of an untapped continent in the pursuit of Property and the smallness of imagination that equates endless stuff with happiness - is an even greater tragedy.

People potential - which multiplies through good sociability and unselfish society - may still save us, but we have to give it that chance.

Politics, Economics and Law are the functionaries of overlordship and of prescribed forms of order.  They assume the people must be led and they set apart the small group that would lead them.

I think its high time to trust in good common sense and sociability.  

It will run rings round the ways we have repeated countlessly historically, with zero happy outcomes.I think we need to put this discussion in terms of 'our society' rather than in terms of 'the state' or 'the welfare state'.

We argue so much in terms of Politics or Economics or Law, but these are made-up things, that are tailored or tailor themselves, to suit the 'rationales' that States and Welfare States rely on for their own validation.

People see themselves as Right or Left; White Collar or Blue; Professional, middle class, or workers; rich or poor - and all of these reflect 'positions' they claim or are consigned to by the made-up ways of made-up States of existence.

These States are unsustainable.  Their 'ways' are too complex - too 'political' - and they interefere with each other so that the systems of these ways become vastly inefficient, huge and ineffective and ruinous to run.  They compete with among themselves and with those ways of other States at great expense.   And they have cost so much of the natural and 'popular' realities that they have become quite ridiculous.

What is sustainable is 'our society' - in a very different sense than a Political-Economic-Legal sic-society.

I think it is high time to forget about the wrinkles of our dominant ineptitudes and to set about thinking collectively on the society that could replace them.Thank you for the encouragement.

I agree that our dominant ineptitudes contain a seed of some worth.  They are run out to justify those dominances but they are ignored for the most part in practice.

It is a familiar ploy: present things that seem inarguable and then drape them in obscenities dressed up as extensions of 'truths'.The important piece a few days ago about the fragility of our transport fuel stocks resonates to almost every aspect of the Australian future.

It is not protectionism to preserve the capabilities to do most of what you would need to do if 'something' went wrong.  It is good sense.

For us to sign binding agreements to cut off our reasonable self interests would be plain nuts.

With a broadly able capacity to produce core requirements, we can do a great deal of good at home and abroad.  Staying with a flight-to-the-bottom Political Economic rationalism will blow up in our faces when any something serious happens.

It is 'when' not if.

Objectionable Protectionism involves things like Intellectual Property and restrictions - including the reliance on 'capacity to pay' - that prevent real needs accessing real help without greed getting in the way.There are any number of reasons to expect that the supply side of our future is going to be completely different from that of our past, say 40, years.

We have guzzled the easily won stuff and turned it into a nasty stack of delayed consequences whose shittin is now coming home to roost.  Providing as much for many more people from a gutted resource base has no ring of long term security about it.  And the Political Leverage issues all this 'scarcity' throws up will crush one hell of a lot of nuts along the way.

Almost certainly, the Status Quo will shift rather brutally.

If we are too silly to avoid it, we will probably fall into a repetition of history again - about 15th Century history probably, with the masses unwashed and the mighty spending everything on fripperies or on holding their seats at the high table of privilege.  Jobs as we know them, and security for ordinary people will be a pipedream.

If we are able to avoid it, jobs as we know them will still be a thing of the past.  

We will not 'make' remotely as much goods and services per capita in leading countries as we do now.   We will not have the wherewithal to fund wizards of this or that playing silly buggers with money or property or to build mini-palaces for people who rich people patronise just because they have the hide to charge them so much.

'Equity of contribution' will see virtually everyone contributing to the happiness of themselves and others, but at a much lower true cost than the fallacy of Political-Economic Modernity costs.  This means we will all work but that very many of us will not have jobs as we know them now, and those that still do will have much more support than they get now.

In truth, 'jobs' have always been a terrible idea.  They limit the imagination of people to being 'workers' rather than encourage them to be as wonderful as they are able to be.

They are a device of Politics and of Political Economics which are antithetical to 'society'.  In a good future, people will contribute much more than labour and skills - they will contribute their humanity to the collective humanity.  

If we get things right.Alan

There is something we can do - and that we must do.  We can change the Paradigm.

We have given the political-economic-legalistic-class stratified Paradigm of selfishness an 8000 year run.

Right now it threatens to be the end of us.

Why do we stay glued to something this awful now?

Are we frightened? selfish? foolish? or do we really not care if we think things will hang together for the years 'I' have left on the planet?

Generally I agree with what you say.

However I do not think we can thrive while we rely on Political Processes to prepare the ground and to roll out ideas.

That is something we have to do ourselves.

Some of that is the 'second part' of mature discussion and most of the rest of it is the 'third part' - the part where we take responsibility for the expression of better ways in our own realities.

Mature discussion, in all its parts, is how we should determine our ways.

Politics has nothing much good to offer the process - check its performance in the last 40 years when the greatest problems that man will ever need to face up to are left piling up against the options we have had to deal with them.When we test our ideas against reality, one of the important tests may be that they can change it.

The reality we have made up on the run thus far just does not suit the 'real' realities (natural, social, and 'thoughtful') that it floats in and tries to ignore.Given most of the posts here and the moderator's apparent preceptions, The Drum will be no forum for this mature discussion we might hope to conduct.

For what it is worth, I think The Drum is failing in most of what is important among its possibilities.

If all we wanted was competing simplisticisms and diatribes, we would tune in to Parliament.For the World's Most Brilliant Animals we surely are slow learners.

We elect one party.  Things go pear shaped.  We elect the other party.  Things go pear shaped.

Very occasionally things look up for a while but that they will look down and the Party-in-Power will be helpless to stop them is inevitable.

If we don't want things to go pear shaped repeatedly, we have to give up on Party politics completely and we have to do better than 'Politics' as well.

We have to get away from 'bigness' as our object.  We have to emphasise and develop our personal and collective capabilities.  And we have to make contributing to the 'social product' a central theme of our lives.

This does not mean we must be mindless drones - quite the contrary.  

We have to be the 'happiest' society of 'happy' individuals we can manage to construct (and this will necessarily involve us in adding to the happiness of people with whom we have human connections rather than crude and coarse political and economic connections).

We live in the domain of a toxic idea - we live under the consequences of selfishness.

If we want to live well we have to live under the domain of a prolific idea.  Nature expresses such an idea in everything: self-interestedness.

It is entirely NOT selfishness. Self-interestedness recognises that WE and I will be the most we can be when both WE and I work towards that mutual end.

It is what beautiful families and friendships know and what broader populations have been denied access to by the selfish processes of politics and economics as we know them.

Nothing good lies that way.  Nothing good has ever come from that.

We can change easily, but the world would look very different very quickly.This is a very important start.

I happen to prefer a system of moots based on 'sortition' and on 'wisdom' (something very different from the facile rationalism that masquerades as bright-and-best today).

I think it is essential that 'parliaments', however selected, are not allowed to fall into the habits of politics and of political ways.  This means that we have to give them similar protections to those we give juries against 'attempts to subvert the course of governance'.

No single person (or politically selected  -ie by vote - 'cabinet' of people) should have an institutionalised position of power.  Authority should flow from respect.  

Obviously, 'parliaments' need to be very well informed, and that information process can be complete and fair as distinct from now.

I don't see our Power-sects giving up without a fight (that's the model of history) but we have a democratic right (or this is not a democracy) to set up a moot system that exists independently of politics for the purpose of vastly raising the standard of the 'public opinion'.

We don't have to beat politics - they do that themselves although we take a beating while they are doing it.

We just have to render it irrelevant.I have never read anything Russell Brand has written.  Thanks for the heads up, Shaun.  I think I will have to.

Not that there is very much else to be gained from your piece.

You seem to attempt to connect folk who are practising politics in some quaint way of there own with Russell Brand and to tar him with what you paint as being their brush.  Good luck with that PhD, mate.

We have some idea of what 'politics' and 'political behaviours' connote.

If the field of 'anti-politics' is the field of every other possibility imaginable, then you seem to have a very narrow imagination indeed.

Politics and political ways have entirely established their bona fides as being unfit for our purposes (check History: are you saying we cannot do much better than that?!).

If politics is all we've really got, then you are quite right.  It's the end of us.

But I hope not.  Maybe Russell Brand has some insights worth considering.Shaun, thanks for your note.   I take quite a contrary view - that things cannot improve through poltics-as-we-have-ever-known-it, no matter how muscular.

Politics, as you study it, is the lineal descendant of History's ways of power - starting out in ruthless brutality and 'civilising' from there.  It is a creature of selfishness, of competition for what ambition thought worth winning, of 'property' in substance and in power.  

Politics is about how to play the games of selfishness within the rules (including The Law much of which is a Political construct) or not so far outside the law that you actually lose the gains you have made by flouting the system.

It is a system perfected by the successful-in-power and ideas about alternative ways of ordering societies waste themselves away by falling into the trap of trying to win their case within a system that only serves selfishness.  

I have said elsewhere that politics is where good ideas go to die.

'Political Revolution' is a total waste.  Replacing one political system of selfishness with a different political system of selfishness is no way out: check History.

The 'best' alternative is for the 'public' to take up the responsibility of forming the 'public opinion' completely outside the reach of Politics and of politics and political ways (ie free of structural selfishness).  'Government' then becomes a process of ordering society according to the directions of (well-considered, but that's another story) public opinions.

I think trying to prop up Politics, politics, or political ways, is a huge mistake.  We have much bigger fish to fry than Politics et al is ever going to get its selfish head around.The ultimate reason that we have politics at all is that men who wanted to 'win' institutionalised their selfishness to survive and thrive.

Compeition to the ultimate winning or losing is a Pyrrhic process (see History for countless brutal examples).  

The Class of serious competitors for power invented codes of practice - political mores - and institutionalised them through The Law and the Rights they gave themselves so that 'property' (much more than the basic personal possessions that assure a reasonable existence) could be held in 'civilised' societies rather than needing to be constantly expended in the defence of itself.

However, political behaviours in competitive situations are devious, misleading, contested, subverted, tactical and strategice things.  Selfishness and bitterness thrive in such a setting.

They are essentially perfectly anti-social.

For all but a couple of dozen decades, History played out amomg the competing classes.  The great ruck of 'us' were barely relevant.

When technology made Winning-through-Industry possible, these competitors found they needed 'workers'. [Although, note that workers will become unnecessary as supply side factors squeeze the possibilities of open-slather 'economies', and robots are less troublesome.]

In this brief period we know as Modernity we have come to believe we ordinary people matter.  But we have embraced winning and losing, competition and selfishness ourselves.  We think this is the way.

And we have allowed the institutions of selfishness to thrive.

We have no long term hope in selfishness.

Our only good prospects lie in sociability.

If we want a future of relevance and opportunity for ordinary people (everywhere) we have to think quite differently about politics, bitterness, and selfish politicians and Laws.

These are all symptoms of our failure to realise what high humanity is remotely like,Really none of this is unexpected.  The Liberals always do two things, find a war as quickly as they can, so Labor are left to bring the troops home.  Second, fiddle with the tax system so we pay more and big corporations pay less.  Increase the GST and "Direct Action" is a beaut.  We pay the big companies not to pollute OUR environment!  Really perversity there, and one could even say malevolence.Politics is, always has been, and always will be, a quagmire.

It is where good ideas go to die.

It is the moat that protects the Selfishness of the most privileged, of those who exert real power, over people and over property.

In Australia, good Conservative thinking has died in that moat at least as much as good progressive thinking has died there.

Good Conservative thinking is charged with the responsibility of keeping our Fall-Back position as a society as up to date and as fine as possible.  It success is only measurable against that standard.  Ours is abysmal.  It is also responsible for truly testing Progressive postions and, if they are found wanting, opposing them.   If they add to the quality of our Fall-Back position, those progressive positions should be adopted by conservatism.

Good progressive thinking has no good place in politics-the-moat.  It will always be corrupted by the mindsets and the processes of the mire and be reduced to a travesty.  That is why the political Left is so often trying to out-Right the Right.

Good progressive thinking has to take place in the forums of public thought.  The press was once part of this.  Now it is worthless.  Universities were once part, but they have been venalised.  The taint of politics has poisoned the hearts and minds even of those who think they can see a light on a hill.

We need to reawaken good public thinking, conservative and progressive, outside the grip of politics completly.

Only when public opinion, informed and well-thought through, sets our expectations of our Governments unambiguously will we get that governace right.

Politics is a debilitating disease, big P pr little.

So called Political Champions help to keep it so.

Ordinary people need to do their good thinking themselves.

It cannot be deputed to folk who are struggling not to drown in the moat around selfishness.  We have to choose our own field to contest upon.

Selfishness needs to go down with its stinking drain.You cannot get good Government, and the delivery of good policy, by voting for it in a system like ours.  You cannot get it by working to support your Party.   You cannot buy it.  And you cannot send out some seeming Great Champion to win it for you.

You have to think for it yourself.  Everyone of us has a responsibility to think on how we can make things better.

Some people will always run back to the political and political-economic-legalist ways that selfishness has perfected over millennia.  The causes of the total failures of our history and of our Present.

That way no good lies.

Give Selfishness and all that drivel the flick.  Think better.  Leave politics, political economics and their legal validations out of it.

It's not so difficult.  All we have to fear is not doing so.  But be very afraid of that.There are many good State players who never made the transition to Test cricket.  The latter is a far more demanding environment physically and mentally than state cricket or the ODI arena.  Hughes is almost as good as Favell, Ritchie, Trimble, and so who all had long brilliant state careers and never made it at Test level.  In Hughes case it can't be attributed to lack of opportunities. He has had so many but the same flaws and errors of judgement occur.  Coaches can coach skills but they can't coach brains and it is in that domain that Hughes seems to be a concern.Except for perhaps Keating and maybe early Howard no other modern politician has had the guts to express their beliefs for how to make a better Australia and  to argue for and win popular support  for their actions against bitter opposition. The second raters that make up the current Labor and Liberal parties should take a good hard look at themselves and ask themselves what they could do to be even 10% of the politician/person Gough was.
Is Cormann here on a 457 Visa?  His lack of knowledge about Australia and Australians is stunning. Also can we please have his media reports subtitled for clarity?  He still seems to be locked in a cycle of blaming Labor for all his own inadequacies in not being able to sell his rotting, socially-biased and destructive budget.  If he instead exercised his bile on the big mining companies and all the other major corporates who pay almost no tax, reduced foreign investment in real estate, and privatisation of public services, he could be viewed as being one of us.I agree. The only people that want prices to rise are the people that use housing as an investment. If you are talking about homes then people have them to raise a family in and to have a place to belong. Those people don't constantly up-sell and purchase more upmarket accommodation. Society is more mobile and perhaps more people have to move around for work but for many people the only time the value of their home is important is when they need to sell it in order to get into a nursing home. As discussed in Ian Verrender's article banks should be left to fail and investors should pay the cost of poor investment decisions and if house prices fall and people and owner investors lose out then the people who pick up the cheaper properties win.
I am quite sure we do not need better politicians (whatever does that even mean?)

We need to embrace better imaginations.

While we think so little or so foolishly that Political Parties and the Public Mindset can settle for what they do, then we are stuffed from the outset.

I think that Idealisms have produced some high insights, ideas worth building on, but when they have been taken up in Political Arenas they have been corrupted quickly or have disappeared without trace.  

Many higher-minded Labor people are probably wondering what went wrong.  They threw their idealism to the wolves is what went wrong, and now they try to out-Right the Right - and we-the-peanut-gallery urge them on.

We think that Idealisms can make a bad situation better.  In the arenas that favour the bad situation, it is more likely they will be subverted to the service of that bad situation, the 'appearance of progress' being the argument for persisting with it.

I think we need to go back to real basics and start from there.  We need to imagine the foundations we want to build on, and add our idealisms to them.

Wasting lovely ideas on tarting up foundations that are rotten to the core is worse than doing nothing.

I think 'politicians' (and so politics, political economics, the bodies of law and norms that are part of their self-validation etc) are rotten-foundation things.

Certainly they have a zero-from-a-zillion record over history.

I hear a lot of noise on The Drum but rarely get any sense of music.Thank you, Sophie.

No picture captures more than a fraction of a reality as dysfunctional as man has made his, but your description moves me.

I am sure that the reality would be overwhelming.

One day we will start with the people and try to help solve things from the right end.  Until then, we will repeat Aleppo and Syria.

It's what we have always done.Its a black and white shirtfrontThe ideology of our current government is breathtaking at times.  They support the mega-wealthy and the large tax avoiding companies and then defend them (e.g.., Vanstone) by saying they provide the jobs.  It is interesting that they cut education funds, slash university funds and can't see any investment value there.  Big companies do provide some of todays jobs, school and universities provide careers and skills for today and the future.  It is hard to see the difference in investment value.  Now we have taken off the "Mining Tax" on coal and iron and we see, with some wry humour, that China has immediately imposed a 4-6% tariff on our coal and iron imports.  We lose the tax and they gain it. Really our national leaders would do well to drop their loony ideology and look at the the Australian economy - fiscal and social-in a more rational and beneficial manner.Politicians should keep out of this important development.  We do at last actually have a national curriculum. It is an embarrassment that we did not have one decades earlier.  It is a dynamic document as these things must be to remain relevant over time.  Berg clearly has not spoken to many teachers who could tell him a good deal about the detail inherent in its composition and implementation.  This is not yet Texas where politicians brush out history and re-write it in ways that they like better.  Or is it?  Pyne's hysterical rants do noting for informed debate as he has publicly said he wants Latin re-introduced and thus has no idea about the needs of students now and in the future.  Mr Berg this is not an all or none issue.  We can improve the curriculum that we thankfully now have.The Economic-Politics and the Political-Economics are two of the three cplumns of Political-Economic-Order that rest against each othe - they depend on each other for their stability but they vie with each other for primacy.  (The third column is the cmposite of normative pseudo-social ordering systems - Law, regulation, policing, mores and religion etc).

When tachnological and industrial poosibilities were adapted by Political-Economics, Economic-Politics responded by making ordinary people think they mattered.  Among other things it gave them a vote (albeit a relatively meaningless one except for its reserve power) and 'services': some things that ordinary people never had before from their rulers they now were promised as 'rights'.

What we are watching is a government seeking to bolster Political-Economics in the face of a reaction from ordinary people that it is doing so by trampling on their 'rightful' extpectations, that they see as a fundamental responsibility of their Economic-Politics and of its politicians.

What we are actually caught in is a 'cancer' - a very unhelthy overgrowth - of Political-Economics which is seeking to completely alter the 'trinity' that has propped it up until now.

Inevitably, this overgrowth will be brought under control either by its consequences (in nature and in the complexities of human 'societies') or by its collapse under its own weight and incompetence.  However, such a collapse will almost certainly take the other columns with it.

Our choices are to change things pre-catastrophe so that something else rules - and hopefully we would aim for something better rather than surrender to something even worse - or to plan how to survive the Great Fall, if that's possible.

Our Governments and our Oppositions (at every level, global, national, regional and local) are not doing any of that.  They are part of the problem

We have to order them to change.   After all, they work for us.

We cannot just vote for parties to our destruction.  We have to vote for ideas that are much better, and we have to work towards their ends.

The Political-Economics-Order construction has had its day.  It has ruined all of our History and the lives of countless people.  If we let it, it will ruin our future.

Whether it has that opportunity is up to us ordinary people.What cannot re-invent itself to meet the real challenges of the day might be better just consigned to the archives.  And I agree with what you say about the LNP in general.

There is a yawning need.

Yet, to listen to most of the articles and the contributions to them on The Drum, we appear to have nothing in mind that to tart up some self-destructive vanity on one side or some totally destructive insanity on the other.

Personally, I think our hope lies in placing responsibility securely on ordinary people - effectively stamping politics and political ways out of governance and bureaucracy completely.

Much less of They Orta and much more of We-the-ordinary-people Should and, so, We Will.There is a progressive platform that represents the best developed position by which the greatest happiness of the greatest number may be deliverable in the real contexts of life today.  The position would not be completely assured - it would be a challenge not a gimme but it would stand a substantial chance of adding to the happiness achievable under any alternative.  It would not be static, and it would develop by serious efforts of well-minded people who respected the responsibility that progressiveness has to bear to be legitimate.

Equally, there is a conservative platform that represents the most advanced stable position that a society has achieved that is known to be robust while protecting everything about the society that is truly good that can be preserved in whatever storms of circumstance may blow.  Again, this position would be tuned and maintained by the serious efforts of well-minded people.

In the longer term, the conservative position would take on the secured achievements of the progreessive and would secure higher base camps from which progressives could climb on.

Well-minded people everywhere would recognise the resposibilities and they obligations that tey and these positions bore to each other and to society generally.

In Australia, we have Reactionary Politics instead, and it is an awful waste and delusion.

Both sides of politics (including all but a stalwart few of the independent and, and only maybe, the Greens) have established their 'base' thinking in things that have nothing to do with high progressive or high conservative conceptions.

They are living at least half-a-century in most things, and two centuries in many things, out of date.  If what they are representing (which is not what they say they are representing) ever represented the leading edge of our political possibilities, that day is long gone and those things should have been abandoned or hugely revised since.


If political parties, which include unions, have a place it should be a responsible place - responsible to those who they represent and to the principles that legitimate their existence and merit at all.

While we connive in or condone the bastardry that substitutes for responsible representation most places now, we are stuffed.

No amount of poisonous darts thrown at each other by peanuts is going to make any good difference.  If we want to improve matters, people are going to need to think more seriously and responsibly.

Now is not a watershed for Labor and the unions - it's a watershed for all of us.  

Arguing about the arrangements of the deck-chair positioning committee is pointless.Silly me!

I thought this article intended to touch on the important things - the collateral harms of war, the opportunities lost, the futures deranged, the pain and suffering, the never being able to understand or to forget or forgive.  The failure of imagination that causes many wars and the systems of delusions that prosecute them.

Stuff that is hard to put on a graph.

v, and others,

It seems to me that your long third paragraph suggests that your second paragraph is a nonsense.

Once upon a time, 60000 Australians died in a Greta War that was the high point of our political-economic stupidity to that point - and that 'statesmen' set up as the inevitable cause of another and of much more.

Lest We Forget we say and quite rightly.

That We Might Learn seems to have been quite beyond us.

While we accept pap as wisdom, we never will.The people of Hong Kong are in a position to influence very important aspects of the playing-out of the 21st Century.  When I think over everything they might contribute that really matters, I cannot see that being able to vote for a candidate representing some limited or vested interest is going to add to what good they could achieve.  It seems to me they would add less.

Just asking - is the $500 million the incremental cost of what we propose, or is it the full cost?  Seems to me it costs a lot to keep the forces applied in any event and, I think, if we are going to focus on costs in this case it should be on incremental costs and than people could have two arguments: can we afford the extra? and (and especially if they think no to the first question) can we afford the full costs of our military + accessories?

But also.

ISIL is an extreme version of an idea taking control over a mind or minds.

Some people lose their minds to their football club or to some object of affection.  Some apply them to a truly valuable idea that takes over their lives.

ISIL is a mind-warp inspired by the perceived evils of much kinder interpretations of Islam and of the Devilry of Unbelievers, particularly from the West, apparently.  Since observers cannot see anything good in it at all, it may well be it will have to be eradicated if possible - notwithstanding that trying to do so will likely spawn collateral infections that may be equally bad.  If we are lucky, we will come up with an approach that disables its worst effects but that leaves the corpus little harmed.  We should be doing some work on that outcome while we take up the hard-hammer approach as well.

The Political-Economic is a mind warp that takes over people' lives too.  It purports to be a high cause but it is not.  It is a particular use of the vitality of the natural environment and of man generally but towards Selfish ends - power, property, wealth and such - that cost very much more than they are worth.

While we see ISIL clearly for what it is, probably, we would do well to think better on things POlitical-Economic as well.

ISIL is an awful, probably localised horror that local reaction is likely to control in time, if at great local cost.

The Political-Economic has cost man the happiest potentials of 100 billion lives and much of the vitality and the functionality of nature.  It is gorging its way through the opportunities reamining to us and to our children and grandchildren and to the relict of nature.

Objectively, it is the infinitely more dangerous thing.  But we are its faithful.

As the zealots of ISIL are to it, so we are to the sects of the Political-Economic.

Have we got the ability to break out of its holds over us?The stock market is something of a canary in the stygian thing that is The Economy.  For the past several years, the powers that be have pumped clean air around the canary in the hope that people would not guess that The Economy was 'failing to proceed'.

The Economy (The World Economy first and then National Economies and down to Regional Economies) operates competitively on one hand and para-medically on the other - not just to save the grander of the otherwise Fallen but to stop up the cracks in the whole of its edifices that competitive behaviours cause and widen.

Providing this arena for Winners costs the rest of us and everything most of our chances for a different, better, brighter life and future.  The 4 trillion dollar infjection is merely an obvious fraction of everything we give up so a very few people can crack some jackpot - or is that some Jacks and a crackpot.

What long-run, influential, competitive institutions do is they spend everything they can get their hands onto go nowhere.

But when spending everything takes nature to the brink and threatens the situation of seven billion people, the reactions against the spendthrift become irresistable.

This Economy thing will do its best to look as though it is a pre-eminence for as long as is possible.  In fact it is a dangerous figment, but it is a heavy figment.   If we cannot imagine it out of existence prudently beforehand, soon it will collapse on all our heads.

Bit more than a 'bumpy ride'.  Tough luck for the canary.Pure distraction theory to keep the backyard 'politicians' active and happy.  It seems Senator Bernardi can recall a few years ago seeing three women in burqas in the Gallery. Not one seems to have seen any since. Window dressing based on fear and distraction.  Old conservative tactics.  I am more concerned with the faces I can see - all the old men who currently run this nation.The billions spent on yet another Iraq war will mean major cuts in our foreign aid that develops nations and makes friends, more education and health cuts and inevitably coffins coming back to Australia.  All so Abbott can play bully boy, distract us into fear and to mask his domestic policy and budget inadequacy.  This is a moslem problem and should be sorted out by the arab nations and NTAO, not us, so very far away.With Gillard, we had an intelligent and effective Prime Minister (no problem getting a budget through the last Parliament that I recall). Unfortunately the electorate is narcissistic, preferring a PM in its own image.

