"He can play the double dissolution card"

Within 9 months of his 'landslide victory'? No way. Might as well shut the entire party down and go back to the trade of suburban lawyering.

There is one other option that will work. We see PM Hockey making the deals that Abbott won't. Sure, there is some irony in them booting their 'messiah' after whining long and hard and loudly about the ALP's switch for about a million years, but politics is the art of the doable, not the impossible."So we're stuck with Tone"

As Yoda said: 'There is another'.

Joe Hockey has already had a tilt at the big job. He may be a more palatable choice for the Lib caucus. He's already nixed a few of Tony's more florid ideas. If he is willing to do the deals that Tone won't, he'll be the one sitting in the Lodge by Xmas.Forgive my cynicism, but this will be a 'war crime' and a 'terroristic act' until it is discovered just how much the US was involved in arming or funding one side (or both). Then they will be downgraded to a  'tragedy' and 'collateral damage' in the war against terror. 

Everywhere there is trouble, there is an agent of the West making it just a little bit worse. If there are weapons to be sold like small arms* and landmines, the dealers will swarm there. They are also adept and side-stepping all and any 'sanctions' and restrictions on moving them around the world. In the 1980-90s the US ran the best training camps for terrorists, using their connections in the Middle East and Sth America. The blow-back now is that those methods have been efficiently dispersed throughout the world. Anyone with an ideology and a bunch of cash can get all they need. They effectively franchised terror. No-one is safe.

*and small arms are much much worse in the long term than tanks and fighter jets which need equipment and maintenanceIn 2007 John Howard came out and just bribed the electorate with $34 billion in 'tax-cuts'. And the Treasurer let him, even though it might just be the Treasurer's job to curb such excesses.

Now, where do you think those billions of dollars were going to come from? And how long had Costello been ferreting money away for that day? That money represented things they DIDN'T do... the hospitals that never got built or staffed.. the roads and railways never started... the teachers (but not religious counsellors) not employed... the lack of even the most basic facilities like housing, water or electricity to remote communities... the list is endless. Even the OECD complained that the longest resources boom of all time was wasted by that mob.As the Opposition, the Libs campaigned AGAINST Australia having a seat on the UN Security Commission. Now, they can't praise it highly enough. The word they might presently looking for is 'serendipity'"and that they used racial and other abuse to goad their PNG guards"

So, they are gonna fit in at Cronulla just fine?

Here is the real story from the report released in May:

"It found there was no particular factor that caused the February violence that resulted in at least 69 people treated for injuries"

Basically, the locals found their way into the centre and systematically beat anyone they could find. A staff member (employed by the Salvos) struck Mr Berati,other staff kicked him in the head and one local smashed his head in with a rock.Two concepts for you  mate:

-a public servant called Gordon Grech convinced the  Opposition that the PM of the country would act corruptly for the magnifent incentive of a clapped-out ute. Not one of them managed to notice that the PM was effectively a millionare and this was a car worth $6999 tops
-the Opposition notice that one of their own MPs was rorting the system and being very unkind about the fairer sex. They professed to be shocked and upset by his actions. Again, not one of them made the observation that he had been in the same party for a whole decade and they just happened to notice this repellent behaviour, like 15 seconds AFTER he couldn't vote with them against the government

Are they totally clueless? Or the most untrustworthy bunch of people to ever enter Parliament?* You tell me.

*except for Abbott and Pyne, who were seen running from the chamber once"The truth is that some really bad people exist on this earth"

And here are some names for ya Mikey, all proficient liars, war criminal or profiteers. Thanks to the actions of these people, the progress of extremism and terrorism now has two nations to fester and grow in:

-Bush, George W
-Cheney, Richard
-Rumsfeld, Donald
-Rice, Condeleeza
-Powell, Colin
-Blair, Tony
-Wolfowitz, Paul
-Perle, Richard

Special mention:
-Reagan, RonaldThis is rank BS. The line that there are hordes of 'terrorists' waving Korans and AK-47s, just itching to slaughter everyone in their path is the kind of rubbish people are fed to make them compliant. And why do we always look outsiders to identify as the 'bad guys'? In 2007, big business just about crashed the entire world economy. It was a deliberate act, but we don't call the guys in suits, working from offices and driving expensive cars 'terrorists'. Why is that? They got what they wanted by coercion and subterfuge. They showed no remorse. And frankly, they will do it againif it suits them."that stressful factors may have explained her behaviour that day"

Yeah. Stressed as a newt.

I had to live up around the Central Coast for a year and a half, and work in Wyong too. An experience I don't recommend to anyone - never been so happy to pack up and leave a spot."make the individual items in the budget more popular"

How exactly? 'Little Joe' is on record saying he doesn't think it is hard enough on people. He seems to represent a conservative 'reform' movement that conflates less spending with better government. They start with the premise that the best governments are those that spend the least amount of money - ergo, cutting expenditure automatically brings better governance. It is akin to shooting up the barn wall and then carefully painting the target around each hole. Got a bullseye every time!!No. The only 10th century power in the M/E is the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A non-democratic, theocratic state propped up by US arms in exchange for oil. In reality, some bits of Iran are more progressive than big chunks of the American South where being ignorant and cloaked in religiousity is now the norm.And what damn difference would that have made to us? We would have had to learn German*, and that would have been about it. Not like we were going to be put out by have a royal family that was German. Or had to start drinking beer and eating sausages. I challenge you to find a single difference between the operation of a colony by the Brits and one by the Germans in the early 20th Century. Same white face and boot, talking about the same damn things. 

*except in South Australia, where most spoke it anywayYep. Like I said 'no difference'. Anyone not European, not white, was sub-human. If they happened to live in a spot with natural riches, even better. 

If you are planning to come up with bigger and better examples of perfidity, try to find one to beat this. In India during 1876-1878 there was a famine. The British who were at least obligated to look after the people they ruled had a really interesting view of it; 'Business as usual'. Not only did they spend the least amount possible, and arbitrarily cut rations (it creates dependence, y'know), they refuse to allocate relief to some areas. By the end of the famine, about one in ten had died directly from malnutrition or diseases.

Here's the best part. At the same time the famine took place, British ships owned by British companies sailed away full of grain. They exported 325,000 tonnes of the stuff from a nation where people literally were laying down and dying from no food. Bottom line; human life (brown people) lacked the same moral imperative as not as a return to a company and the Crown. Don't get me started on the treatment of Indigenous Australians."if George Dubya was still in power"

This George Bush??
"I looked the man in the eye. I found him to be very straight forward and trustworthy and we had a very good dialogue.
 
"I was able to get a sense of his soul. 

"He's a man deeply committed to his country and the best interests of his country and I appreciate very much the frank dialogue and that's the beginning of a very constructive relationship," Mr Bush said.
 
Actually, all Putin would have to say was: 'Hey. We look other way when you invade Iraq, kill all peoples and steal oil. Now, our turn. OKs cowboy?'Here is the current curriculum for NSW K-10 History. Can you go through and point out the bits that upset you so much?:

"Reasons (economic, political and social) for the establishment of British colonies in Australia after 1800 (ACHHK093)

Students:
 -discuss why the British government set up colonies in Australia after 1800 CCEU
-The nature of convict or colonial presence, including the factors that influenced patterns of development, aspects of the daily life of inhabitants (including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples peoples) and how the environment changed (ACHHK094)

Students:
-outline settlement patterns in the nineteenth century and the factors which influenced them 
-discuss the impact of settlement on local Aboriginal peoples and the environment 
-discuss the diverse relationships between Aboriginal peoples and the British 
-investigate the everyday life of a variety of men and women in post-1800 colonial settlements using a range of sources and explain their different experiences

The impact of a significant development or event on a colony; for example, frontier conflict, the gold rushes, the Eureka Stockade, internal exploration, the advent of rail, the expansion of farming, drought"Say what? 15% unemployment?

You must be remembering it a little differently. When PK was Treasurer, umemployment never rose above 10.3%, when he was PM, 10.7%. The worst ever Treasurer was John Howard, we had the trifecta - highest interest rates and inflation ever, and the way high unemployment to boot - 10.2%. Another 3 years with him in charge of the economy would have made that 'Banana Republic' a place to envy."someone widely suspected to have a screw or two loose and with swans roaming unchecked in the top paddock"

Nope. He was quite mad. They established a Regency that let him remain 'king' in name only. His disease basically rendered him incapable of carrying out the duties of king due to either rages, delusional or manic behaviour.

Not that the next in line was any better. Obese, drunk* and narcissistic. Fortunately for history, he also managed to die without royal issue (10 illegitimate kids though!). That set up a another twig of the family tree to take over and give us the Windsors.

*it is no coincidence that the expression 'drunk as a lord' originated at that timeSupplies of that commidity must be stockpiled with all the 'Round Tuits' that people require before starting any venture. Highly recommended by that influential work for directors and managers, 'The Mirror'. It requires a consistent response to any suggestion, idea or innovation; 'I'll look into it'.There is no such thing as the 'US Business Council'. If there is, it must go under another name. Also, I couldn't find any conference of Fortune 500 execs that took place in Oct last year either. I was pretty sure that a list of the events would have something about 'government role in business', but was mystified to find nothing at all. There are a lot of those companies in that area, but it might have been a stretch to call the event a conference.Yep. An incriminating tape is 'lost' and later turns up to embarass some in the party after being leaked to the other side. How.... unusual....

Sir Humphrey Appleby: 'The ship of state, Bernard, is the only ship that leaks from the top'The hurt is strong in this one.

So, the conservative view is the majority view? Possibly it is the only 'correct' view. Exactly how did you come to this conclusion?"Thats why the US pay the ALP and LNP election expenses so well and pay for all there scholarships"

That is both poorly written and devoid of sense. How does the 'US' actually pay for campaigns by the ALP, Libs, and Nats? And why should they even bother?

Those 'scholarships'? They are from is the Rhodes Trust at the Oxford University in the UK. Yes, some politicians have managed to get one (Tony Abbott and his rival Malcolm Turnbull), but they also go to people who do stuff like micro-biology and medicine.The GST replaced a raft of sales tax regimes with a single one that was collected from the final consumer. The intention was to reduce the amount collected from income tax (which can be manipulated and avoided) by imposing one that couldn't be avoided as the amounts are collected and recorded multiple times. It also made businesses to become de-facto tax collectors.

Your assertion that 'collecting the GST on everything is the answer' is erroneous. The amount settled on the GST is arbitrary, as it only part of the total tax take. They could have just as easily made it 12.5% and given back more in a cut in personal tax rates. Or made it 7% and kept a higher personal tax rate. That food wasn't included was part of the deal to get it passed, and the final mix would have compensated for the expected loss in collections by keeping another component (income tax) higher. You don't need to patronise and belittle other posters here to make a point.Sorry, the business lobbies ran a campaign telling us how bad things were gonna be if we DIDN'T have a GST in place. Don't you remember those ads with a Australia-shaped blood bag being pierced by taxation 'needles'? Looks like they should have read the fine print, huh?

Actually, the joke was on the lot of us. Once the initial shock wore off, the tax cut we received disappeared real quick via inflation, and something called 'bracket creep'. It effectively meant that we had a huge sales tax slug AND ended up paying more personal tax too. You always wondered why Peter Costello was always smiling? You would too, if everyone else got to do the heavy moving and you just took all the credit for it.Odd thing is. We can't be bothered even buying the cars those subsidised workers made.

However, we seemed to be happy to make life easier for the drivers of the USA. Some of the vehicles being made were basically rebadged and sold in the USA for $10K less than they were being marketed here. It was a huge rort based on garnering votes for one, John Howard. It was never a 'nation-building' idea.No socialist welfare? And how will those famers, manufacturers and miners get by? It's only 'socialism' when you don't approve who gets it Alfie. When it lands in your pocket it is 'due to the relative importance of your contribution to the national economy'. Seriously, you wouldn't recognise a socialist if they were forced to wear signs and a flashing red light on their heads.Yep. They need lesson from people like those 'christians' who deliberately targeted plane full of civilians last week. That's the answer? The question must be retarded.And what the hell did you think happened when the USA invaded Afghanistan. Their 'good muslims' used the opportunity to wreak revenge on the 'bad ones'. They would round up people from the villages not friendly and sell them for a 5,000 USD bounty as 'Taliban'.

And why don't you and all the other posters just come out and say it; as far as you are concerned the only 'good muslim is a dead one'. You so want to, doncha?

You are just scared to death by the relentless propaganda that everyone of them is just itching to slip through your window one night and slit your familys' throats. Your actual chance of being targetted and killed by Islamic extremists is still, as always, just about zero percent. The biggest risk? Some drunk guy getting behind the wheel and crashing into you."deliberately destabilising sovereign states"

'We have unrefutable evidence that Saddam Hussien has weapons of mass destruction and the capability to delpoy them in the United States within 45 mins of an order to do so. I have ordered and invasion and our brave marines are even now securing Iraq's oilwe..... errr, Freedom Sites'.

Just using the same playbook as Bush/Cheney/Rumsfeld/Rice. Worked really well, didn't it?This is the most arid place on Earth (outside of Antarctica). There is never going to be enough reliable water on the mainland to make hydro a possibility. It is also one of the big problems with nuclear as well, no chance of building them inland as they require water - build them on the coast and you will find a lot of resistence to the concept.

In your enthusiasm to proclaim that resources 100% to go and environment 100% just fine you overlook the very simple fact that this nation just doesn't have the supply of fresh water it needs. Soon, we are going to have to make decisions about whether it goes to the mines or the farms or the cities. I don't trust the Coalition to make a rational decision about anything, let alone food and water security. A mining magnate waving a fistfull of cash at them will get their attention faster, we saw it happen when Clive was in the big tent with them.I acknowledged that. But I also pointed out that you won't get anyone to build them on the coast. That is 'prime real estate' and no-one wants their holiday homes taken away. Developers want to parcel it out in nice expensive lots, not lose an entire chunk. And it is not like anyone's gonna want to holiday within 20 kms of a nuclear reactor?Dave. You need to read the news too.

Today we just signed the biggest coal mine deal in Australia's history. This Carmichael Coal Mine in Qld will be one of the biggest in the world. Seems they didn't read the 'close the mines' memo.Actually they DO contribute to the GDP. Gross Domestic Product is just a measure of the value of the total amount of goods and services produced in an economy in a set period. I learnt that in Year 11 Economics in the 1970's.

The reality is that energy generation is moving from coal based to a mix of natural gas and renewables. The Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics released stats on this on July 15:

-Coal is down 7% to produce 64% of total electricity generation
-Natural gas is up 5% to 20%
-renewables rose strongly by 26% and now contributes 13% of total electricity generated

Part of the drop in coal-fired electricty production is driven by a decline in total energy usage. One of the other 'green' technologies is more efficient use of power, looks like all those 'energy-efficient' lightbulbs are starting to pay off, huh?"Oh, except anyone who worked hard, took the right paths etc to become successful"

And that would be Mr 'PUP' Palmer. Vastly wealthy, successful and the wrecking ball to this Parliament. Still, the Libs created him and they can't complain that they don't encourage the electorate to participate anymore?Wrong. Australia has had national service 4 times.

1911; all males 12-26 required to register for compulsory military training - ended 1915

1951; National Service Act - all males aged 18 to register and do 2-3 years service - ended in 1959

1964; Compulsory National Service for 20 year old males. 2 years service and 3 years on a reserves list. Amended in 1965 to allow reservists to be send overseas to fight with regular Army in Viet Nam. Ended in 1972

In 1939 all unmarried men aged 21 called up for training. They were then conscripted in 1942 and required to join the Citizens Military Forces who were sent to places like Kokoda and the South West Pacific.We're at war?! So, do we start locking people up for the crime of having a different religion now? Like we did in WW1 &amp; WW2. Or do we expel them from Australia? Like we did in the beginning of the 20th century when all Asians, Islanders and non-Brits were forbidden to even enter this nation? At what point do we then start complaining about how 'those' people over 'there' are discriminating against 'us'? I see a lot of people here talking about 'free speech' and 'democracy', but I don't see them actually supporting it.The 'Strawman Argument'. Take your opponent's reasonable statement 'health care is something the state should provide' and dress it up as a ridiculous statement 'the state should give me everything I want whenever I want it and to hell with the cost!'. I think they have that on p. 3 of 'Law for Dummies'.Buying oil from the US. That is what.

North America has the largest reserves of oil on the planet. Always has. It wasn't until the 1940s that the USA became a net importer of oil. The Middle-East only became valuable AFTER WW2 when it wasn't allowed to fall into the hands of the Soviet Union. If those reserves didn't exist or no-one was interested in tapping them, the West would just be fueled by oil from North America and the Gulf of Mexico.

There is no shortage of the stuff. As with any commodity it is bad for business to do anything but pretend that it will be in short supply. The same logic works for toilet paper and canned peas. Short supply, or the perception of one, drives up the price."than early Christians just over half a million before"

The author here means 'half a millenia' ie 500 years. Otherwise he manage to date early Christianity to a time there wasn't too many modern humans.For real? So, can you explain what goes on in the 5 US military bases on Saudi soil? I am assuming that if that law is enforced then every Sunday the police come in and arrest them. Christmas and Easter are banned as well? I also did a little checking and there appears to be about a quater million US and European citizens living and working there as well. Again, unless they are all Muslims (pretty unlikely) there seems to be no particular effort to toss them out. Maybe the average Christian there feels about as welcome as a Muslim might in the American Bible Belt. Maybe the police only pick on people from non-white nations who aren't employed by oil companies. Maybe that fact is just made up?No. That only applies to an Embassy. The USA does not have a SOFA (Status of Forces Agreement) with the Saudis. The land would just be leased from the owners, who may be the Saudi government. As there would be a chaplains on those bases, those laws aren't being prosecuted.

And yeah, I am sure if the religious police find a mob of folk who aren't armed to the teeth or white, they liven up their day by interrogating and punishing them for not being armed or white. But isn't that the goal of religion?You do realise that the reason every American has to have at least one gun, usually two and a spare for the weekends is the fear that Queen Elizabeth will attempt to take back the country by force? So every person shot 'accidently' in the USA is the price they pay for keeping the Redcoats away. Who started with the 'blame the West' shtick then?"Some countries will not allow some religions into their country."

That is not true. Even North Korea has 'religious freedom' and a population of Christians living there. You can visit any Muslim nation you want and even work there. They only get toey when you try to convert them. Unless you think that is a priority, you should be fine.It started under Reagan. When they lost their enemy the Soviet Union, there should have been a 'peace dividend' as they dismantled their war machine. Instead they found that there was nothing but an economy built around war. The US spends more each day on arms and their deployment than any other activity and has done so for decades now. No one person could stop that.Remember when they were going off to Iraq? Don Rumsfeld said that the war would 'pay for itself'. The newly liberated Iraqi people would actually cover the cost of the invasion and reconstruction.

And a figment? The US has the largest military complex on the planet. One dollar out of every five spent on arms is spent by the USA. I am not sure what you would consider to be a rival to that kind of expenditure. The USA doesn't have a viable manufacturing base any more. When I grew up the US made stuff and sold it. When was the last time you bought a car or a micro-wave or a PC actually manufactured in the US? 

Now all they make weapons and sell them. War is good business. War is good because the people who buy your goods will go without stuff like ambulances or schoolbooks. The nations we think are the troublesome ones also just happen to be the best customers; Israel, Iraq, Egypt, even Iran, Saudi Arabia. They sell to India, to Taiwan, anywhere. And don't forget small arms and landmines. All good business. Enough to finance a dozen wars, certainly enough to finance the global network of bases and navies they run.In 1980, the 'Gang of Four' who attempted to take over the Chinese state in 1976 after the death of Mao were put on trial. Two of them were sentenced to death (later commuted), one to life imprisonment and one to a 20 year sentence.If you bothered to check at the top of the thread, you would see an assertion made that the Chinese have never tried and ruled against their 'elite'. Just pointing out that is not true. How you manage to get 'Liberals' and 'executions' from that is beyond me.With...... what?

In Central Europe you wake up with 2 metres of snow outside and sub-zero temperatures. Nice to sit in Australia, with the a/c going full bore, and saying 'They need to stop buying all that nasty Russian gas and stop heating their houses with it'. Do we build a pipeline to send them it for free, or le them move here in their winter?

Energy as a commodity just won't stay within state borders. Those companies are multi-nationals and just reconstitute in a new form that isn't bound by the laws of any nation. Now, farmers, dock-workers and all workers here in Australia can't do that, so the heavy lifting goes to the little bloke. He gets screwed so we can send a message to Putin? Bollocks to that. Let our 'leaders' cop a hiding instead."it is equally true that religious groups have historically been staunch defenders"

When it suits them. It is also equally true that religious organisations are staunch OPPONENTS of medical interventions as well. Just because you can pick a couple of examples that seem to fit your argument does not get away from the fact that asking a bishop about whether to prolong or shorten life falls outside of medical science.

Can I also remind you that we once had legal euthanisia in this country? The Rights of the Terminally Ill Act 1995 (NT) was overturned by the federal government, but it was legal. Again, you are picking one specific instance (in the US) and calling it a failure, whilst overlooking our own experience.Pete, they also made us play cricket too. Which I hated as all I wanted to do was read. It did nothing to stretch 'public education' either.

Take it from me. An extra hour in the library would not have hurt any of my fellow classmates and might have actually done a tiny bit more good. Some of them were functional illiterates by the end of their schooling. And none went on to be cricketers.Atheists aren't more enlightened? Do tell. Even when millions of the faithful can 'see' a vague image in a piece of toasted cheese and then claim it is proof of the Deity? You must mean; 'Atheists aren't as credulous as anybody else'.FFS. In 1963 a Presidential cavalcade turned into Dealey Plaza in Houston Texas. It was an event witnessed by hundreds, captured on film, photographed and even picked up on radio. 50 years late no-one can say with a degree of certainty what took place. All we know is that someone died, but who was shooting and why and who knew is still a total mystery

But, events over two thousand years ago full of miraculous events and spiritual happenings that were written down decades after the events, often by people who didn't see them and recorded and copied imperfectly are complete and infalliable?You mean 'KEEP bailing out the car industry'?

It was John Howard who made those deals. Ten years of guaranteed bail-outs. Billions of dollars. One of the many gifts that he and Peter Costello lumbered this nation with.The G20 is about one thing and one thing only. Making crap goods cheaper. They might call it 'economic growth', but the mantra is the same; 'cut wages and conditions to the bone, as that is the starting point'. I think that Vladamir here would be in the company of people who are the same as him, corporate psychopaths and their elected brethren. Conservatives loved the guy when he stood up to President Obama* (whom the hate), and he's all for the things they are for.

If they are really worried about their safety, they can hold the event in Fort Knox or that former Soviet city built underground to withstand nuclear attack. Though in reality don't actually need protection from us, it is the other way around.

*for real, Sarah Palin actually said: "People are looking at Putin as one who wrestles bears and drills for oil," Palin said to Fox News?s Sean Hannity on Monday night. "They look at our president as one who wears mom jeans and equivocates and bloviates." And shoots down planes, Sarah...There was no 'democracy'. The only thing the invaders created was a 'Coalition Provisional Authority' as they had been told that the nation would establish itself as a 'democratic nation' once Saddam was gone. All that did was manage to loot the US government for $6.6 billions without helping anyone create a working city, let alone a working state.

The US had also been fed a lie about the connection between the Iraq regime and the group that carried out the Twin Towers attack. As this was not the case, all the invasion did was create the kind of lawless, chaotic conditions that suit the promotion extreme and fundamentalist ideologies. Ideologies that did not originate in Iraq, but from the religious radicals in places like Saudi Arabia.

The only reason the US went in was to stop the Iraqis from illegally selling oil on the black-market and undercutting the world price of oil. A price that is set by a cartel of international companies who fund conservative politicians and parties in both the US. If you ever want proof of this, check out North Korea. A nation that is as despotic as any in history, and poses a direct threat to its neighbours and the international community. If the place was sitting on an oilfield, it would have been invaded and 'freed' decades ago.Those same 'good people' sold Saddam Hussein weapons, anthrax (and the means to deliver it), the chemical weapons he used against civilian targets and all the 'equipment' he needed to keep the populance under tight control. They supplied him with intelligence during the Iran/Iraq War and covered up the use of mustard gas by Iraq to ensure that the Iranians would not have a victory.

These 'good men' also trained, armed and secretly funded Osama Bin Laden and the Taliban when it suited them. What other things are 'good' people willing to do to on your behalf before you tell them to stop?Did a bit of 'real' research here (that is different to just recalling something I read somewhere at some point and just regurgitate it as required) and the story is completely different.

CSIRO in a joint venture with Yancoal devised a method of processing coal called 'Ultra-Clean Coal' (UCC). In a nutshell, it involves chemical processing of coal to produce a fine, almost ash-free product than can be used as a replacement for diesel or gas-powered plants. They are smaller, and produce less waste. It is a technology that is suitable to replace less efficient ones and for export.

1. The money did not 'come from CSIRO'. It came from both the company and government grants
2. The plant is owned and maintained by Yancoal, not the Government
3. It is not 'yet to work', the pilot plant has been working since 2001 and is used to research the process, not to supply power
4. If the technology is commercially viable, it will be able to generate a hell of a lot more in sales than the $45 millions it cost in R&amp;D

Where exactly is the 'scam' bit? It took me about 3 minutes on-line to check out the details and facts here. Why don't you mate?"spending one's twilight years in a small community of similar people"

Thank you for re-defining the concept of hell for me.'Similiar' here is used in the sense of 'elderly', not because you have a lot in common (either than age and the need for care).

Forgive my paranoia, but can I just point out that the magic words 'over-50s' is synonymous with 'senior', 'retirement village', and 'a magnificent manufactured home village on the NSW Central Coast catering for the over 50's age group'.

I can't imagine that anyone 50-55 wants to be bundled off to a quiet village in the woods. This is the generation that came of age in the 1970s. It may have been daggy in parts but it didn't wear us all out prematurely and leave us ready for the knackery.I bet you spent a lot of time whining to anyone who would listen that the Fairfax publications were an ALP mouthpiece.

It is curious that you fixed on the 17th Century to claim total press freedom. In fact, the British press was heavily suppressed in that century. The Star Chamber Decree banned all local presses and required:
-pre-publication licensing
 -registration of all printing materials with the names of author, printer and publisher in the Register at Stationers? Hall
-search, seizure and destruction of any books offensive to the government
 -arrest and imprisonment of any offensive writers, printers and publishers

After the Restoration censorship was tightened. There was a single publisher of one 'official' newspaper with the power to censor and shut down any rivals.So. No Budget for a year? The Commonwealth collects a year's worth of tax and doesn't release it as we need Parliament to do that. The business of government may be boring to you, but it is required.Obviously Clive here is soon going to be in the business of running a financial institution and supplying financial advice. There is no other logical explanation. Once they explained the concept of 'trailing commissions' they had him hooked on the idea."but as the Americans say - when you need the police in 2 minutes they are there in 15"

As just about every altercation in the US involves firearms, so you are going to need 'good guys' with guns no matter what the problem is. And it is not up to you to broadcast your opinions on what may have transpired prior to Ms Yeo's death. We have a nation were the law offers protection, no matter what elements of 'possession' &amp; passion', clandestine or not, are involved.It might suprise you that most murders are committed by someone close to the victim or with a history of contact. The tone of your response above seems to be one of 'Oh well, that was bound to happen then'.

Ownership of firearms only increases the risk of a fatality as frequently the weapon is taken and used by the assailant. The generally higher risk of either suicide or 'accidental' death from having handguns around the home is too much of a social problem to suggest keeping one (even legally) in the slim chance of using it to save another person. I can only suggest that the authorities allow certain classes of people (AVO/stalking victims) legal access to non-lethal deterrents like pepper sprays and shock-devices.Sydney Water, as a public utility owned and funded by the tax-payer and counts as 'at the expense of the ordinary punter'. You paid more than you needed to for a public utility because the Liberals were illegally charging it for services that did not exist. I am guessing that the sale that they were 'negotiating' would also have been predicated on how much they stood to personally gain, not on how it would best benefit the tax-payer. If they want money so much, start a damn cake-stall or sell sausage sangers outside Bunnings.Guess she'll be getting a letter from his lawyers that he's suing her. Clive is very very fond of suing people. At present he's got 13 court actions going at once, it must fill some sort of void in his social life. Or it makes them feel important.Honest? You might want to run that by his business partners. The ones with the rapidly disappearing sinking fund. The fund that Clive signed out cheques for worth over 10 millions, that he now: 'could not recall whether he signed the cheques'. Yep, he's going to make a difference. Like the difference a bucket of kero makes to a small fire.Clive Palmer. Why is it that the electorate are so easily fooled? I see a lot of folks here projecting onto his ample frame all the things THEY want to see happen. That is not the same as the PUP actually creating concrete policies and carrying them through.

Clive is good at the talk, but not so good on following up. I predict that his clique of senators will not be members of the party by Xmas and he'll be reduced to one loud voice in Parliament."there is also nuclear power"

Yes, there might be after we pay a French or US company $125 billion to build one as Australia does not have the skills to construct them. We will need to also draft a lot of legislation to recompense the owners of the land needed (they require a lot of water, so it can't be in the desert) and to indemnify the builders and operators. Then find a site to dispose of the waste safely for 175,000 years. And create a fund to pay for the decommissioning of the entire plant in 30 years (they don't operate for much longer) And then someday in 2025 we might even see some electricity from it. How much do you think that electricity will cost per kW? Cheaper than solar?Well, his family were safely on the other side of the planet when all that came down here in Sydney. Has anyone checked whether he has any opinions about the work of the U-Boats? I can imagine it took a rare kind of sailor to be in one; and a rare kind of bastard to use it to sink civilian boats way out at sea.

For the record, the last PM of this nation who enlisted and fought in WW2 was Gough Whitlam (served as a navigator-bomber from 19472-1945). He also opposed the Vietnamese War (but did visit the troops there in 1966) and abolished National Service. We could ask him his opinion of Japanese military activities, as it might be more informative than the present PM.Clive is in court right now because he agreed to do something, and signed a contract to that effect, then went ahead and tore that contract up. The man cannot be trusted to keep his word on anything.

I can only imagine what cracks are already appearing in his 'party'. If they were so easy to sway and join him, they'll be easy game to move away from him. By Xmas he will be reduced to a single vote in the House of Reps and so bored that he'll stop going there.Turnbull? You might recall that the next in line is usually the Treasurer. We will see PM Hockey if the Party decides to give Tony the tap on the shoulder. There may actually be a bit of acrimony directed at Turnbull at present, his support for a 'carbon tax' led him to cross the floor and vote for it. If they are dead serious about ditching it, they won't give him the top job.Secret ballots??

No. If you voted for someone, it was to represent you in Parliament. That is why we have a Hansard the reports who said what and how they voted on laws the Parliament made.

Bismarck (who was no democrat) said the public would be happier not seeing how sausages and laws were made. Unpleasant? Yes. Grotesque? Often. Vital? Obsolutely!Like this:
10% Dinosaurs
13% Mining stuff
30% 'The Long Lunch'
16% 'Titanic' Bathtime
28% Reflect on self, acheivements and reflected glory
3% other.... and naps in Parliament2nd highest? Total and utterBS.

Fact: Yemen has a population the identical to Australia
Fact: at Dec last year it had a population of asylum seekers, refugees and internally displaced people that was 926,000! Almost a million.

Even Finland, where my partner comes from, has a higher capita ratio. Save your fake facts for the pub mate.Did he or Peter Costello ever talk up savings?  Or paying off debt? Some other nations might be fixated on telling you to do stuff like save 40% of your income or pass laws to make you look after your parents in your home. NOT telling you that, is the same as telling you to blow the lot. I do recall Peter telling us all to have another baby too.Pete. A fellow called Keith Windschuttle wrote a book (part of a series) basically saying that there was no actual instances of genocidal activity by the British authorities in taking possession of the country. This was in spite of solid evidence, either the stories of the blacks or reported by colonial authorities and even acted on.

A lot of people, including the PM of the day, lauded him as making a more truthful version of Australian history. Or, at the very least, one they felt more comfortable with. Windshuttle had to defend his 'narrative' and never did get around to writing the next instalments. To this day there are a lot of people who think that the whole issue was settled by that one work and there is no doubting that there was no malice in the clashes between blacks and whites. They even ascribe some sort of un-Australianess in questioning that the stories we were force-fed in school could be as phony as George W Bush's war-record*.

*not his dad GWH Bush, navy pilot in WW2"territorial murders over women and revenge that are the hallmarks of hunter gatherers"

As opposed to, say, the Napoleonic Wars that stretched from the English Channel to Egypt and Moscow? I'd describe them as 'murders over revenge too.  Only done with the ferocity and efficiency of white, industrialised Europeans.PNG peoples are farmers, raise pigs and 'opportunity' hunters. Have been so for 10s of millenia. You are conflating two separate groups of people with different responses to managing land, is it because they are natives?

Aboriginal peoples here had inter-clan wars, but probably not over women. The system of 'moiety' is finely balanced to let people find partners within their own groupings. A man born to a certain family and totem could only chose a wife from another family/totem that was 'acceptable' to his. Wife-stealing was punished by the offenders close family.

However, we could expect that as resources became limited due to climate/weather/ecology there would have been clashes over access to them. I am not convinced that sustained warfare would have been possible as it was in Maori settlements, they constructed forts and supplied them with food for sieges. Skirmishes may have occured, but not followed up - each clan had their own specific 'country' to maintain and call it's own. There was no imperative to 'march to Moscow' and lay waste to everything (and everybody) on the way.Explorers? There were people living in those places for 10s of millenia. More like 'tourists'.And you could watch Cormann hanging the 'CLOSED FOR GOOD' sign up on the Ombudsman's window. The Liberals in power (here and Canberra) are all for closing down any avenue of redress they can. Next step; your vote!The reason you are so jaded about it is pretty reasonable. We get bailed up on the street or at train stations, etc by people who aren't representing the charity 'brand'. There are big international companies that are running a business model that relies on upfront fees and overseas workers who are filling quotas (ever wonder why they are always Brits?). At least a quarter of the money donated goes to companies like Cornucopia, not to the intended charity.

You are better off making direct donations to charities or doing something worthwhile like organising your workplace to collect food, clothing, blankets, etc and delivering them directly to the agencies involved."just use the ATO computer to check if anyone has [claimed] a deduction for a donation to a charity"

Huh? How does that work? The ATO publishes individual tax payers returns on-line? That is news to me. Do you tell your clients that? Can we have a look at yours?

For the record: "Taxpayer confidentiality protects information about a taxpayer's affairs obtained under the taxation laws" Privacy notice on ATO siteThey are NOT looking for somewhere new to live. They are fleeing persecution and there is no law against that. It is, however, a crime to hand them back to the people who may punish them or their families for the attempt to leave.Royal Commission in Child Abuse. Another waste of time and money? Is there anything you don't manage to write of as that?There was fraud. And a conspiracy to cover up that fraud. Both are crimes last time I checked.Pat, these people forged signatures to enable switches and transfers of money. They weren't gullible. They were the victim of a crime and then a criminal conspiracy to cover up those crimes.How nice. An apology of sorts. At least it is free so the shareholders don't suffer unnecessarily.

How's about this for something more concrete? Investors don't appear to be able to dodge the GST and stamp duties on their investments. How's about someone at least reimburses them for the bit that they were taxed with these bogus deals? We may not know where the money went when the bank had control, but we certainly know how much would have been collected by the state. Get your chequebook out Mr Hockey!!Of course we welcomed migrants. As long as they were white. This nation was SPONSORING Britons to come here up to 1975, a lot less than it was doing for the Indigenous citizens of the country.And ignored. It took a referendum in 1966 to even get the State here to recognise them as citizens. It was the one time in Australian history when 'boat-people' had more rights the minute they landed than the people who lived here for millenia.

Also, at that time, as 'people of colour' they would not have been ALLOWED into Australia. We had laws about keeping non-whites out, remember?Did the 'World's Greatest Treasurer'TM ever mention anything about the possibility of a worldwide financial mess that happened on his watch? I can't recall him saying a word about it. He did, however, promise 34 billion in tax-cuts. Is that the new way to overcome a global financial crisis?Essential gases? Methane is not essential to the kind of life I am use to.  I might find an excess of CFCs a bit of a problem too."that 95% of all global CO2 is naturally produced"

That figure is erroneous. Farming and livestocking are 'natural sources', but they don't occur naturally. In nature there would be a static or climax vegetation, one that cycles nitrogen and carbon back into biomass. That doesn't occur in farming, CO2 is released continuously as part of the process. Methane from farming rice and cattle &amp; sheep also outstrips those from 'natural sources'.

The other issue is the great 'carbon sinks' of the world, forests, are depleted. Human activity throughout the last 10,000 years has reduced the giant forests of Asia and Europe and now those of the Americas and Australia. They are replaced by grasslands that produce non-woody biomass. Again, the release of carbon from clearing is not balanced by a take-up elsewhere.This is Ann in full flight, save your defence for Mother Teresa or someone remotely human:

"We should invade their countries, kill their leaders and convert them to Christianity"Poor Anne never quite got over the discovey that those 'lumps' that grew at womanhood turned out to be testicles. As it was explained to her by the doc;  'Honey, everyone can see you're nuts!".Pop history quiz for ya.

Which PM was the last one to call a DD? And how did it go for them?Correct!

Ouch. I was actually thinking of the 1983 one by Mal Fraser. Total disaster.

Thanks for that. Always need to keep on top of the source data.I love the 'well, that person should not have posted it, that is the real crime here' posts.

All that means is that if we keep all those odd 'practices' hidden away behind closed toilet doors they can't possibly hurt anyone. Sorry. Condoning and hiding it away just means there's nastier stuff behind other doors and feeds directly into those great macho past-times of bullying and bastardization. What is presented as 'I do it coz it's funny' just becomes 'If you don't do it you're weak'.It isn't. Readers Digest does a regular survey of what professions the Australian public trust. Politicians and journalists (and lately Church ministers) rate so low on the scale so as to make it farcical. When we vote for people who rate unfavourably against tow-truck drivers and sex workers it hollows out the definitions of 'democracy' and 'mandate' to make them devoid of value.Look it up and tell us. All genuine donations are reported.

It is not done in secret the way that the NSW Liberals 'launder' donations from developers and the like. Corrupt and behaviour that attacks the basis of our democracy and laws. You are one strange lawyer, distorting legal principles and barracking for one side only.Like how you think that under Thatcher the UK was a paradise of unleashed capitalism? And it turns out that in actuality 1 in 9 were unemployed. And she could never really get rid of that galloping inflation either. And don't get me started about how abysmal things were when John Howard had the Treasurer's job...Yes. We do. The testing ground for these Conventions was WW2 where civilians were targeted as part of the 'total war'. 

Even though mainland Australia was lucky enough to avoid that, Australians still were subjected to imprisonment and mistreatment at the hands of the Japanese and Nazis (some POWs ended up in Auschwitz). Sometimes as combatants (death marches) or in camps (the Aust War Museum has a figure of 130,000 Western civilians imprisoned). They were not treated well by their captors. We need interantional, binding conventions to stop this from ever happening again.Twice the Australian government attempted to introduce conscription by holding referendums. And they were referendums, as they intended to change the relationship between the Commonwealth and its citizens. Compulsory military service is not a state's issue, and as such remains with the Commonwealth to enact legislation and carry out the process, including punishments.

You will also find that during wartime, the Government's first acts are to establish control of all aspects of national life and industry required to conduct war. Something like the 'Defence Act of 1913' gives the state powers that let it perform functions that might not be permitted outside of wartime.You both miss the point. The Conventions worked out in the UN were a response to the excesses directed at civilians during the World War. There already were Geneva Conventions in place the dealt with the conduct of war and how to treat combatants and POWs. During WW2 civilians had no protections, either at home or in the course of fleeing from war or the threat of persecution.

Would you really have just left, or returned, Australian citizens to Japanese territory based on the assumption that the risk was '50/50' that they would be people imprisoned, tortured and unlawfully executed? We know that these took place. After the war we conducted war-crimes trials and executed Japanese officers for just that. Unless you truely believe that all wars are now totally different, or that people in other nations are undeserving of our protection, we should be honouring our treaty obligations and upholding international law.Really....he bankrolled the Qld Libs for $2.2million.  How many 'ordinary' Australians can do that? He's also suing the Qld Government for NOT letting him sell half the state to overseas concerns. Very 'ordinary' behaviour.Price of transporting stuff goes up, then the cost of stuff goes up. Then as the price of stuff has gone up, then the price of fuel has to rise to match that. Then we pay 10% GST on top of that. That is inflationary in my book. 

And it is the States that build a roads. Not the Commonwealth. I think that even the Greens would have to be cautious about supporting this government when they say they will be doing X, but in reality they do Y or Z. 
That was the 'News Of The World', not a reputable outfit.

One of the more brazen participants just said it was fun to have a multi-million pound budget and fast cars to spy on people and chase them.

And here is really how the Press think:

"Many witnesses at the Leveson Inquiry, especially victims of the tabloids, have called for a law to protect citizens from news media intrusion. Mr. McMullan said he thought that privacy was ?evil,? in that it helps criminals cover up their misdeeds. Using a Britishism for ?pedophile,? he said, ?Privacy is for pedos.? 

Basically, any detail of anyone's life should be splashed across the headlines if it makes money. Doesn't matter who, or what consequences might arise to that person. The only bottom line is that money is made and a rival paper doesn't make it.She may have applied for one of the Contractors Voluntary Exit Grants Program cash payouts that cost $54millions to the taxpayer. However, seeing as no-one ever bothered about auditing the companies in question, some made good. Millions paid to people who just 're-invented' their companies and continued in business as before. Ethical behaviour seems to be a bit short in the entire industry.'never caused any legal backlash for the West'

Nope. After they stuck the Magna Carta in the shredder, things were so much easier. We did fight a war in 1939-45 against people who did the same thing, but that was ages ago. You lie down with hyenas, you get up with an acute case of 'NO HUMAN RIGHTS'. All because those Iraqis wilfully live on the oil that the West wants....Yes. Because that IS WHERE THE OIL IS. If stopping radical Islam was ever an issue with the USA (as opposed to access to oil) they never would have armed people like Osama bin Laden in the 70s and 80s.Roy. No-one got a bigger payrise than Joyce. 171%. No union has ever managed to triple their members' pay when the company that employed them lost billions.And Clive Palmer is happy to take their money. Or he's happy to give them money, to make himself more money. What would you do if there was a billion or two heading your way? Tell them 'Heck no. You guys are so mean'?John Howard perfected 'the Wedge'. It involved finding the single point in the opposition and hammering it until there was a split. You could then viably say that they were 'disunited'.

Trouble is he managed to work out the technique on his own party first. In the big tussle between him and Andrew Peacock it was 'slash and burn'. It also left a disgruntled group of parliamentarians that would vote to put someone like Andrew Downer in charge, rather than him. It seems as though Tony Abbott likes the idea, but it lacks the necesary amount of chest-pounding and wall-punching.

What we did see were out and out personal attacks by senior Libs and their sycophants on the PM of the time. They knew she could be wedged, but weren't sure how the technique worked. So we saw Alan Jones just out and out ranting at her, and Mal Brough penning an offensive 'menu'. That is when they lost the plot, I think. The demolition of the ALP was seen as a victory, but the fear is out there - if it works one way, then...?In 1994, the US Joint National Committee on High BP refined it downwards, not upwards:

"In essence, their definition of hypertension requiring treatment has changed from systolic blood pressure &gt;160 or diastolic &gt; 100 mm Hg to &gt;140 or &gt;90 mm Hg, respectively"

It basically suggested that patients that had been considered 'mild' and lacked organ damage should be considered for treatment. Up to then, doctors would routinely withold drug therapy. There is nothing about WHO doing that.These are the same damn 'experts', the economists and the central bankers and the World's Greatest Treasurers, who didn't see the meltdown coming? After the fact, it was the most obvious thing in the world. If I have some time spare I will be at the IPA site looking for the articles warning us all about it and proposing just how the West could avoid the cataclysm.

In truth, the only issue Mr Berg and his sponsors have is that the government of the day didn't implement any of their agenda. If the financial disaster had led to massive public sector sackings, the sale of the ABC/SBS, wages being slashed and the company tax rate dropped to near zero it would have been a 'wake up call to action'.Nobody seems to pick up on the unfortunate fact that these boys have a singular talent which is punting a bit of leather around a field. For all the fuss about whether they 'cheat' or not, there is bugger all they do that makes it even important.

In all honesty, these fellows also regularly engage in events like 'Mad Mondays' where the battle is one to get as hammered as possible and then be spotted either urinating on one's self or screaming abuse at female journalists. If they can't sort out the abuse of legal substances, what hope it there for corralling the illegal ones? For myself, coke-addled surgeons bother me a lot more - I'd like to hear more from the AMA about how they are planning to stop that.This is Tony Abbott about five minutes out from victory, he's landed in the US and someone asks him about the weather there or something:

"Welcome to the wonderful, wacko world of the former government"

Mind you, these are public utterances. Imagine what gets said when the door is closed. I would advise the ALP (and anyone else) to not give him an inch. There is no shortage of 'wackiness' to be found in his front bench, not to mention a wide streak of nastiness. And we've seen it. Winning didn't make this lot any less forgiving.That has been shown to not be true. CNN now reports that there is no injury other than a blackened eye. The 'x-rays' out there were lifted from a hospital site to show what a possible injury looks like.

And the officer shot the victim in the head. That makes it an execution, not self-defense.Two head shots? That would drop you like a sack. You'd be dead before you even hit the pavement. So what were the other 4 bullets for? To make sure?They were stuck there because the USA had to go invade Iraq to steal all the oil! It isn't that hard to work out. USA big nation that needs oil, finds reason to beat up Iraq little nation with the oil. We could have sent all our forces or none, they didn't care.I'll take you up on this.

All religion eventually leads to violence. It is part and parcel of the package. All religion requires the participant to accept a reality that is based on fairytales and alleged events. It also requires rigid adherence to a set of rules in some sort of holy 'book' where the scripture given trumps logic, science, compassion and commonsense. It also follows up the proscriptions about conduct with the clear call to commit violent acts as a way of fulfilling divine will or prophecy. And there is never a shortage of believers. Belief in inanities just leads to the carrying out of atrocities.Catastrophic! Yep. And in spite of the support they received from Guam and Romania.

When the US forces had managed to trap Osama and his forces in Tora Bora the game plan changed. All active troops were pulled out of there and readied for the invasion of Iraq. Osama nd his mates just walked in a leisurely manner across the border into Pakistan and he enjoyed a nice uninterrupted decade.

So, why would the US drop the ball when they had him in their sights? Can I give you a hint? There is NO OIL IN AFGHANISTAN! There is opium, and lunatics with guns. But no oil. The US took the mission to get rid of Al Qaeda and turned it into a mission to get oil for the oil companies. It wasted hundreds of thousands of lives, trillions of dollars and spawned the kinds of people we now see committing atrocities. One chance to actually show that the West isn't about stealing stuff and they just blew it.'Sunshine and lollipops' - how droll. If the Taliban were so horrible why did Ronald Reagan invite them to the White House for lunch and tell us they were the 'Freedom Fighters' just like the Revolutionary soldiers? Why did the US spend a decade arming and training them?

The USA just bombed a small nation into submission. The Taliban, like Saddam, were seen as an easy win for the US rather than a blow against 'terror'. If the goal was to neutralise Al Qaeda it failed, as they slipped across the border into Pakistan. If the goal was to create a staging post for the invasion of Iraq, however...And the difference between those guys and the ISIS mob?  Zero. With the usual US cop-out; 'They might be the bad guys, but they are OUR bad guys'*. When the Soviets pulled out, the US just walked away. They didn't do a thing for the Afghans like dig a well or build a road or a schoolhouse out of gratitude or to encourage them to Westernise the place. The mujahedeen morphed into the Taliban as they fought over the spoils.

So the place is run by warlords who now produce the world's supply of opium. There is bugger-all point in
having 'democracy' when the nation doesn't grow enough food to feed itself and you can't stray off a road for fear that you will step on a landmine.

*and if you want actual proof, you can check out Presidential candidate John McCain's visti with the ISIS leaders in 2013. He sympathised with their 'struggle''They [Spanish Inquisition] weren't burning witches'

You need to check the history books Ann.

"The Basque witch trials of the 17th century represent the most ambitious attempt at rooting out witchcraft ever undertaken by the Spanish Inquisition... the first phase ended in 1610, with a declaration of auto-da-f? against thirty-one of the accused, twelve or eleven of whom were burned to death"

Suprise, suprise! A bunch of sadistic religious lunatics ended up burning people to death! Who would have thought? [Irony intended]Yep. When the Radical Extreme Marxists Greens (REMG) annexed the state they rounded up all those aged over 10 into 'de-education' camps where the basics of spelling, grammer and reading were systematically drummed out of them. That explains the retrospective nature of the statistics.No. Parliament does not 'decide'. We vote for our local representatives based on what they declare their values and intentions to be. They are there to represent us, not get the chance to foist their agendas on us.How about tax evasion and buying stuff from a bloke at the pub? Or getting full as a boot and taking it out on the missus and the kids? They are pretty 'Australian'. Are they in or out?And why do they always make sweeping generalisations?The US never pays its dues to the United Nations*. Actually, the US spends more destabilising and marginalising the UN than anyone else. When Bush sent John Bolton as ambassador, he spent the entire time telling the US that the UN was coming to disarm them. His actual words on the body:
"There's no such thing as the United Nations. If the U.N. secretary building in New York lost 10 stories, it wouldn't make a bit of difference"

*for real, a private CITIZEN (Ted Turner) once paid the amount owing as they newly installed Bush Regime was too busy plotting how to steal Iraq's oil to give a damnAnd that 'we settle more' is a lie. My partner comes from Finland and they settle more refugees for their own population more than any other. And Yemen which has a population the same as Australia has nearly a million refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced people within it. This country does jack except whine ala Pauline Hanson."At what point does foreign 'investment' become COLONISATION"

When the people they send over here round up the locals and massacre them. Then they rewrite the history books to claim that they weren't really there anyhow. You call that 'Terra Nullus' and it's legal. That's when.

At least the Chinese pay their bills and don't require us to live on missions.Chris. In the USA they vote for judges. The entire process is tainted with the usual political shenanigans you expect when people are competing for public office. They can also be removed if their decisions aren't universally popular with the electorate. If you don't think that manages to make justice difficult you aren't looking hard enough.

This isn't the only time you have tried to pass of our common law system as being equivalent to the US codes. They aren't. So don't.Any company or entity that makes a capital gain from dealing in real estate, currency transactions or shares can cut the tax rate in half by timing when they take the profit from the deal. So 15%, not 30%. Just another way that folks who shift paper around make money without performing a stroke of quantifiable work.You should check out the CEO's who have a salary of one dollar. Oracle's boss is one, he gets tens of millions in 'compensation', but only $1 a year. He'd love a tax-regime like you suggest.Just pointing out that whilst in Opposition the Liberals derided the effort to get a seat on the Security Council as a waste of taxpayers money.

Also, the Russians have not exactly 'backed down'. They are still continuing to supply heavy weapons and munitions to the separatists who will no doubt use them to maximum effect. The USA also waved two fingers at the Security Council when it refused to let them and the UK invade Iraq.Why is it always $10,000? Is it some sort of set amount? Has the party codified the process and manage to broadcast 'guidelines' for prospective purchasers of influence?I note that the mining industries are heavily subsidised for their transportation costs. So, retrieving the coal and bringing it to the power stations is something the taxpayer foots the bill for. However, there is no fee at all to bring the energy generated on the surface of the Sun to a collecting surface here in Australia. Seems to cancel each other out in my opinion.The matter with Vattenfall v Germany is a lot more complex. There is a treaty in place, the Energy Charter Treaty, that permits the company to bypass the Courts system in Germany and make a complaint to an international body. It would depend whether any particular nation is a signatory before applying the case to their own situation.

And curiously enough, in the matter of Yukos that was when the used this particular Treaty the courts DID rule in favour of them. Even though Russia hadn't fully ratified the treaty. I can see why Mr Putin always looks perpetually cranky. Bit like being hit up for child support when the DNA tests come back a bit iffy about paternity."chief executive of two major organisations and enjoy 12 years at the top"

Longevity is no guarantee that the person isn't a dud. You might recall the name 'Rodney Adler'. Ran FAI for 12 years until he sold it to HIH and became a director there (he was also CEO of other companies). The man he convinced to buy the company, Ray Williams, was then responsible for the biggest corporate collapse in Australian history. He'd been running HIH since 1968, it went down with losses over five billion dollars. Both of them did jail time.How about the 'dark side' of American exceptionalism and warmongering? Can't we see a few articles about how Uncle Sam loves makes war on smaller nations for fun and profit? 

How would Dick Cheney/Halliburton have be treated if he was in China and engaged in war that made him millions richer? How would that group of plotters that made the case for the invasion of Iraq have been treated when it was discovered that they lied about the reasons?Can you name one thing that a G20 'event' did? One concrete outcome that would not have happened, but for it taking place? Otherwise, it is a big taxpayer-funded junket for yet another bunch of wannabees. Why do we NEED a committee to tell us that a 2% growth per year is good? At the cost of $370m. Seems a big high-priced. Can't they do that on Skype?'It may" = 'No, I can't think of a single thing the G20 has ever done that is noteworthy'

Here's a thought for you. In Nov 2007 this pack of clowns got together for the annual 'talkfest' (your word). What they did was utter the same stuff about how things are good and we need 'balanced and sustainable growth'.

Not one of them (including the Worlds Greatest Treasurer) managed to twig that they were in the beginning of the worst financial meltdown since 1929. The actual underpinings of the international finance markets and even capitalism itself was crashing down around them. Not a hiccup, or a failure in one sector of the markets. A systemic catastrophic failure across the board that would take trillions of dollars of someone else's money to remedy. The finest minds couldn't twig to that? I have a stopped clock at work. At least it shows the correct time twice a day. I might be on a winner there, as G20 may be just consistently wrong all the time.This isn't an article or discussion about dying early, it is one about living too long.

In 50 years Australians have managed to increase the average lifespan by over 20 years. We have also manage to increase our population. When those collide we find we have a larger, and ageing, population. So, this is the first time that we have ever had to address the issues. Not too hard to see why there is nothing but anecdotal evidence to help us.

Up to the 1980s Australians died young. Only it wasn't 'young', it is now. People routinely died in their 50/60s and it wasn't seen as tragic. A lot of people managed to make it to their 80s, but there were nursing homes to manage them. They were hidden, we did little to engage with the either ageing or chronic conditions.

Outside of young Indigenous Australians, do you know who tops the list for suicides? Older Australian males. Men in their 80s, who don't want to be a 'burden' anymore. They grew up with no way of internalising what it was to be old, and how to cope with it. They are depressed, they are in pain. They are still hidden. We need better ways to cope with this.The rich are moving money into secret bank accounts in foreign countries to avoid the interest on those accounts being classified as 'earnings' and taxed. Before you say 'It is a small number of people, involving small sums' - it isn't. The ATO told an Estimates Committee this year that in the 2012/13 financial year, "over 188 000 transactions took place between the two countries during the 2012-13 financial year involving over $41 billion". We are seeing the benefits of public investment in creating and maintaining our economy being siphoned off. All those billions are money that aren't being invested or returned to the taxpayers.Alcohol industry? No. Gambling industry? Yes!

Soak the Packers and the Ainsworths and the Waterhouses and every goddam 'Catholic Club' and 'Turf Club'. They seem to be rolling in cash.

Why? Because when I get together with friends and family and want to show how much I appreciate them, I bring out cocktails and good wine. What I don't do is put a bet on the nags or take everyone to the nearest pokie machine."therefore suceed in areas where these traits are very beneficial"

True. Virtually every rapist, child molester, sociopath and mass murderer is male. They certainly found that being male made those lifestyle 'choices' easier.They can. There is a multi-billion dollar world-wide 'security' industry. They may be found in the more lawless parts of the world, but they frequently have the same authority to use force (and lethal force) as police. They are also recruiting from former soldiers as their operations are paramilitary.

I have no doubt that in some places, the corporate interests they represent have replaced local govenment and policing. To stumble into those areas would be risky as they wouldn't recognise national boundaries or authority. For instance; going to PNG and trying to muscle your way into the GF4 facility in Manus would leave you in the hands of that corporation. They may decide to hand you over to the local law enforcement. They will probably chuck you in a cell until someone from the DFAT turns up. If you fall down some steps on the way to the cell, that happens. The Australian government is not responsible for you as a non-PNG resident, a non-detainee, and a non-DFAT staffer - they are the only people that have been allowed in the place. G4S might end up making those decisions.'plants grow faster and bigger'

No, they dont. The plants on this planet already have more than enough CO2, in order to grown faster and bigger they need either more sunlight or more fertiliser. Plant growth is capped when those inputs are not available. That is why somewhere like Antartica doesn't grow coconuts, in spite of the availabilty of both CO2 and water.

In fact the opposite will start to happen if global CO2 hits the levels you predict. Excessive CO2 dissolved in available water creates carbonic acid. It is a weak acid, but the effect on plants is profound. All plants require a very narrow range of pH to grow, even if the nutrients are available, there is no uptake. An acidic environment, either in the soil or the water, will cause little or zero growth. One drenched in carbonic acid could be expected to become barren over time. This is pretty basic botany, you might take the time to read a simple text on it.Greenhouse plants have unlimited access to water and nutrients too. And a growing media that has optimal pH. You just claimed that ALL plants will benefit, as though it has 'miracle ingrediant Z'.

That kind of intensive horticulture is best for growing flowers and maybe herbs. Hey, with the right inputs I could grow daffodils at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. And a lawn, so I would have to mow it (I do love daffodils, but I hate mowing).

In agriculture, however, there are square kms to manage. The basic input is a tested seed stock. To make a difference to its growth you require water and applied nutrients, the rest is pretty well up to the weather. There is no way a farmer could do something as pointless as attempting to deliver more CO2 to crops like wheat or apples. As I said, if they haven't got the other basics sorted - it is useless."as it is the basis of life"

The basis for plant-life is photosynthesis. Plants produce their own sugar to fuel life. The only absolute thing required is sunlight, as it supplied the actual energy to perform the chemical reaction. In the lab it has been established that sugar-cane (and presumably other C4 plants) can photosynthesise low concentrations of carbon MONOXIDE (CO). Presumably, I could replicate that gene in other plants and grow plants in green houses containing with an enhanced carbon monoxide atmosphere.

Again, you are transferring events that can occur in a small controlled environment with what would happen in a vast open one. Excessive water vapour and heat may not cause cyclones to form in your backyard, but it is guaranteed to occur in the tropics. A rain-forest is a stable climax community is better able to cope with climatic conditions than an open field. Sure you can push up growth rates to begin with, but you might see the entire area converted into a bog or a desert quickly.Or the USA can decide that the oil in North America is all it needs and go away. It's all about the oil. The Saudis use their oil money to influence US opinion.  The M/E nations use their oil money to buy US weapons, that the US is eager to sell them. OPEC wants the IS to be stopped from illegally selling oil on the blackmarket and affecting the spot price for a barrel. The possible nation of Kurdistan would have control of 1/3rd of the remaining oil left in present Iraq. The US wants it and will fight for 'Iraqi freedom' to keep it in friendly hands. The Turks are willing to support a Kurdish homeland as long as they have pipelines heading into Turkey, not the other way into Iran. The Iranians want to be the people selling oil and gas to China and build enough atom bombs to protect themselves from all the other nations with the bomb. Oil. Follow the oil, not the religious diversions of the people on top of the oil.The US spends about 2 billion a day on its military. In actuality two billion don't buy much these days.

It will buy you 4.65 of the new Joint Strike Fighters.
It will buy you under half of a new Japanese submarine.
It will cover just over two months of the Parental Paid Leave.
It is less than half of the profits the tobacco companies make each year in Australia.
It is less than two weeks of the cost to the community for providing hospital beds for smoking-related diseases.
It will buy James Packer only 80% of his new casino at Barrangaroo.The Libs are lawyers. Every last one of them*. And obviously lawyers that couldn't make it in ordinary practice. How does it feel handing the keys to the place to the very profession that represents crookedness and weaseldom?

*except the PM, who was a seminary student, then a journalist before he became a politicianThe Readers Digest run a poll each year to find out which are the most trusted professions out of 50. The top ranked are usually firefighters, paramedics and nurses. No suprise, you are trusting them with you very life, not your wallet.

Half-way down are cleaners and security guards. Professional sportspeople a few ranks below.

Ranked together (36-39) are lawyers, clergy and tow-truck drivers. Taxi-drivers are lower but come in one better than journalists, who are only one up from talkback hosts.

Then there are sex-workers, and even below that? Politicians. Ranked 49th of 50. 

A government made up of the people you mention there (apart from priests) would in actuality be preferred by most Australians as all of them are more trustworthy than lawyers, and lawyers that have become professional politicians.It is a given, however, that if Gough Whitlam didn't actually go to China (no doubt to the screams of everyone in the Lib/Nats/DLP) our strongest trading partner would be NZ. The People's Republic would be the subject of a 40 year-old trade sanction that the Lib's slapped on them in 1974 as we don't deal with commies (and Asians).Three years ago Tony Abbott (as Opposition leader) was all for downplaying the possibility of a FTA with China. The one we were planning to sign was inferior to those we should be making with places like Japan, as China is not a 'market economy'. Now, the Libs are riding high on that deal, mostly brokered by the ALP. Isn't there a name for someone who condemns something, then comes along after all the heavy lifting and takes all the glory for themselves? Perhaps it should be 'a bishop', as in: "Stayed at work till 8pm all week and all day Saturday. But when it went to the Board, the boss just pulled a bishop on me"."In Vienna, a committee was immediately set up comprising the Austrian Interior Minister Oskar Helmer and his staff, UNHCR, the "Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration (ICEM), and the League of Red Cross Societies (LRCS), as well as a number of local and international NGOs.

It was decided that the LRCS would be the prime mover on the assistance front, and would also help ICEM, whose prime task would be to assist the registration, documentation and transport of refugees out of Austria. UNHCR would deal with the over-arching legal and protection issues, as well as the integration of those who remained in Austria" UNCHR Website

Unless Australia and Canada just happened to have fully staffed embassies in Vienna to accommodate and process close to 200,000 people I would beg to differ. You might also recall that the Suez Crisis happened at the same time, international attention to that event became the priority of the Western nations. Can I also note that the International Red Cross in its time had to regularly charter cruise ships to arrange for the transit of refugees and displaced persons. Onviously it had to bear the cost of the voyages. Although, that was not the case for my father.So she's smashed that glass ceiling? Not really. Being the ONLY woman in Caucus, of course the view is going to be better seeing how it is unobstructed by any other talent.'Many generations'

So were the Indigenous Australians they displaced to make those farms. Why don't you ask them how well managing the land for tens of thousands of years worked out for them? 

Right now farmers are just one more lobby grouip. They have both the NFF and the Nationals to go in to bat for them. And how tough can it be when you are the partner in the Federal Government?We got tax cuts in 2008 and for the years afterward. We elected a Rudd government that committed to them. And we got a tax cheque for $900. So, that quick thinking and brave commitment by Rudd must have saved us? Right??Just plain mad or barking mad? And how much madder than a PM that plans to meet the head of a foreign power with fisticuffs*?

The question isn't how much we should be paying those troops to be there, it is whether we need to send them. We had a number of coffins returned from Afghanistan with soldiers who won't draw any pay. Meanwhile, the country has gone back to 'business as usual' - the warlords rule supreme, and they are growing more opium than ever before. John Howard should personally apologise to this nation for dragging us into that mess.

*who just happens to be a 9th Dan Grand Master of Taekwondo - and KBG trained for good luck - the PM ought to pull his scone in, before it gets redecorated'The rise of authoritarianism?'

I thought we had that in Europe in 1936. Were the 'migrants' to blame back then? Because that was when nations like Germany, Spain and Japan had the least amount of 'multiculuralism' forced on them. So why,wWithout having all those people refusing to 'integrate', did they started rounding up citizens and murdering them. Doesn't quite fit your scenario here.And the purpose of an surface to air missile would be what then? If it isn't intended to be a "state-of-the-art defense system that can maximize their ability to quickly identify, engage and destroy current and evolving enemy aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicle*" then someone has been telling porkies. Seems to be pretty straight forward. You want to bring down an aircraft, you use one of these. You could use it to deliver pizza, but it seems unlikely. Killing a bunch of people? More likely.

*from Raytheon Company website, apparently they have been making these things for decades under a misapprehensionThis one needs to go to the International Criminal Court. Every military action taken involves an clear and overwhelming risk to the unborn. And as the mothers involved are unwilling participants, all and any of the combatants and the governments who sent them should be prosecuted fully.

This should include the use of:
-chemical agents such as defoliants and toxins
-weapons containing depleted uranium
-the use of white phosphorus
-the use of indiscriminate weapons like landmines and bomblet devices
-any device left in populated areas and intended to injure and disable
-all instances of rape and sexual abuse causing miscarriage
-all instances of torture, assault and physical abuse causing miscarriage
-all instances of the deliberate with-holding of clean water and food that harms mother and unborn
-all instances of forced marches or forced travel that cause miscarriage
-exposure to stresses such as extreme heat and cold
-deliberate destruction of safe housing and medical facilities

The personal fortunes of anyone who either makes and sells those weapons or advocates the use of such should be confiscated and used to alleviate the lives of either the mothers of the dead babies, or any children injured by them.Well, great news for those girls kidnapped and raped at gunpoint..... sorry, married to their captors after converting. 

No-one will lift a finger to do something about them or their sisters still in school, but if they even think of something like aborting a rape-baby or having a drink the wrath of the white, p*n*s-owning potion of the West will fall upon them. But, if you hand out condoms in Africa then the morons in the US Congress will cut funding because it is 'immoral' You start a rape-camp, they congratulate you because it is 'faith-based'. 

And yes, if companies sell or indiscriminately use teratogenic (anything that can disturb the growth and development of an embryo) substances, there are laws and remedies. But not for the use in wartime.Australians abandoned the 'country' as quickly as they could find a way out. The myth of the tall, bronzed Aussie at home in the saddle and the bush is just that, a myth. White Australia started out in an urban environment, with an urban population*, and just stayed that way. Probably the only thing that sent an overwhelming number of people into the scrub was the Gold Rush.

*of the 80 or so occupations found in the First Fleet, farmer was barely mentionedGough Whitlam won TWO elections. The general election in 1973 and the DD election in 1974. There was no election to replace his government in 1975, the general election he lost was in 1977.

I notice you use the term 'cinder block' to describe a Besser or concrete block here. That is an American term, so you may be from the States. Unlike the US we don't require fixed terms for our federal elections. Gough saw out the term of his first government (a short one) and as much of his second as the GG would permit. Not exactly a failure.And the first thing that comes out of your mouths is "We were HERE before you! We get to say what happens here! Not you new-comers!'

The absolute terror that drives the Right and white Australian is the barely acknowledged truth that this place was invaded and the inhabitants treated worse than vermin. The colonials were obsessed with the fear that another power - French, Russian, American or Asian - would displace us and take over the country. Why not? We pretended that the place was empty, so would they. Gough Whitlam's crime here was in not acknowledging that this country and it's resources belonged to a class of people residing in Great Britain. By symbolically handing some soil back to the orginal owners, from Lord Vestey, this nation managed to move forward more in one day than in all the time previous.$370 million to host an estimated 4000 delegates for two days.  That works out to about $92,000 a head (or 46,000 dollars a day).

Now the questions I have;
-If this isn't something totally 'priviliged', then what is?
-Can anyone actually recall a single benefits that flowed on from a G20 meeting? Like for the taxpayers, not for the the people wined and dined for two days..... that is a given.
-Vladimir Putin is a 9th Dan Grand Master in Taekwondo (one more ranking that Chuck Norris ever got), how much of an arse-kicking can Tony Abbott expect if he starts with the shirtfronting?'The Casino moguls'

Barry O'Farrell GAVE away the best piece of Sydney Harbour foreshore to the Packers*. There was zero tendering and zero oversight of the process. How does that manage to match up with ALP=Casinos?

*And it is not like they are short of their own properties. They could build a dozen casinos on their Hunter Valley properties and have a private airport to ferry the punters in from Asia. But, when you have so much - so much more must be handed over.First Melbourne Cup = 1861

First time a woman allowed to race = 2003

Not sexist at all. It just takes same institutions a little bit longer to come to grips with 20th Century innovations. And waiting till from the 19th to the 21st Centuries."once-noble tradition of internationalist action"

Say what? Eric Blair (George Orwell's real name) was a policeman in British-run Burma. He saw up close and personal about what it takes to extend and maintain imperial power. He'd have no problem seeing the US hegemony, which relies on the use of force, as identical.

When he wrote those works, the British Empire was only starting to falter. The colonial conquests of India, Southern Africa and North America created great profit for the people who found themselves managing whole countries for the Crown. The USA managed to snap up whole nations too, when the Spanish, French and British empires let them go. And ran them for US interests as ruthlessly as the former powers did. To claim that Orwell would be writing neo-con op-ed pieces for the conservative press is wrong. He'd still be as incisive in his opinions, and see the muddling in Syria/Iraq for what it is. Control of giant oilfields and the wealth there.Well, the only US politicians I saw supporting these loons in Syria were from the right. There are pictures of Presidential hopeful John McCain [posing with the leaders of ISIL. He was the one calling for a blanket policy on arming all and anyone who claimed to be anti-Assad. And we saw how well that worked out. Two weeks later they were using them on the Iraqi army.Just like the USA had nothing to do with arming the Taliban and AQ? Because they did.

In 2105 John McCain went across the border into Syria where he met with anti-Assad forces.  There are photographs taken, and now is he angrily denying that anyone in them was connected to ISIL. Can you vouch that those people are 'freedom loving democratic insurgents'? John McCain didn't seem to know who the hell he was dealing with. They could have propped the corpse of Saddam Hussein up next to him and he would have said that guy was 'one of the good guys'.

As usual the US is now against the guys it was for. Just like our old friend Osama bin Laden. Seriously, if they had waited another decade the guy would have a guaranteed gig with Fox News. It's not like his views are out of step with a lot of Americans anymore.That includes the casino ventures of Australia's wealthiest family? The Packers haven't managed to add value to a single thing since the 1990s. Ms Reinhardt wants to emulate Cecil Rhodes and create the free state of IronCoalGas-istan with zero taxes and zero wages. Old Clive Palmer turned his billions into model dinosaurs and his own fan club down there in Canberra. I have always felt that the connected between money and 'business smarts' is one of proximity, not one of causation.If there wasn't a federated Australia you would be speaking Japanese or Indonesian right now. Can you imagine the fate of a nation that had a combination of an abundance of natural resources and virtually zero population in the 20th Century? Cop it sweet.The same government that introduced it gave us baby bonuses, 1st home buyers bonuses, and bailed out the auto industry for a decade. At the same time it managed to not see the total meltdown of capitalism just around the corner as the 'World's Greatest Treasurer' started shovelling cash out the door with his 34 BILLION dollars in tax-cuts? Now, if someone responsible like Keating managed to get a  GST through, we'd all be rolling naked in money - I guess.The Rudd govt had to continue the Howard-brokered deals to subsidise manufacturing. In the case of the car industry, it was signed off on in 2002. I don't recall the Howard cheer-squad complaining about that at the time.Do they measure the memory spans of conservatives in nano-meters or in increments of time so short as to not exist in 'reality'?

I can recall a bunch of tax cuts over three years from the 2007 election. I also remember getting a stimulus cheque as well. I spent mine on getting tailored business shirts that are still good to wear. What did you do?"[o]verthrowing parliamentary democracy"

So, it is all or nothing. Not a good argument. So should we just pass some laws letting a 'lawful' amount of corrupt and authoritarian behaviour to nip and reform movement in the bud?

And can I point out that Russel Brand is not running for office in this country? And he's not the only one with ideas for 'reforming' the place. The PM has his own little manifesto, 'Battlelines'. Can we send that to the bin as 'anti-government'?The USA spends about half of the estimated 1.7 TRILLION dollars that goes on the military and war each year. That is $2 billion every DAY! The WHO annual budget is only $4 billions. I hope that juxtaposition helps you realise that every bomb and bullet and missile-toteing drone is basically just stealing from the rest of the world.This article is about tuberculosis, not the Ebola virus. Re-read it, as your comments make no sense.

TB has a incubation period of years - in a healthy individual might take two years to develop. And as it sits domant (latent TB after inflection) about 90% of people infected don't develop the full-blown disease. Historically, TB has been present for millenia - it turns up in Egyption mummies. It is a disease of poverty, and basically untreatable until after WW2. My mother worked as a nurse in the TB ward of a hospital here in Sydney in the late 1950s.

In spite of the comments here about 'do-gooders' and 'wasting my money' it is well within our capacity and reach to do something about it. Like a lot of public health initiatives, it can be avoided by a mix of hygiene and generic drugs. The only problem is when white folks in rich countries lock down when more spectacular viruses (which are harder to isolate and treat) appear. By slamming the door on this and issues like malaria and dehydration, we are effectively condemning millions to an unpleasant painful death.These are the very words the 'great man' uttered when he chopped out the BBC services to China from his unbiased and totally capitalistic Star TV:

"The truth is - and we Americans don't like to admit it - that authoritarian countries can work"Yep. Let's leave that important stuff up to a bunch of geriatric celibate white males who live in marble houses, wear dresses and red shoes and converse deeply with their invisible friends. What could go wrong with that?If you took your dog out into your front yard and did stuff like that to it, you'd be arrested and charged. It is not about 'cultural values' - it is about respecting and caring."all the suffering and problems in the world"

You acknowledge this exists, but have no interest in doing anything about it? I bet you are all for an 'Boots on the Ground' intervention in Northern Iraq. Why? It doesn't concern you - different relative cultural values and all that. They cut off heads, we don't - no biggie.

So. If someone or something suffers, and it is not 'in your front-yard' the values you wish to share with other Australians is 'we don't need to take notice of that'. Thanks for filling in the blanks.It is not an 'industry'. You are deliberately using that word to infer that there is some sort of production line in progress. Abortion is legal and safe (actually it is safe because it is legal) in this country. Shutting down access to medical advice and intervention will not stop that, only push people to unsafe or illegal options."have real sovereign risk"

No. Giving a dictator $300 million of YOUR money is a risk. Refusing to aknowledge your role in that is criminal. John Howard's government had information about the AWB bribes and did nothing. Then they  'investigated' and did nothing.

When John Howard went on TV and told us that the bad man Saddam was shoving his enemies into human 'shredders', did he wonder where they got the money from to buy them? How does Alexander Downer sleep at night?And the Coalition doesn't care about firefighters, police and paramedics because they are union members? Or doctors, who are part of a union. Or sex-workers? And aren't those farmers members of a Farmers 'Federation' that negotiates on their behalf on industrial matters in exchange for dues? Kinda seems to be a union, don't it?John Howard did the same for Mal Colston Only he  was a bigger rorter than the three Coaltion MPs who had to stand down after they were found out too. Peter Slipper committed everyone of those 'crimes' as a serving member of Hoawrd's and Abbott's party. They screamed like stuck pigs about him, but jeez too too late.It was illegal, no doubt about it. There is no such thing as a 'preemtive war'. Unless you can quote statutes that says that you can do so, it was an illegal invasion and occupation to stop the Saddam regime from illegally selling oil on the blackmarket.

Actions committed by the US forces also constitute war-crimes. People involved in the Abu Gharib abuse, torture and murders were subsequently tried. The detention of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay and their ill-treatment also constitutes crimes.Yep. Only who gets to keep the bits with all the mineral wealth or the best access to resources such as water or farmlands? Will we end up with the nations of IronOrestan, Rinehardtia or Coalseamgas Land making money hand over fist and the rest of the place in poverty?Given that anyone can get their hands on a can of spraypaint, probably not."Thank god for David Leyonhjelm"

Who's God? Yours only? I think you managed to bring up a more pertinent point than 'bad government'. Our common law has survived a lot of bad government, but always ends up second best when religion is bought up. For some strange reason religious affiliations, like sporting ones, seem to have stronger adherence than democratic or secular ones.

The reason we have pockets of criminal lunatics all over the world is that there is no shortage of priests, mullahs, rabbis and associated clergy willing to tell the credulous that there is something unholy about democracy. It usually goes hand in hand with a fondness of patriachal institutions and resolving issues with medieval violence. And it isn't just the M/E. Pockets of the US are armed enclaves full of 'soveriegn citizens' who don't behold to gummint. The Ukrainian crisis is also one of sectarian conflict, the willingness to sacrifice non-players is a big give-away. We are lucky that we've managed to take the 'god' out of government, let's keep it that way.There is a big schism in the place, and it is geo-religious:
"The eastern regions of Ukraine are part of the Orthodox world, but as you go west Ukrainians are as likely to belong to the Uniate branch of the Orthodox Church, where their practices and beliefs are conventionally Orthodox, but they pay allegiance not to the Orthodox Patriarch, but to the pope in Rome"

I had read about that split early on. So when they are shooting planes of non-combatants out of the sky and boasting about it, it was a dead giveaway that 'God is on our side'. But seeing that their brand of 'Jeebus' isn't the kind that Americans consider 'correct' the place should be knee-deep in Baptists, Pentacostals and snake-handlers by next year*. They tend to view civil unrest as opportunities, rather than tragedies.

*lucky for them there is a venomous viper present there for ceremonies, weddings and baptisms. The most recent death in the US from snake bite from this occured in June of this year.To hear the conservative voice in this country it would seem that inner-party feuding and political oneupmanship appeared fully formed after 2007. Bollocks. In 1971, the government of William McMahon was bedevilled by the worst infighting and back-stabbing ever.

In 1967 he had to step away from the PMship due to the Nationals leader publically dropping his support for the Coalition if he did. He was twice rolled by Gorton for leadership and lost another chance at being PM in 1969. It was only when Malcolm Fraser resigned as Defence Minister triggering a leadership spill that he made it to PM. Even then he had to sack Gorton and with a completely split party that had been losing seats for two elections and rising inflation went against Gough Whitlam. It wasn't until the great Peacock/Howard feud of the 1980s that the Party of Menzies managed to keep itself out of office for over a decade.Can't say about a government, but the doings to get Tony Abbott into the top job were 'shambolic' to say the least. We had a top-rate barrister accusing the Prime Minister of the country of selling out for a clapped-out ute worth $7 grand?! Only he's a millionaire and could buy and sell car dealerships? Say what?

I can only imagine that that fabricated evidence* was not they main reason for it. There must have been people saying; "We'll back you to the hilt on this one mate! We'll blow them out of the water!". No lawyer would have taken on a case backed up with such flimsy 'evidence', but Turnbull found out that the only one blown out of the water was him.

*funny how all the same names turned up with the Slipper job too....It is a lousy comparison. In wartime there is something called 'triage'. You divide everyone up into 'will be ok with minimal intervention', 'will die without intervention', and 'gonna die anyhow'. You focus your efforts on the cases where intervention will work. The others get left to die on a stretcher and get a hero's funeral back home with politicians shedding tears. Tears of joy, however, because it isn't them in the casket.

In any case, this isn't war. A pandemic spreads better in wartime, that's true, but we can expect that any part of the world is connected to any other. A disease in the poorest or richest nations will be shifted to new populations within days, not months as it might have been a century ago. Can't take the 'suck it and see what happens' attitude to it. Strangely enough, if we in the West do stuff to assist in promoting democracy, education, womens' rights, abolishing slavery, tackling corruption, feeding people and making pay for work equitable we will gradually get rid of the conditions that cause disease outbreaks. They don't need to live in poverty and fear and we don't have to risk diseases - win/win.Firstly, he did not 'hastily withdraw troops'. His predecessor organised that withdrawal when the people of Iraq refused to sign a State of Forces Agreement and TOLD the US to take them back. You are peddling misinformation.

Next, the US Military considers climate change as a real threat to global and national security. These aren't tree huggers and socialists like conservatives like to paint their opponents. A serious threat is seen by the Pentagon.The same people the West armed in the 1980's turned out to be these nutcases. They may have been just as hot to kill whitey as they are today, but Ronald Reagan and Co didn't bother to check. We taught them how to conduct asymetrical warfare and defeat a superpower. Maybe it is too late to stuff the genie back in the bottle.

What we don't need to do is just point at EVERY muslim on the planet and accuse EVERY one of them of planning murder and hiding a bomb under every hijab. If we want to let people like Cory Bernadi and Lambie of influencing how we act, we will end up just driving them closer to the extremists if they consider the West to be nothing but anti.Here's a concrete example of what the fear tactics have managed to do. The West wants someone else to fight on their behalf, so they are trying to get yet another proxy army together. Armies need guns and stuff, so we have arm them. What is a better (and cost effective-way) than by just chucking them out of a plane on a parachute? You don't risk life and limb and even if the people are hopeless with the guns, at least you have 'tackled the problem'. Only, the US in its wisdom has managed to drop the weapons and bombs and whatever to the ISIL. Yes. Our favourite terrorists are now armed and supplied by the USA. Must take a few of them back to the days of Ronnie Reagan when they were giving Stinger missiles away to anyone who asked."in effect given every psychopath any where in the world a cause they can adopt"

Yeah. And remember when the West couldn't get enough of those guys? They were taking on the Soviets. We gave them money and guns and looked the other way when they murdered and tortured. The M/E, the Americas, Africa - we didn't care when the faces they did it to were black or brown, or they didn't speak English. Now, the same loons are gunning for us and it is 'save us, save us! How could these terrible people exist?'Actually, there is more protection for the person who passed them on. There is no way that you could prosecute Mr Graham here to make him reveal his source/s. He'd be able to challenge that all the way to the High Court. And he damn well should, I can imagine there are some barristers itching to have a go at a high-profile brief like that. If Mr Turnbull wasn't already busy in Parliament, he'd jump at it.

My suspicion is that they were passed on by some poor IT fellow that had to follow up on all the alerts these emails set off passing through the server*. He'd be ticked off as he has to waste time on this drivel. Doubly so if he happens to belong to a group that is one of the Prof's favourite targets.

*for any of you who are wondering, your employer has a checklist of 'unacceptable' words - they create an alert as they are sent onThe USA is not Australia. A state's law there is a different matter to how we would go about this, any register should be created and maintained by the AFP. That is logical as offenders may move within states to escape their past.

Retrospectivity? I don't see that it would be a huge issue for the Parliament to do that. We already have legislation to deal with war crimes. An argument that it can't be a criminal matter because we didn't have an Australian laws against committing war crimes in 1939 won't work.

However, a register will do little to combat the horrific systematic abuse and trafficking of children in other nations. Anything we do here must fit into an international policing effort to stop that."WHO can complain about budget troubles all it likes but in a $4 billion organisation this is pathetic"

Value of British American Tobacco = 122.2 billion (US$).

Lots more money to be made from causing disease than curing it. That is truely pathetic.If the co-payment goes through it will be used to build hospitals in Tasmania I guess. Probably in identified electorates that the LNP wants. And there is a privatly owned international health body that could be doing the job of WHO? You know its name? As I am pretty sure one doesn't exist.Really? And the 'Government' of North Korea manages just fine then. They haven' been called to task for economic developement in the place.Or they can just wait till they have enough cash to buy their way out of the place. 5 million gets you a visa to 'invest' and live in Australia. 15 million gets you a fast track to permanent residency.A million ping-pong balls? Really?

Why don't you actually do some science. 80% of those 'ping pong balls' are inert (ie Nitrogren). The remaining ones are full of some sort of chemical and that is oozing out. A lot of the other ones have a nice soothing chemical that cleans and scents the hall (Oxygen). However the ones that aren't either oxygen or nitrogen are dripping an acid or a toxin. They are called methane, carbon dioxide, CFCs, and ozone.

The stuff is settling on the walls and floor and started to eat away at the structure. It used to be minimal, but now the amounts of bad ping pong balls are increasing exponentially. Some guy opens the door and tosses another crate in. You step into a hole in the floor and complain to him. He tells you that the lot he just added didn''t make that happen. You tell him that he has to give you some sort of cash help to fix things up. He tells you to f**k off. His mates drop in and throw in some more. You complain to them; 'Hey, Tony said it was ok'.Came back to bite them? No. The people who created and marketed those toxic products were way gone when it all came crashing down. What we had was not a risky product, but outright fraud. If the 'free market' can tell the difference between a Jaguar and a Yugo and price them accordingly, then why did those financial products get the highest ratings from the agencies that kick the tyres and check under the hood?

All parts of the industry that markets these products colluded with each other. They created something that would earn you money, as long as you weren't the one left holding them. Billions of dollars worth were sold around the world. What kind of percentage ended up as fees, charges and commissions in the pockets of the people involved? They say that if you get in a poker game and you haven't spotted the sucker within the first half hour, it's you. They should have that inscribed on the front of every stock exchange.They kept the government out of the loop. Until it went crashing down and then they couldn't get enough of the government. Well, the government's money. That's the American way; keep loosening the regulatory framework till it crashes and the government has to intervene with taxpayer's money, then take the money and when the crisis is over lobby for less government regulation. 

And yes, it is very 'capitalistic' to overstate the quality of the product on hand and find ways to refunding money or making good. The Romans even had an expression, 'caveat emptor' or 'let the buyer beware'. So, two thousand years of dodgy dealing, with the high points being the 'South Sea Bubble' and the 'Great Depression'. What's next?There is a whole body of works written about Sherlock Holmes, Dracula and Santa Claus too. Don't make them anything more than fictions.

Personally I have no issue with a real person who was some sort of cool hip New Age Rabbi. I have huge problems with the guy also being born of a virgin, raising the dead and coming back after dying in a grusome execution*. Those events are fictions, but treated as evidence.

*you have to assume he was dead, the Romans were pretty efficient when it came to that stuff - can't imagine they had a word for 'sorta dead', it was dead or nothingAnd it wasn't just him. One of the Gospels* says that a whole bunch of other dead people arose too. Now, one guy being resurrected may not be news, but a whole town of them? Even the Romans would have had to sit up and take notice.

And there's no mention at all in the accounts of the time? Something like someone writing: 'Old Uncle Moshe turned up at his old home, after being dead for 10 years. Bit of a shock to everyone. He wasn't too happy that Auntie Esther had remarried and she chucked all his stuff out. And you thought the old bugger smelt bad when he was alive! Like prawns in a heat wave he was!'

*Matthew 27Ah yes. Only the wealthy can be considered favoured. As they have that thing in abundance that brings with it all the best qualities. Money buys fine art and tasteful things, so it automatically endows the owner with the same qualities. Those who have some welfare must lack such qualities and be considered not worthy of consideration. Alan Bond was a crook, but he was a rich one. It must be balanced against the many fine things he purchased with that money. That elderly couple ekeing out an existence on the pension? They have no value at all due to their circumstances - the fact that they raised a family and provide love to their grandchildren? Pish. Can that be measured in dollars? No. So we bulldoze their house to build a new casino.Having a bit of chuckle here. I recently read a survey conducted in the USA (very godly place) about this very topic. They (Lifeway) asked about what people pray for and whether they think these prayers get answered. Results may astound.

20% (one in five) want to win the lottery
15% (one in seven) want bad things covered up (from God too?)
14% (one in seven) want bad things to happen to people they don't like or approve of
13% (one in eight) want their team to win
7% for both not getting caught speeding AND finding a parking spot!

And my fav:
5% (one in twenty) routinely pray that they can get away with something that they know that God won't approve of - ie they are petitioning the Deity to give them success in ungodly activities"faith-based thinking is the antithesis of empiricism"

Well, when you claim that miracles occur,  yes it does. Miracles are the absolute opposite of science. Claiming that the physical world can be re-organised or that physical laws can be suspended due to the will of the Deity or one of his franchisees is nonsense. It is the scientific method to say that no pregnancy takes place in humans without sexual relations, or that a human being dead for three days is not capable of anything but rotting.Why? Because we have observed pregnancy and death for millenia.

You want to believe that it rains because you prayed for that? That is 'faith-based thinking'. You want to believe that rain occured because there was a measurable amount of moisture in the air, folllowed by a series of measurable events that cause that moisture to form raindrops and obey gravity? You'd call that science."who seek to disabuse the simple faithful"

Well, sometimes the simple faithful aren't just happy with a prayer or two and throwing a couple of dollars of the faith's practitioners. Sometimes the practitioners and the faithful to get a bit irate and start cutting of heads, blowing up clinics or retreating to a compound run by men with guns. All of which is intended to exclude and often attack the secular world that they see. We don't see the kinds of extremism in political movements that we do in religious ones."all of us have something to hide"

Speak for yourself matey. The rest of us didn't chose to become a politician like you. If you got something to keep hidden away it relates to your career path, not mine.We also get the choice to keep it in our pants too. And for the ones that think that 'love is free' there is a whole raft of laws to make blokes financially responsible for those choices too.So - let me get this straight. Over in WA Rio Tinto and BHP are playing out a strategy to drive down the price of iron ore to record lows. This is not to meet demand, but in order to drive other competitors out of the business. The Premier there is screaming because company boards have chosen a strategy that hurts his State big time. It also means that the Eastern States are going to have to get less GST money as it is flowing West to make up for the shortfall in income.

We are getting rolled by these resource companies every day but the greatest crime that anyone can commit is ask some questions about decisions by their boards? Calling it 'political' is just a lazy way of not actually engaging with why and how people invest. Plenty of big not-for-profits also refuse to invest in industries and ventures that they feel are against their mission values and violate ethical concerns. Why no 'name and shame' for them too?Bollocks. You need to be paid to have to get tax taken out of it. A lot of the wealthiest people on the planet get a 'wage' of $1 - are you suggesting that if the govt takes 48c of it they are being unfairly taxed?

You don't need to be a genius to set up your affairs so that you don't attract tax at all. When they managed to get Nathan Tinkler into the Bankruptcy Court (a very very popular spot for the rich) he claimed, with a straight face, that he earned less than 10 thousand a year. He would pay no tax at all on that. But the rich still want roads and hospitals and airports, they just don't like to contribute towards them.Remember in the 2007 election when Tony Abbott just stone-cold promised a new hospital to that town in Tasmania? He would have given them two if he thought it would get them re-elected. Well, this is the same guy who wants you to pay to get to see a doctor now.

In 2007 all voting Australians were gonna get themselves, not just a visit to a doctor, but a brand-spanking new freaking HOSPITAL to visit them in too! Now, he wants to see the colour of your money. Him and little Joe. Hasn't our Treasurer been quiet lately - we are committing millions in the non-ending war in the M/E and the Treasurer is AWOL. What's with that, huh?The fact that they needed to write down a list of stuff you can't do is genuine proof that of all the peoples in the Ancient World, the ones who thought up monotheism were the ones to be watched. If people are presumably Godly then they don't need to be constantly reminded that killing and lying and cheating and being disrespectful are bad.

And if our leaders want to start Australian History 101 with 'The British bought the Bible with them' could they also mention that the Brits also bought guns, rum, smallpox, rabbits and a very loose interpretation of the commandment about not stealing (ie land).If the Curriculum ALLOWS for that. There a groups in the US devoted to removing a whole body of science that relates to evolution and replacing it with a 'creationist' scientific viewpoint that only has one theme. It must agree with Scripture.

Here in Australia we aren't quite as mad yet, but the 'Creation Bus' managed to criss-cross the country for 17 years. It has now been replaced by the 'Ark Bus' containing a 2m model of the Ark - which is both evidence and proof to some folks. And why shouldn't there have been gum trees stretching from Port Macquarie to the Sinai Desert? And across at least two oceans? There could have been true! I doubt that those folks even grasp the science behing how a thermos works; 'The stuff inside is either hot OR cold?! How does it know??'Bull. People have what is called 'customary laws' ie the restrictions on what you can and can't do. That occurs everywhere as all humans have the same issues about the division of land, who they can and can't marry, what to do in times of war, punishing theft and violent crimes and how to equitably portion out food. Here in Australia we had 'blackfeller laws'. They weren't passed on from Moses, but still regulated all aspects of Aboriginal life.

What we have that is different is a body of written laws or 'blackletter' which we bought here with the First Fleet. They in turn were derived from the Anglo-Saxon Common Law that those people took to Britain with them in the 5th Century. At that time they were pagan and didn't use the Commandments for any instruction. The Israelites were not the first to codify them into a list. If anything they lifted the lot from places like Egypt during their 'stay' and took some liberties with the copyright for them."law was founded on a Judeo-Christian heritage"

Not even close. When Britain was colonised (or invaded, your pick) by North Germans who were pagans they bought with them their own language (which is why we don't speak Gaelic or some sort of Brittanic version of Latin) and their law. Those laws are the basis of the 'Common Law', and not the canon law that the Church bought with it. Legal and democratic institutions already existed prior to the introduction of Christian beliefs. The technical term to describe this is 'proximity', as opposed to 'causation'.He's right there. Smallpox was eradicated by public means, not by a private firm. The same with polio, Jonas Salk actually refused to patent the vaccine - something that would be worth tens of billions to a company today.

However, no amount of money being spent on health and medicine can equal that spent on weaponry. Each day more money is spent on arms or using weapons than any other human activity. The US managed to waste 2 trillion on invading and 'stabilising' Iraq - which was a middling power with a population the size of Australia. The 'blowback' from that is that after hollowing out all public infrastructure to maintain a war-machine when some-one presented with Ebola in the USA they told him to take two asprin and go home.No, that is the mantra of the 'Liberal' Party who just also happen to be a bunch of conservatives.

And if the individual is more important than the State I should be free to sell heroin to children, marry my dog, worship Ellen Degeneres and go overseas to join the fight in the M/East. The funny thing is, stuff like that causes conservatives to have a major tizzy. They start babbling about 'values' and 'traditions' and how we have to uphold our 'Judeo-Christian' nation by getting rid of 'political correctness' in the school curriculum and dumping mining spoil on the Great Barrier Reef."easy to dismiss gendered bigotry as a construct of the right"

Well, it is the right that make the most fuss when they get a serving about it. Their targets are only blowing up the issue and trying to score a political point. In their own minds, they are martyred by 'political correctness' and that dreadful 'pro-left bias' that the media (especially the ABC) is full of.

What they don't see is that their attitudes (which frankly haven't changed a whit since they attended Uni) are just as bad as anywhere. Sure we don't actually stop girls from attending school like the nutters in Nigeria, but in a predominantly white, Christian nation it is all about how women are moving outside of the 'place' that society has reserved for them. A place for them, and them alone, as mothers, homemakers and nurturers. Forty years ago those dolts would have been putting down their schooners, hitching up their belts and pointedly asking the author of this piece why she was taking a job away from a man, and why wasn't she either in a kitchen or a maternity ward.Jospeh Hockey, when Shadow Treasurer: ''If you want to start with cuts we have said we will cut 12,000 public servants out of Canberra. That is the starting point.'' 

Now, you can't pretend anymore that you didn't have any information about that.Those 'studies' weren't able to be repeated. When they redid them researchers found that in fact 3 out of 4 subjects did better with meds. The previous results were skewed by the use of paid subjects who would exaggerate their symptoms. Obviously, if you have no history of mental illness (but just say you do) you aren't going to respond to medication.

I would say that the Norway shooter was quite delusional and paranoid. He's lucky they don't execute in Scandenavia as he committed acts with planning and no remorse. That gets you executed in the USA. However, in the USA you can get executed even if you are of limited intellligence and unable to actually comprehend the concepts of crime or what an execution is (one guy left part of his final meal 'to have after the execution').

Also. By conflating the actions of religous fanatics with the mentally ill you aren't doing anyone any favours.And you are saying that the 'State' creates a fiction of mentally ill people for the express purpose of selling them medications? What evidence do you have that supports that premise? And it would appear to not match the actual experiences of about 1/3rd of the population ie people with issues that require medical intervention and their families.

Your other statement that the recent outbreak of terrorism is in actuality insanity, needs a closer look at. These people are committing acts that have no part of our lives, but are loaded with meaning to them. And they are getting a response from the West that is way out of proportion to their activities. So. they are using terror to conduct asymetrical warfare against a larger power. They aren't insane (in a way that could be treated), but following a pattern that leads to a given goal. Like I said, there is no value to us as we (I hope) don't have the same political commitments.
It was the USA overthrew a regime that was not a particular threat in order to access the Iraqi crude oil. It was not the Turks. You break it, you fix it.All that matters is the oil to them. If they were a bunch of girls being kidnapped and raped in Nigeria, or an entire population starved to death in North Korea - the great democracy that is the USA will do nothing. But when someone taps the oilfields of Nth Iraq and makes unsanctioned sales of oil, then we have a crisis?The 'people in Syria'. Which ones exactly?

The terrorists supporting the terror-regime of the terrorist Al-Assad? We tried to kill a bunch of them.

Then it turned out that our mates that we gave weapons to were a terror-cult of terroristic terrorists. And now we are planning to kill a whole bunch of them too.

Can you supply a handy list of who we can and can't support? Or should we just bomb everyone to be on the safe side?Or like John McCain (right-wing Presidential candidate for the Republicans), we could go for some photo-ops with the senior members of ISIS*. Just to show the world that we are strong on something.... maybe terror, maybe being photographed. Not sure.

*he was for arming them, and then for bombing themMr Berg here is beholding to the enterprises that fund the IPA to lobby on their behalf. I have no idea how that constitutes 'libertarianism' as many of the issues he pushes are the usual 'cut taxes, cut wages, put children back to work in the mines, reduce corporate liability' sort of stuff.

And he is wrong here to boot. He claims that the Iraqi invasion 'had relatively clear goals - overturn the Baathist regime and install a democratic government'. It wasn't. The goal was a pre-emptive attack on the alleged capability of Iraq to manufacture and deploy Weapons of Mass Destruction. From the outset no-one said that they would oust Saddam or indulge in 'nation-building'. In actuality, it was at the behest of another 'libertarian' think tank, the Project for New American Century (PNAC) that the US moved from containing Saddam to seeing how control of Iraq's oil could be shifted to private concerns.It ended up officially in the red, and the Church only kicked in 10 million of the 114 million it cost to run. Which is a lot less than the federal government contributed.

What is interesting is that when Pell went to Rome he needed new accommodations. Apparently the Australian branch of the Church found 85 millions to have a 'pilgrim centre' constructed there. The same mob who couldn't help out with the cost over-runs for WYD or make reasonable reparations to those people harmed by their priests (who aren't employees apparently, but sub-contractors or salesmen).That was the very seat that she and her Party condemned as a waste of time and money to get when the ALP campaigned for it. Yet again, the Libs avoid the heavy lifting, but claim all the credit.I think you might have forgotten what actually took place. Here is what I like to call 'evidence':

Headline = 'SCRAP UN SECURITY COUNCIL BID: ABBOTT

'Australia's bid for a seat on the United Nations Security Council will be dumped if the federal opposition wins government.

Opposition Leader Tony Abbott said it was not a good use of taxpayers' money in tough economic times'Obviously Tony Abbott was against it before he was for it. He's consistent, no?No. The Cold War showed us that it is best to have a government committed to spending huge amounts of money on buying and maintaing armies and munitions that they NEVER use. The USA enjoyed two decades of prosperity when created a massively expensive war-machine but didn't use it actually fight a war. It did create dependence in  the companies and communities that relied on it, but government spending programs = prosperity."Government should keep to infrastructure and the shared things, like schools and hospitals, rather than trying to do something they are not skilled at"

I''d rather that they did stuff like maintain police forces, fire-depts and first-rate health facilities throughout the nation. Also that they maintain customs and border control to stop illegal drugs, weapons and dangerous items/animals in. Also, keep a system of courts running that allows us get redress for wrongdoings and to discourage criminal behaviour.  That is actually very expensive and places great responsibilities on the people tasked with doing it. And that is why we have governments not a bunch of corporate types getting access to the nation's piggybank. Think about it, the Packer's know their way around money and what do they do with it? Build casinos.To make for easy identification, the state Liberal branches should merge with the Property Council of Australia.I could hire a chimpanzee to make accurate 'predictions' about the market, they would probably match any of the experts. And the market fails all the time and turns investors in paupers.

Here's one example; when Enron finally managed to drag itself into the bankruptcy courts in 2001 it was discovered that they had managed to lose $74 billions of shareholders money in the previous four years. The only inkling that shareholders got that something was wrong was in the share price dramatically fell in the last 8 months of trading. 

Yes, they could have made an 'informed decision' to sell earlier if they had the same information as the CEO of the firm. He sold his stake in the company in Jan 2001 (ie just before the price tanked). What do you think might have been his motive and do you think that he was going to share that information with the shareholders of the company?There are Enrons because the entire system is rigged. No, not every listed company is going to collapse like Enron, but every one of them is going to place 'positive outcomes' ahead of other factors like shareholder value or employees.

Actually once a company finds out it can move operations overseas to take advantage of non-organised cheap labour, they do. Once a company discovers it can incorporate in Ireland or the Bahamas to avoid tax, they do. Once they discover they can lobby the government to become lax* about public safety and their liability for accidents, they do. And what does the sharemarket's response to any of those actions. It REWARDS them for it. Share-prices rises!! Bonuses for everyone!

*sorry; 'implement long overdue reforms within the industry''No rational reason'

You two are looking in the wrong place. The root of the 'problem' here is not in our relationship to the external world and our possessions, it is in the nature of how we as an individual negotiate our way through social interactions. You can't package and sell 'happy' - you can only understand how some types of interactions support emotional well-being and others don't.

In Stephen Fry's case he is an individual that has bipolar depression. One of the things about it is that it is treatable with medications, so it would have an organic basis (ie like diabetes, a crisis can be fixed by the correct dose). But, that is the symptom, not the disease. Seemingly, if you just cure the symptoms it goes away and is controllable. But, when you actually remove the crisis, it becomes obvious that there are emotional issues that drive it. For some, that combination of mania/depression AND emotional issues is toxic. They can't ever get the cure right, because the issues stop them seeking out relief leave them unable to maintain the organic part. Ignoring the organic bit leaves them susceptible to illness.There have been Muslims in this country since 1860. This is barely 20 years after the Catholic Church was finally permitted to have their own churches and practice their faith without supervision. So, for 150 years we managed to tolerate this without having to demonise people of another faith or deny them freedoms we take for granted. We all need to take a very very deep breath and rethink this.Not true. The actual cost is about 6 times the cost of the revenue raised:

?Over 750,000 hospital beds per year are attributable to tobacco-related disease and smoking has been estimated to cost over $31 billion a year.? Statement by Treasurer and Minister of Health, 2013He's full of it, as his alleged 'party':
"The LDP is neither pro-smoking nor anti-smoking; it is pro-choice*"

Typical weasel words. There is nothing they ain't 'afore, unless they are 'agin it. It might appeal to someone who read Aynn Rand in their teens and loved it, but it's a huge cop-out.

*as opposed to maybe pro-science (smoking kills) or pro-better health outcomes (smoking kills)Try this party platform out for size then:

"The LDP is neither pro-beheading or anti-beheading; but we support the right of the individual to chose"

And if science shows us that beheadings might lead to negative outcomes you still are all for people making 'bad decisions' no matter what the consequences?

And 'nanny state'? You honestly want a world without seatbelts or laws regulating what goes into the foods you eat or how they are prepared? You'd let someone serve you and your family tainted food or drink knowing that the state won't enforce any laws about it's safety? Nope.'smoking is not a criminal offence'

But it is! You try giving cigarettes to minors? It's a crime!

Selling your own home-grown tobacco? It's a crime!

You light up on a train, or in a public place or inside a nursery full of humity-cribs? It's a crime!

Smoking is TOLERATED, at the best. And this argument that smokers 'pay their way' is nonsense. I pay taxes and don't consider myself able to do what I wish, ignoring social norms or the Crimes Act."To compare smoking to beheading people is simply ludicrous"

I didn't, but you have twice complained that I did. All I did was take the Senator's fence-sitting position and present it in a new way. You are so busy here 'defending' smokers' rights that you can't tell the difference between that analogy (which was meant to be ridiculous) and your crusade to pretend that smokers are the most put-upon segment of our society. You downplay all the negative costs (hospital beds, chronic illness and premature deaths) and claim that as we are 'free to choose' the rest of us get some sort of free ride from the taxes collected from smokers.

I will put it in another way for you. We are constructing hospitals to accommodate those people who will contract illnesses from long-term smoking. We are purchasing equipment, training medical staff and planning long-term for this eventuallity. If we did not have a large pool of smokers we could forgo those costs (which must be in the billions) and take that as a total saving. And we will do that no matter what revenue the sale and use of tobacco raises. If we collected nothing, we would still have to do this. That is why I find the DLP's stance on this such a cop-out.And why can't I make the simple observation that the invasion of Iraq killed more Iraqis than these nutters? That was a 'multi-national campaign' also. It managed to unleash some psychopaths too, we all saw the images from Abu Ghraib as we discovered that just murdering people was a way of relaxing for their captors. 'Team Australia' was 110% behind that effort too.Firstly, there's no such thing as 'God'. You are appealing to a subjective 'vibe of the thing'.

Secondly, those loons in Iraq are just what happens with the 'peace and love' mask slips a bit and the real intent of religion shows up. Mission statement is kill you, kill your family, kill your neighbours and kill your dog and cat too. If you think otherwise, you myst have to be able to ignore 6,000 years of concrete evidence.

You would think that, but one of the world's richest men has this to say about the topic:

?The truth is?and we Americans don't like to admit it?that authoritarian countries can work.." Rupert Murdoch, 1995 after he removed the BBC from his Chinese TV stationsAnd who is going to make the consumer goods we love? Our 'overpriced' union labour working in our 'entitled' subsidised industries?

That is not the capitalist way, the West has invested a lot of money in the Chinese manufacturing industries. Even to the point of hollowing out their own industries and exporting tens of thousands of jobs. Busting unions, driving down wages and conditions, sucking up corporate welfare and turning whole towns into wastelands in Australia and the US took a lot of dedication and drive by our corporate masters. Why do you hate successful billionaires so much?So, there will be another 'Coalition' to defend those people? Or will the People's Republic just point out that they looked the other way when the US managed to find itself invading a nation full of oil in order 'to protect the Iraqis'?
