Not to worry Evan, the biggest tax payer funded hand outs are still going under Mr Abbott's government. It's just the poor and disadvantaged that are losing out.Yank was acknowledging some good from a Coalition politician and, instead of calling for him to be removed, he expressed hope that this politician would revisit a budget that is unprecedented in its harshness toward those most vulnerable. In response, GBE, all you seem capable of doing is the old "look over there!" routine.

Strange that you should want to focus on interest rates though, given Mr Howard's dramatic failures on that subject.That "financial nightmare" is becoming a self fulfilling prophecy. This government doubled the deficit in its first six months and has been throwing money at malfunctional weapons, tax breaks for the wealthy and military action against civilians.Thank you Schuey, I do prefer accuracy and appreciate corrections. 

I'd like to know how the previous government managed to twist Treasury's arm however. According to Ken Henry, the Treasury Secretary installed by Mr Howard, this does not happen. He said in an interview (19/05/09) that "Treasury conducts its analysis without government interference"."Feelers" who listen to experts like scientist and economists, as opposed to those "thinkers" who listen to their ideology.I had to laugh when Mr Hockey said lowering taxes would create jobs. He's never looked at all the previous times that's been tried or he would have been aware of the 100% failure rate for that particular policy.

Businesses create jobs when they need something done whether their taxes are cut or not. Give them a tax cut and they'll say thanks as they put it in their pocket."literally cutting workers throats"

OMG!!! Did you call the police? and an ambulance?

The industrious nation of Germany is highly unionised yet still manage a strong manufacturing industry. Japanese unions are highly involved in the car manufacturing industry, having scored a pretty neat increase earlier this year. Seems to be no problem.

Could it be that you have no evidence nor reason to believe the unions cause these problems apart from certain opinions in papers and on radio?The only "ridiculous wages" are being paid to company directors and CEO's. They must have pretty damn good unions!I agree Alfie. Since last September it has turned into a disaster. A lesser service for higher cost, much like when Telstra was privatised.

Mind you, I'm not sure it's the "biggest". The Iraq invasion cost more, and that's just accounting for money.When you put it that way Cat, the OP's rambling about "the left side of politics" seems really out of place."Those of us with nothing to hide, have nothing to fear."

Someone tell Scott Morrison.Well, this is the government that raided a solicitor's office and confiscated legal documents in an attempt to cover up a previous government which used clandestine surveillance to give their private business mates an advantage in negotiations with a newly formed and vulnerable country.

I think a healthy dose of paranoia isn't entirely unjustified.G'day Ravensclaw. I'd like to point out that opposition to the Coalition's approach to asylum seekers does not automatically mean unquestioning support for the previous Labor government's approach.

There is plenty of reason to criticise the last three governments that made such an issue out of desperate people fleeing their homelands. 

The current administration is criticised because they no longer even hear out asylum claims (and remember that well over 80% of such claims have consistently be found true, even under Mr Howard's administration). 

Another criticism is their deliberate cruelty. Conditions at the offshore camps have been made purposefully more miserable as confirmed by health officials who have worked there. This campaign has been waged against their mental health as well as physical, and should be unacceptable to any civilised mind.

We have dealt with refugees quite successfully in the past. Indeed it was a Coalition prime minister who was renowned for such success under very difficult circumstances. Turning refugees into a political issue was an act of bastardry in the first place and has been followed by a race to the bottom by both major parties.True, Peter, no proof that they are all genuine refugees, just the vast majority of them.

Much like this government's policies for unemployment we seem hell bent on punishing everyone just to ensure the few undeserving cannot benefit.To take that thinking to its logical conclusion, Peter, people should pay tax contributions toward law enforcement, and infrastructure in accordance with the volume of property, possessions and income being protected/maintained by them. You'll find a poverty level family is benefitting far less from these things than the average high roller.A better comparison, Ben, would be the attempted internet filter championed by Mr Conroy. Despite being a leftie I have no problem protesting against a Labor initiative I disagree with, and I was quite vocal against the filter (and wrote a seemingly pointless letter detailing my concerns to Mr Conroy's office).

The news about the scholarship could well be considered a case of a whistle blower revealing potential corruption in our highest office. After all, the school involved benefit directly from policies Mr Abbott is introducing, and we've seen other politicians figuratively crucified for simply receiving far less than $60K worth.

A more accurate comparison would be Kathy Jackson who was considered a whistle blower against Craig Thomson. Of course in that case the AFP actually investigated the allegations instead of ignoring them, and Mr Thomson was found guilty of misappropriating $20K. A tiny figure compared to the original accusation or compared to the travel allowances misused by other political figures, but justice is justice. Ms Jackson's own character is now under scrutiny by the law, which is another parallel with the scholarship situation.Actually TGU, WQ's comment seems quite on topic.

We are, after all, talking about removing freedoms and giving our government greater and firmer control over our lives to protect us against the possibility of being attacked by people who want to remove our freedoms and to exercise control over our lives."Terrorists are generally interested in killing civilians, winning a war or changing an enemy nation's foreign policy."

Eerily similar to the Iraq invasion.While we're at it, I'd like my portion of the tax money used to subsidise private schools, mining companies and concentration camps back.

The mining boom is, indeed, coming to a close Harry. You'll likely get your wish in the not too distant future.

Should we be subsidising companies already reaping huge profits (and sending them offshore)? I would have guessed the average Liberal Party voter would say no... judging by the reaction to the automotive industry.Development boom over, ready to start collecting tax, eh Harry? Now might be the exact wrong time to remove the super profits tax eh?

Making cars is a dying industry? Are we going back to horses or are you privy to an as yet unrevealed technology to replace them? Can you name a country with a car industry that isn't subsidised?

How could you see my arms waving?Let's get rid of our freedoms in order to preserve our way of life.

Is that roughly what you're suggesting?"All the extremists just happen to be Muslims"

Unless you count the people killing each other in the Ukraine.

Not so long ago the main extremists were Irish Catholics and Protestants. At the time the Islamic countries were our friends. Indeed some of their leaders (such as Saddam Hussein) were installed with a little help from the CIA.Bev, the internet filter proposed by Labor was quite rightly opposed by people on both sides of the political divide (including my leftie self).

This new proposal should be equally opposed for similar reasons.It's fair enough to expect people to check their facts John. For example, even under prime minister Howard, over 80% of all seekers have been deemed legitimate refugees... meaning they were definitely not "of dishonest intent".

Sending people back without investigating their claims is called refoulement and is the most serious breach of our obligations under the treaty Mr Menzies helped to draft.Nice to know our current government has heartfelt concern for the wellbeing of asylum seekers. Given that far more people (Australians at that) die on our roads each year should we expect the Coalition to use the military to stop people driving?

Stop the cars!Why do Mr Abbot's supporters respond to criticism of the Coalition by assuming everyone else just agrees with Labor. Is the idea of not blindly following a party so inconceivable?Indeed. What Mr Abbott needs to do is get started on those one million jobs he promised. At the moment his score is in the negatives, so he's got a bit of catching up to do.And there you hit upon an honest criticism of Ms Gillard's election promise, Schadenfreuder. If only Mr Abbott and his supporters could have argued over the actual discrepancies instead of making up fake ones there could have been an honest debate.So, Morticia, you count the carbon price as a lie (something Andrew Bolt quoted her as promising before the 2010 election) but the buckets of broken promises from Mr Abbott (such as no new taxes, no changes to pensions, no deals with minor parties) are... fine by you?What to do when a conservative senator is causing problems for a conservative government? Keep trying to link him to the "luvvies" so people forget he's from the right wing.How can you cite that as a (FACT) when the minister involved withholds all information and has gagged his entire department?I can't really argue with improving parental leave with a tax on big business, but doesn't that fit the exact Coalition definition of "class warfare"?Lexx, is it possible for the Coalition to be objectively wrong about something or, in your world, is everyone who criticises them just a Labor supporter?

Of course 457s were a rort when Labor was in charge. The Coalition are now in charge and 457s are still a rort.Mr Abbott promised us one million new jobs Mack1, possibly trying to match the previous government's achievement. 

So far his score is in the negatives. If he truly has an interest in actually dealing with unemployment, he is currently failing dramatically.Peter, if you were paying 1 billion dollars a month on a private debt that might be an emergency. For a national economy with a healthy GDP it is a manageable and unremarkable situation.The telling thing about the budget, Sidlaw, is that it doesn't do anything to address the stated goals. About the only revenue increase that is to go toward the budget (the temporary levy) is more than countered by the removal of other revenue and by the huge amount of increased spending.

Even if Mr Hockey had not let the cat out of the flimsy bag it is quite clear from this budget, and from the almost immediate doubling of the deficit when this government first came to power, that Abbott and Hockey don't believe their own rhetoric."This PM and the LNP Govt will be savaged by Green and The Yank whatever they do and even if they do nothing."

Grumpy, Yank said Abbott couldn't be blamed for the MH17 situation. Jonathan Green wrote an article a week ago praising Mr Abbott's response to the situation and expressing hope that we see more of the same.When you put it like that, Cangaiman, it sounds a lot like communism. The government pays the workforce at a uniform rate for varied tasks.You know what has addressed the issue of "systemic bias"? The many reviews demanded by Coalition politicians and the ones instigated by Mark Scott (Howard appointee).

The end result. If there is any bias to the ABC it's toward the conservative end of the spectrum.Veronica provided a link to the information in her article Harry. It leads to a media release from Eric Abetz and Luke Hartsuyker (is that pronounced heart-sucker? It should be!). This media release specifies up to 40 applications per month (without specifying what the variables are) and 15 to 25 hours of work per week (more than one day's worth).Indeed Marc, there is such a focus on "bludgers" that people are blindly punishing everyone just for the satisfaction of knowing the few "bludgers" are not getting away with it.

Like you, I'd rather some of my taxes be wasted on a few recalcitrants than put others in a situation where they may feel no other option than to resort to crime. It is a predictable problem that will almost certainly be caused by this hardline approach.I must disagree with you Jimmy.

Studies have been undertaken that show that human beings cannot maintain efficiency for 12 hours straight. It not only takes a toll on the ability to concentrate but also has negative effects on the person's health, both physical and mental.

I realise you're a libertarian at heart (as am I, to some extent) but the temptation to exploit such license to overwork people would likely prove too much for some employers. That's even if they get their employees to "volunteer"."the broken promises were forced on his Government by the disaster inherited from the profligacy of Swan and Gillard"

You are directly contradicting Treasurer Hockey who publicly announced there is no problem with our economy.

I'm sure you've also seen (or heard of) the review published by the IMF that referred to the Howard government as the only profligate government of recent Australian history (and twice at that!)."The IMF said no such thing"

No doubt you're referring to the disclaimer that is on all IMF reports stating the findings are the work of the individuals involved. Of course, if you'd actually read my comment you would have seen that I only credited the IMF with publishing it. Claiming this is an "outright lie" is... an outright lie.How about Mr Howard's former staffer, Grahame Morris, suggesting Ms Gillard should be "kicked to death" or Alan Jones' suggestion she be stuffed in a chaff bag and thrown out to sea, or his despicable exploitation of Ms Gillard's recently deceased father (echoed soon after by Mr Abbott)?

How about Bill Heffernan claiming Ms Gillard had no idea what life is about solely because she is "deliberately barren"?

How about the regular comments on The Drum expressing hatred of "the left"? In any political article (and most non-political ones) you'll find more than one disparaging comment about those "lefties". Makes it easier to vent when you lump people into a vague category, like "country shoppers" or "leaners".

Not saying there's no hate on the other side, but claiming that "no-one hates like the left" is classic projection.Indeed Debunker. I imagine those you mention, along with Mark Latham and others, would have faced a fair share of opprobrium. There's hate from the left, but they certainly don't hold the patent.

Along with the examples I mentioned above I have seen plenty of people denigrate Turnbull and Malcolm Fraser for being "lefties" and the fury directed at Peter Slipper for leaving the party was impressive.

I'm simply pointing out that attempts to characterise "the left" as hateful requires ignoring the significant levels that bubble up from their opponents.Presumption of innocence isn't base politics at its worst, Andie. It's the foundation of our justice system.

As it turns out, one was guilty and the other was innocent so it's a good thing they weren't hanged before their day in court.The hounding of Slipper was over the allegations of harassment. Allegations that were thrown out of court as politically motivated abuse of the system. Ashby managed to obtain license to try again, but then dropped the case. End result, not guilty.One thing about this budget is that it doesn't do anything to fix that "emergency" Mr Abbott warned us about.

Extra tax on petrol, but that's for new roads. New co-payment on medical visits, but that's earmarked for a medical research fund. Nothing that affects the economy except the removal of some government income and the "deficit levy" for which Mr Shorten expressed support. Far from dealing with a "budget emergency" this government doubled the deficit within six months of attaining office and are increasing the debt faster than the previous government.

The harshness is unjustified because the reasons they provide don't stack up. The fact that the poor, sick, elderly and young are burdened more by this budget than high income earners equally dispels the assertion of "sharing the heavy lifting".I don't think having to negotiate on every item is such a bad sign. I think refusing to negotiate is.If we go to was? Good point Dmans5. Whenever the Coalition are in office that likelihood goes up in leaps and bounds.*war"Australia is in the most enviable position of countries of the world"

When in the country Mr Hockey disagrees with that statement. Only when he's overseas and thinks we can't hear him will he say otherwise.

"yet have such a dearth of compassion"

Indeed, as the budget and conditions at Manus and Nauru demonstrate.

"Australians are selfish and self-centred"

Are you referring to the poor and poorest or to the high income people who benefit the most from society but resist making a similarly high contribution back to it?


Mr Hockey may not have had a privileged upbringing, but he had a free education and led the rallies to protest making it otherwise."To presume that high income people ( as if they are from another country) are stripping the country bare of its assets and sponging up welfare payments, is just ludicrous."

I tend to agree with you Brian. On the other hand, suggesting they benefit more from society than low income people seems pretty self evident.


"But to say that one group or another is a demon because it is presumed ( ie; without knowledge) that this group is ripping the system off, is wrong and harmful to the on-going welfare of our nation."

Again I agree with you Brian. Whether they are high income, low income or unemployed it is wrong to presume they're ripping the system off or to say they are a demon.You would have noticed, Splod, that some people have an undirected and uncontrollable loathing of anything they can describe as left wing (even Turnbull and Palmer have been called "lefties by these people, because they have no other word for their hatred). It manifests in blanket statements and assumptions about what "lefties" think or want or do, and in name calling (luvvies, latte-sippers, etc). The most hilarious aspect of this is it is the very same people who proclaim that "nobody hates like the left".

Not saying there's no equivalent from the other side, just less of it.Despite being atheist there are a few bible passages I like, and that one is one of my favourites (along with the sermon on the mount).

It would be nice if people strove to emulate some of the more noble teachings of the bible, such as charity, caring, not judging people or indulging in greed.Jimmy's post needs to be emphasised.

It's not like our society has never dealt with brutal killers before, and it's not like Sharrouf is able to return to Australia and take up a job. If this individual does return he'll be arrested and likely spend a lot more than four years in gaol.

Responding to threats with panic is counterproductive.John, I tried to post a link to youtube showing Mr Abbott engaging in, as you say, "a typical bit of hysterics from the left"

The post never showed, so I'll simply recommend you visit youtube and type in "Tony Abbott Whyalla". You'll get a number of results and find that this was not the only "typical bit of hysterics" Mr Abbott has indulged in.I agree with your first point, John1. Hockey's statement was a verifiable fact backed up by Treasury.

You then counter your own message by employing the Liberal Party's equivalent (economy in trouble 'cause Labor!).It's not just Labor and its supporters, John, it's also every economist who is not directly connected to the Coalition. 

The budget needs improvement over time, and was on its way there after recovering from the GFC, but the "budget emergency" was political grade rubbish.Go easy Darren. While I have met some unlikeable GPs in my life (not many), the truth is they all do an admirable and necessary job. The system is set up like a production line where they have to work through a long queue of people and, in many cases, make a best guess as to what their problem is (medicine is not the all-knowing force we like to think it is) so it's certainly not an easy job.

I don't doubt Ig's assertion that a lot of people probably show up to the clinic without anything serious (that they case diagnose at the time), but there are two truisms to support such action. "It's better to be safe than sorry", and "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure".

As the article describes, the co-payment may act as just one more discouragement to seeking help and could therefore lead to easily manageable conditions being left to become a lot less manageable. Not a good idea.Understandable, Darren. It was a pretty obnoxious comment in the first place, and one I would not expect many GPs to agree with.It's easier to exercise the kind of personal responsibility you're talking about when life has been kind to you. Many people, through no fault of their own, are left without the resources to cover for events such as unexpected illness.

We all benefit from being a part of society, some more than others. I see it as no great hardship for the rest of us to help lift up those who have benefitted less.I wouldn't expect such people to be very common Freddie. After all, there is pride to be had in self sufficiency. 

Of course there are people who will just freeload as much as they can (and not all of them are low income) but I'd be very wary of punishing/neglecting everyone just to ensure the few undeserving don't get away with it.I've seen such people as well, AE, but they are in the vast minority. It's wrong to punish everyone just to ensure the few undeserving don't get away with it."Sorry, but the industry pays what it legally has to"

I don't quite understand your point. Was the support for the car manufacturers not also legal?"A lot of economists don't either"

What would economists know about it?

Mind you, previous tax cuts here and in the US have not actually stimulated the economies nor added jobs... but Mr Hockey seems to think doing the same thing again will work this time.Their difficulty in explaining what they want to do and why suggests to me that it is not their idea. 

I get the feeling, from a number of actions undertaken by this government, that they are simply following orders.This is the same government that published identifying information on asylum seekers, putting their families at risk in the countries they fled from.

The same government that wants to introduce laws to punish whistle blowers instead of protect them.

Sounds legit.The first example that pops into mind, Joan, is publishing information about asylum seekers on Manus Island that revealed their identities to the governments they fled.

Assange and Snowden revealed the lengths governments have gone to in secret, actions their citizens would never have supported if they had been aware. The outrage by those governments at having their deeds exposed to the public shows the contempt in which they hold their constituents (in a democracy those constituents are meant to be the people in charge).Because a non-impaired youth would not be as dependent on their new carers and would have the prospect of gaining independence within a few years.While you have us looking "over there", Scupundi, you have raised another concern with this raft of "anti terrorism" action.

If you're opposed to 18C for the sake of free speech you must surely be horrified by the proposed laws against whistleblowers. The current government is talking about prosecuting anyone who reveals information they want kept secret, which leaves them well open to punish journalists who print articles revealing embarrassing facts. Sounds like a dictator's wet dream.

I'm not over worried about 18C, I can understand the danger of inciting racism but am not sure we need protection from being offended. On the other hand I find that less concerning than what is being proposed now.Pushing for policy already shown to be a failure is far from a rare thing, sadly. They're still trying to say tax cuts to rich people will stimulate the economy, that work for the dole will lead to employment, that new roads will ease congestion and that privatisation will lower prices.

All of these things have been tried before and proven to be pointless or, even worse, counterproductive. Yet they push forward without even trying to find a better justification.12 plots foiled already? All without the need to record everyone's internet activity? Sounds like we don't need big brother watching over us after all.They can't be under the bed Gerard. That spot is taken."You cannot judge something until you have seen it in action."

You may have a point there John1. Mr Abbott could have saved himself from expressing his embarrassing hyperbole about Whyalla being wiped off the map and $500 roasts if he'd just waited for the facts. With all that sensationalist media fed by belligerent opposition parties seeking political advancement it would have been easy to miss the fact that the carbon price was a success without being much of a blip on the economy.Human rights abuses. Death in custody. Incursions into Indonesian territory. Campaigning on honesty, then revealing his campaign promises were a host of lies. Getting caught out abusing travel expenses. Then they manage to produce a budget so devastatingly cruel (and demonstrably ideological) they may not be able to get it through.How amusing that all the time Mr Abbott and his colleagues in opposition were droning out that word they were using a "Leftist weapon of hate word".Yeah, I had to read that part twice. I'd certainly rather those things be taught to young minds than a mythology that advocates killing people who work on the Sabbath.

Those motifs are philosophical in nature, but at least they're presented that way. When I was subjected to religious education it was taught as if it were all true and really happened.If Christianity (or any doctrine) can withstand open-minded intellectual critique then there's no need to indoctrinate children. You can let them access it when they're older and more experienced and more capable of judging what they're being told. To teach young children mythology as if it were historical fact is to betray their trust and credulity.

Also, pw4, you don't seem to understand the meaning of "secular". It is as much protection for religion as from it."That is the problem with generalisations, they tend to be inaccurate and distort reality"

You've just argued against your own criticism of atheists and a few dozen of your rants against "lefties" there Realist. I do, however, agree with your point ;-)I like how you express dislike of offensive generalisations, yet simultaneously manage to demean the intelligence and taste of European backpackers an suggest Australians are somehow more enlightened... on an article complaining about an Australian business.If there really was a "budget mess" shouldn't the revenue from the GP co-payment and the extra petrol tax go toward reducing debt rather than being earmarked for medical research (after gutting CSIRO) and new roads? Surely the government could have backed out of buying malfunctional joint strike fighters, as other countries have done, rather than actually increasing the purchase? Why does the government want to restore the FBT loophole if there is such a problem?

There was no "budget emergency". The actions of this government demonstrate this despite their words.By protecting the country from a global financial crisis to the accolades of unaligned economists around the world.

You might suggest trade with China saved us or the surplus at the time, yet the only other developed country to avoid recession didn't have either of these. What Poland did have was a strategy very similar to the one Labor used.Agreed! You can't get rich on a desert island. It takes a society to provide the means for wealth, so it's only fair to give a portion back to that society.

I don't care that Gina gets more money in ten minutes than I do in a year, but to hear her whinge about having to pay those doing the work for her makes my blood boil, let alone her complaints about paying tax. Of course it's not just her, she's just the most obvious example.Yank, I can understand the schaudenfreude after the pre-school antics of Abbott during the last government. He truly is starting to get a taste of his own medicine and it isn't even coming from the opposition or media, he's practically punching himself in the face!

On the other hand, it's difficult to celebrate when it's our country's government that is the source of ridicule. Whoever is in charge of the nation after the next election, whichever party, I just hope it's run more effectively than the comedy sideshow we're getting at the moment."the only group that will start helping to pay back Labor/Greens debt on behalf of our children and grandchildren, will be those suckers on $180,000 or more"

I guess you're right about that Todd, given that neither the GP co-payment nor the extra petrol tax are slated to go toward the "budget emergency" even if they're passed.Refugees have travel agents? Do they get their accountants to pay them and their secretaries to keep their travel schedules?Not sure, Harvey, if Mr Abbott's war on refugees makes him look as heroic as he might have hoped.

After giving two patrol boats to Sri Lanka and using our navy to capture and return people to that country it looks a lot less like heroism and more like putting our country at their service.I'll sponsor a refugee, APM, if you fund a navy boat for pushing others back to the situation they're trying to flee... and cover any legal costs if anyone decides to charge our country with human rights violations.Interesting assumption APM. Are you judging me based on your own tendencies?

Personally I have no objection to returning those assessed as being in no danger. The thing is, these people weren't properly assessed. They were allegedly asked about four questions, possibly via video link without representation or assistance with understanding what their situation was. 

I say "allegedly" because Mr Morrison is keeping as much information from us as he can and there is no way you or I can be sure about anything being claimed, including unverified claims made by the government (these people have lied to us before).

Previously people who have not passed assessment have been murdered after being returned so I think it behoves us to err on the side of caution.It's true, JAL, that I don't truly know for certain how things went down. In fact I'm pretty sure I mentioned that in my previous post. Mind you, I guess the strange secrecy around the issue was worth mentioning again, thanks for that.

You go a bit off the deep end, though, when you start talking about conspiracies. Where did you get that idea?As much as I generally disagree with Mr Berg, I get the impression he would stick to his philosophy in such a situation MWD.Damage's definition of "useless" must be "something that has achieved its purpose" (11% reduction of emissions in affected industries in two years).That's got to be the first time I've seen a "why should my taxes...?" complaint be dismissed by a conservative.Time for another review of the ABC do you think GBE? 

All the previous ones showed that the "bias" of the ABC exists only in the imagination of partisan zombies, but maybe the next one will yield the results some people clearly want to see.I wonder if anyone regrets their vote at the last election.That's a fair point John and a reasonable criticism of action by the previous government.

Any comment on the idea of the current government removing FOFA just as revelations of dishonesty and shoddy dealings within the financial industry come to light?

Also, what do you think of this government's sudden reluctance to hold an RC when it's big business that's in the firing line?Indeed Ted, it's hilarious to hear Mr Abbott caution that you can "overdo enquiries" given that after many into the insulation scheme, including a coronial enquiry and a senate enquiry, he decided to slap a royal commission on top to see if he could get a different result this time.

When it comes to big business, that's when you can "overdo enquiries" and coincidentally it's where the age of entitlement is far from over.No room for nuance in a slogan.

So many people seem to prefer the idea of punishing everyone to ensure those few rorters are included. I'd rather accept those few who avoid contributing to ensure we don't punish people who don't deserve it.

Besides, there are plenty of checks and balances in place already. If they're not working they should be reviewed.Like I said, if the checks and balances are not working they should be reviewed. Denying assistance as a blanket ban is unacceptable (at least to me it is).Hidi, you accuse Yank of "anti government whinge" (and to be fair, it is government policy that sparked this debate) and then follow up with your own anti previous government whinge.

You could do with a dose of self awareness.Elsewhere John you argue the pointlessness of acting alone. It seems an interesting contrast to your other contention that those seeking action on climate change should simply stop communicating, travelling, eating and getting paid while watching the rest of society continue to chop and burn.

The idea is that there are ways to produce energy that don't add to pollution. Therefore those greenies (and you too) won't have to give up phones, vehicles, food and income. Not if the research is done and the changes are made to allow this.You raise a good point Pete, one that tends to get drowned out.

If this fellow had gotten into a fight or beat his wife/gf there would be a bit of outrage and a lot of defence, but ultimately he'd be forgiven, kept his job and continue to be paid outrageous sums of money. It's not like we haven't seen that scenario played out by celebrities many times before.People of capable and durable ethics are at a clear disadvantage. Mainly because they stick to facts, avoid hyperbole and refuse to lie.Chip old mate, I'm not that big a fan of Shorten but I think it's unfair to misrepresent him so. He has said many times he'll support removing the carbon price if an ETS replaces it (not Mr Palmer proposes an ETS of nil, which is a middle finger raised toward the idea of carbon reduction). Shorten has also said he'd support other measure in the budget, the few that don't exact harsh retribution on the poor and infirm. He's already shown more cooperation as an opposition leader than Mr Abbott did in four years."Just imagine how rational thinkers thought about Rudd/Gillard/Rudd"

We were mostly fine with it ;-)The tribalism is still there James. There's plenty of people commenting here who are just mindlessly barracking for their team and worrying about scoring goals and their side winning.

The people abandoning the two majors are the ones who follow their conscience and who care about policy. I suspect (as Duniya seems to be suggesting) that these people would return to the majors if they started acting like the adults they claim to be and put some talent at the forefront.That's what you got out of this article Ben? Nothing to say about rejecting asylum seekers because they have less than 50% chance of being tortured on return? Nothing to say about the many surprises and broken promises from this government, including the cuts to the ABC?

Your only concern is the use of the word "gutted"? Are you sure you never engaged in such hyperbole yourself? Never used words like "basket case" "massive waste" or "budget emergency"?"Why is that MP allegiance to there party is stronger than there allegiance to their constituents?"

I think we voters can take some of the blame there Rabbithole. So many people don't vote for the person to best represent their electorate, but rather for the person in the team they barrack for. I can't otherwise explain how Mal Brough was elected after his involvement with that political stitch-up (the harassment case against Slipper).

I was guilty of this in the days before the internet. Now, however, it's so easy to look up who is running in one's electorate and then look up their history. We each should be doing some research and using our own judgement when selecting someone to represent us rather than abdicating such decisions to a party.Indeed, we should deal with it the way Mr Abbott and his followers dealt with it after the 2010 election.... or do we really need to lower ourselves to that level?"This is so typical of the Left"

Oddly enough we're talking about the tactics Mr Abbott used.Perhaps they saw Mr Abbott lead criticisms of Labor for building communication infrastructure and school improvements and had some doubts about his sincerity.Funny they should do that, GD, when the RBA not only didn't ask for it but actually advised against it. I guess Hockey just found a few extra billion to throw around when he discovered the books were not as bad as he'd hoped."massive waste on BER"

Every review has concluded the waste of the BER was less than 4%. A figure any private industry would drool over. I'm sure you were already aware of this APM.I noticed that the Liberal Party, much like Labor, have also jumped the fence on those very same budget savings. Leaping from utterly opposed to trying to push them through.

Let us not forget that this, too, is from the Tony Abbott book of opposition. He led the charge to oppose the Coalition's own ETS policy. The main difference being that he opposed the exact same policy his party had proposed, whereas the Labor savings proposals originally diverted funds to projects that the Coalition proposals have done away with."Let us also not forget that 90% of the legislation passed in the last parliament was supported by the then opposition"

Which completely refutes the hyperbolic rubbish Mr Abbott and followers have been spouting about the previous government being "incompetent" or "dysfunctional".Some of their policy was poorly implemented, Debunker, a lot of it was resoundingly successful as hard as it is for some to admit.

The Coalition also made a lot of promises in the lead up to the last election. The senate didn't force them to break their promises regarding no new taxes, no cuts to pensions, no cuts to the ABC. 

They can be considered to have kept their promise to "stop the boats" but deliberately worsening conditions at the camps leading to illness, riot and casualties, the refoulment of Sri Lanken asylum seekers and the inadvertent breaching of Indonesia's sovereignty would qualify the policy as poorly implemented (at least by my standards as a voter).If the whole point of the cuts was to fund other projects that means there is no point to the cuts if funds aren't going to those projects.The panic over deficit is a very recent invention Debunker. I recommend you refer to an article today at The Conversation pointing out how the Menzies government would be considered a complete budgetary failure by such standards.Well, it's not like this government has any shame over dumping our problems on some other poor country. Just look at our asylum seeker policies.I'd say a far more obvious consequence of nabbing those potential jihadists would be that the current system has proved to be working just fine. No need to grant the government even more power over the lives of its citizens.And yet we can afford to pay directors and CEOs in the multiple millions. Go figure.I suspect it's a combination of artificially inflated property prices and the ever expanding wealth gap.

Landed gentry have made a dramatic return.The owner has the right to be a bigot! Hasn't he?Indeed, AE, it turns out 18C isn't the set of shackles it's been made out to be.I think it requires someone to instigate the legal action, aGuy, though I'm not speaking from any legal expertise. My recollection with the Bolt case was that the individuals he maligned took legal action and chose to utilise 18C instead of defamation laws so people wouldn't assume they were just after money.

I suspect if anyone affected by the cartoon or pamphlet you mentioned they would have similar recourse if they chose.In part I agree with you STB, and I don't like our habit of adding more and more legislation to decide what we can and cannot say. It's a problem with both major parties as Labor worries about offending minorities and Liberal worries about upsetting commercial interests.

On the other hand, there may be a pattern of law influencing attitude. It seems to me that the recognition of women as equals slowly grew after legislation against gender discrimination was put in place. Similarly our acceptance of homosexuality is better now than it was when sexual orientation was added to the list of aspects we're not allowed to discriminate against. 

On the other hand maybe we're just slowly, generationally improving regardless of law. Long way to go, of course.Leaving a AAA rating, low unemployment/inflation/debt. What a terrible legacy to leave poor Mr Abbott (especially since he was so keen on having some sort of "budget emergency").

The current opposition is providing as much policy detail as the previous opposition did. Is that a bad thing?Indeed the government's difficulties with the senate is actually surprising given it mostly comprises of conservative representatives. They can't keep blaming Labor when even fellow conservatives are rejecting their plans.I certainly wasn't referring to the Greens, Forrest. That would, indeed, be drawing a very long bow.

The Coalition and PUP together have the numbers to approve as much legislation as they like. Palmer has life-long membership of the QLD LNP and has been their biggest donor, which would indicate a conservative attitude (whether he's being obstructionist at the moment or just opposing bad policy)."Your childish and ill informed comments about extremists and the danger posed ins't worth a response."

I love the fact that you couldn't help but respond anyway :-)

Statistically you are more likely to die from being struck by lightning than a terrorist attack. On the other hand, thousands of Australians die every year in car crashes. Hundreds commit suicide. Let's all be afraid of terrorists!Interesting point John. On the one hand it suggests the "Dr No" tag was not entirely accurate, on the other hand it also suggests Mr Abbott's claims about the previous government being "incompetent" or "dysfunctional" were also inaccurate.Perhaps Mr Howard and Mr Abbott should have appointed even more of their own people to control the ABC. The ones already put in place just aren't doing enough to satisfy the party faithful.Perhaps progressive voters just don't flock toward unrelenting opposition as much as others.That definition should be in the next dictionary Forrest.What to think? - Fortunately no party has tried to legislate what to think, and wouldn't be able to enforce it anyway (although certain politicians may look longingly at GWB's Patriot Act that means a person can be arrested on suspicion of thinking about blowing something up).

What to eat? - QLD LNP environment minister called for a boycott of a brand of ice cream for daring to campaign to save the Great Barrier Reef. I guess that's about as close to telling us what to eat a political party has managed to get... unless you count prohibition on recreational drugs.

Who to love? - I guess no party tells you who to love, but one of them tells you who you can marry.

In retrospect, you accusation toward Labor seems more fitting when applied to the Liberal Party.A truly amusing comment, Forrest, so soon after Mr Abbott finished blaming Labor for sportsmen taking drugs and Liberal Party politicians taking bribes.

Were you, perhaps, being ironic?Indeed there is debt. It's not a problem. At least, not for people who are capable of managing it."If the policies are so poor and no one likes them, then pass it and let the LNP live with the consequences"

You mean let the public live with the consequences. Maybe instead of working for political capital they're actually trying to protect the public from the more harsh and unfair measures.You also missed the view of every economist and expert who isn't directly linked to the Coalition.Oddly enough, Zaphod, nobody will try to say the budget deficit isn't real... because it is real and can be demonstrated in the numbers.

The budget emergency isn't real because Mr Abbott made it up. No expert or economist who isn't directly linked to the Coalition will back the claim and there isn't any evidence that can be held up to support it.

Therein lies the difference between a fact (budget deficit) and a lie (budget emergency).It's already been shown that the ABC and Guardian revealed the story when they knew about it, and left Rupert's papers in their dust. Doesn't stop people from making up accusations and pretending they're true."the lefties always need someone to blame for reporting their abject and absolute mis-steps and failures"

Curious thing to say Debunker, given how the current Coalition government has been responding to every criticism it's faced with "because Labor!". Even things like drugs in sport and Liberal Party politicians taking bribes have been "because Labor!" according to Mr Abbott. Finding someone to blame for abject and absolute mis-steps and failures seems to be Mr Abbott's only real talent so far.The ABC doesn't use headlines to tell people to "kick this mob out", nor do they photoshop nazi uniforms onto politicians.Except for his $8M tax dodge.They weren't portrayed as Nazis because the pictures of Nazis used to portray them were from a comedy? Is that really the argument you're making?"Would this matter then have been aired by the ABC and leftist media? You bet it would!"

Proven wrong Zaphod. When non-mainstream media was revealing Mr Abbott's travel expense abuse the mainstream, including the ABC and "leftist media" kept quiet on the subject until after the election.

Same with Ms Credlin's drink driving charge.

Oddly enough they didn't show the same discretion while the trumped up charges against Slipper were still in court. Every salacious detail was published to the cheers of Mr Abbott."Would this matter then have been aired by the ABC and leftist media? You bet it would!"

Except that's not what happened with Mr Abbott's travel expense rorting nor with Ms Credlin's drink driving charge. Both of those stories were held back until after the election for some reason.

It is what happened with every salacious detail of the trumped up harassment case against Slipper, to Mr Abbott's delight.Curiously it was Shorten who revealed the allegations against him and faced up to the scrutiny. I can name other politicians who would have just run away from the press if they didn't like the questions...If it were Abbott? Hmmm. Maybe the press would keep it under wraps the way Mr Abbott's travel expense rorts were until after the election. Much like Ms Credlin's drink driving charge.

Maybe, as you suspect, it would have all been out in the open from day one, like every salacious detail of the trumped up harassment charge against Slipper... all publicised to the cheers of Mr Abbott.

Hard to say.Bob's ability to down a beer in a single go is a source of inspiration to many Craig.

I'll say one thing for Tony Abbott though, he instils in me a strong sense of self confidence. Never before have I looked at an Australian prime minister and thought "I could do that job!" ;-)I disagree Freddie. A lot of people protesting the treatment of the unemployed currently have jobs. A lot of people opposed to deregulation of university fees and ramping up HECS repayments have already finished their own studies. No citizen denouncing our treatment of asylum seekers has to worry about being in that situation themselves...

What seems to be happening is people, a lot of people, insisting we give other people a fair go.Universal healthcare saves money and improves productivity. The co-payment is a counter productive pretence at having a plan.The majority of those people would have completed high school anywhere up to fifty years before the Greens/ALP government you mention. Who was in power before them?

The repeated refrains of "because Labor!" don't bear up under scrutiny.Mick, I don't disagree that Labor have a vindictive streak. Mr Rudd's campaign to retake the leadership and the current spat over who is at fault for hobbling the super profits tax are prime examples.

On the other hand I don't think you can blame Rudd for Mr Turnbull's demise as leader of the opposition. The biggest damage done to him was by Godwin Gretch and Mr Turnbull's overenthusiasm when he thought he'd found a smoking gun.

The current government has certainly been spiteful, removing Labor appointments to be replaced with Coalition faithful for one thing, which is something the previous government did not do. They have been working to remove every initiative of the previous government they can, even when it means cutting government revenue.

They are divisive with their "lifters and leaners" mantra, encouraging people to look down on the unemployed, on pensioners and on students. They whip up fear over people arriving in boats (both parties are tainted by this, but the Coalition seems to be winning the race to the bottom).

There was certainly vindictiveness on display for the way they went after Slipper for the crime of apostasy. A trumped up harassment case and sudden charges over travel expenses that came to a fraction of what Mr Abbott was caught out claiming falsely (not defending Slipper on that, so much as pointing out the hypocrisy).Have you got any evidence that suggests they aren't abiding by their charter? There's been plenty of studies and investigations into the matter so surely you should be able to back up your claims...If the ABC weren't living up to its charter you can bet our current government would be shouting it from the rooftops as the excuse for budget cuts they promised not to bring.

As it stands not one study or investigation has shown the ABC to be failing in it's responsibilities toward unbiased reporting. If you care to refute this, please advise which study or investigation has found otherwise.Are you saying your impression of the ABC is more factual than any independent report?

Much like our current government you seem to be telling us to never mind the facts or evidence, just trust what you say.Notice how a smaller increase in CO2 emissions in China is counted as if there's no reduction at all, yet a smaller increase in global temperature is counted as if there's no increase at all. Mr Hockey applies opposing definitions to the same terminology depending on what he wishes were happening.An example of Poe's law.

At first glance one would think Bob's cutting sarcasm could not be mistaken for an earnest defence of the current Coalition government. Yet reading the kind of comments being parodied... well... it's not all that strange the parody was mistaken for sincerity.Do we have the results of the investigation yet? So far all we've had is unsubstantiated accusations made under a complete absence of evidence. For all we currently know Mr Abbott could well find his assumptions thoroughly debunked.But it's so unfair, Debunker. The media was invited to Mr Abbott's pre-shirtfront grandstanding yet not to the main event! Now there's no way to know if Mr Abbott challenged Mr Putin to an armwrestle or if he simply rolled onto his back and begged for a belly rub.

I'm certainly glad the MH17 wreckage is finally being recovered. Was it Mr Putin that had been holding up access?I believe the senate has been spelling out how Mr Abbott might lift his game... or, at least, how not to lower it. That's where the negotiation is meant to happen, but at the moment it's where Mr Abbott's legislation goes to die.There are independent studies to back Olive's claim, Rob. How about yours?"at a time when he is representing the country and not his party"

If Mr Abbott had been doing that he may have earned some praise. Instead he used an international forum to continue his domestic political campaign. He did the same at the Davos summit and in his Washington Post interview.Indeed, FCG, exactly like those examples.

Now, please advise why it's perfectly fine for you to bring up those old chestnuts but it's wrong for anyone to criticise Mr Abbott for his own brain farts?"wreckage left by the last rabble"

Funny how some people can make this bold claim without requiring a shred of evidence. They used to be at least be able to say "debt and deficit" but even that has evaporated since the new government has been tirelessly inflating both since they got in.

It's early days yet, but already I suspect this government will never get the international accolades from the IMF and respected economists that the previous government received.Gazumped, this particular "vitriolic propaganda" is from a Howard staffer. Mr Abbott's natural allies are cringing at his performance.

I notice you support the description of "those 6 years of disaster". If anything fit the description of "vitriolic propaganda" it would be that oft-repeated but never justified slogan. I realise you're probably referring to the leadership spills, which were not a good look, but they didn't stop the government from earning international accolades for their economic strategy nor from passing a record amount of legislation and overseeing an unequalled reduction in government spending. Very far from a disaster.Hilarious! Both of you are so keen to see some sort of left wing conspiracy neither of you noticed this article was from John Howard's media advisor.

Especially amusing are the accusations and name calling only to be followed with the claim that everyone else are "arrogant and obnoxious" with "extreme narrow viewpoints, intolerance and uncontrolled hate".

I stand in awe of such a complete absence of self awareness.If you're talking about the phone tapping, I recall the Indonesian president and foreign minister both making attempts to contact our government and sort the situation out. When later withdrawing their ambassador they cited our "dismissive" response for exacerbating the situation.

Thinking about Mr Abbott's "stunning victories", I guess if Russian ships breach our territory we won't really be able to complain very much about it. After all, it could just be the wind and the waves pushing them over the line.You're saying the phone tapping was Abbott's fault? I certainly didn't say that. I did mention the Indonesian president didn't withdraw the ambassador until after he got sick of trying to establish a dialogue while our fearless leader avoided him.

So, you don't like "childish grandstanding" eh? Yeah, me neither.You seem to be deliberately misreading my comments, Clownfish.

The phone tapping happened under Labor. Find a comment of mine that says otherwise and I'll retract and apologise.

That didn't prevent Mr Yudhoyono from trying to contact our government and sort the situation out. Indeed the only thing preventing that was Mr Abbott's refusal to so much as speak with him. He said as much when he withdrew the ambassador.

Of course that is the only aspect of the affair that was Mr Abbott's responsibility. Pity he handled it so daftly.Not as much fun when it's a Coalition PM being ridiculed I guess. Mind you, it's not like grandstanding to the leader of a vastly more powerful country could truly be considered "irrelevant".Not the Russian's fault, Reallist. The wind and the tides are pushing them this way. Like when we accidentally breached Indonesia's borders... six times.He didn't demand answers Jill. He boasted that he was going to for the cameras, but the closer he got to being in the same space as Putin the less bold he sounded. Mind you, why demand answers from the Russian leader when it's the Dutch carrying out the investigation (you know, that thing people do when they actually want real answers).

Who knows what was said in those fifteen minutes they finally met. Maybe Mr Abbott will tell us how he won an arm wrestle with the Russian leader... after Putin leaves... and only for local audiences.As much an annoyance as when Ms Gillard was PM, or when Mr Rudd was PM. I certainly remember reading about those on our ABC, but it's obviously fine when it's a Labor PM.

Even now in this article people are still going on about Rudd's "rat f#ck" comment. Just recently someone was still chortling over Ms Gillard tripping over in India. At least none of their blunders was to bluster at the "most powerful man in the world".I don't think it's good to say "we told you so" because it means our pessimistic expectations turned out to be true. I would have preferred to have been happily surprised by this government, but instead am left shaking my head wondering how people were convinced to support this carnival of the bizarre.Lucky Mr Abbott didn't say "rat f#cker" or "programmatic specificity" or "hyperbowl". Otherwise it would have been conservatives charging to condemn him (we know from experience how much they had those words).

Oddly enough when you read through the comments in these articles what you see is people complaining about "lefties" and making wild claims about what those "lefties" want and what they're doing.

When you complain about some sort of "narrative that the Left has eternally had for conservative politicians" it sounds more like projection from a guilty conscience.Apart from the various names people were calling Ms Gillard she also had the honour of appearing on a lunch menu, and of her abilities as PM being judged by the clearly non-sexist standard of whether or not she was married or had children.

On top of that Alan Jones was saying she should be "stuffed in a chaff bag and thrown out to sea", and Grahame Morris (former chief of staff to Mr Howard) urged she be "kicked to death".

No, Ms Gillard did not get off easily, you just pretended the abuse never happened.

Mr Abbott is getting off easy, given most of the ridicule he's getting are the words from his own mouth."caught spying on our neighbors"

Indeed, both major parties have been caught out on this subject recently. Mind you, when the Coalition did this it was to help their financial backers rather than anything that could be described as "security reasons", and they followed up by raiding a solicitor's office in an attempt to remove evidence and sabotage a court case against them.Mr Abbott has no idea who shot down MH17. His accusations and WWF style posturing did nothing to help the situation. All he seemed to be missing was a poster promising "Ras-Putin vs. The Mad Monk!" (along with a few marbles).

Oddly enough, the people you choose to label "flat earthers" are the ones waiting for actual evidence rather than just jumping to conclusions. Of all the name calling you could do you stumbled upon probably the least suitable one you could find."how do you know what evidence the Australian government would have access to?"

Wouldn't Mr Abbott share that with us? If there is evidence identifying who shot down the plane why would he withhold that? If the identity of the perpetrator is being withheld, whey the WWF posturing?

If Mr Abbott, like the rest of Australia and many other people in the world, seriously wants some answers then it's time to start gathering evidence instead of just throwing aimless accusations around. Pointless grandstanding does not get answers.If Mr Abbott tried to seek the truth rather than engage in assumption and bluster there wouldn't be a problem AJS. As it currently stands the identity of who shot down MH17 is yet to be revealed."Mostly this is just a code for introducing a plethora of regulations making the plying of the relevant trade much more difficult"

That may be technically correct Peter, but if it's legislation that enforces safety and quality standards then it's worthwhile. For example we have a plethora of regulations over the food industry, which many a business rails against, but this legislation has also caused levels of food poisoning and related illness/mortality to plummet so effectively that people cannot even remember the Russian roulette the mere act of eating used to involve a few decades ago.

If recreational drugs were legalised and legislated for there would be far fewer admissions into hospital emergency wards, far less crime (since the trade would be in the hands of legitimate business) and a revenue bonanza for the government.

Indeed if we could expect anyone to open up this trade and to respect the choice of the individual, shouldn't it be the Coalition?People are already using recreational drugs, Danny, and a portion are turning up at hospital just as you describe. Legislation, as I mentioned above, would include quality controls to prevent the introduction of uncontrolled poisons and carcinogens, and would standardise doses. It would actually lead to a reduction in hospital admissions.

This is borne up by our experiences in legislating food, alcohol and tobacco standards. It doesn't stop people from overindulging, or from doing something stupid while under the influence, but it would likely result in a reduction.Indeed, it's the reason why conscience votes are such a big deal in the major parties. It would be rare to have a party populated with people who all think exactly alike. Maybe if there was a George Romero party....

Anyway, the candidate's view is on public record so voters can act accordingly."the unions which is becoming increasingly apparent are mostly corrupt organizations"

Quite the opposite Muzzg. The investigations have uncovered very little corruption. This was mentioned in the article you just read...Are we up to criminal charges TC? My impression is we were discussing the findings of the Royal Commission.Better yet, outlaw donations entirely and let the parties compete with public debate rather than advertising. The press will continue giving coverage on who said what, so there's no need to carpet bomb us with pamphlets and television commercials with scary music.Perhaps they were busy investigating the abuse of children and were leaving corporate corruption for later.

Now that Ms Gillard has been cleared of any criminality we should prepare for another Royal Commission with different parameters to see if we can get a different result.I agree, Realist, that unemployment, along with poverty, is a major cause of "social breakdown, violence, turmoil and countries falling apart". That is exactly why education is so important, as education has been proven to be the most effective means of ensuring prosperity for the individual and the society. That is why Mr Whitlam took steps to provide education to everyone regardless of financial standing.

However, I don't think lowering wages or allowing working conditions to deteriorate have shown any propensity to achieve the same.The presence of corruption is enough reason to investigate, Al, but that's not what is being argued.

The RC into unions will likely clean out what rot there is, and that can only be a good thing for those who remain. Not unlike how the QLD police force gained focus and respect after the Fitzgerald Inquiry, and may even be the result for the NSW Liberal party after removing so much rot from them.

The point being made, as I read it, is that the search for corruption should be expanded to include corporations and political parties. It's not so dissimilar an argument from Mr Abbott saying the RC into child abuse should be expanded to investigate more than just religious organisations.I agree with much of your comment, Foolking, but there is one correction.

"but the relationship with the labour party is to combat the liberal relationship with business"

This statement is misleading. The fact is the Labor party was created by the unions way back when our federation was new. The relationship between them has existed as a symbiosis long before the Liberal party ever formed. The Liberal party is the one that was specifically created to oppose the other. That was Mr Menzies' stated intention.

As you say, however, the communications between business, unions and politics needs a good shakeup.You don't actually know how OH&amp;S legislation came about, do you GBE?"defended him to the last"

By that you mean they refused to penalise him until there was a verdict, don't you Mike? Mr Abbott was keen to bypass presumption of innocence on that occasion, but I suspect he'll be singing a different tune if any charges are brought against Kathy Jackson.You can bet, Terry, that neither Abbott nor Pyne will acknowledge that they ever described Kathy Jackson as a "hero" or that Pyne apologised to her on behalf of the parliament for the suggestion she might be guilty of corruption herself.Williamson was never hailed as a hero by members of parliament (Abbott and Pyne) nor issued an apology on behalf of parliament for having been accused of corruption (again, Pyne).

Reinhard expressed approval of corrupt union officials getting their comeuppances. Why should you dictate which one he/she approves of the most?"Are you on the side of the real workers, or the side of the ALP/unions hierarchy??
Are you on the side of fairness or the side of promoting your personal interests via that organisation?"

So, there was nothing partisan about that comment RobP? It reads as if you consider support for "real workers" as incompatible with the ALP or unions. Are you suggesting a few corrupt individuals means the entire movement is corrupt? What would that mean for the NSW Liberal party?

The last sentence of your original post mentions "a stink that no-one in the union movement owns up to". A colourful turn of phrase, but also a vague one. How does expressing favour of corrupt officials getting their comeuppances count as such a "stink"? Just because they don't emphasise the person you think they should?Another teacup tempest. Ms Bishop doesn't have to be a feminist if she doesn't want to, and it's not like a female foreign minister is a bad example for other women.

That said, people are free to raise their voices in protest, and others to defend/criticise as they see fit. I just think this is a non-issue much like Mr Abbott's interview in Women's Weekly, Rudd's strip club visit and Ms Gillard's India trip, or her pronunciation of hyperbole. Fixating on such minutiae distracts from more important issues.Vote on policy! Absolutely the way to go, True Liberal, and far superior to just picking a team and supporting them come hell or high water.

I was going to ask, though, if that Voite Compass is anything like the voight kampff test. I think people should take both :-)"the lefty media would like you did, exaggerate what Tony Abbott said and then manufacture disdain and loathing"

Followed by:

"By telling us all that Abbott ate babies and would take your pension away whilst laying into your grandmother with a crucifix..."

Thus demonstrating the conservative propensity for projection.

Nice job Peter.
"Your views are simply entrenched in the idea that compassion is the sole domain of left wingers, and all conservative thought is selfishness."

You may be correct John. Mind you, remember when Malcolm Fraser began talking about showing compassion to asylum seekers rather than cruelty? How quickly he was abandoned and reviled by the conservatives, and as quickly adopted by the left wingers.Again, what you say is essentially true, John. On the other hand the number of lies and false promises made to win that election is higher than Mr Hockey could count on all fingers and toes. Harvey pointed this out, but you seemed to ignore that.So, when Mr Abbott was calling Ms Gillard a "liar" and "not fit for office" did you class that as personal vindictiveness as well?

As for the slogans, well:

"Axe the tax" based on a campaign of lies and hyperbole. Every time Mr Abbott tried to blame something on the carbon price he was shown to be fabricating (or outright lying). Examples being the doubled electricity bill where the electricity usage also happened to double, closure of the Olympic Dam project where the official report specifically stated the carbon price was not a factor, electricity price increases that were specifically to cover major infrastructure projects, etc.

"Stop the boats" a ruthless exploitation of xenophobia and fear of outsiders. Never before have asylum seekers been a partisan issue and they've certainly never been a threat to our sovereignty. Both major parties are in a race to the bottom, but at the moment Mr Abbott's Liberal Party is in the lead.

"Pay off debt" based on a lie, revealed by the fact the debt and deficit have only been going steadily up since the Coalition took over. Before the election economists were stating clearly there wasn't any "budget emergency" and Mr Hockey has publicly admitted so since then.Abbott and Hockey don't think there's an "economic mess". After all, they've been increasing the debt and deficit ever since being elected. Hockey even admitted publicly there's no "emergency".That's exactly what this article is about Debunker. The mess of combative politics that Mr Abbott seems now to regret.The "carbon tax lie" did stick with the electorate, probably because Mr Abbott spent three years repeating slogans about it, making hyperbolic predictions of doom and disaster (which never eventuated), blamed all economic woes on it (refuted on every occasion by the actual facts) and his statements were seldom questioned in the media (one exception I recall was when asked if he'd read the BHP report). Whatever one thinks of the "no carbon tax" promise (where she did promise a market mechanism) but Mr Abbott's campaign against it was, itself, a tirade of lies and hyperbole.

You could try to say the many broken promises from Mr Abbott since the election aren't as bad, even after he specifically campaigned on having no difference between promises and actions, but it won't be very convincing.Wait, what? This article is about exacerbating social problems that even Mr Murdoch seems able to identify, but you just want to talk about how much you hate the ABC?

Do you even read the articles before commenting?You suspect it was a Freudian slip, Harry? Much like when Mr Abbott revealed where he draws all his "wisdom" from?To be fair, Disco Steve, hyperbole isn't a purely left wing thing. 

The melodrama over the carbon price, the terror of asylum seekers threatening our sovereignty, the "budget emergency", etc. are classic hyperbole from the right wing.

Also, when most people complain about hyperbole from the left, they're talking about climate change. One of the big examples they put forward are Flannery's "predictions", but always misquoted to make them sound more shrill. Where he says "may happen" they quote him as saying "will happen".Step one: create a crisis

Step two: say you have a solution to that crisis

Step three: profitI see you have invoked the "I'm not! You are!" retort.

Touche, Mr Lawyer. Touche.The Productivity Commission actually outlines the tax breaks and government spending specific to mining companies. That would count as evidence that the subsidies are not myths.

What is more likely to be a myth is the idea that the people running these companies are philanthropists who only want to provide employment. It's pretty much an accepted fact that they are actually in it for the money (ie. the sole benefit of that person).There is a difference between making sure the disadvantaged have the resources to live a decent life and giving hand outs to people who don't need them. 

Which government was famous for creating "middle class welfare"?TNBB, I feel safe in assuming you have no actual source for that "statistic". Have you noticed how unemployment and public dissatisfaction have increased under this current government?You better not have come by boat Jimmy ;-)"class-envy warriors"

Funny hearing that phrase from someone who supports the May budget.

Now Tony "no new taxes" Abbott wants to raise the ultimate "great big new tax on everything". Regressive is the correct description, just the way the Coalition likes it.It's interesting to be accused of a "predictable knee jerk reaction" from the people who claimed the carbon price would be a "wrecking ball on the economy", that a few thousand asylum seekers are a threat to our sovereignty and who believe the world's scientific community to be involved in a global conspiracy.

Mr Abbott has already proposed raising taxes despite his promises not to, so it's not like he doesn't have form. It's also been pretty clear that slashing the state budgets has been preparation for a GST increase. I'd say the "luvvies" are being a lot more fair and evidence based than Mr Abbott and his fans were of the Gillard government.Very smooth Ben. Caught out with a falsehood about poor people paying no tax, but you expertly shift the subject to how the poor just aren't paying enough tax.

No concern over people identified by the ATO as "ultra-high-earning" who pay no tax? Multi-nationals paying no tax? No concern over FBT rorts and negative gearing? No, it's about how much can be squeezed out of poor people. Class warrior indeed.No-one pays "no tax" Ben. Not since the GST. Do try again.Ben, are you actually trying to argue that your quote "little to no" did not include the word "no"? With the mental gymnastics you display surely there's a portfolio in this government just waiting for you.

Now if you had suggested that a portion of people described by the ATO as "ultra-high-earners" pay no tax that would have been a verifiable fact.

Do try again.Ben, are you actually trying to argue that your quote "little to no" did not include the word "no"? With the mental gymnastics you display surely there's a portfolio in this government just waiting for you.

Now if you had suggested that a portion of people described by the ATO as "ultra-high-earners" pay no tax that would have been a verifiable fact."We are Liberals who believe in smaller government, lower taxes, greater freedom" - Tony Abbott 24/11/10.

Three falsehoods in the one sentence, as borne out by this government's actions since the election.Mr Abbott described his blockade of asylum seekers as a war, but dropping bombs on Iraqis is definitely not.The situation with asylum seekers didn't become a "disaster" until a canny politician figured there'd be votes in demonising them. Up until that point we resettled refugees efficiently and without fuss.

Beware of talking up the "biggest debt in our nation's history". For the year that the Coalition has held the cheque book our debt has only gone up. An increase of $18.87 billion over the last three months alone. Not at emergency levels yet... unless you believed the dire warnings from Mr Abbott before the election."Only labor supporters really care about personalities."

Really? What was the fuss about changing leaders then? It was still the same government, every electorate still had their chosen representatives. Yet there was wailing and gnashing of teeth from... somewhere.Traveller, you are judging Whitlam by what other people think of him. He lost two elections following the dismissal, but take into account what effect dismissal itself had on the voter psyche. Not to mention the economic woes that were being experienced throughout the developed world yet in this country were blamed squarely on Whitlam. I'd say the facts reveal an extraordinary prime minister who achieve great things in just three years.

As for the Rudd and Gillard governments, it's too early to say that history has passed any judgement on them. Don't be in such a rush.Interesting that you should accuse Rudd and Gillard of feathering their own nests given the entitlement rorts this current government is famous for, not to mention the NSW ICAC.

Labor aren't squeaky clean, but they compare well to the self serving members of the Liberal party.The spending in this country was carefully targeted Ben. The only other country to have a similar stimulus program was Poland. They didn't have a budget surplus and weren't experiencing a mining boom, yet they were the only other OECD country to avoid a recession."Yeah, the pink batts program was great."

Well, yeah. Millions of homes were insulated reducing their energy needs and the instances of fires and injuries per installation actually went down. 

I realise four people died while installing insulation, but that is why the states have Occupational Health and Safety regulations. I notice Mr Abbott has not raised his hand to take responsibility for all the workplace mortalities that have occurred since his election, even if only on government funded projects... probably because the very idea is thoroughly ridiculous.

Also please note, I didn't just pluck another country. Have another read of my post, look it up for yourself it you'd like to be certain, but Poland was the only other OECD country to avoid recession. I did mention why I was specifically talking about them... but you seemed to miss that. The other reason being that their stimulus was the most similar to ours.Most countries actually used the cost cutting approach to stimulus Ben. The tactic the Coalition was demanding be used here. 100% fail rate on that approach."Yes, they attempting rewrite history before our very eyes."

You mean the bit where conservatives claim that Australia was somehow immune to the effect of the GFC?

Alone out of all the OECD countries, whether they were experiencing their own mining boom, budget surplus or if they were right next door to us like New Zealand. Nope, only Australia was GFC invulnerable... not that anyone claiming this can say why.Plenty of other countries had a budget surplus, plenty of others had their own mining boom and were trading with China.

The only other OECD country to avoid recession was Poland, which had none of those advantages. They did, however, follow a stimulus much like ours.

It sometimes sounds like some people are disappointed we didn't slide into recession just so they could use it to criticise Labor.So the legislation and government programs involved weren't installed by a government so much as just happened? Are you suggesting the Liberal party were just not lucky enough to be in charge when any social reform is accomplished?I guess I can see why people are reading "NO movement towards getting out of Vietnam" as if combat troops engaging in the front line were our only involvement. All those advisers, trainers and security forces still there don't sound as... war-like.Fair point Harry, and you are factually correct on that point. My poorly articulated point was that SleepyKarly was only talking about her impression at that point. I think she was exaggerating on items that were progressing but weren't made official until Whitlam.

The numbered points she gave were all spot on."they get it wrong so often only 10% bother to use the ABC"

I don't think that's accurate GBE. According to the Essential Report from last July "total trust" in the ABC is at 54%. That might not seem like a resounding endorsement until you consider the High Court is only three percentage points ahead, and the Reserve Bank is two behind.

Newspapers in general rate 30%, Federal Parliament rated 25% and Political Parties 13%. Even Religious Organisations only managed 26%.

In contrast the ABC is a beacon of hope.Are there specific points in this "re-write" that you care to refute Clete?

I'm glad the Coalition is not out to glorify themselves, but maybe that's more due to a lack of material. The year long "look at us" Australia tour by the Liberal Party after losing the 2007 election must have been light on detail.It might be my poor google-fu, but I cannot find the ABC article you keep mentioning Other John.

Could you supply the title of the article and maybe the date it was published?You're simplifying our economic prosperity into a "first or nothing" situation. Surely you'd agree it's a far more complex subject than that, JRM.Whitlam supplied budget surpluses which are so valued by conservatives. If the country's economy became such a financial mess later down the track it was probably due to a treasurer whom Peter Costello referred to as an "economic illiterate". The Treasurer who achieve the double digit trifecta in unemployment, inflation and interest rates.My mistake, thank you Darth. I was getting confused between the economic illiterates.Those social reforms have been working well for the past forty years... DOUBLE FACT !!!11!!!!Indeed it was a foolish promise, Harry.

I put the "L.A.W. tax cuts" in the same category as "No child in poverty", " I will guarantee that interest rates are always going to be lower under a Coalition government" and "We will deliver a surplus in our first year and every year after that".

All foolish promises that insulted the intelligence of the voter.

Politicians of all stripes will continue to over promise. It's definitely a good idea to assess them with a critical eye/ear.The tactics you point out are not new Tom. Indeed if you read the thoughts of Goebbels on the subject he could as easily be talking about our current paradigm, and he was simply benefitting from the political practices of governments past.

This gives me hope for the future. Humanity has clawed its way out of the mire many times before. We can do it again, preferably before we sink too much lower.Publishing Spurr's emails seems to me as cynical and politically motivated an abuse of privacy as publishing Peter Slipper's private texts. I'd be interested to see those who defended Slipper and those who condemned Slipper explain what is so different about this situation.The article left me with the impression that would not be the case, OUB. Specifically when mentioning article 17 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights (1966).

I might have to read it again.Fair enough. Mind you, your comment about the texts demeaning Slipper's work is mirrored by suggestions that Spurr's emails reflect his capacity to set student curriculum, especially given his focus away from Aboriginal content.

Not trying to encourage any side of this, I'm just seeing a similarity to the situation. I thought the vexatious harassment claim against Slipper was a circus. I think much the same of this.I see plenty of valid comparison. People are condemning Spurr on the basis of the contents of his private messages and suggesting they indicate an inappropriateness for the job he's been doing, much like the case with Slipper. 

While the indignation at the messages themselves (in both cases) is fair enough, the fact that they were private messages should have been factored in.

I don't see the court case as changing much, especially given it was thrown out as a politically motivated abuse of the system.There was similar outrage with Ms Gillard's press standards proposal. It's not a ""progressive" left media" thing.

I'm as opposed to the proposed metadata capture as I was to the internet filter, and for the same reasons. I don't see that such things should be wrong when one party tries it but fine when the other parties does."The true art of the progressive media on show !"

Only if you don't read any conservative media. I mentioned above how similar this situation is to the muck-raking circus over Slipper's text messages. Same thing, different political side.I see you have invoked the "I'm not! You are!" defence Peter. I'm glad we have legal practitioners of your calibre.

As for plenty of scientific evidence against AGW, if it has been put up for peer review and survived the process it will affect the overall approach to climate change since the scientific process demands acceptance of evidence regardless of personal feelings. 

If the consensus of the scientific community remains that humans are accelerating climate change then either the evidence backs that conclusion... or the world's scientific community is all in on some global scam just like the Illuminati.The loan affair, if successful, would have ensured the mining boom directly benefitted Australia as opposed to multinational companies.

Debt is a financial tool. People use it to acquire assets, companies to expand their operations and governments to achieve national projects and keep the economy ticking.Yes I can Dugong. That said, I find it counterproductive to punish people for trying but failing.Did you spend yesterday covering your ears so you wouldn't hear Abbott singing Whitlam's praises?Education for all is affordable. Every nation that has invested in educating their populace has prospered financially and socially. It's one of those rare investments that is guaranteed to pay dividends.

Even people like Hockey and Pyne must think so after leading protests against the introduction of HECS.Revisionist history is popular among those incapable of giving credit where credit is due."decade+ long financial disaster that was wrought"

Mythologising indeed.

Mr Howard turned out to be a terrible treasurer. Even his own party has acknowledged that. No point trying to blame Labor for that, the way Abbott and Hockey have been blaming their own incompetence on Labor.

Oh wait, according to Tory Boy only "the left" does that.Someone should have mentioned that to Hockey and Pyne when they were marching in protest against tertiary fees.

Education for all is an investment that is guaranteed to pay dividends for the nation. There have been no exceptions to the fact that every country that educates its population improves its prosperity and happiness.

Pining for the days when education was only for the rich is both self-serving and counterproductive.Are you serious?! You decry "look at me" leaders but describe Mr Shirt-Front as having a "quiet, get on with the job, mentality"??!!

C'mon, you're taking the piss surely!At the time of his dismissal people only knew what the headlines told them. Now people are more favourable toward Whitlam in hindsight given that universal healthcare and education for all has proven such a great boon for our country. Not to mention trade with China and our push toward equality that began with him.Fewer excuses now we have the internet Alpo. 

It would be counterproductive to denigrate people who accepted the headlines with credulity, but I do hope they start logging in and verifying the claims being made now that some of the reality behind the accusations and promises have been revealed.That's a fair point Graham, but don't forget there was plenty of outrage from the conservative side over "mincing poodle" only to fall silent over this.

Hypocrisy from all concerned, not just one side.

I think both incidents were teacup tempests.I'd rather focus less on Cormann's relatively mild euphemism and more on how anyone could think the recent budget was in any way fair or appropriate.A bit like reducing a complex situation into "goodies" and "baddies", eh?Sure. Why not?Probably by acknowledging that it is a complex situation that cannot be summed up in a 10 second grab for TV.Reality has never been a problem for Mr Abbott before, not sure why it would be now.The term Climate Change is older than Global Warming. IPCC was established in 1988, care to guess what the CC stands for? 

Carbon in the atmosphere has always been identified as the main cause of the anthropogenic portion of climate change. 

The parameters have not changed. Perhaps you're simply projecting your own strategy onto others.I'm open to differing opinions, Sir Robert, but I always thought Love Thy Neighbour was an anti-racist show. The racist white character was continually portrayed as ridiculous and the black character was portrayed as a fairly normal person, character flaws included.

Not disagreeing with the point you made. Just defending the show. That said, it probably wouldn't be allowed on air today as it would tick all the wrong boxes regardless of context or intention.It does seem that way. Much like how John Callahan would be berated by people for the way his cartoons laughed at disability, despite the fact he was laughing at his paraplegic self.

The only satisfaction I'm getting from this situation, some level of schadenfreude, is seeing conservative people have to defend the emails after calling for Peter Slipper's head over his private text messages.Jesus may or may not have been real. 

I like to compare him to Bram Stoker's Dracula. After all, there are plenty of independent contemporary records corroborating the existence of Vlad Tepes and his actions in life. People may make similar claims regarding records of Jesus, but none from contemporary sources.

The supernatural aspects attributed to Dracula in the book have not been independently confirmed, much like Jesus.Doesn't necessarily go without saying PW. After all, there's a lot of misinformation about what "atheist" means. We see people try to describe atheism as if it were a religion, or a social movement with actual goals and some other people describe it as a specific belief that gods definitely do not exist. All wrong of course since atheism is simply an absence of theism, no more and no less.

Given the level of misinformation out there, it does bear clarification on a repeated basis.The phrase "climate change" is older than "global warming". The IPCC includes it in their title.I'm fairly certain our politicians knew what they were voting for, but underestimated the willingness of others to reveal their bid for more control to the public.I don't know which would be worse, Dugong.You both raise good points. I'll endeavour to view our politicians with less suspicion and more sympathy in future."equivalent of a triple somersault piked from the high diving board"

Mr Abbott might surprise you. He accomplished similar metaphoric acrobatics when he attempted to go back on his Gonski promises."...this article which does not refute the original article but pretty much admits its truth"

The original in The Australia claimed a journalism course taught a bias against News Corp. The author of this article stated that the journalism course "does the opposite by encouraging students to engage in critical thought".

Do you always just see what you want to see regardless of what is actually there?Talk about unsubstantiated.

Please point out where I claimed "excellence from the author", where I chose to "accept Ms Sainty's claim without question" and where I was "denying the truth of the original article".

Have another read if you have to. I pointed out the premise of the original article and I quoted the author of this article. I did this to demonstrate that a statement in your original comment was false, let alone merely unsubstantiated.

These other things you claim I was saying are your own invention.If there is a bias are we to just assume it's a left wing bias? After all, that directly contradicts just about every investigation into the ABC.Apart from people dying in the countries they wish to flee, it is also conceivable that deaths at sea are not being reported in Australia due to occurring "on water".

It's not quite the same conspiracy theory stretch as 911 being a false flag... or the entire global scientific community running a scam in collusion with "lefty" governments."I always wonder how people like you can look at a situation that clearly failed ..., or a current situation that is failing ..., and say 'hey, let's do that!'."

You mean like trickle down economics, military intervention in Iraq, work for the dole and austerity?

The concern about deaths at sea always strikes me as hypocritical since those asylum seekers are generally fleeing much worse. Even during the Howard government over 90% of asylum seekers were accepted as genuine.

Sparing refugees the danger of drowning by returning them to the horrors they fled is not compassion.To be fair, Debunker, that's the same accusation Russia is making toward the US and Ukraine. Apparently Ukraine has produced fake evidence and US satellite imagery is being withheld, perhaps for good reason, perhaps not. 

I'm not sure we should trust Neo-Nazis in the Ukraine any more than Communists in Russia. 

We should wait for the findings of the Dutch investigation.Roger, have the Greens won government and released a budget or are you just trying to get people to "look over there!"?On the contrary Alpo, competition requires a level playing field for all contenders... like the original NBN. Can't have that!The Howard government increased government spending an average of 4.3% per year. The Labor government  increased spending by an average of 3.4%... and that's while dealing with a Global Financial Crisis so effectively that we didn't go into recession.

The Gillard government cut costs in the public service so effectively The Australian had to side with the Public Sector Union in order to argue against her.

Mr Hockey has admitted there was no budget emergency.

There haven't been "Reds under the beds" since the 50's, so you don't have to fear all them durn socialists anymore.How worse off were wealthy people under the previous Labor government? I know a couple of tax loopholes were closed off to the cries of "class warfare" from people who have no trouble paying their bills. I don't think any of them were expected to live for six months on nothing but oxygen.

In contrast the majority of people opposed to this current government seem more interested in the welfare of others rather than just themselves.Given that the opposing view is to break our commitment to international treaty,  law, and to human rights I'm not surprised the ABC cannot represent it.Wow. I never expected to witness such brutal honesty over our government's disregard for the rule of law and for human rights. Thank you APM, your comment was very refreshing.Resa Berati's death was influenced (could be described as directly caused) by Australian policy.

The fatal journey deaths occur from people choosing to flee their lands and seek refuge via whatever means available, which is more due to the policies of the place they're fleeing. I find it interesting that some people are mortified by the mishaps that can occur on such a journey, but not by the horrors those people are fleeing. 

Indeed when the rest of the world condemned human rights abuses in Sri Lanka our prime minister shrugged them off as "difficult things".My only experience with Bolt's work were his online articles from a few years ago. His one-sided approach didn't bother me, nor did the fact than none of my attempts to contribute in the comments were published. The regular omission of pertinent facts, however, even outright dismissal of verifiable evidence, led me to decide to waste no more attention on him.

Plus it was difficult to take him seriously after he wrote an article comparing George Bush to Batman."you'd have to be death, blind and above all a lefty not to see it"

Or you could be relying on evidence, such as the many reviews of the ABC, including a number of hostile ones instigated by the "conservative camp". Not to mention that the ABC has a charter of balance to follow and if it had been in breach this Mr Abbott &amp; Co. would not be shy about shouting it from the rooftops.

There is no evidence and no review that backs the conservative claim of bias in the ABC.

Considering Mr Howard appointed Mark Scott (previously employed by the NSW Liberal Party) to run the ABC, and Mr Abbott stacked the appointment board with virulent anti-ABC puppets, you'd think there'd be no way to complain with a straight face, but conservatives still manage to do so.Again, we're to just take your word for it. The "everybody knows" approach does not count as evidence.

There have been no shortage of powerful and wealthy people to oppose the ABC. Surely one or more of them could arrange to investigate the angle you're going for... unless it would be an obvious waste of resources.That should somehow be a big issue, shouldn't it? Mr Abbott is a liar. He has been caught out on numerous lies out of the gate. "No cuts to the ABC" is but one of many.

Further, Mr Abbott is using funding cuts as a stick to the ABC. Start favouring the home team... Team Abbott... or more funding cuts!Our Judeo-Christian heritage has also been heavily involved in theft of land and resources, suppressing knowledge, murder and slavery.

Plenty of good has been done in the name of religion. Also plenty of harm. Probably best kept out of our state education system.Mr Abbott is the current prime minister. I think that would explain why there's so much attention going his way. He could flee from the press when he didn't like their questions before the election, but he's not in opposition any more, even if he acts like he still is.

Of course his woeful performance isn't a good reason to lose faith in democracy. The fact that we're down to a choice between two parties (the devil and the deep blue sea) is. Not that we have any system currently ready to replace it.

Not sure who mentioned communism. Certainly not the ALP, who have been keeping company on the right wing of late. Not as far along the spectrum as the Coalition, but definitely right of centre.You make a fair point Graham, but that just makes Mr Hockey's reflexive "because Labor" response all the more laughable.Perhaps they're motivated by a desire to see everybody share the heavy lifting as Mr Hockey promised. Politicians and CEOs are especially able to afford to do their part compared to the sick, the unemployed and pensioners.The excuses coming from Joe "I didn't do it!" Hockey are particularly child-like. 

After trying to convince us on election night that they were such adults this government, with their appointments of mates, tantrum royal commissions and their complete refusal to accept responsibility for their own actions, has shown itself to be exceptionally juvenile and immature."Before anyone starts the Ozzie blame game"

Too late Gregory. Mr Hockey has already blurted out his "because Labor" excuses. It's a reflex response for him.There was an inquiry just last year, Craig. It concluded the ABC news presentation was impartial.

There are investigations after every election (Report of Chairman, Election Committee Review Panel), and so far all have concluded either the ABC approached in a balanced manner or very slightly slanted (most often toward the Coalition).

The Gans &amp; Leigh study showed the only statistically significant slant was ABC2 News favouring the Coalition.

Complaints raised against the ABC have repeatedly been found inaccurate by the Australian Communications and Media Authority.

People do regularly provide such examples here, but a day later you see the same accusations of bias made with the same level of evidence (none).
"Everybody knows"

The same reasoning that once proved the world was flat.That all depends on whether the science truly is settled Gary. After all there are groups, particularly in the "bible belt" of the US, that disagree with the theory of evolution. Nevertheless it's safe to say the science on that matter is, indeed, settled.

There are some who believe organisations such as CSIRO, NASA, various Bureaus of Meteorology along with numerous governments are in some sort of conspiracy to misrepresent the situation with our climate. If that turns out to be true it would be quite an expose, and I promise I will own up to having been taken in by them.Yet it's because of Whitlam we have our successful universal healthcare system and the current government members have him to thank for the free education they received.If a portion of the public are utilising private healthcare there would be no reason for the public health system to allocate resources toward them. After all, that would be a waste of public money. 

If the new tax (GP co-payment) is introduced we may see how much strain the public health system can handle. It may possibly require more resources at that point.

"many people benefited from free University education - but did the country benefit?"

I'm somewhat taken aback by that question AJS. Of course the country benefits from an educated populace. It benefits in innovation, wealth and social understanding. There may be a party or two that don't benefit so much from an educated public, but that's another matter entirely.Menzies did the most for university education? Glad to hear it. Were you refuting my own comment or just provided some added value to it?

Healthcare is a state government responsibility? Kinda like workplace safety? Thanks for drumming that in Peter :-) 

It's odd that you want to separate discussion of funding from the service, since funding is kind of necessary and something that many conservatives usually want to focus on.

It's nice that so many people can afford health insurance, but if we're to provide Universal Healthcare... I'll helpfully repeat... Universal Healthcare... it must be funded. That's pretty much what Mr Whitlam achieved.

I appreciate the wisdom of your mother Peter, and yourself, but I must disagree with your conclusions.Again, not arguing over the contributions of Menzies. I'm glad they happened. Are you specifically wanting an argument over something we don't disagree on?

"Still can't understand that we already do provide universal healthcare can you?
Have you ever heard of anyone being turned away from a public hospital?"

I think I'll need some clarification there Peter. After all, yes I do understand we provide universal healthcare and that people aren't turned away from public hospitals. Which of my statements are you arguing against here?

"Have you ever thought that it might just be better to allow people who can afford to do so pay for their care and just subsidise the poor."

Sure. Sounds great to me. There'll be some cries of "class warfare" if any party tries to put your idea into action... or maybe that will only happen if it's Labor that tries it.

I assume you mean something like means testing or the state providing insurance to people under a certain standard of wealth. All for it!Some of them were winners Tony.

Not the hospitals, you're right about that.

Carbon Price was shown to reduce carbon emissions in affected industries by over 7% and every time Mr Abbott accused it of destroying jobs it has been cleared by the actual evidence. 

For example Mr Abbott claimed the Olympic Dam project was cancelled because of the carbon price, but this claim was specifically refuted by the official statement from BHP, which Mr Abbott had to admit he hadn't read. Where did the accusation come from in the first place? Must have been the suppository.

Education reform, well Mr Abbott was on a unity ticket as far as Gonski was concerned... at least he promised to be before the election. Sounds like he thought it was a good idea.

NBN, lauded by experts across the globe. Bill Gates spoke about how envious he was of the project. Estimates showed that the lesser version will end up being more expensive with of the old copper requiring immediate maintenance. Besides, investment is always expensive but bringing our communications system out of the 19th century and into the 21st would certainly have been worth it.

The budget surplus promises were stupid. Swan should not have promised something he wasn't sure he could deliver. I put it in the same category as "no child in poverty" and "interest rates will always be lower".It's the kind of job that specifically attracts divas Peter. Especially since television became the main medium.I don't think so, Gaham. I'd be just as interested in an article about how the fix the Liberal party, or Greens or Nationals. They're all floundering to some extent... maybe not the Greens so much as they seem to be mostly sticking to their principles... mostly.Why don't you?Perhaps a letter to the ABC requesting such an article could produce results. Maybe another contributor such as Peter Reith or Chris Berg could write one."I'm quite sure that all intelligent people know to take tabloids with a grain of salt"

I'm sure you're correct, AE. I guess the only way to explain the alleged incidents listed in the article is to assume there's a lot of unintelligent people in this country who don't think critically about the dreck produced by papers such as the Courier Mail.Perhaps we could look to existing models of more harmonious societies, such as the Scandinavian countries with high measures of personal satisfaction among their populations and next to no violent crime. They do tend toward high tax rates, but they actually get bang for their buck.Political Censorship is threatening those who would reveal inconvenient information with imprisonment. Like Mr Abbott's new anti-whistleblower laws.

Ms Gillard's proposals did not include preventing publication nor gaoling people for reporting.Lilly, I recommend you try The Conversation.And our military has caused enormous financial damage to privately owned mercenary armies.

I guess some things, like protecting the people and informing the people, need to be overseas by "representatives" of the people.Ha! I don't know why I wrote "overseas". I did mean "overseen".

Still, I guess there's an element of "out to sea" with our modern politics.A lot of my comments disappear into the nether as well, and I'm an ABC loving leftie.

I suspect it's a technical problem, like that which plagued The Punch in the glorious days of its operation.

I don't think adding a message anticipating censorship would affect whether your comment appears or not.You have to expect growth in social assistance as the population continues to increase. The main thrust of the article, however, is that people are individually receiving less welfare than they were in 2004, except for a tiny increase in welfare to the most wealthy.

Our only real problem is that government revenue has been repeatedly cut and slashed, and needs to be restored.That sounds very similar to trickle down economics Peter. The idea of helping people get as rich as possible, letting them avoid as much tax as possible, will lead to beneficence on their part.

Successful companies will employ people when they need people. Wealthy people will spend money when they want to spend it. How much tax they pay is likely to have negligible effect.I don't disagree with the figures you provided Graham. On the other hand page 33 of Auditor-General Audit Report 35 2013-14 pointed out that 5% of high wealth individuals pay no individual tax at all.

I don't think raising tax rates is as necessary as ensuring compliance and closing loopholes... like the FBT loophole that the previous government closed and the current government reopened.

Either way the article backs up Marg1's point that the big deal about "leaners" was a furphy, just like the "budget emergency".From the report:

"The ATO defines high wealth individuals as Australian
residents who, together with associates, effectively control
net wealth of $30 million or more."DangerMouse, we weren't the only OECD country exporting minerals to China, but we were the only one of them to avoid recession.

The other OECD country to avoid recession was Poland. They didn't have a mining boom, nor even a budget surplus. In fact the only common factor was a similar stimulus program to the one our government ran at the time.Funny you should mention selling all the silver, Peter, after Costello sold all the gold reserves... and at bargain basement prices. In fact, selling everything seems to be Coalition policy.

Howard and Costello left regulatory framework? Are you talking about the regulation left by Keating? Doesn't the Coalition regard regulation as business killing red (commie!) tape?

I like how you blame the GFC on the left wing. Nothing to do with dodgy business practices or a lack of regulation or which political wing had been running the US for the previous eight years. If it's bad, blame the left.Perhaps a fair compromise would be a strong estate tax. After all, wealthy people like to say they made it on their own, so an inheritance shouldn't be at all important to them."Which is more important- a real threat which would affect the whole population or a presumed one which would affect just a few."

Votes. Votes are what are more important to this government than either of the two issues you mentioned, and so far warmongering has been the only vote winner they've found.Indeed. Our government seems willing to punish everyone to ensure the few rorters are caught. Might seem fair enough to some people, until we gaol everyone in the country for murder to make sure no guilty person remains unpunished.Peter, you say Labor pushed everyone onto DSP to make unemployment figures look better, previous to the 2007 I heard the same accusation levelled at Mr Howard's government, and prior to the '96 election I heard the same about Mr Keating's government. Are there any unemployed left for Mr Abbott to shift to DSP?I think I need more convincing. People are killed in all manner of ways on Australian soil... except by terrorism. If saving lives were so important to the government surely the new laws would better serve if they worked against domestic violence, or to ensure only competent people had access to motor vehicles.

You make control orders sound so reasonable, but placing restrictions on a person without them being convicted of an offense, means punishing someone who is not guilty of a crime like they were some sort of boat person.

Why have special laws for terrorists anyway? Is being killed by a terrorist worse than being killed by a lunatic, or by a thug that can't hold his liquor? The no-go zone looks like the only new law that might serve a realistic purpose as opposed to creating new laws for the appearance of "doing something".Abbott? He's a Liberal G W Bush."At home and abroad many are acknowledging the quality of this government" ... and found it seriously lacking, if not completely absent. I think that would be a more realistic description.

We're currently being heavily criticise by media around the world for our cruel treatment of asylum seekers. Also for acting as apologists for Sri Lanka's record of human rights violations, not to mention refouling refugees who had fled that country just to be rounded up and handed back by us. Now we are being described in overseas media as using poverty stricken Cambodia as a dumping ground for our international responsibilities.

After escaping the GFC unscathed the rest of the OECD took notice of Australia and used our example to rewrite their strategies for how to deal with economic crisis.... except here where we threw out the people who guided us through and installed the people who brought us the horror budget blockbuster, the budget that's all about kicking the less fortunate until they cough blood. Economists and interested observers around the world are unanimously asking "WTF??!!!".

Mr Abbott has been ridiculed for wasting his time on international forums to continue his domestic campaign, such as at the Davos summit and his interview with the Washington Post (who dubbed him the world's most disliked prime minister).

For some reason other countries think having government agents raid a solicitor's office and steal documents belonging to Timor Leste in order to sabotage a legal case against that government is a bad thing.

We're also known as the dirtiest country in the developed world, but I realise you would likely take that as a compliment.

Plenty more criticism directed internationally at our Prime Minister and his government, available via a simple google search, but it's depressing to read.I disagree Debunker. Nothing wrong with airing ideas and a bit of healthy debate. I like the example given in the article because it was one where both sides had valid points, but the strongest argument, rather than the strongest arguer, won the day."the Opposition is in goosestep with Abbott over the new security laws"

Of course they are. Controlling information is as much a wet dream for Labor as it is for the Liberal party (as evidenced by the attempt at an internet filter).

Controlling information is one of the few times the Liberal party actually is on a unity ticket with Labor.

You can tell it's true because they would deny it."Fairly simple"

I have to agree on that point at least, Israeli. Very simple reasoning indeed.

I also agree that belief has no place in a scientific debate. That's why there's no point giving equal air-time between actual scientists of relevant fields and whoever just wants to give an opinion.

I like your statistics, but 90.3% of all statistics are made up.APM, this comment of yours attempting to blame terrorism on the left wing has definitely earned you your crazy credentials. You may want to stop throwing the word "loony" around at other people... being in a glass house and all.

Just in case you're actually being serious I would like to make some counterpoints. The rise of terror threats against Australia can be traced to our foreign policies such as support for an independent East Timor (worthwhile cause) and invasion of Iraq (idiotic clusterf#ck). Both of these were instigated by conservative governments. Abbott channelling W and saying "they hate us for our freedom" has got to be the most daft attempt at understanding the cause of the problem anyone could make. Teach a monkey sign language and they could give you a better explanation.

There has yet to be a terrorist attack in Australia. The recent swat-like raids on "terror suspects" ended with one person charged with a terror offense, and we've yet to see how that charge turns out.

Zero refugees accepted by Australia have committed a terrorist act in Australia. Zero. In fact I don't recall hearing of any refugee committing a terrorist act at all, but if you can point to such an instance I would be interested to know about it.Emulating Mr Abbott's short sighted tactics would bring anyone into disrepute. I'm a bit disappointed the other parties are lowering themselves to Abbott's level, but I guess the public has shown a propensity to favour and enjoy such things.

I had to laugh, seriously laugh, at Mr Abetz complaining about politically motivated witch hunts and the discarding of parliamentary conventions. Our federal government seems completely unburdened of self awareness.Will you change your mind about that inquiry, aGuy, when it's pointed out that a third of those "1000+ deaths" occurred during the Howard government? Not to mention the thousands of deaths that actually were the result of Australian policy (Iraq invasion).Maybe the other parties are trying to call Mr Abbott on his own spiteful escapades. If they show him that they're as capable of launching politically motivated stitch-up jobs as he is maybe he'll stop with the commissions and dramatics and start acting like an adult."The Liberals have turned this state around"

Indeed Waterloo, it was on the news this morning. Unemployment is up and revenue is in freefall. The LNP concede that the results are "disappointing".I fully agree. The previous hung parliament ended up being very effective, most likely due to the influence of the independents. The current oversight in the senate seems to be doing its job in scrutinising policy. I'm all for more independents and minor parties.You didn't know that the ABC is publicly funded Bearfield? It's the reason the ABC gets held accountable to a code of conduct, which makes it unique in Australia's MSM.Almost a third of Australia's largest companies are paying less than 10c in the dollar in corporate tax. Some pay nothing.

This was the findings of the recent Lanis report and is based on research and investigations, which means it's more reliable than Abbott and Hockey's aimless attempts to blame Labor for everything.

The NBN was a source of envy from exports across the globe. Even Bill Gates expressed his admiration for the project.

The home insulation scheme improved over a million homes, saving power costs, and involved a lower rate of fires and damage than insulations in previous years. Even the witch hunt RC confirmed this. If we're to blame workplace incidents on the federal government now I hope the Coalition are ready to be held accountable for every death in every project they've outsourced, and that will include health and security in Manus and Nauru.

The BER was reviewed twice and found to have less than 4% waste. Find a private company that could complete a national building project with such efficiency.

The current government was handed a AAA economy and have since doubled the deficit. They didn't get the "budget emergency" they wanted, so they're clearly working to create one.*experts (not exports)Examples? Every review ever run on the ABC.

One example is the research from Australian National University studying news stories from 1996 to 2007 establishing a right wing bias.

There is a chairman review every election and they consistently confirm the balance of the ABC.

Now, where's the evidence for left wing bias? You'll find the only response anyone can give to that question is "everyone knows". The same reasoning that once proved the Earth was flat.About the only people to disagree with Albo's assessment is everyone who has been involved in reviewing the ABC for bias, because none have ever found any."So we are duty bound to repair the federal budget and that means raising extra revenue and reducing expenditure."

I had to laugh when I read that. This government, of which Mr Turnbull is a member, has been raising expenditure and cutting revenue since they attained office. What measures they've proposed for increasing revenue are specifically not directed toward the budget. 

It's like they were so disappointed there wasn't a budget emergency that they're working to create one. I guess if they do it would be one of the few promises they keep.Not a bad point, C Ash, but just another situation where this government has backflipped. First they took away funding from the states saying the Federal government has no business doing the State's job. Then they step straight back in telling the States exactly what their job is.Advocating a six month wait for unemployment assistance can be viewed as a) threatening risk to health (starvation), b) motivated by ideological cause (the right wing assumption that all unemployed people choose to be so because they're lazy bludgers) and c) intended to intimidate the public in general (get a job or starve).

I'm sure there are other ways the current government fall under it's own definition of terrorist organisation.
