I think it's a case of the journalists not wanting to give the LNP anymore airtime over the governments handling of the MH17 incident.
By all accounts, the Abbott government is considered to be handling it extremely well.  Therefore, we can't report on that, can we?One major issue in this article has been overlooked by the author.  And it's one that is at the heart of the governments policy of turning back the boats.

The vast majority of these current illegal immigrants (as distinct to the 70's Vietnamese refugees), are fleeing so-called persecution from their homelands. In doing so, they are travelling (via previously booked international flights) through less economically developed safe haven nations, like Indonesia, paying huge amounts of money to people smugglers in order to take them to Australia.
To me, that sounds more like grabbing an economic opportunity, than it does about fleeing persecution.

Through our orderly immigration and refugee intake programs, we do more than our fair share.  I believe that, per head of population, we have the second highest intake of any nation in the developed world.

So, please don't give me anymore of this bleeding heart rubbish.Anyone noticed that most of the posts on this site are becoming more and more strident in their hatred of Abbott lately.
Would it have anything to do with both our PM and Julie Bishop receiving a lot of worldwide praise for their handling of the MH17 incident?
Is panic amongst the Left starting to set in?  Love it!!!There is a simple solution for the people on Christmas Island.
They have the option of giving up on their quest to leap frog other applicants wishing to emigrate to Australia.
If it's all getting too hard, they can simply go home and then re-apply through the normal channels.
Let's face it, they could have sought asylum from their embarkation point (Indonesia) if they really needed a "safe from persecution" haven.Exactly, Michael.
When John Howard lost office in 2007, there was not one single child in detention.
After 6 years of Labor/Greens incompetence, mismanagement, and 1200 deaths at sea, the problem had manifested itself again (albeit temporarily, thanks to the LNP).
Yet, according to Gillian &amp; the HRC, the LNP's current policy is shamefully to blame.  Go figure!!!They gave enough of a rat's to do something about it, Pete.
A hell of lot more than Gillard and the Greens did!!  It's easy (and populist) to sound like a compassionate humanitarian.  It takes action, though, to make a real difference."Is it so hard to simply demand a real investigation?"

Where have you been?  That's exactly what the Abbott government is demanding.In your clear, unadulterated and blind hatred of Abbott, Alpo, you're sounding very much like a Putin apologist!
Nasty Tony overstepping the mark by attacking the poor Russians? Give me a break!!It's not only what you've outlined that disgusts me about Hamas, Michael.  I understand the Hamas military chiefs have stationed themselves in a local hospital, from where they plan their military strikes against Israel.
It seems they'd be happy for the Israelis to attack the hospital, so they can use it for propaganda purposes.  They have no regard for their own people, only deep seated hatred for Israelis.
Yet, here in Australia, we have politicians, community groups and councils that openly support the Palestinian cause and condemn Israel for having the audacity to defend itself.What I find sickening, is how quickly the Left has turned this MH17 disaster into another reason to attack Abbott. You people (including the author) are beyond the pale!!I sense a real level of desperation coming from most of the hate posts on this site.  Perhaps Tony Abbott's performance on the world stage over the last few days shows he is the real deal.  Perhaps the general public is now starting to see the real man - the capable and eloquent leader that the media has been so reluctant to show so far.With all due respect, Stephen, responsible government departments owe you no more than they do the general public (i.e. warnings against travelling in dangerous areas).
Their focus should be on their own people trying to do the assigned job, not worrying about what some journalists might be up to.
War correspondents have always taken their chances (some more so than others) in war zones without relying on what information has been supplied to them by governments.Answer me this, Nova.  What would have a bigger impact on the poor in this country?  The carbon tax, or the proposed fuel tax.  No porkies, now.Couldn't agree more, John.
The ABC's scrutiny and criticism of Labor as an obstructionist opposition, is completely missing. 
Yet, Abbott in opposition was constantly hounded by Aunty, despite cooperating (albeit reluctantly) on a raft of Labor legislation. 
There is not one single political commentator voice in the ABC that can claim to speak for the conservatives, yet dozens champion the leftist cause.
I'm old enough to remember when the ABC was respected by both sides of the political spectrum for its balanced commentary.  Unfortunately, that's no longer the case."The Bali bombing fits perfectly with the fact, no theory, that the biggest threat to Australia comes from our far too close association with the USA because the bombers were Islamic militants under the influence of Middle Eastern extremism."

As a Western nation, our value systems align much more so with the USA than they do with Middle Eastern or Islamic nations.  Why do we have to change that?  Out of fear of retribution? 

I don't know about you, but I'm not in favour of changing our national identity, social culture and disowning old and valued allies, just so we don't upset the sensitivities of fundamental Islamists.I don't know about you, Daniel, but if Australia's meta data surveillance measures manage to save us from one terrorist driven catastrophe, I'd be happy.  I've got nothing to hide. I don't indulge in plots to kill innocents.  But, there are those evil people out there that hate us so much they wouldn't hesitate.
The last thing we need is for people, with na?ve views like Jonathan Green, to have any influence in regard to national security measures.Could it be that Mr. Green, who has always championed campaigns for leftist causes, now has egg on his face over his mindless defence of all things extremist Islam?
The photo in the Australian was proof positive this country faces a very dangerous threat from these people ever returning to this country.  This level of barbarism does not start and stop at borders.
I, for one, fully support the Abbott government doing all it can to stop these monsters from ever returning here. And, furthermore, taking all necessary steps to weed out and expel those that are already here.
What does Jonathan Green and his ilk want? They want to see if large numbers of innocent Australians are murdered first, before agreeing to any decisive action.
Green's hatred of the Abbott government blinds him to the truth, and that is an indicator of a poor journalist.Couldn't agree more, Jimbob.
And, they (the left) reckon Hockey is out of touch with reality. Jeeesh!!If the new senators were genuinely informed and intelligent people, demonstrating a desire to serve their constituents above all else, then, regardless of their political leanings, I'd say good on 'em.  
But that's not the case with this mob of PUPs. They are controlled by Clive and will perform to his string pulling......what Clive wants.It appears the "elephant in the room" has been overlooked.
What about some of the corrupt trade unions, (some even employing criminals to do their dirty work) pouring millions of dollars into Labor's coffers?
The RC is unearthing plenty of examples of how the CFMEU is using thuggery and extortion against building companies.
Do you seriously think those unions don't want anything in return from a prospective Labor government?  Given that, do you truly believe future Labor governments won't formulate policies and labour conditions to appease those unions?That's strange, seanone.
If you look again, I didn't say unions were the "cause of all our problems".
But, it's clear that a movement that is only relevant to 18% of the workforce, can have such a bearing on policy formation in the ALP.  
If you're going to exclude unions (particularly those with a dubious record of intimidation and extortion) from a review of the political donations landscape, then something is missing.And, I've been accused of having a one eyed view of the world!

I would suggest that more ordinary Australians (through direct employment, personal and superannuation shareholdings) have a much greater stake in big business, banks and mining companies, than they do in the union movement.
The CFMEU has cost the Victorian economy alone far more than the losses incurred through financial institution collapses, like Storm etc..  
When a small investor is offered an exorbitant return on investment, too many take it up without thinking of the risk, then blame governments for not protecting them when it all turns sour."..unfettered predator capitalism".

Sounds like something out of a Godzilla movie!  But, then it does sound like you're a firm believer in myths."Seems insane to destroy what works.."

Err, what works?It's one step at a time, Olive.  Once the Carbon Tax is gone, the next target will be fixing the budget mess.
Given that ALP/Greens fully support keeping the deficit deep in the red, the government has to work with the other wackos - which can give inconsistent results from time to time.
Of course, it could be fixed more quickly.  But, Electricity Bill (like Clive) is more intent on playing political games.Come on, Gordon.
You can do better than that. That was a limit increase, not an actual debt increase. In other words, a contingency.  Hockey was wise to do it, as well, because Labor is continuing to act like an economic wrecking ball.Yep, there's nothing more impressive than a graph!!
We could put up a graph showing poll results of the people posting on this site.  We could ask the question, "Do you believe in anthropogenic climate change"? Yes, or No.
The graph would shows us that those answering "Yes", would far outweigh those answering "No".
And, there we would have it!!  Indisputable proof that anthropogenic climate change is real.Perhaps "reform" policy can also mean getting rid of bad policy.
An incoming sensible government could undertake to adopt a bad policy reformist agenda.
When a policy is introduced by a previous government that has no real tangible benefit to what it is trying to achieve (i.e. completely ineffectual in regard to its target aim).  And, at the same time, that policy increases costs considerably to the country's manufacturing costs (ie. making us less competitive in overseas markets) and increasing local consumer prices,  I'd say that policy needs reforming.  Wouldn't you?It's funny how the people on the left always think they themselves are centered, and everyone else is to the extreme right."goal time"?
Is that an own goal?Dempster shows his true colours in this article, by inferring the NSW LNP political donations issue is full of "corruption", yet NSW ALP only had a "Maaates culture".
You've got to be kidding, Quentin.
Whilst I'm not condoning the LNP ethics, their activities were legal, and were for the benefit of the party.
Labors corrupt activities were designed to line the pockets of themselves as powerbrokers, at the expense of the ordinary punter.
One could be forgiven that Quentin Dempster (like most people on the left) is attempting to re-write history.  But, the ABC wouldn't have a bar of that!! Would they?Wrong, Moka.
The Liberals were not "charging" anyone.  Get your facts right.I'd suggest that anyone thinking Clive Palmer is a serious alternative political option for this country, should conduct their own comprehensive research into the mans probity and business ethics/skill. 
I have, and I don't, for one second, like what I see.  But - each to their own!!
The fact that Palmer has jumped on the "Let's hate Tony Abbott" bandwagon, indicates that Clive thinks he's on the winning side of public opinion.  And, he probably is - at the moment.
But just watch him jump ship when the polls start to reflect the publics disenchantment with Labor/Greens.
How silly do Shorten and Milne sound when they have a go at the government for not repealing the Carbon Tax? The very tax they introduced!  It's hilarious!Couldn't agree more, Neil.
The sad thing is that Labor and the Greens are giving this buffoon all the air he needs.  
I guess it's a strategy of "the enemy of my enemy, is my friend".  That's all well and good for the short sighted Abbott haters, but it's a disaster for the country when a man of Palmers integrity is wielding the law making sword.You're kidding yourself, Susanne.
Clive couldn't give a hoot about the average punter.  
The reason he was expelled from the LNP was that, despite giving hefty donations to the party, he wasn't given what he wanted.  And, that was guarantees of hefty business concessions for his nickel and coal businesses.  The man is now going to give this government as much pain as he can in retribution.
Problem is, our economy suffers while Palmer and his puppets call the tune.
Labor could fix it in a minute, by allowing the Coalitions election promises on the Carbon Tax to go through.  But, they equally are enjoying watching the government squirm.  All to the detriment of the economy.
Personally, I'd prefer a DD and hope people have enough sense to get rid of Palmer - even if that means a return to a Labor government.  Anything has got to be better than watching Palmer turn this parliament into a 3 ring circus.Every comment above ignores the fact that Palmer would be a cancer for a functioning government of any persuasion.  It's all about Clive!!  The crazy thing is that the Left's hatred of Abbott blinds them to the fact that this bloke is a joke!! You're all laughing, but the brunt of it falls on our country's future.
Leave your petty party politics aside and truthfully ask yourself, "Is this the man (don't forget - he is the puppeteer) that I want determining what bills pass through the senate"?
If your answer is, "Yes", then God help us.
Bring on the DD!!There's no point in trying to use strategy, guile, sweeteners or any other measure when it comes to dealing with Clive Palmer. He is far too erratic.
Given that the Greens are now mostly irrelevant, Palmer is the single most destructive force in politics. Palmer has no interest in the average punter - none whatsoever!!  Make no mistake, his main interest is Clive Palmer!
Whilst the timing would probably see the demise of the Abbott government, I'd almost like to see a Double Dissolution held immediately.  Even the prospect of a re-elected Labor government, doesn't bother me as much as another 6 years of Palmer Politics in the senate, and the damage that will do to our parliamentary processes.
That's provided, of course, that those who voted this motley crew of PUP senators in the first place, have the good sense not to do so again.Abbott was specifically referring to the Japanese submariners that attacked Sydney harbour in WW2.  Not the general conduct of Japanese soldiers throughout the war.
Does anyone question the courage of the Australian submariners during WW1 that sat in the middle of the Turkish Dardanelles Straits and, under constant attack from Turkish warships, managed to sink a number of enemy vessels?
I doubt it.  But don't let facts get in the way of a good political attack."..has overcooked the bikie war"

My understanding is the policy is already having a positive effect on destabilising Queensland's behind the scenes crime and corruption activities.  If so, well done, Campbell.
The Chief Justice appointment needs to run it's course, before accusations of incompetence can be considered.  For goodness sake, give the man a chance.
The Qld legal fraternity is a very sheltered, pampered and often closed minded community, that doesn't like to see someone outside their little inner circle of puffed up Prima Donnas being promoted ahead of themselves.  Time will tell.Newman is getting good results for Queensland.  Making actual progress, and delivering on his election promises.
Labor almost turned Queensland into an oversized Tasmania.
Any reformist new government faces a few bumps along the way, but the electoral realists will see that the alternative doesn't bear thinking about.Am I correct in that we, Australia, take in over 13,000 refugees a year for permanent resettlement?  Doesn't that, per head of population, make us one of the highest intakes in the free world?
Anyone reading this article would think we're a cold heartless people, who don't take our responsibilities seriously.
Yes, we take a hard line on the queue jumpers - and for good reason.  1) The risk to life by allowing the people smuggling rackets to thrive, and 2) The unfairness on those that are legitimately waiting (some for many years) their chance to resettle here.
I am sick and tired of bleeding hearts running this country into the ground, when it is clear we do more than our fair share.You've got your facts wrong, Mike.  Check it out.
The issue is permanent resettlement.  Not numbers in refugee camps, where the inmates have not been accepted by the host government and, as such, their future is extremely unclear.
Also, Labor raised the projected number to 20,000 in late 2013, as a softener when they introduced their off-shore processing policy.  We never actually achieved that figure.
This is what I mean by the misinformation that is spread by people that want to do harm to our country.whatif:
That is the most simplistic, unrealistic and naive response I've read so far.
Quite simply you wanted to preface your attack on Morrison and Abbott by making a plea for world peace.  
Ever thought of entering the Miss Universe contest?Don't all you bleeding hearts all feel a little foolish now?

Claim: 41 boat people returned to Sri Lanka will face persecution, torture and rape!!  
Fact:  All released on bail - Face fines of A$40 each for unlawfully exiting the country. 

Claim: 12 women in detention attempt suicide!!
Fact:  None attempted suicide.  A few minor self-harm incidents. 

The overblown and false claims keep coming though.  
It's almost like you are wishing catastrophes on people so you can say, "There Abbott!! Take that!"
Grow Up!!Hello Rosie,
The reference to "Grow up" is not in relation to the treatment of genuinely displaced refugees.  We already take over 13,000 people in PERMANENT resettlement programs in Australia.  Per head of population, that makes us the 2nd most generous nation in the world.
The "Grow up" reference is in regard to attitudes towards these relatively wealthy queue jumpers that are purely looking for economic advantage by coming to Australia.  Why do you think they sail from countries that could grant them asylum, if  that was what was truly needed?
I'm saying - Don't be a mug!Not one boat has arrived in Australia, or it's territorial waters, since Morrison took charge.  FACT!!

Sounds like "stopped the boats" to me!

Sensible people (excludes Greens) accept that, it is results that count.  I have faith in our Naval personnel to do what they are legally bound to.  Therefore, I don't need to know how and where we are stopping the people smuggling trade. I just want to know we are successful.Perhaps we should consider the awful fate of those original 41 boat people returned to Sri Lanka.  You know, the ones that were to be sent back to face persecution, torture, rape and all sorts of nasty things.
Well, except for the 4 or 5 ring leaders (read: "people smugglers") ALL are now released on bail. How horrible!!  What's worse, is they'll probably face a $40 fine EACH if convicted of leaving the country without permission.  And, that's after those poor refugees have been forced to pay those smugglers $10,000+ EACH to get on the boat in the first place!!
How can we treat these poor people so badly?Gerard,

I seriously doubt anyone (except a bleeding heart) gives a toss about a bunch of Sri Lankan economic refugees that have supposedly paid smugglers to sail out of an INDIAN port, where they already had asylum from so-called persecution.
Will justice prevail?  I hope so. I hope they go to the back of the queue, behind the legitimate immigration applicants.
You may want to be seen by the rest of the world as a mug, but I don't.Do your homework, Whatif.
These negotiations have been going on for well over 40 years.
Julia Gillard was just a bit player. It was progress made by governments of all persuasions during that period (and particularly the excellent closing work from Andrew Robb) that finally netted the deal.
We didn't get everything out of it we wanted, but neither did Japan.  It is, however, a good deal for both countries."Abbott was the most vitriolic politician I have heard since Nixon.. "
"
Hey Yank,
Ever heard of a bloke called Paul Keating?  What about Mark Latham?
Either you've got a very short memory, or you're 10 years old.
The LNP didn't start this type of politics, so get off your high horse.
"If you think that the equivalent on the 'left' of a Bolt, Jones, Albrechtsen, Akerman, Blair etc,.."

No, I don't think the Chaser team are the only equivalents.  Let's start with Tony Jones, Emma Alberichi, John Faine, Rafael Epstein, Philip Adams, David Marr, Leigh Sales, Quentin Dempster etc..
Shall I go on?  No point!  This probably won't get past our moderator, because he/she is very selective when it comes to ABC criticism.  It's only the Left that are allowed to publish the attack dog statements.
So, it's only the Left that can brand commentators that are right of centre as extremist?  Those left of centre (i.e. ABC/Fairfax presenters/Journalists) are untouchable.  Is that it?That's entirely your view.  And, you are entitled to it.
You all rant on about the Murdoch media being right of centre, and they may be.  
But, in every Murdoch paper, there are views from a number of left of centre journalists.
In fact the Murdoch papers in 2007 got right behind Rudd's campaign.   Don't believe me? Go back and check!!
The ABC doesn't have one single presenter speaking for those who hold views right of centre."..brutalises refugees on the high seas?"

Want to back up that rather silly claim with some indisputable facts, Gerard?
Or, do you just want to continue to play the hate filled, blind ideology card?

This is a government that has been forced to take unpalatable steps, in order to steer this country away from the "shambolics" that Labor was taking us to.
Just once, I'd like to see a Labor government leave this country in a sound financial position. But, it always falls to the LNP to clean up the mess. 
Malcolm Fraser suffers from Attention Depravation Disorder, Gerard.  He'll do or say anything to seem relevant to modern society - the more outrageous, the more attention. 
It never ceases to amaze me that the left now cling onto everything he says, yet wanted to string him up 40 years ago.

Transporting that boat back to the Sri Lankan navy only saved Australia from another boatload of economic advantage seekers, not asylum seekers.
The boat could have originally sailed 30km to Indian Tamil Nadu, if they truly wished to escape persecution.  The UNHCR has recently praised Sri Lanka for successfully resettling over 500,000 Tamils since the end of the war.
It's pure and simple deceptive racism to claim Sri Lanka is "torturing and raping" these returnees."  

When will you people wake up!!Tom,

No, instead of throwing the children overboard, they scuttled the boat instead. Big difference isn't it? 
The throwing overboard thing has always been a Labor inspired distraction from what was the real issue.
Our borders were under threat from illegal people smuggling activities. Howard put a stop to it.  
Well said, Janice.
Every time Labor gets the boot, it's always a "right wing conspiracy" that's behind their demise.
It's never that the electorate has had enough of the navel gazing, incompetents.I suspect the PUP senators will cause a few minor headaches for the government initially, but eventually they'll settle into a form of conservative pragmatism.
This may well result in some of the budget reforms being watered down, but Abbott has cleverly thought that out as well.
If I was Bill Shorten, I'd be extremely careful how I play my cards now.  By just continuing to a be policy-less obstructionist, he is falling right into Abbott's hands.Johnno, the reason there are children currently in detention, is because of the Rudd Governments dismantling of Howard's border protection policies.
There wasn't one single child in detention, until Labor got into power.  But, once again, the LNP will fix up Labor's mess.Don't you read the papers, debinoz.
The world is sitting on a property boom time bomb.  We could well see another financial crisis worse than the last.
Labor had forward policies (unfunded, I realise - but policies nontheless) that would have taken our budget deficit out to $670b by 2019/2020.
I think it's a good time to get our books in order, as Howard did last time.  The LNP is the reason why our economy withstood the last GFC.
The fact that a few thousand lefties march in the streets doesn't speak for the vast silent majority of people in this country who want firm decisive government. Not loopy left wing ideals!Well said, Alfie.
Keep fighting the good fight!Sorry, whatif?  I can't follow your logic.
In one breath you're saying you are cutting spending and saving and telling your grandkids to do the same.  On the other, you're having a go at this government for adopting a similar approach with the country's finances.  What the...?Tightening welfare conditions is reducing spending, Whatif. Making sure those people who can get off the gravy train, do so. The genuinely disadvantaged have safeguards to protect them.
At the same time the government is trying to increase infra-structure spending in order to create jobs and stimulate the economy.
Labor, having created the debt problem in the first place, is now trying to block every effort of the Coalition to fix it.

You can waffle on with a whole lot of rhetoric if you want, but the country's finances need to be strengthened again - just in case Labor ever gets back in office.Surely, Moose, you're not suggesting Socialism is the answer?
That's gone so well for the basket case European countries, hasn't it?So, the Coalition has bitten the bullet and made the tough calls needed to rein in spending.  What is the response by Labor/Greens? Block as many belt tightening measures as they can through the senate.
If this country has any chance of riding out what many predict will be a decade of tough economic times (throughout the world), we need to get our books in order as soon as possible.
What's the point of comparing ourselves to Greece, Spain, Italy and saying we're not as bad as them, therefore we don't need tough spending cuts?So, let's wait until our AAA rating drops, adding another few 000's to the interest bill.  Is that the answer?50% of taxpayers in this country are NET RECIPIENTS of government largesse in the form of welfare payments and other benefits. The other 50% are carrying this country.
That is unsustainable.  
Something has to give, or in the future, we won't be able to look after the genuinely disadvantaged.Settle down, Professor.  
As sad as Rosies plight is, are you suggesting the Prime Minister should just run rough-shod over the states legal jurisdictions?
This article is more of a publically funded intelligentsia led attack on Abbott, than anything else.
At least give Abbott some chance of introducing his plans for advancement of aboriginal causes, before you go on the attack.Just another lefty pap piece from Green.  Not worth reading.If Al Gore ever had any credibility, he certainly doesn't have it now!!When I first heard this decision to dis-allow the speaker and his subject from the forum, I was relieved.  
But, the more I think about it, I'm not so sure.
One of the main reasons we, in the west, are struggling so much with the fundamentalist teachings of Islam, is that we find it so alien to our Judeo/Christian belief systems.  
Is ignorance an excuse for rejecting to hear what we don't understand?
Whilst we would never condone "honour killings" as an acceptable practice, we need to understand how/why other human beings would even consider it.
Ideas, even bad ones, should not be banned from being aired/discussed.Nearly every Greens policy is anti-jobs. Look at poor old Tassie - It'll be a basket case for decades.
Milne won't be happy until we're all back living in caves. But, once there, we won't be able to cut trees for firewood, or kill animals for their meat or skins.It's only your bias against Murdoch that makes you find this extraordinary.
News Ltd. have numerous print media outlets in just about every country in the world.  Each masthead would have been capable of phone hacking, had they been inclined to, or directed to.
If you believe Murdoch is behind it all, why is it that only the  British media outlets have been implicated?   
Putting anti-Murdoch bias aside, this is more about British journalism ethics, than it is about News Ltd.Are you suggesting Brooks wasn't subjected to a fair trial?
Our legal system is built on the same model as Britains, and is one of the fairest systems in the world.
Or, is it that you'll only accept one verdict?  A verdict that suits your own political view point.
Maybe you should just pack up and go live in Egypt?"Debt is easy to explain. It was a stimulus to minimise the effects of the GFC,.."

Come on, Phil! 
The direct stimulus spend amounted to less than $50b. Check it!! How do you account for the $250b deficit handed over by the "World's Greatest Treasurer", Wayne Swann?
Asylum Seekers?  1200 died at sea, thanks to Labor's stupidity in scrapping the Howard solution.
Agree on your suggested budget measures, though.
First term LNP governments have always survived the first "tough" budgets after the debacle of previous Labor stints.  And, have gone onto 2/3 more terms as a result.
Eventually people forget the ineptitude of Labor governments and vote them back in.  So, sit back for the next 8 years or so and enjoy."The US installed President of Ukraine is not liked,.."

Firstly, can you back up the "US installed" bit with some facts (not prejudice).

Secondly, I believe it was the vast majority of Ukrainians that originally wanted to culturally and economically align with the EU, notwithstanding opposition from the ethnic Russian minority.   It was the Russian backed Yanukovych, that ruled the country would stay aligned with Russia, despite the peoples wishes, that caused the commotion we're seeing now.

"Russia now supports democracy, and democratic values...." 

You're kidding yourself!!!I don't believe China has any concerns whatsoever over returning radicalised Islamists from the middle east potentially bringing their newly won terror skills back into their own country either, Weasel.
In fact, the Chinese people do not have the freedom of religious expression that we oppressive Western nations allow for our own citizens.
You are correct though about China not intervening when other nations commit atrocities against their own people, though.  North Korea, a committed Chinese ally, is a great example.Take a Chill Pill please, Professor Rothwell.
Start getting a bit excited when there is definitely some reason to do so.
Given your illustrious academic qualifications, I'm sure the government will consult with you before making any decisions.
If any party has adopted a Tea Party approach to politics, it's Labor.  
Labor's current strategy in opposition is to be as obstructive to reform as it possibly can be, regardless of the damage caused to Australia's longer term financial future.  It's a strategy of destructive and revengeful politics.
And Labor never learns in regard to it's sidling up to the Greens.  Being politically aligned with the Greens is political suicide in the longer term.No right minded person, be they catholic or otherwise, would ever condone how the church handled the matter of dealing with paedophile priests within the organisation leading up to the mid 1990's.

In saying that, I cannot abide by the hatred shown by the intelligentsia (and particularly, the ABC) towards George Pell.

Pell did not hold a senior clerical role within the Church when the bulk of these offences were occurring.  
When Pell was appointed Arch Bishop of Melbourne, he was the first cleric in Australia to set a response to group to help victims deal with their claims against the Church.

The caps set for compensation, were based on the caps that state and federal goverments had set in place for similar compensatory claims.  The ABC and the academic world have not condemned government agencies for setting caps at this level, but they feel it is justified to condemn Pell. 

The major crime that Pell has committed, in the eyes of the ABC and the intelligentsia, is not so much his handling of Church compensation claims, it is that he is a conservative.

Ms. McPhillips blames the Church and Pell, which drags the 98% of good work done by the organisation (charities, hospitals, schools etc..) down with the 2% of evildoers.  Doesn't seem the slightest bit fair to me.Agree on the housing bubble, Pete.  It is getting scary.
Unfortunately, we won't have anything close to a surplus to play with, if the bubble bursts.
I'll be OK.  It's the next generation I fear for.  And, Labor/Greens are so determined to see this governments budget fail, they'll drag everybody down with them.The Coalition in opposition supported the first tranche of stimulus spend, ij.  It was the second massive, poorly targeted spend that the Coalition objected to.  As it turns out, the Coalition had the more sensible approach, it seems!Darryl, nobody had a problem with the concept of the stimulus spend.  It was how Labor targeted the spend, and the level they went to, which has been questioned ever since.

Of course Swan is going to defend himself in his own book.  This report shows what the Coalition argued at the time of the second tranche of stimulus spend - that is, it was too much and it was poorly targeted. As it turned out, it was even more poorly managed.
Labor should stick to what they are good at - opposition.In light of this report, the irony is that Labor are still determined to undermine the economy.  
Having mismanaged us into the mess in the first place, Shorten and his cohorts are doing everything they can to stop the Coalition from trying to right the ship."And for what? To avoid "the potential political costs of being seen to do nothing".

Wayne Swan and the Labor movement as a whole have sprouted ever since the GFC that their stimulus measures saved the economy.  Wayne even "swanned" around the globe accepting accolades as the worlds greatest treasurer.

This proves the coalitions belief that whilst some stimulus was necessary, Rudd/Swan went way over the top, and unnecessarily squandered our surplus and indebted us massively - all to avoid the political cost of being seen to do nothing.

Labor's economic credentials have never been good, and this episode has eroded it even further.So, you only want to listen to your opinions?  How sad.When did Abbott get a honeymoon period?  I must have missed it!!Haha.  Couldn't agree more, Zaphod.

Remember when that stanchion of the unbiased ABC, David Marr, outed Tony Abbott for supposedly intimidating a female student unionist in his university days (some 35 years earlier).

Marr claimed it was in the public interest to drag it out into the open.  Labor also climbed all over it, in their eagerness to put dirt on Abbott.

If these Shorten accusations were levelled at Abbott, the other side would be having a field day.Your arguments in defence of the ABC would be all well and good if that organisation was equally critical and questioning of governments of both political persuasions.
Despite the ABC riding through the last 6 years of a very incompetent, inward looking Labor government, there was no where near the level of critique and negative comment that's been given to this present government - in only it's first 12 months!!.
The fact that most posters on this site believe the ABC is ideologically balanced, is proof in itself that the opposite is true.
You only have to view the results of this sites mini polls to know that 80% of posters, regardless of the question posed, have a leaning to the left of politics.
The Murdoch papers at least have some columnists that promote the views of the left.  The ABC does not have one single current affairs presenter or political commentator that counters the views of David Marr, Barrie Cassidy, Jonathan Green, Ian Verrender, Tony Jones, Emma Alberichi, Philip Adams, Quentin Dempster .. - the list goes on.
You don't have to spend your money on a Murdoch paper. By law, I have to contribute to the ABC!  That's the difference.Reith, Henderson, Hewson etc.. are not EMPLOYEES of the ABC, Clotho.  That's the difference!!
No, I didn't mention Chris Uhlman.  He is one (ONE) voice on the ABC that I would consider balanced in the field of political commentary.  But I'd hardly call him a counter voice against those others on the left."EVERY news outlet was down on the Gillard government."

Except the ABC, Trent.

Yes, after supporting "Kevin07", the Murdoch papers turned against Labor.  Let's face it, Rudd's performance was erratic and delusional.  It didn't get much better with Julia either. 
So, why wouldn't a self respecting media organisation go after them?

The ABC was nowhere near as critical, and were complicit (through David Marr) with trying to dig up dirt on Abbott whilst he was in opposition.Noone expects the ABC to just follow the Liberal philosophy, Alpo.  That would push the pendulum to the other end of the scale (i.e. not fair and balanced).  If that was the case, and based on the terminology you use in your usual posts, you certainly wouldn't be supporting the ABC as you do now.  
In fact, if the ABC was even considered by all to be balanced, you wouldn't be supporting them either.  
We do expect the ABC to have a balanced view point though, as it is bound to under it's charter."there have been countless innocent black men and women killed both by police and gun-wielding vigilantes".

Unlike the author, I don't profess to be an expert in American race relations, but I'd take that comment above as being maybe a little over the top?

Possibly, using the term "instances of" rather than "countless" might put some balance back into the authors article.

Maybe, some references to the racially based violent crimes and murders perpetrated by black American's against white policemen and innocent civilians might also create some sense of balance.
Like all major social problems, It isn't simple, and it isn't one-sided.The issue is "permanently resettled refugees", PeterF.  That's where Australia leads the free world.
Sure, Italy is being flooded with refugee hopefuls, but they're not being permanently resettled in Italy.G'day, Pete.
Barrie only ever has one point. And, that is to put down the Abbott government at all costs.  The cost to him, I'm afraid, is the lost respect he receives from a very large section of the electorate who are looking for reasoned and balanced political commentary.Well said, Brian.  But, I fear the level of hatred within the left has killed off any chance of logical thought.

Instead of giving broad sweeping and biased generalisations, Barrie, how about giving us some clear examples of your claims that Abbott has been inconsistent in his approach to both terrorist activities and the downing of MH17?  Tell us when Abbott said, in regard to IS, he wanted to put troops on the ground, as your article infers.

In the case of MH17, Abbott has given a clear, strong and consistent message regarding Putin's dangerous ambitions.  This has been widely acknowledged and praised by world leaders.

On the issue of MH370, I'm sure the families of the missing 6 Australians would be pleased with your dismissive "only 6" reference.
As a person who flies from time to time, I and many others would want to find out what actually happened to MH370, so as measures can be taken to ensure it doesn't happen again.  It is very important, Barrie.

Come on, Barrie.  Don't allow your obvious bias to cloud your judgement as to what is factual and what is perception.  But, in your case, I'm afraid that's probably a lost cause.

At the risk of re-hashing old ground, David, every major country in the free world at that time believed Saddam Hussein had WMD's, including the UN.  Don't believe me?  Go back and check.  The difference was how the West (and the UN) wanted to deal with it.
As for the Children overboard, whilst it couldn't be proven the children were actually thrown overboard, they were held over the sides and our navy personnel were threatened with it.  You could say it was all semantics anyway, because they then deliberately scuttled their boat (resulting in kids in the water), didn't they?
"WMDs were invented."

Bearing in mind I'm talking about before the invasion, would you care to show us proof of that one, Judy?
Many pro-invasion advocates at the time conveniently switched their tune afterwards, when WMD's were not found.

It's also a fact that the Hussein administration launched poisonous gas attacks on their own Kurd populations killing hundreds of their own innocent citizens.  Hussein was rounding up and murdering thousands of his own people.  The man was a murderous monster.

But, as long as he's not murdering me, that's OK?  We'll just let him be?No matter what Abbott says or does, he'll never get a fair hearing or comment from the vast majority of contributors and posters on this site.  
I find it amusing that the outcomes of the little mini polls on this site, no matter what the question, always reflect the expected stereotypical view of a left winger by about 75% to 15%, with the rest unsure.  That pretty well indicates the readership.
But, in saying that, it doesn't stop those on the left from thinking that their own view is a mainstream view, and getting some comfort out of it.
Why do I read it?  I like the sport of challenging my views.Normally, I'm a solid supporter of the US and it's willingness to act as a world policeman.
However, this current Administration under Obama has seen the US reputation deteriorate to it's weakest, most ineffective state in its relatively short history.
Obama withdrew the troops from Iraq prematurely, and gave his tacit approval to al-Maliki forming government, against strong advice internationally that al-Maliki would alienate the Sunnis and create a divided nation.
Obama "draws a line in the sand", but backs away whenever that line is crossed.  The enemies of the US know Obama doesn't have the stomach for a fight and, like looters in an un-policed neighbourhood, they create death and mayhem.
Strong, decisive and almost ruthless action is needed now to weed out this threat to world peace.  But, I can't see it happening while Obama is in the Whitehouse. 
"Proceed with caution, unless you yourself is under attack".

Ah, yes.  The good old Neville Chamberlain approach.I think you're forgetting, Dean, that Abbott has been largely successful in achieving the objectives he put to the people less than only a year ago.  
The boats have stopped.
The Carbon Tax is gone.
He restored working capital back to the Reserve Bank, that Labor had previously plundered.
And, he is addressing the long term national debt.  Don't go on about the debt ceiling. That's all it is - a ceiling (not actual debt).
A fair number of Hockey's budget measures have passed the senate so far, and given a little more time, he'll get the remainder home, in one form or another.
There's more positives there than Labor achieved in 6 years!!
The electorate will eventually weigh up all of that when they next have to decide.  So, don't count your chickens...
And, what sort of "slam dunk" would you approve of for the Middle East terrorists, by the way?  Troops on the ground unilaterally?I think Team Australia members would (or should) recognise that ordinary tax payers earning as little as $40,000 a year, with little hope of ever earning much more, are contributing to the education of uni students in this country, many of whom will eventually be earning three, four or five times as much.

The ordinary tax payers are Team Australia members.  I hope some of the whingeing, whining university students come on board as well.It's not the only answer, pedestrian, but a generation of left wing political activism and the last 12 years of a Labor/Green dominated parliament saw the demise of many industries/businesses in Tasmania, which contributed to a generation of young people and their families having fewer and fewer blue collar work opportunities.  With little work available, a culture of leaving school early and getting onto the dole, has become prevalent.
I know of a family in Burnie that haven't had a member bringing in a working income for 3 generations.  One did hold a job for 4 months, but quit when he realised the combined income of his disability support receiving parents and the unemployment benefits of he &amp; his siblings, would provide a reasonable living without the need to work.
It is becoming a vicious cycle where many Tasmanians have lost hope.I think you'll find that Abbott's comments were intended to encourage the attitude those train lifters had when they assisted that bloke in Perth.
Jonathan, doesn't seem to think that matters.So what's your point, Jonathan?  You always have one.  And, it's always anti-Coalition, just for the sake of it.
The illiteracy issue in Tasmania,  should make you wonder about the implementation of Green/Labor policies in that state over the last generation.I agree, David.
But that's Jonathan. He refuses to listen, or even think about anything said from the opposite side of his political fence.  And, he's a journalist?Thought I'd take up your suggestion, Judy. So, I've listened to that interview on 612 ABC to see where Greg Hunt has (as you've hinted) acted badly (i.e personal attack).
Greg Hunt, at no stage, made a personal attack on the presenter, Kelly Higgins-Devine.  Hunt pulled her up (politely) for making inaccurate statements, to which Higgins-Devine acknowledged her lack of research and apologised.
He did criticise John Grimes (CEO Aust Solar Energy) for saying one thing to him (Hunt) personally, and then a different thing altogether to ABC publically. Who wouldn't? But, Hunt was never abusive, or even impolite at any stage.
I can only assume you'd  hope no one checked up on you.If you'd done your homework, instead of just leaping into anti-LNP jingoism, you'd find that Palmer fell out with the Queensland LNP, because he had expectations in return for his political donations to that party prior to the election of the Newman government.  
After the election, the Queensland LNP Treasurer made it clear to Clive, that his donations weren't going to get Palmer any favours from the new state government for his coal/nickel business, and so Clive cracked the proverbials big time.  
He then went off to form his own party, vowing to take revenge on the LNP in any way or shape he could.  Hence, the current senate shemozzle.
Here endeth the history lesson.There's no pressing need yet to take the country to a DD. That would only add more uncertainty to an already uncertain political picture.  The people decided they wanted a change from the completely inept and inward looking Labor government.  They got it.
Unfortunately, some clever system manipulators got in to the back of the senate selection process and managed to pull off what was a very undemocratic result.  see - PUP.
Eventually, this new LNP government will break down the impasse and get the majority of its important bills through.
And what do we get from the Labor opposition in the way of alternative suggestions?  Just stunned, stupid, stubborn and destructive silence.Sure, the government is having a tough time with the most unpredictable senate the country has ever seen. 
But, there is no way that Labor could ever be seen as better economic managers.  Apart from a very short period under the Hawke government, Labor has always managed to stuff the economy every time. 
Even in opposition, Labor is doing everything it can to vandalise the economic recovery.  They even knocked back $5B in spending cuts they themselves proposed to introduce before the election. 
Labor are populist policy makers, with no idea of economics, and no care.  The LNP will always be there to clean up the mess."The ALP have actually been far more even handed with the distribution of board roles over the past decade."

Oh, OK.  So, the Gillard/Rudd various board appointments of Verity Firth, Anna Bligh, Geoff Gallop and John Thwaites don't count?  Selective memory, it seems.It always seems to me, that those who advocate for more taxes, or increased taxes (particularly on GROSS income), are either 1) not paying, or paying very little tax themselves, or 2) are very much dependant on the welfare system.

And, since when does one article from an ex-LNP politician, with relevance deprivation syndrome, constitute an unbiased ABC?I didn't raise the ABC issue.  Alan did.
Anyway, I think you'll find the ABC does it's fair share of all those things you refer to, Stdrawcab.  Take 4 Corners last night, for example, on the Abbott Point dredging controversy.
I'm not saying that's a bad thing.  The ABC should be questioning government policy in those areas where big business is involved.

Problem is, over the last 10 - 15 years, elements within the ABC have taken a much more pro Labor position on all things political.  The fact that most Labor supporters think the ABC is balanced, and most LNP supporters think it's not, is proof in the pudding. 
The balance that's required by the publicly funded ABC under its Charter of Responsibilty is increasingly being questioned - and rightly so.It's interesting that John Hewson is calling for political leadership on matters of taxation, yet he was the LNP leader that managed to lose the "un-loseable" election in 1993 - and on guess what platform?  Taxation (attempting to introduce GST).
A Taxation Commission has a nice communal feel good sound to it.  A panel that would sit around a congenial table of experts, discussing the merits of this tax or that tax.  Rudd would have loved it!!
In essence though, the proposed Taxation Commission could only put suggestions forward to governments, as Treasury currently does.  And, as is the case with recommendations from the Productivity Commission, political argy bargy and behind the scenes horse trading will still determine what is introduced, or not introduced.  It would not guarantee political bipartisanship in anyway whatsoever.
Basically, all it would create is just another Canberra based bureaucracy with its nose in the public trough.I would have thought the rabid left would be cheering on an emerging female stateswoman, like Julie Bishop.  Especially after all their "lack of females" hooha after the LNP cabinet positions were announced. 
But, no.  Why?  Because she is simply on the wrong side of their political fence.
What a hypocritical, weak minded bunch of morons there are inside the left of the political spectrum.The reason Obama appeals so much to Labor and Left wing supporters, is because he "says" and "seems" to be doing all the right things. 
Like Labor's pledges to Gonski and NDIS reforms, Obama knows he'll enjoy the popular support of a large segment of na?ve daydreamers, but he'll never personally have to deal with the fiscal responsibilities of actually "doing". 
Considering Australia has highly valued foreign investment in Australia ever since Federation, Gary, why is it that "Abbott looks like an idiot" in this case?  Or, is foreign investment from the US and the UK alright, but not from China? Is that it?Once the FTA is finalised, Tervor, you'll be able to assess it for all it's worth. Until then, it's not finalised.

Coalition governments, once elected, tend to do what is expected of them (i.e. make decisions on our behalf).  

I know that's not the Labor way.  But, Labor rarely makes important decisions in a timely manner. Because they subject themselves to so many focus groups, union approval meetings, consensus committees and public forums that they forget what they were deciding on in the first place - until it's too late and then they promise everything and leave it for the next government to deal with.One thing I always notice, whenever the Abbott government successfully passes significant policy, or achieves a major international trade or diplomatic initiative, special interest authors and posters on this site go "off their face" with hateful articles and comments.

I'd say, get used to it, guys and gals. Australia is open for business.  With the economy growing as a natural result of increased business, opportunities will arise and jobs will increase. On top of that, standards of living will improve and, hopefully, governments will become less obtrusive in our day to day lives.Not even Labor are stupid enough to consider cuts there either, Sea Monster.  Mum and Dad investors are also negative gearing.  I'd like to see how you'd make effective law changes in that area, that only effected the rich.  But, Labor have never shied away from making stupid and ineffective changes to tax law, have they??Exactly what aspects of a major attack on climate change is going to create economic growth, Gerard.  I'd be interested to see what response you have to that little furphy.And, while we're waiting with bated breath for these wonderful new innovations in alternative energy production to become cost effective, do we keep the coal in the ground? (as most here on this site seem to think we should)?  
Do the poor and less well developed nations have to bide their time and wait for their richer nation cousins to "allow" them their chance at economic development on acceptable energy use terms?  How patronising.The Dutch are nervous about Russian gas supplies, AT.  As are a number of other EU countries.  It's the very reason Abbott was prepared to say what most other leaders think, but are too frightened of Russia's energy supply sword hanging over their heads to say.Ms. Matthewson must have been feeling a little unloved by most of the posters on this site recently.  Hence she's come out here with just the sort of usual drivel that appeals to the left wing Abbott haters.
Only the foolish left wingers and the ABC took Abbott's "shirtfront" statement literally.  Abbott knew what he was saying and doing by using the term, and it kept the matter of the MH17 atrocity foremost in the minds of most observers at time when it was starting to lose international relevance.  It worked, with both the Canadian and UK Prime Ministers backing Abbott and forcing Putin on an early plane home in a state of abject embarrassment.
  
On the Climate Change issue, Obama has once again shown why he is increasingly being described as the weakest lame duck US president in history.  
He has a snowflakes chance in hell of ever getting his grandiose emissions reduction target through the US senate, and he knows it.  (But, who cares, he says, I'm out in two years). 
China has to do nothing for 16 YEARS - Nothing.  What sort of a grand break through is that agreement?  On top of that, neither the US, nor China are legally committed to anything.  
What a joke!!!

In other words, Skeptic, you're saying it's the general election poll that counts.  I agree.  The choices will be another term of Coalition action and results (as distinct from "symbolism" and "seeming") or a term of Shorten's bug eyed backflips and ultimate economic ruin.  The people are not stupid.

I think you made that up about Liberals deserting Abbott to vote Greens.  Don't make me laugh.Once again, you can't see through that blinkered, blindfolded halo of hatred, Olive.
Abbott's reference to the $7 co-payment was purely and simply an example to his listeners of how domestic political pressures can blind side leaders, and potentially thwart programs when it comes to pushing for their G20 agreed economic growth targets.
But, then there is no point in trying to reason with you on this.  A completely shut mind has no scope for reason.Couldn't agree more, AJS. 
It's refreshing to hear someone with a more sensitive approach to the victims of MH17.  The ususal Abbott haters treat these victims with such total disrespect by launching into an anti-Abbott tirade, instead of supporting our PM's efforts to bring Putin to account.I agree.  The sooner Shorten stops embarrassing us with his policy backflips and stops trying to grab world attention with his dumb little one-liners, the better for all of us.There are forums specifically designed for nations to discuss climate change issues.  Namely, the Paris conference next year.  
The G20 agenda is set for other purposes.
It is so typical of academic intelligentsia though, to try to hijack every event into discussing the subjects they want to waffle on about.
I'm sure the rain will still fall, the snows will still appear on the Alps, the Pacific islands won't be swallowed up and the polar caps won't have disappeared before this time next year.Are you looking for a bet on what I've suggested will or won't happen before the Paris conference next year, Wottha?  If so, I'm on. 
My point is, we don't need people that have never worked in the "real" world, never had to sweat over making sufficient income to cover employee wages, never had to produce/manufacture anything tangible or worry about market conditions from year to year, telling us what we (or our leaders) should or shouldn't be doing at a G20 meeting. There is a time and a place for climate change debate - and it ain't at this forum.Do you think Abbott should send our army into Ukraine to force a result? I think, I think NOT.  
What else apart from keeping Putin under the spotlight do you think Abbott can do?
The "shirtfront" call was designed to keep that world attention on Putin's lies and failures a little longer, and it worked to a point. 
The ABC's 7.30 Report on this issue was crass and dreadfully insensitive to the victims families.  Unfortunately, it's what I've come to expect from that organisation since the Coalition came to power.There is nothing inherently wrong with businesses or corporations (or Unions, for that matter) providing donations to political parties.
It does become a problem though when governments bow to the wishes of the donators when forming government policy.
Take the Clive Palmer instance where, after donating heavily to the Newman governments successful election campaign, Clive cracked it big time when it became obvious the Newman government was not going to fund his coal mining rail development to the extent that Clive wanted.
Another case, with the opposite effect though, is how Labor at both state and federal level, have caved in to union demands for preferential conditions in arbitration processes.
It's not the lobbying that's the issue, it's how governments respond to the lobbying that counts.
So, you would have been happy to see up to 240 elderly low income people possibly evicted from their low rent accommodation, had the Sunshine Coast Council rezoned the land?I disagree, Stirrer.  Donations can be made by corporations, for example, based on new or existing policies promoted by a political party, that may appeal to that corporation. (i.e. cutting back on red tape etc..)  There's nothing corrupt about that.
Unions donating to Labor, because Labor always goes soft on union regulation laws.  It's not corrupt. It's ideology based.And, how was Pratt exposed, Mark?  Correct. Through an independent ACCC investigation.
Who investigates union corrupt behaviour if the Coalition doesn't? Correct. No-one.  Labor certainly wouldn't."The Police investigate criminal activity. That is what we pay them for."

That's the usual Labor response.  The only problem with that is that witnesses are too terrified of the union thugs to press charges.
Nothing happens.
Only a full blown RC has the powers to compel witnesses to testify.Of course a Coalition government would want to expose corruption within elements of the trade union movement. Who else is going to do it? 
Everybody knew union corruption was there, and the damage it was causing the building industry (in particular).  
You don't seriously believe a Labor government would do anything about it, do you?  
Labor appointed Williamson to their party presidency during the height of his HSU rip-off days.
Besides, there are independent bodies like ASIC that have the powers to expose corporate corruption, and they do.  We don't need an RC for that.It's like everything that Labor undertakes, Septumis. They balls it up and never finish it.  
But the Labor historians never let the truth get in the way.  They'll put this FTA down as another, "great and glorious achievement of Julia Gillard's reformist, insightful and progressive government".Talk about a bunch of "glass half empty" types in these comments.  
I think it's mainly due to sour grapes that the Coalition has again managed to secure what the previous Labor government could not.
It should come as a surprise to the whingeing lefties on this site that Australia, under the Coalition, is open again for business.
FTA's benefit both parties to at least some extent.  If they didn't, one or both parties would not sign.  The longer term benefits will come from the relationships developed between businesses from both countries, as trade continues to broaden over time.  
This latest FTA with China (from all reports) will be just the tonic for Australia's northern farmers, especially after the extreme damage done to them by the Gillard government in cancelling the Indonesian live cattle trade.  
It's about time a government looked after our primary industry small businesses, instead of bowing to politically correct Green movements, and trying to close them down..Personally, I don't mind paying a little extra for good quality Australian beef, if it means the hard working producer makes a little more out of it.  The major supermarket chains in this country have squeezed the primary producers margins for far too long.  
But, I know the inner-city latte sippers will squeal like stuck pigs if they have to pay a cent more."..and his decision to exit the Vietnam War .."

Another myth, Ray.
All, but a handful of military advisers and some diplomatic staff, had already been withdrawn before Whitlam even took office.  Don't believe everything you hear/read about the Whitlam era.
Too much of it has been "made up" and exaggerated by left wing journalists like Mungo.
Interesting, given Lambie's positioning and statements on other subjects, that she enjoys the support of the usual Lefties on this site.  But, I guess, if she is "being seen" to oppose Abbott on everything, then she'll always have the Abbott Haters support - no matter how right wing and bigoted some of her other views are.
Personally, I believe she's just a political opportunist with a massive sense of her own self-importance.  
Like her other Tasmanian independent colleague, Andrew Wilkie, she's only in it for the personal attention she's able to gain.  Wilkie tried out for the Liberal preselection - failed.  Tried out for Labor - Failed.  Indepenent? YES, I'M IN!!
You can guarantee that, if either Wilkie or Lambie don't make the headlines one week, they'll come out with some outrageous and silly statement the next.I don't think Cassidy intended it, but this article nails Labor more than it does the Coalition.
On the two examples Cassidy raises, GST and Home Security, it was the Coalition under Howard that had the political gumption and foresight to introduce the GST, despite rampant threats from Labor to "wind it back".  
Labor played the "fear" card on the new tax, and lost badly.  The Coalition is now at least trying to get discussion going again on the possibilities of GST revision, but Labor is thwarting that in favour of playing politics and the "fear" card once more.

As for Home Security, the Coalition has very quickly, and without discrimination against Muslims (it's the media that's beaten that one up) introduced new laws to restrict/hamper terrorist activities from gaining a foothold within Australia.  Labor, under Shorten, just glances sideways and says, "Yeah, yeah, me too".
New Zealand has the added advantage of being so far away from the rest of the world, protected by it's big brother to the North, that it can afford to have a much more casual attitude to Home Security.I agree, foolking. 
You only needed to watch Q&amp;A this week to see what a job the program was trying to do to Brandis.
Brandis fended off the partisan (and, surprisingly very defensive) questions from the stacked audience and the presenter.  He (Brandis) explained very clearly what the government was trying to achieve with the cooperation of the "Muslim communities", and that the fear and resentment from the community was not only unwarranted, but also counter productive.
The governments message hasn't changed from day one, but the media (particularly the ABC) has twisted and exaggerated every comment made, or action taken.
You only had to hear the howls of derision from the Opposition benches in parliament last week, when Abbott suggested exactly what you are proposing, foolking, to know that Australia has a long way to go before we can achieve any sort of constructive cooperation between the current political adversaries.That logic would see us ban cars, tractors, motor bikes, and even water.   All of these have the ability to harm or kill people.
When does responsibility to oneself and to others cease to exist?  We all have a responsibility (and therefore accountability) for our own actions and for the decisions we make.You've hit the nail on the head!!  Couldn't agree more.
Surely, the unborn child has SOME rights, as well.Whitlam was a towering figure in Australian politics, no doubt.  
He was boosted up higher than he actually should have been by the leftist media and the myth making Laborphiles, but still a great man anyway for the ideas he promoted.
Like most Labor politicians, he had grand ideas and a penchant for the theatrical, but very poor management skills.
Gough would have made the perfect leader of a left wing think tank, rather than a PM that has the responsibility to see new policy properly implemented.
Every one of his grand ideas was adjusted significantly by those following him, to make them work in the real world.If anything, Mungo, I believe Abbott was feeling sorry for Bill Shorten and his Labor mates by offering them a chance at becoming a little more relevant in the Australian political scene.

It appears that after Labor lost office last year in such a resounding fashion, Labors strategy became, "Well, we've still got numbers in the senate. Let's stick it up 'em."

So, instead of having a go at Abbott, why don't you challenge Bill Shorten to man up, stop sooking, to bring back his "bat and ball", and just have a go at being a real leader.  Who knows, he just might start getting a little respect.Just a bit of sour grapes, I think, from Ian.
He like the vast number of Leftists were gloating only a week ago, that Greg Hunt would never be able to get DA through the senate.  Clive had cuddled up to Al Gore and was on "our" side, wasn't he?
Then the Coalition proved again just how irrelevant Labor and their Green mates have become.  
Shorten has painted the Labor opposition into a very dangerous corner, and it's hilarious to watch. 
If DA is successful (and, it could well be) Shorten has nowhere to go - just like with border security, he's a lame duck.I hope, if there is an adverse finding against Led Zeppelin, it doesn't have the same effect on Jimmy Page, that a similar finding had on Men At Work's Greg Ham. 
Regardless, there will never be another "Ledders", regardless of who, or how the Stairway riff was influenced.I think you'll find, Barrie, if you bother to check, that Abbott was no where near as obstructionist whilst in opposition as Shorten is now.
Abbott never obstructed any government policy initiative that his party had previously endorsed.  
Abbott never voted for a bill, then 4 weeks later, called for it to be rescinded.
Many Rudd/Gillard policies (not just national security bills) were passed by Abbott's opposition colleagues.  Yes, some were venomously opposed.  And, given the track record of the Rudd/Gillard era, that's not surprising.
Shorten, being the leader (that's a joke) of the party that caused the budget mess ($1b a month, just to cover the interest!!!), is now blocking every move of the government to rectify the situation.
Barry, and his ABC colleagues, branded Abbott as "Dr. No" whilst he was in opposition, yet apart from a thinly veiled criticism here in this piece, has given Shorten free rein to mindlessly block every piece of legislation put forward.
Regardless of how you viewed Abbott's performance in opposition, how childish is the excuse, " Well, they did it to me..."Agree, Freeman.
Given Labor supporters propensity to re-write history though, the Rudd/Gillard era will be seen by them as a great reformist government, never given an opportunity by a relentless opposition.  
Spankings of poor Labor goverments by the electorate at the polls, never seems to register with Labor's historians.  It just helps to boost their myth-making abilities.Correct.  Good observation, Observer.
Using the Direct Action plan, businesses can only make money ... errr, if they demonstrably reduce emissions.That's a very long winded virtual corroboration of what I said, Rusty.  
Direct Action rewards businesses (make money/reduce costs/incentive payment - call it what you like) when those businesses clearly demonstrate they have actively reduced pollution/emissions/positive environmental outcomes (call it what you like).
Direct Action is the carrot approach.  Carbon Tax / ETS (call it what you like) is the big stick approach.
Direct Action is measurable, therefore perfect for objective setting.  CT/ETS is expensive for everyone (including low income people and pensioners) and is virtually intangible as far as measurable results are concerned."..doing something really worthwhile about climate change."

Would that "really worthwhile" thing be cutting our emissions ENTIRELY, and reducing the effect to the planet by 0.0015%?  Sounds like a great idea!!Care to give us a couple of real and tangible examples on where/how Murdoch has "thumped on the poor and disadvantaged", Yank?  And please, don't just give us your usual bland left wing rhetoric. 

The term "progressive" was introduced by the Left as their preferred self description, after the tem "Left" gained too many negative connotations from successive socialist government failures.  
The meaning could also apply to "progressive" destruction of social incentive and development. "A leopard can't change its spots".One only has to look at the author's credentials to know that, here is an individual who has never generated a cent producing anything, lecturing an industry that generates millions of dollars a year toward our balance of trade figures, and feeds vast populations around our region.
The moment we start formulating our trade policies based on advice from these fairyland academics, is the day we have caved into Labor/Green movement completely.  
Thank God we have a Coalition government in place that looks to, and reacts to, the REAL world and not to some Utopian, pipe dreaming fantasyland.Nobody (including the pastoralists) had any problem with the initial suspension of cattle trade/traffic to the offending abattoirs, Stephen.  That made good sense.  But, that's where the Gillard government's good sense stopped.

5 days later, Ludwig cancelled ALL live cattle trade to Indonesia, including to the majority of abattoirs that were doing the right thing.  
Talk about a massive over-reaction!!
The damage caused to our own primary producers was also massive, and totally unnecessary.  It (the complete ban) made no difference to the final outcome of the anti-animal cruelty measures that have been strengthened.
It was done all for local political point scoring opportunities for Labor, regardless of the consequences to the northern primary producers and transport industry.Helvi.  Julia Gillard shot herself in the foot.  She didn't need anyone's help.  Same goes for Rudd.  It has nothing to do with gender.  Both were hopeless, and the electorate told them so.A very disappointing article.  
Instead of taking the opportunity to positively comment on the increasing numbers (since 1985) of women taking a more active role in politics across all parties, the author tries to get a couple of cheap shots at the current government.

It is a well known fact (except for the don't-want-to-listen Abbott haters) that Tony Abbott is very keen to see a higher representation of women in cabinet positions.  The Coalition has some excellent candidates which, were it not for his commitment to his shadow cabinet whilst in opposition, would already be there (i.e. watch this space).
The women in Tony Abbotts Coalition government can feel rightly proud they earned their positions on merit. The same can't be said for Labor's patronising quota system.Margaret Thatcher! Remembered with venom by conservatives?  Are you kidding?Every independent newspaper has the ability and the right to support, or denigrate the government of the day, based on what it deems to be in either it's, or it's readerships interests, new name.
It's been happening ever since the printing press was invented.  There's no conspiracy there!  Just more left wing paranoia.
The efforts of the left to re-write history never cease to amaze me. 
The Coalition never feels the need to glorify themselves in print to the same extent as Labor.  Maybe it's Labor's inferiority complex.
Everyone should read Professor Geoffrey Blainey's article on the Whitlam era in last weekends Australian for a TRUE account of what happened in that era.  He didn't run Gough down.  In fact he acknowledged the good things Gough managed to initiate, but he also put the clear indisputable facts regarding Whitlam's shambolic economic record on the table.
And, when it comes to Australian history, I would take Blainey's (a learned and qualified historian) account of Whitlams economic record over Verrender's anyday.It seems the only people that are "fearful" here, are the Abbott Haters.  
I'm not fearful.  No where near it.  But, I do support the governments attempts to raise security awareness and to put mechanisms in place that make it much more difficult for people who hate Australia (and Australians) to do us harm."Why in 2014 is every act by a crazed gunman immediately interpreted as an act of terrorism?"

Because, Barry, a very large number of those incidents are perpetrated by fanatics, using stealth and surprise, claiming to have committed the act (they don't call it a crime) on behalf of their particular political/religious cause.  

If that's not terrorism, I don't know what is.

It's interesting to note your early comment, "The need to be vigilant is obvious,.."  Yet, only days after the Abbott government raised the security alert levels around the country some 6 weeks ago, you claimed that it was knee-jerk and an over-reaction.

If this government takes dramatic action to protect the country's public servants and the public in general, I'd say that is not only a good thing, it is expected by the people who elected them. 

How about getting behind the government in it's attempt to protect its citizens, instead of constantly carping on with criticisms and conspiracy theories.I agree, Cherna.
Even the Opposition knows that, when it comes to matters of National Security, a united voice is the best deterrent to those that would harm us.  
Unfortunately, The "Hate Abbott Brigade" just don't get it.It's pretty clear that New Matilda has a political agenda.
It says a lot about the organisation that it would stoop to "steal" someone's private mail in order to gain a cheap political point.  
If the boot was on the other foot.., well you'd hear screams of Left wing angst coming from New Matilda.  But, that's the hypocrisy of the left wing movement.Well, then why all the fuss over the Governments proposed laws regarding metadata retention?Ahh, Jonathan.  Never let truth get in the way of a good story.
The fairyland myth making, and history re-writing abilities of the Left (and Labor, in particular) never cease to amaze me.

Whitlam was an abject failure.  A social experiment that ended in disaster.  How else do you explain the spanking he got from the electorate at the '75 election?

If Whitlam was as magical as the Left portrays him, why was he so roundly rejected by the people?  Was it because we, the public, were just too stupid to understand, Jonathan?  That's another common theme from the Left - electoral stupidity.Oh, grow up, Ben.
If ever there was an article that SHOULD receive bipartisan support from people of all political persuasions, you've managed to twist the authors words into meaning something that was never there.  Well done.Err.  Trying to win cheap political points from aligning with Whitlam?  
I'd call that political suicide!  Which is what the Greens are good at.Peter,
Speaking of Labors warped sense of history, the Left likes to claim that Gough was responsible for bringing the troops home from Vietnam.  
From my vague memory of the time, I'm sure it was only a handful of embassy staff and a few military advisers that were still left when Gough was elected.  The rest had been withdrawn well before under the Coalition government.  Is that correct?I'd agree with the author.  
Whitlam was more in tune with the current Greens, than he was with the grass roots Labor supporter (read - blue collar worker) at the time.  
How else do you explain Whitlam's crushing defeat at the 1975 DD election? Even the rusted on Labor supporters knew Whitlam's government was too crazy to warrant getting another term in office.*sigh*. There IS a pause in the rate of global warming, genfie.
You people are quick to point to the scientists for verification of your arguments when you want to, but refuse to accept the latest acknowledgements from the scientific world that the rate of warming HAS paused.  
Claims that the oceans have been storing the "missing" heat from the last 16 years, have been refuted by the latest scientific tests.  
It has also been recently proven by scientists that the climate is less susceptible to the effects of increased Co2 than previously thought.
The world has been warming and cooling at various times over 100's of thousands of years."..so let's start putting numbers on how much more we're prepared to pay in order to leave the coal in the ground because that's what this argument is really about."

I'm afraid that's exactly where the Green movement fails every time. No financial, or lifestyle assessment, just moral finger pointing.Why is it that the Left are prepared to accept the science of anthropological climate change without question, yet won't accept the opinion of the Chief Medical Officer (a physician) that Australia is not in a position to safely send medical teams to West Africa to assist in the fight against ebola?  I'd seriously like Tanya Plibersek and Bill Shorten to get off their political bandwagon and answer that one for me.Those two (Shorten &amp; Plibersek) are incapable of forming any sort of a workable solution.  
On Labors track record, they'd form a committee to advise an overseeing committee on a range of possible alternative steps that may be taken to bring suggestions to an independent panel, consisting of evenly mixed genders and racial/cultural backgrounds, with a view to arriving at a decision sometime in the next 3 - 5 years!As long as Labor keep clinging to the belief that Whitlam was "The Messiah", they'll languish for lengthy periods on the Opposition benches.
I don't like speaking ill of the recently departed, but Whitlam lead the most hopelessly inept government Australia has ever seen (and that includes the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd era).
It's easy to push feel good, airy fairy and generous-to-the-public policies into practice.  It's harder to make them economically responsible for generations to benefit from, without bankrupting the country.  A bankrupt country will hurt the poor and underprivileged much, much more than a economically responsible government ever would.I understand your point, Bob. 
Your father was extremely lucky to be in the right place at the right time.  But free university education was never sustainable in the longer term. 
Don't forget that blue collar workers, with young families to feed and school, paid for your fathers ability to earn a huge reward later in life.  The current HECS fees system is much fairer on all taxpayers.
Gough was very good at launching innovative and controversial(and very expensive) social policy reforms, but it's almost as if he knew he'd never have to pick up the financial mess left afterwards.  
Therefore, as for being a so-called "visionary", any damn fool could have done it.Could not agree more, James.
All PC nonsense, and a major distraction to what is really important.Labor criticising the Abbott government over the ebola issue, in the manner they are, is a clear example why the electorate has turned their back on the "workers" party.
It's obvious that Plibersek and Shorten saw this as an opportunity to attack the government, even though Labor has been party to the same expert briefings as the government, in regard to the extreme difficulties Australia faces in sending medical teams to West Africa. 
The same applies to the budget deficit.  Labor's ineptitude created the debt, yet Shorten stands in the way of the Coalition's attempts to correct the imbalance.

Keep up the "good" work, Bill and Tanya.  The electorate is not as stupid as the Left thinks it is.Not long ago, the climate alarmists were claiming the science of global warming was unquestionable - even when some observers and scientists were suggesting the complexities of the worlds weather formations and patterns left the door open a little. 
Now, I notice the alarmists (faced with the facts that temperatures have not appreciably increased for 16 years) are using "complexities" as their excuse for the complete failure of the models so widely accepted by scientists earlier.David, I think you'd find (if you ever wanted to consider a fair minded approach) that neighbouring countries, such as Indonesia, PNG and Sri Lanka, respect Australia more for the clearly spoken and consistent approach Abbott and Morrison have brought to the table.  
They couldn't get that under Labor.  It was "say one thing, do another".  That's where trust is lost.
A pretty vague comment, Pocketful.
"Excessive, effusive praise.."
I can only assume you're referring to Kevin Rudd's style, whilst in government, in regard to Indonesia?  Correct?"Jokowi is known for his practical approach to decision making and his dislike for long, pompous speeches."

If that's the case, for future Australian -Indonesian relationships, let's hope Labor doesn't win government soon.  Labor's track record in decision making over recent times could never be described as "practical".  More like "chaotic".

This Coalition government will form close diplomatic ties with Jokowi, as they should.  They certainly won't replicate Rudd's gushy, suck up style, whilst at same time hacking into the Presidents phone conversations.I'd have far more respect for Amnesty International if I saw a lot more criticism from them toward truly despotic and tyrannical 3rd world regimes.  
Instead, the organisation saves it's venom for Western democracies that have a genuine and abiding regard for the rule of law.
But, it's fashionable to infiltrate these organisations with left wing, politically correct academics, that have a very blinkered view of what is genuinely a human rights violation.It's an amusing common thread amongst commentators from the Left, that anyone who swings their vote to the right is a bogan.  But, if they swing to the left, they're enlightened, deep thinking progressives on the path to political salvation.  Hallelujah!!!   Gimme a break!
I agree with you that Abbott's strategy in the "shirtfront" statement was calculated and deliberate.  The last thing he wants is for Putin to come to the G20 virtually unchallenged over Russia's interference in the Ukraine and it's complicity in the MH17 tragedy.
I'm sure most Australians and particularly the families of the MH17 victims are grateful and pleased that our PM will robustly challenge Putin - even if you're not.I'm amused to read the many posts here that clearly underestimate Abbott's ability to gain a political advantage when he sees one.
I can only put it down to the lefts blind and brainless hatred of Abbott and his LNP team.  
Abbott is making the left (Greens &amp; Labor) look stupid in regard to the "shirtfront" statement.  Abbott knew exactly what he'd get from the media when he made the "shirtfront" claim, and he got it.
Sure, it will be a distraction from the main emphasis of the G20 for a while, but Putin will be only too aware of the Western medias focus on him, and his countries responses in regard to the Ukraine and the investigation into MH17.
Well done, Mr. Abbott.  Go get him!"No wonder Prime Minister Abbott had to back down on the threat to ban.."
Since when did Abbott threaten to ban Putin?  That was all the silly work of Shorten.  Abbott knows he can't ban him.  
But he can put him on the backfoot, and that's what the "shirtfront" issue was about.  Abbott cleverly and deliberately chose his words for that purpose.
Putin knows the full intensity of the worlds press spotlight will be on him more than ever after Abbott's comments.My eyes are open, nose.
Too many people underestimate Abbott, mainly because of their blind and brainless hatred.
Abbott knows what he's doing in regard to Putin.  Have a look at the press interview again.  Abbott very carefully chose the word "shirtfront", knowing the world press would jump all over it.  Why?  Because he wants to keep the worlds focus on the deceptive and bullying nature of Putin's regime.  In doing so, he may be able to win some concessions from Putin in regard to the investigation into MH17.
Underestimate Abbott at your peril.Another Essential Media predictable poll result. 
If you keep asking the same people their views on a current subject, you'll always get a slanted outcome.
It's either that, or Peter &amp; Jackie only publish the polls that suit their own ideological outlook.
I have yet to see one single Essential Media poll result that isn't skewed to the socialist left.Pete, you're sounding like a Dad that says things like, "when I was a boy, I could get a bag of chips for 5 cents."
Market forces drive the economies of the world. Those that are smart pick up on the trends early and cash in.  Those that are prepared to work their butts off (maybe sacrificing other things in the process) also, if they're smart, cash in.
There will always be people that think that's unfair, but they are usually now working for the smart, hard working ones and haven't sacrificed the other things needed to get there.
One can't survive without the other.   That's life!!"One of the touchstones of conservative thinking is respect for the rule of law."

Yes. I'd agree - when that law serves both it's own citizenry and the purpose for which it was intended.    
The 1954 Refugee Convention is no longer relevant to the circumstances that face Australia today - just as modern refugees are not faced with the same circumstances they did back then. 

The other touchstone of conservative thinking is, "if it ain't working - make it work, or ignore it."
Another touchstone is, "don't get sucked in by bleeding heart activists".It's hardly surprising on this site to see all the Abbott haters having another unfair go at the man.
If anyone followed the story fully, they'd know Shorten was insisting in parliament that Abbott give his own personal opinion on the Burqa issue.
Abbott ignored him (as he always does), but the press pushed and pushed for a response.  So, eventually Abbott gave his own views (and I'd say those views were consistent with the majority of Australians) in the hope the issue would die.
No big deal.  
Abbott personally finds the garment confronting and would prefer people not wear the things in Australia, but is not going to do anything to stop them.  Shock! Horror!  Burn him at the stake!
The authors of this article should have been aware of the truth behind this non-story and not tried to beat it up.I'll give you one good reason why NZ can afford to have an independent national security policy, NSGO.   They are at the bottom end of the world, sheltered from any potential aggressor, by strong and friendly democracies in all directions above and beyond.  Given that not-too-little piece of security, they can afford to "go it alone".Ahh, there it is.  I was wondering when the good old neo-liberal tag would re-appear.

You keep referring to the ABC funding cuts.  Hockey told ABC interviewers, right up to the eve of the election, that the ABC would be subject to efficiency reviews, like every other government funded body.  Don't believe me? Go back and check.
Abbott was referring to broad program funding cuts - not to back room efficiency funding arrangements.  If the ABC decides to cut programs as a result, that's their choice."This is why it was unwise of the Abbott Government to inquire into the actions of the previous government."

So the unnecessary deaths of 4 young men during the hopelessly incompetent roll out of the Pink Batts scheme, and the rampant rise of criminally infected trade unions and the resulting cost to industry, all overseen by the previous government didn't warrant investigation?  
You've got to be joking!!
If the Abbott government proves as inept and as foolish as the previous Rudd/Gillard government, I'd EXPECT an investigation into them as well.  The taxpayer deserves it!!

As for this Qld investigation, Clive is just wanting his pound of flesh over commercial favours not granted to him.  It just proves that the Newman government is clean.

