The difficulty in this case is that it is set in a war zone and  most likely was an accident due to inadequate processes being in place. Charging those who fired the missile/s  is  hardly appropriate.  The investigation however has yet to take place to determine the full circumstances such as where the weaponry came from, the chain of command and orders issued as well those who fired the missile/s.  Culpability can eventually be established which should not exclude ICAO for negligence.The disaster is an outcome of the struggle between Russia and the Ukraine. The only way to prevent further tradgedy is for this conflict to end,  The US and the EU should employ their forces to assist the Ukraine end all military action in the region.Steve;

Unfortunately the ideology of multiculturalism has been turned into pluralism placing us on the road to becoming an apartheid state. where separate groups lead separate social and economic existances.Vince:

Military action by the state of Israel should not translate into racial and religious baiting against Australian citizens in Australia. It is one thing to be anti Israel or anti Zionist but another to be anti-Semite.Rick

Any sense of frustration that leads to anti foreign sentiment is ultimately not going to be solved by legislation. It is far better to address the root causes of anti foreign feeling than expect legislation to achieve this.  The actions by Brandis were largely a failed attempt to allow people to let off steam. Of course that doesn't solve anything."It is the responsibility of our leaders, our thinkers and of reasonable people to ensure that such vitriol is neither pervasive, nor accepted."

This responsibility has been borne for some time including legislation to punish those responsible.  The question is why is it happening despite this great responsibility?  Have we allowed migration and the ideology of multiculturalism to go beyond people's ability to absorb the social impact. Anti -Semitism is most likely just anti foreign feeling when people feel they are losing out in access to the nation's opportunities.  People lash out at anything that is alien looking like some Jews and muslims. 

The discarding of the old ideology of multiculturalism and the shift to a policy of social integration will be one way forward. A policy of social integration should discourage manifest symbols of religious and ethnic identity that is clearly not Australian.  Education has to be a key feature where new arrivals clearly get to understand they are expected to socially integrate and behave according to the customs and values of Australians. 

Government also has to be seen to look after its own people rather than having a policy of treating everyone as equal. Now a person can be born in another country and get a place in a selective school and university whereas a multi generation Australian person can miss out.  What may in fact be objectively equality can be viewed as inequality with a foreigner being favoured. The same happens in housing where an open market means foreigners can compete in the purchasing thus driving up prices for locals. In the end the reality doesn't matter as much as the perception of what is happening. 

Perceptions that governments are favouring foreigners over locals will lead to even more tension that is not going to resolved simply by talking up multiculturalism and urging tolerance.Jerry

The government, if anything has been supportive of Israel albeit condemning their attacks on a school. Hence it really difficult to see how the government is fostering anti-Semitic feelings.  
Jerry

You are just mouthing an ideology. Once again, there is absolutely no evidence the government is targeting minorities. The people who come in under 457 visas should be sufficient proof of a tolerant stance to all ethnicities.phil

Few Jews if any ever died in protective custody in Australia. Don't deny the suffering that First Australians were inflicted with in coping with a different civilisation seizing their land. No ethnicity has suffered more than First Australians in this land. If you deny that then go ahead and also deny the Endloslung as well.J.T.

it's fair enough to be anti Israel without being denigrated as a Nazi. It is legitimate because Israel is a state and as a state may commit acts that you disagree with  It is another matter to verbally abuse or commit violence on Jews who are Australian citizens.  The latter (ie attacks on Australian Jews) and not the former is an act of anti-Semitism.



This is a good step in tackling crime  and terrorism. Let's face the reality that telephone calls and the internet are an integral part of crime and that these aids to crime can also be turned against the criminals. 

The risks to this policy are extremely low.  Those who complain base their case on the highly unlikely scenario of a totalitarian regime taking over. However if we don't adequately control criminals and terrorists then we actually raise the risk of having a totalitarian regime.Marty

I know of least one former member of the waffen SS who marched at one time.Both world wars in Europe can be perceived as European civil wars. Germany has been cast as the bad guy whereas in both world wars it was the French and British who declared war on Germany. In both struggles however Germany was not backward in launching its armies on the French and British and of course in WW2 soundly defeated them. All sides in both struggles adopted the mentality of the gambler is always hoping the next campaign will be the winner rather than trust in diplomacy. 

In suffering huge casualties, having its cities obliterated and being at the mercy of the Red army,  it is understandable why Germany and other central European countries will find past history painful. However ignoring history is not helpful because all is not negative. Germany demonstrated great skills in the battlefield and there is much to be proud of it's fighting elan. Even some of the outcomes such as the treaty of Brest Litovsk was the initial step in the independence of the Ukraine. All participants in the struggles need to be remembered for their sacrifice and their feats.  In the end it is not about ideology but about people. This is why we can honour heroes such as Michael Wittman, Hans Rudel and Erich Hartmann equally with Clive Caldwell.Greg

These are isolated incidents that you refer to really no different to the Mai Lai massacre in Vietnam.  Nearly all members of the Kriegsmarine, Luftwaffe, Waffen SS and Heer were largely engaged in a fight for survival. Had they not made the ultimate sacrifice in the defence of Germany, most of Europe would have fallen to the reds.Greg

It was the Einsatzgruppen and local auxiliary police units that were largely involved in these killings rather than military units.  However we don't vilify the RAF or the USAAF for the huge number of civilian deaths they caused. Nor did the allies have any problems in being allied to Stalin who had previous to the war commencing had murdered around 3 million people.Greg:

It started off as a crusade against communism and ended up as a campaign of defence against the reds taking over.  The reds of course embarked on an orgy of rape and killings as soon as they reached Poland.Clownfish

Such aktionen were organised and carried out by police units and the SD not the Wehrmacht or even the wassen ss,Clownfish

Fighting the Red army particularly with its T 34 tanks gave the German soldier enough to do without also getting involved in genocide.  There was no doubt army units were used from time to time to cordon off areas and of course were definitely involved in anti - partisan activities.  There is of course a fine line between genocide and anti-partisan activities just as there were in Vietnam. German generals were particularly concerned that their supply and reinforcement lines were not tampered with. To that end war against partisans behind German lines is not a pleasant story to relate. 


Bloodnok:

German soldiers did not run concentration camps. Yes crimes were committed but only a small percentage were involved these being units that were part of the SS. Besides the German soldier was largely fighting against the Red Army. 

To condemn the German soldiers for crimes planned and organised by a political elite is to suggest everyone in that country including those thrown into concentration camps are to blame. While we are at it we may as condemn ourselves for the terror bombing of Germany during WW2 killing millions of women and children or the killing of women and children in Vietnam.  

There is much too much of the ideology and propaganda of the victors which results in a demonising of the past enemy.  It is definitely not the way forward. People of all nations to read the (objectively written) pages of history, reflect on that history and move on.  We need to differentiate between the heroes of all nationalities as well as the vilains. 

Greg:

War is never pretty.  Just look at the aftermath of Hiroshima.  The Wehrmacht did get caught up in political decisions such as starving Russian prisoners. Nonetheless these are not decisions made by the average officer in the Wehrmacht. Remember it was also Wehrmacht officers who plotted to get rid of Hitler. 

German forces fought bravely and skilfully against overwhelming odds.  Their sacrifice saved Europe from the reds. 

leafygreens

China and Japan were at war before the beginning of WW2. It was that conflict and the preoccupation of European powers on the European conflict that led to the Pacific war. From the outset however the US devoted most of its resources to the European conflict making the Pacific war a side show.Austermany

Only Germans actually tried to get rid of Hitler!Graham 

I think you gave a very convincing reason why Britain was responsible for starting WW1.  Basically you are saying that because Germany was successful in promoting its trade, Britain had a right to declare war on it.  I concur that the same reasoning was there for Britain to declare  war on Germany starting WW2 and for getting rid of Saddam Hussein.  

To the victors go the right to distort reality, demonise the enemy and market themselves as the forces of righteousness.Clownfish:

The war started because France and the UK declared war on Germany and had little to do with any encouragement by Wilhelm II.Clownfish

There is the "Boys Own" view of history and there is an objective view of history.  There was no plan by Germany to take over Europe.  All they had were war plans to enact if war was declared by the old enemy France. France had tried to manipulate affairs in the German states but was thwarted by German unification. This led to France declaring war on Prussia and other states but was defeated. Since then the French had wanted to strike back to reassert their influence and seize territory.Too much is made of guilt. Guilt is generally generated by the victors onto the vanquished.  Hence Germany was made to accept guilt for both WW1 and WW2 even though it had not declared war in the first instance. Germans have also been made to feel guilty about war crimes even though most people were never involved in this decision making. No one can be made responsible for the actions of others.  

Countries such as Germany need to move beyond guilt into a more objective examination of history. They had their criminals but they had even more war heroes.JJ

The German people were starving at the end of the war.  They may have thought victory had been snatched from them but the idea of world dominance seems somewhat far fetched.Norman:

Perhaps the Japanese are like most Asian nations giving history a low priority in studies whilst reifying technology. Culturally most Asian countries are more comfortable with a sanitized history that is largely ideological in nature and bereft of any critical analysis. The Chinese may criticise the Japanese but you can bet there is no real critical studies of the Mao period. 

Some of the posters here are also victims of the lack of critical analysis in history taught in schools many decades ago. For example I can recall being taught that only minor damage was done to Darwin in the first bombing raid.  

In 1914, WW! effectively commenced with the UK and France declaring war on Germany.  The war happened because the UK and France wanted a war to reduce the power of Germany.  Diplomacy only has a future when people do not want war and can accept some compromise position.  

inevitably diplomacy and limited warfare will solve the issues in Ukraine.  warfare afterall is also about leverage in negotiations. The only long term solution to the Palestinian question is an exodus of Jews to whoever will accept them. Othewise it is simply going to be Israel continually responding to the terrorist threat of Hamas.Breach
'The Palestinian issue is one of the major issues that have stirred up the Islamic world."

The Islamic world could finish Israel off tomorrow if they tried. The Palestinians are just simply a cause celebre to divert attention away from the problems of the Islamic world. 
Dove;

While your points are valid, nonetheless a very large percentage of muslims have sympathy towards the plight of the Palestinians.  However it does not seem to be an issue which gets their focus sufficiently where they are able to turn sympathy into action.  They generally have more pressing issues. It is nonetheless an issue that divides muslim from non muslim because of the level of support given to Israel.Fidanza:

Certainly there are a small minority of Christians but this doesn't change the muslim perspective.  Indeed, Christians in the middle east are in danger of being wiped out by jihadists.mike

"Japan,reached us in wooden Airoplanes using 1930,s technology"

The Japanese aircraft that bombed Darwin were at the forefront of technology with the exception of the land based two engine bomber the Mitsubishi G3M (27 of which bombed Darwin on the first day of attacks). All the major aircraft (the A6M, the G3M, G4M. D3A and B4N) were all metal and not wooden aircraft.Tory Boy:

There is no question their expulsion from Australia will provide all the certainty they need.  The key issue we are addressing here is eliminating any advantage from arriving in Australia on a boat. Once people understand that then there will be no kids in our detention hotels.virgil

Very good points made.  There will be a federal election coming up in two years time. Now is the time to get the ALP to take up a compassionate policy whereby all Australians will be required to host refugee families to make them feel truly welcome. 

I am not sure however the children can be released by themselves into families as they really need to be with their parents. An Australian family might be more traumatic than our special refugee hotels.astro

It may be that we are in breach by forcing them to a non-signatory country

No we aren't.  The asylum seekers have commenced their journey from Indonesia (where they are safe) so it is only reasonable we send them back without any high probability of danger happening to them.astro

All countries are bound to refoulement. Nonetheless there are significant grounds for us to reconsider ourselves as signatories to international conventions as the latter are now being applied in a context never envisioned. More specifically these international conventions are outdated and irrelevant. 

If the UN wants to make a fuss its up to them to punish those responsible for creating the refugees in the first place.Peter

Even worse conditions await in UNHCR refugee camps. Why are you so concerned about the kids in our hotels when millions of children are suffering in these camps.toot

Just feel ashamed if you like. Decent Austalians however applaud these policies which will ultimately reduce the number of children saved from a watery grave.rusty

It seems fairly obvious that if our detention centres offer conditions superior to refugee camps then we are performing well.Sir Peter

Correction, the parents are largely responsible for placing children in a situation where a nation has clearly stated they are unwelcome.  No doubt for most children being taken out of their dysfunctional homelands, going on a dangerous boat journey and arriving in a country where the people are mainly Christian is a traumatic experience. 

There is only one way to prevent this and that is to ensure there is no advantage coming with your family by boat.Dissenter

Sure lets get all the refugees and place them in our vast and underpopulated places. They can be issued with ID cards and forbidden to come to our overpopulated cities.The parents are to blame for placing their children in this situation. Human rights lawyers in turn have much to be responsible for in making the assessment process long and drawn out.  The children are now being used as leverage in getting the parents into Sydney or Melbourne. This is just the thin edge of creating open borders. The best option is to repatriate the parents and children as soon as possible.Nonna

Fully concur. The government should be introducing mandatory gaol terms for those who place minors on boats. this should include all crew members and parents.Kerrie

Incorrect, there is an assessment process and that is gradually being carried out. People were warned they will not be settled in Australia.High Flyer

The government is easily judged by its outcomes rather than is hour by hour processes. We don't need supra government offices established at great expense to oversight government apart from corruption commissions.  Indeed why would you want people who are not elected running the government? Surely that is not what democracy is about.Christine

Spot on! A mob of people who do more harm than good are continually attempting to undermine the will of the Australian people. They look for every angle that might spark some empathy using this as a mechanism for opening up the borders. They aren't interested in the kids who in our hotels are better off than their cousins in refugee camps. They just want our borders fully open to every tom dick and harry.Training is thrown out as an option. Unfortunately the most effective training is learning on the job not undertaking courses. All trades are learnt on the job albeit with some institution based complementary training. Hence access to a workplace is the path to learning not an education institution.

The main advantages in the new approach are: attacks the mentality of some who are don't want to work: forces people to look more widely for work; and, gives unemployed people a work focus to move them from a state of despondency. 

Rehabilitation is fundamental but this should take place while they are in a very long term prison sentence in a remote location.  The process should include study of Christianity, Buddhism and moderate Islamic teaching. Part of the punishment should include mandatory community work.Oaktree

The queue is all the people who have submitted applications from refugee camps to be resettled in Australia.  The queue in more discrete terms are the 14,000 people chosen (from the world's 51 million registered refugees)  through this process from refugee camps to be resettled.Benice

'The number of refugees actually seeking resettlement is much smaller than that"

There is a distinction between the number processed by UNHCR for resettlement (constituting many millions) and those who would actually like resettlement. Keep in mind also that those who have taken boat journeys here, the US or southern Europe are unlikely to have ever applied to the UNHCR for resettlement. The point is the number of people who would want resettlement is outside the resources of the developed world. If we increased tenfold our refugee intake, it would make no difference to the almost inexhaustible demand. Hence we could bring in 200,000 people but still find even more boats wanting to make the trip.Pro-Human

The basic choice is a fixed quota determined by capacity to absorb or unlimited arrivals. There however substantial risks associated with unlimited arrivals one of which is that once established it may be near impossible to cease.Fidanza

You misunderstood. My point is before they reach the destination they are not registered.  This means the total number of people who are or might want to be refugees is much higher than the 51 million registered so may be in the vicinity of 100 million. 

The Italians are turning them away largely because they can't cope with them. Otherwise because Italy gives them nothing they cost nothing. However I can understand the concern of Italians with large numbers of homeless men living off the streets.Benice

"this can be a win-win situation"

Yes this would be a great win for human trafffickers, anyone who can afford to pay a human trafficker and those living off the human cargo trade.

You just don't understand that refugees who come with serious medical problems, no English and poor skills result in large costs to the health, education and welfare systems.  In contrast there are few costs in those entering Australia under the skilled migration program. Moreover these people raise our productivity.  Your suggestion is simply adding liabilities to our budget and is largely unfundable (unless as many believe there is a tooth fairy in parliament who delivers funds for new ideas),Benice

The national budget is not a myth but a statement of revenue received and what expenditure parliament agrees to allocate to different priorities.  Although many people deceive themselves about all the sources of revenue available if only it were tapped, the reality is that most funds will come from income tax/ GST not these elusive gold mines. Put simply your ideas are slightly conspiratorial in nature,  impractical and unfundable.Oaktree

Certainly the process of registering so many is mind blowing. However those who indeed have been registered and are living in a camp are those who have been in that state of despair for some time unlike most of our boat arrivals like Reza Berati and Captain Emad.Fidanza; Being internally displaced does not mean you cant also be registered as a refugee. The potential pool of people who might given the opportunity come to Australia by boat/ship is huge. If we do not maintain the strategy of stop the boats then there is no limit to the number who will gain access to Australia. The track record of the process is that 90% wlll be deemed refugees and allowed to stay. All these people then cost Australian taxpayers a crippling amount to maintain.Fidanza

"Stopping the boats" is equivalent to Turkey closing the Syrian border and denying Syrians the opportunity to seek asylum in Turkey."

No it isn't because people coming from Indonesia are not fleeing from Indonesia. However if Indonesian people fled from Indonesia we would be obliged to let them stay.Fidanza

You are incorrect, all countries must offer protection to refugees.  If say Christians, Shias and Ahmadis in Indonesia started to receive the lash of ethnic cleansing, we would be obliged to offer them safety.Susan

You are contradicting yourself. You can't de facto espouse open borders on one hand but on the other claim you really don't know how many we can adequately take in. The key to the number is in the current number of resettlements quota set by the LNP which is 13,500 , the figure set by the ALP of around 20,000.  You also need to consider that these people need health, education and welfare support over many years so each year the costs go up.  Past history has shown these quotas are easily exceeded when there are no restrictions to landing in Australia.Susan

Anyone who advocates processes and procedures that will negate current attempts to stop boats arriving is de facto espousing open borders.Susan

 "regional solutions, faster and more accurate processing"

Regional solutions particularly with Indonesia have not worked. This is because it is not in their interests to stop the trade. 

As for fast processing, Morrison's attempt on the seas was thwarted by the High Court.  What people mean by fast processing is automatic acceptance as a refugee and placement in the community without the need for documentation or accurate identification.  Too bad for Australians if some turn out to be terrorists or civil criminals.horrocks

" faster and more accurate processing" simply means their quick release into the community while the paper work is being processed.Susan

All developed countries have a low refugee intake simply because their borders are not next to zones of conflict. Being a refugee has different implications depending where you are. If you are in Australia you get permanent resettlement (one of a handful of countries that provides this) and all the benefits of a citizen. Elsewhere it may mean nothing more than the life of a refugee camp or even less in the case of Italy.Amy

I can accept your experience and the conclusion you have arrived at. But that is but one office.  The statistics on long term unemployment however tell a very different picture. Being unemployed doesn't mean you don't want to work. People can want all the work they like but there may be few openings for employment.  There is currently an increasing higher percentage of those aged 50 and above who cannot find work. We have a very different economy to when we took in large numbers of European migrants in the 1950s. Then we developed a (heavily protected) manufacturing sector and had large scale civil projects such as the Snowy River dam all of which required unskilled labour.  We are now a capital and knowledge intensive society which does not require unskilled labour.Francie

"They should use the dictionary and look up the word refugee to see its implicit meaning.'

The issue is who we let in or not.  There is a total population of 51 million registered refugees. Most of the irregular maritime arrivals to Australia and elsewhere are not registered refugees but seek such a registration.  Should we allow all these people in (perhaps 100 million) or seek a definition and name that would provide resettlement solely to people who qualify. 
Fidanza

Any of the 33 million internally displaced would, if they were to come to Australia, easily gain refugee status based on a claim that they as a group feared persecution.Fidanza

Thank you for correcting my use of terminology as I am using the term "refugee" too broadly.Gavin,

There are 51 million registered refugees.  Do you propose welcoming them all.kcdi

the amount has been small largely due to the strong deterrents in place. The unknown is how many may take the journey by boat/ship if the barriers were taken down. The figure of 51 million refugees is just providing some of the dimensions of the problem.  They certainly would not all be able to get to Australia but one never knows what might help to facilitate their movement.Susan

Increasing the numbers of people who are not employed as is the case with most refugees will simply mean more people feeding off the same number of taxpayers.toot

Assuming we will only have a small number of boats arrivals is a key premise of those opposed to current policies. Hence should current policies be abandoned we would indeed have little to worry about. Unquestionably the costs of current policies would be better spent elsewhere. 

What however if the assumption of small numbers is not correct. The Howard government stopped the boats. When the ALP gained office their more lenient approach led to a rapid increase in arrivals until their strategy and the subsequent strategy of the LNP led to a decline in numbers. The lessons learnt are that the market will quickly respond to any slackening of government effort.  We really don't know how many out of a potential of 100 million people might make the trip. However once a momentum begins, it will be impossible to stop it without violence. 

toot

you can't help more by not paying more in taxes. There is no such thing as doing more without putting your hand in your pocket.rusty;

These Sri Lankans are but part of 100 million people or more fleeing persecution or poverty.  We have to have processes in place to control this flow or simply be overwhelmed by it.ingenuous

We could certainly take in the 300,000. This however won't stop boats coming so our prevention processes will still need to be in place.Dan

If you recall, the asylum seekers were held on a boat by a High Court decision brought on by human rights lawyers.rusty

but for the High Court they would be off the boat and back in India where they belong.Rusty

You are avoiding the issue. Prejudice is not part of it. The question you have to answer is how many of the 100million people likely to want to come to Australia will you let in and how are you going to select them. After that you will still need to stop the boats coming by people who were not selected. 
rusty

increasing the quota to 100,000 won't stop the boats.rusty

"I suggest taking away the need to seek asylum would be the best answer"

That issue is in the hands of the people of that country not Australia.rusty

Australia has provided some help to these countries but without them working hard on their problems a lot of this aid has been wasted. At least in Afghanistan we reduced the military capability of terrorists.Susan

The statistics on the unemployment rate for refugees does not support what you say. Just because you may wish that this will be the case doesn't make it happen. Sure there are many skilled refugees but people in that category will easily come in under the normal migration program.Benice

There are major difference between the two periods. Firstly after WW2 Australia desperately wanted European migrants without much issue about skills whereas now we don't want unskilled people. Secondly they were selected while in Europe with whatever documentation was available, not off Australian waters. The major difference of the two periods was we recruited Europeans after WW2 whereas now non Europeans are trying to select us. 

Benice

The difference is that in the 1950s we had a great need for unskilled labour so anyone white was welcomed and allowed to settle. Now we have no need for unskilled labour but do have a need for highly skilled people with the only requirement being that they have the skills.Benice

My comment is just factual. In the 1950's we had the White Australia Policy, but today we don't. We certainly sought people from Europe. Today individuals apply to come to Australia and a large proportion are non Europeans. 

Unemployment evidence disproves your claim about the asylum seekers. But no doubt you already know that so its just inconvenient information that gets in the way of a good story.Just because life is hard somewhere else doesn't mean Australia should feel obligated to allow you to migrate here.  Australia has a controlled migration program which allows people fitting key critieria such as skills in demand to migrate here.  If you don't fit these criteria as happened to Reza Berati (the deceased inmate on Manus island) then accept the fact Australia doesn't want you. 

There is a huge differential in the life of developed nations and the lager proportion of countries on the planet. It is perfectly understandable why people want to escape their current lives for what ends up being a much better life.  With 51 million people registered as refugees and perhaps just as many other people wishing to migrate for a better life, it is simple not possible for the whole lot to migrate to developed nations.KM, a refugee in Australia is a migrant because they get permanent resettlement. There are a number of categories of migration, getting registered as a refugee being one. This situation is different in most countries, Europe being one example because refugees are allowed there temporarily only and are forced to eventually return.

There are no children arriving unaccompanied in Australia fleeing directly from a place of violence.Susan

You basically miss the point (which is not about whether someone is a refugee or not) but the capacity of Australia to absorb the overwhelming numbers of people who are either refugees or could claim refugee status.Susan

"The vast majority of refugees simply want to go home - safely"

And how many refugees arriving in Australia have returned permanently to their homelands. A very small percentage I suspect.  We can certainly increase the number of refugees through our normal processes but we have to find ways to fund it.  Even so this still requires total control over our migration otherwise once a significant flow commences it will be difficult to turn it off.Veridian

given any opportunity of being settled in the US or Australia, the vast majority would choose that option. The opportunity is simply not there for most up till now at least.Simple question

All the evidence about Reza Berati is that he was not in fear of persecution in Iran and therefore not a refugee.  However by handling a refugee assessment interview well he most likely would have been given refugee status. Indeed under this process most of the planet can be classified as refugees.Norman

We take in people from many countries because we need their skills and the tax revenue generated by their productivity. Refugees can apply under this arrangement without any restriction. In the case of Reza Berati who applied, he was rejected because he did not have skills in demand. This means if we took in refugees rather than existing migrants we would simply have waves of unemployable people dependent on the Australian taxpayer. There are statistics available on the employment of people entering under the refugee program showing that they are largely unemployable.ingenuous:

We would have to do it alone because the US and Europe doesn't want them. Sure let's bring in 1.5 million but we will still have boats arriving by people who were not able to be part of the 1.5 million.Freddie

To me it is simply an issue of numbers. It would actually be easier for us simply to accept all boats arrivals. However once you do that you lose control. If only a small number arrive then we easily at low cost absorb them. On the other hand if they come as a flood, then we are finished as a nation.Kerry

It's even more frightening for what might happen to you,your family and refugees if Australia removed all restrictions on asylum seeker entry.  The frightening scenario includes: a huge loss of life at sea; a collapse of welfare, free education and health services; and,  huge numbers of homeless people forced to live on sidewalks and parks.  You can go to Paris and have a preview of the homelessness situation. With 51 million registered refugees there has to be control.Fidanza

The figure of 51 million is simply providing dimensions to the world refugee crisis. Most registered and those yet to be registered refugees given the opportunity will head for Australia. It is extremely na?ve to suggest internally displaced people simply want to go home. In many cases there are no homes for them to go back to. They go back simply because they have no option. 

The point most human trafficker advocates can't seem to grasp is that Australia's capacity to absorb refugees is limited. The shift to an open border will have severe consequences.  No issue is one dimensional. It is one thing to want more refugees to come here but there will be significant costs to achieve this.Benice


" I think we can find policy settings which will allow us to accept more refugees in Australia by reconfiguring the migrant program"

The current migrant program is based on getting highly skilled people who get employment and hence pay taxes.  Refugees can in fact be part of this program if they indeed have skills in demand. Otherwise you are simply substituting a skilled tax paying person with someone who will be on welfare and hence dependent on existing taxpayers.

A feasible policy initiative to bring I heaps of asylum seekers would be to abolish our current system of free education and health and of course welfare. In this way taxpayers will not be subsidising others while we would have a huge cheap labour pool to carry out all sorts of services that are currently unaffordable such as personal services- gardening, cleaning, child minding etc.Benice

We can certainly show more generosity by increasing taxation on incomes and GST.  Perhaps people will accept that their life styles are excessive and that they should share their wealth.  

As for other countries chipping in. Well Europe now realises it has substantial social problems flowing from multiculturalism so it will be less than enthusiastic. The US faces a flood of humanity from South America sneaking across its borders (53,000 children caught and repatriated). Understandably they will be reluctant. Maybe the Russians?Benice

The current policy is a raft of measures including a quota resettled and strong support to refugee camps.DR:

Slogans indeed are not helpful.  In the end everyone is either a migrant or a non-migrant (i.e. born here). The term "refugee" has a wide meaning to the point of being nearly useless. For example, there are 51 million people registered as refugees albeit under different categories. From a policy stance we either accept anyone who is classified as a refugee or we take a more defined focused approach to provide a place for those most in need.  

egg

As a migrant you have benefited from Australia's controlled migration processes. If Australia doesn't control migration, the conditions you and your family fled from in the UK will look good in comparison to the outcome."We need a new way to define us refugees"

This would certainly be a good way to assist in selecting people under humanitarian entry. With 51 million registered refugees and many others who are not registered but seek registration in Australia or elsewhere, it is outside resources to resettle them all. It is a question therefore of who we should accept. 
A key criteria could be belonging to an ethnic group or religion where there is a 70 % probability of being killed, such as happened to the Jews in the 1940s.  
KM,

There should be sufficient statistics over time to arrive at a determination whether this was the case. Basically what 70% means is that you are likely to be killed because the state has decided your group has to be eliminated or thrown out of the country.Norman

Getting refugee status is not an issue. With 51 million registered refugees the issue is how many can you resettle and how you will select them. According to many posters here, the chief criterion is arriving on a boat organised by human traffickers. Others have an alternative opinion.Mountain Girl

There is no persecution of Tamils in India. Are you suggesting virtually the entire population of Tamil Nadu state constituting many millions should journey to Australia. Indian officials have not taken over the assessment process but are assisting Australian officials particularly in determining who can return to India ( i.e. assessing whether someone is an Indian citizen).Iris

The budget highlights the limits to expecting a large group of people can live off the taxes paid by other people.  Adding large numbers of refugees most of whom will be gross consumers of health, education and welfare services only exacerbates the problem.Spade

If you look at the budget, the major expenditure is in health, education and welfare.  We no longer have the revenue to sustain these systems let alone allow in hundreds of thousands of refugees to share in them.Melanie, you will be happy to know Indians are not processing these boat people but are assisting in identifying Indian nationals.High Flyer

The only people who want to know all this information are those who do not have the best interests of Australians in mind.Dismantling the current system of border control runs substantial risks.  The first will be that it will create such substantial business opportunities in Indonesia that it will be difficult to reintroduce controls without substantially damaging relations with Indonesia. The second risk is that it will create such a demand that massive resources will have to be devoted to processing applicants. This will have severe social impacts on Christmas and Cocos Islands. Thirdly the health, education and welfare systems will be severely strained as more people share in available funds. 

There can be all kinds of arguments around how many refugees Australia can take in and how they are selected. This however is within the context of migration control.  Get rid of deterrents and you will have no control whatsoever. Boats will arrive by the dozen, perhaps also ships (cargo vessels, cruise liners) as businessmen respond to the opportunities.Devil

There is a lot of merit in getting rid of welfare and having a user pays system for health and education. this will allow Australia to bring in many more refugees who will be glad to get any job that the community needs but currently can't pay for.Jenny

Christ says "God helps those who help themselves".  If we can't protect our borders God help us. If you can for one moment look beyond the hysteria about human trafficker organised migration you will see that Australia is exemplary in the number of refugees it resettles and the aid it gives to the UNHCR to run refugee camps.Tony

Yes currently our borders are closed and most Australians want that to remain the case. This leaves us to use our resources to fund UNHCR refugee camps and resettle a quota of refugees each year from refugee camps.Bilbao

The ALP is largely doomed unless it can address the needs of working people. Currently it seems hell bent in getting to the fringe groups and battle with the Greens over minority causes. 

The High Court decision might well lead to a reassessment of our signature of the conventions.muzz

'By the way we have an obligation to Afghans and Iraqis as we broke their countries and created the conditions that make refugees"

no we don't have any obligation because both countries were already broke when we sent in the troops. Australia's role was minimal. 

The racial composition of our humanitarian and migration programs also disproves your racial slur.Reality

An unrestricted flow of immigrants will be the outcome should the boats not be stopped. There may be requirements under the convention but no country is going to pour unlimited resources into refugees. As for a safe and timely process, human trafficker advocates do their utmost to ensure this process is anything but fast.  The "safe and timely process' is a euphemism for immediate settlement in the community without any real checks happening.Truman

Relaxation of controls under the ALP demonstrated arrivals will substantially increase if we relax current controls.  However if you want conclusive proof then the best way is to get rid of all controls and see what happens.  The problem is if we get a flood it may not be that easy to stop it.Tiger

There are realities about our economic position.  Blaming anything doesn't eliminate anything. Nor are there any likely policies that will change these realities. Hence if you want to provide any form of additional services such as bringing in more refugees, it has to be paid for by increasing income tax/ GST.Jeff:

So you advocate Australians losing their jobs so some money can be found for refugees.Michael

Thanks for your response but sorry to disappoint but I am retired.  I often think whether we need all these obstructions to refugees arriving.  I would benefit with greater access to cheap labour.  Any social problems wont affect me as these people don't settle where I am. I don't pay income tax so don't have to worry about that going up to support refugees. 

On the other hand I have a social responsibility having lived and worked in developing countries to advise others of the need to limit arrivals at a rate society can absorb them. Unless there are strict controls in place this cannot happen. 

I would hate to see a situation where with large numbers of refugees arriving, panic took hold and violence against them was the outcome.The obligation of the government is to do whatever is possible to bring closure to this tragedy to all concerned.  It may be the fighting makes this near impossible but the government is correct in doing its upmost without endangering any more lives. This still means a dividing line between the tragedy and the geo political aspects.Shari, real Australians are those people who at least have a grandparent born here. Parents and grandparents are major custodians of stories, culture and values. It is they who largely impart this to young people. On the other hand, if your parents were born elsewhere much of the cultural baggage you carry if that of your parents and hence of other societies and not that of Australia.  This is why you see Australian born young people fighting in Syria.Alfie

Fairness however should not mean that those whose earnings are substantially more than others actually pay less tax.Zany

Eliminating negative gearing would certainly mean the end of one means of reducing tax. It is doubtful however there would be much change in the price of real estate. Most investors would simply hang onto their property rather than sell on a low market. Meanwhile foreign buyers of property and a cessation of building activity would maintain stability in the market. 

Given the choice, most people would prefer less expenditure than additional tax in the form of a GST.Zany

In the short term there will be a flat market.  In the medium term the demand will outstrip supply causing prices  to rise.Stuart

How about a 20% GST on everything including health and education. This would mean a GST on the cost to the government for each service.  If the health centre charges medicare $100 per visit then you get to pay $20.A key rationale of opposition to the budget is that the poor will feel most of the effects while the rich will notice nothing.   There is unquestionably a need to expand the level of revenue without in any way increasing the taxation to low and middle income earners. This should mean a range of measures but particularly targeting those who earn income in excess of $200,000. Reducing super concessions to this group is one way while eliminating negative gearing for investment properties is another.  However to really tap into a revenue stream an examination will need to be made how the most wealthy substantially reduce their tax and  hence impose measures to recover these funds.

I suspect however neither party has the political will to target the wealthy including corporations. Rather the usual smoke and mirrors will come into play so that people earning around 100,00 will be classified as wealthy and hit with more tax. None of this however will really  detract from the key issue that expenditure on services is exceeding revenue. Moreover some of the expenditure is also for the wealthy such as private schools and health.  A lot of the expenditure is also for those who should least expect it such as pensions to those with significant property assets. 
rob

The danger in any talk about taxation reform is that people who earn more than $100,000 per year are targeted as the wealthy.  The appeal is that there are many people who earn around this figure while people who are arguably well off on income in excess of $200,00 per year are much fewer in number.Professor Stilwell has exposed the fundamental flaw in the current budget, namely a failure to tax the wealthy more.  This flaw will be there regardless of what political party is in office. 

The Treasurer has rightly stated that current expenditure cannot continue based on the revenue received.  The only way his philosophy can ultimately be accepted is if the burden can be shared much more by those with wealth. The sad reality is there will be little interest in parliament by either side to do thisAlpo:

The ALP needs to acknowledge that expenditure must not exceed revenue. It then needs to convince the voters that it has the measures to increase revenue by targeting corporations as well as those earning more than $200,000 per year. 

People are usually happy to tax the rich more. They become less than pleased when they find that they have been classified as wealthy and are going to pay more. This has been the problem with the ALP which is in reality just another party supporting the rich and powerful.andie;

There is no future in either reducing the number of net tax payers or borrowing.  Cutting expenditure such as introducing co-payments is a good start. However there are people who earn more than $200, 000 per year and of course international corporations who pay little in tax. Taxing the latter more will bring some fairness to the process.  However both the ALP and the NLP are friends of the rich and powerful so neither is likely to do much in this arena.Alpo

All political parties have scares. However most Australians would find that all the measures currently being proposed against terrorists will not affect them in the slightest. So to talk in terms of gradations. there has to something to start with that actually affects you.  Perhaps placing in protective custody all those elements that oppose the will of the people. 

Don't you think someone whose family comes from Lebanon and who goes to Turkey for 9 months without any documented reasons is a security risk?  Or are we as some libertarians would prefer, do nothing to people until they have committed a crime such as blowing up a church congregation.If we followed what the author says then we are all ok without any need for government action.  When the first bomb goes off, we shrug it off with the view that compared to elsewhere we are doing well.  When lots of bombs go off in the outer areas of cities, then we can still feel we are still better off than Iraq. When bombs go off in Toorak and Woolahra and churches however we accept we have a problem- unfortunately its too late for anything other than draconian action.  

Hence in the shadow of the utterings of people like Anthony there is the draconian counter balance.  The more these push with libertarian views then the more likely moderate approaches get swept aside in favour of the extreme.John

Its all about an appropriate and measured response.  The response has to be sufficiently adequate to meet the nature of the threat and no more. It does not seem to me that the government reaction is excessive not does it violate civil rights (unless you believe that is no course for action until a crime has been committed). 

If we were to be now criminally reactive to threats we would now be behaving as Hitler did in Germany by closing muslim businesses, dismissing all muslims from the public sector, harassing muslims in the street and burning mosques.  There is therefore a huge gap between the targeted set of measures from the government and what could best be described as a criminal overreaction.Noel

The refugee crisis in Iraq is real. This however is not what the government is primarily responding to since they only appear to be engaged in humanitarian work. The real issue is the radicalisation of Islamic youth and the measures that need to be in place to reduce the extent of the problem.  It appears at least 150 Australians have joined jihadist causes. This means there are many more sympathisers and fence sitters. Reasonable means to identify those who are radicalised and travel restrictions are but minor infringements of civil liberties. Most Australians can tolerate these measures as it won't affect them and it at least prevents crimes against them.

Noel

There may not be many on the mountain but tens of thousands are being threatened. There is a big difference between middle eastern barbarity and being in one of our detention centres. No one fears for their life in an Australian detention centre not unless the person has engaged in rioting.Noel:

A quote from the ABC news today;  "US warplanes have been pounding Islamic State positions around Mt Sinjar, where tens of thousands of Yazidis had been sheltering from the IS onslaught".

You don't flee from something that you don't fear. 

There is a big difference between harm including death inflicted and self harm where you feel frustrated at not achieving what people traffickers promised you.No religion has its percentage of extremists as Islam.  It is simply unimaginable for Buddhists or Christians to conduct religious focused struggle including suicides. It did happen with Hindu Tamils in the independence struggle in Sri Lanka.  However the latter is an isolated incident that was much more ethnically rather than religion focused.  It would be unimaginable for example for extremist Hindus to be blowing themselves up in mosques in India. 

There are two alter egos of Islam. One is the pragmatic tolerant and inclusive variety as happened in many kingdoms such as in Spain and in India.  The other lurking in the shadows is the bigoted, narrow and exclusive strain that appears throughout history.  Today we suffer from too many muslims particularly those who have migrated being infected by varying degrees by the latter thinking.I question whether the US actually now believes in an Iraq ruled by strong central government. Changing the deck chairs can only bring benefits to a part of the country. The supply of arms to the Kurds is a sign that the US is supporting any group who can provide long term stability. As the author suggests, adjustment to the post Ottoman Empire boundaries needed to be played out.

It is also not a question of a post IS period because it's unlikely IS can be destroyed. Certainly it can contained but not easily destroyed.  The very creation of an IS state will create the seeds of its own destruction as people see it offers nothing beyond terrorist rhetoric and oppression.Dubious

I am not arguing for stability particularly by propping up long term failures. I am suggesting however that stability will ensure when various groups have defended themselves sufficiently to make any takeover not worth the effort. Perhaps we will have to see the whole map of the middle east redrawn before this happens.Brenda

Like every other PM, ALP or LNP, Abbott will ensure that we are perceived by the US as a reliable ally.  Being non aligned has severe disadvantages as many ASEAN nations are finding in the expansion of China southwards. Abbott's stance is no different to what Rudd or even Shorten would be doing.Brenda

At the expense of facts getting in the way of a good story,  Australia is but one of a number of countries concerned about the aggressive stance of China not to mention Russia.  Have you forgotten about 30 Australians who died in MH17 shot down by those supported by the Russians. As for Indonesia, most of the problem there was due to spying alleged to have been carried out at the time of the ALP government.  Countries that try to be friends with everyone end up being enemies of all. Poland tried this in the 1930s attempting to be on good terms with both Germany and Russia.  The end result was the partition of Poland and millions murdered.Dubious

Abbott correctly acted on advice from the US who have evidence that the missile was fired from an area under pro Russian separatists.  To date there has been no significant evidence that disproves this.  Russian separatists in charge of the crash site had plenty of time to provide evidence of Ukrainian involvement had this been the case.Darryl

All political parties use scare campaigns.  It always has two components; creating a scare: and, demonstrating that the party has the right strategy to combat it.  Social media however is somewhat upsetting this because political parties no longer have full control over what a "scare" is.  In the case of IS,  the scare has been created by those posing with severed heads. What made this even more scary was the seven year old Australian boy posing because it brings the issue to a school near you.  Neither side of politics are really responding to this fully partly because neither side created the scare and neither want to initiate actions that might lose votes.firthy

I don't think the US even wants to prevent the formation of an Islamic State. Their action to date seems more one of containment and support to potentially viable counter balancing entities such as the Kurds.Moi

Perhaps the US is more interested in having long term viable states rather than those that are inherently unstable.  Are we then looking at a post Sykes-Picot agreement set of states.This should not have been an issue. If ASIO and AFP wanted data retention, then they should have quietly acquired it without poking a stick at libertarians. For all Australians apart from criminals and others who wish to circumvent the law, this will have no effect on their lives.  Preservation of our security demands that all those agencies entrusted with this task have all the means necessary to fulfil their mission.  Libertarian arguments about privacy can only be seen as attempts to protect the guilty at the expense of the average citizen.The ALP is correct in fighting the repeal of the carbon tax. The LNP policy in this regard does not have the interests of Australian taxpayers in mind.  If only the ALP can then fight for the interests of the average taxpayer then they will be back in office.  There are no votes going for asylum seekers however as they constitute a  drain on resources which is incompatible with the interests of taxpayers.  Any slackening of policy will only result in a return of the boats. Hence tbe ALP is advised to take an even tougher line than the LNP to totally remove this as an issue. The ALP needs to distance itself from the Greens and allow the latter to be the party for fringe dwellers.Din,  the Greens certainly are consistent.  They largely espouse causes that will bankrupt the country.  The ALP however has largely failed to have cohesive policy that will benefit the average taxpayer.  Too often they have allowed those beating a loud drum to dictate their direction.Malcolm,  the carbon tax may yet prove to be the achilles heal of  the LNP.  Their approach appears to be a cross between appealing to the hyenas on the airwaves and bad policy.Harqubus, the Greens have no monopoly over good environmental policy. Their credibility however is seriously eroded by their advocacy for what amounts to unlimited numbers of refugees. Excessive population leads to environmental degredation.Shorten certainly needs to explain how he will provide the average worker a better deal.  I suspect however like many others in tbe ALP he would prefer to be in the LNP.Many of the comments here display a lack of objectivity.  While crimes were committed by some, Japanese service personnel fought bravely and skilfully.  Who knows if the shabby treatment of the Japanese led by Billy Hughes resulted in them walking away from western norms in treating prisoners. The story is a complex one but let us not deny respect to those Japanese who served their country with honour.Egg, the end game is simply a question as to whether there are few asylum seekers landing in Australis.  Achievements here will help ensure a second term for Tony.Egg, the end game is simply a question as to whether there are few asylum seekers landing in Australis.  Achievements here will help ensure a second term for Tony.Mark, they are indeed drowning off Italy because the Italian government does not prevent boats landing.  Refugees cost the Italians little as refugees receive no welfare health or education benefits.  Most refugees then head for the social welfare economies.Patrick,  it would not matter which party was going to have troubles over boat arrivals. The reality all along is that there are anti democratic elements who strive to have nothing less than no restrictions on boat arrivals.  The Malaysia solution failed because of these people.  However, the High Court deliberations will be important in improving the legality of stopping boats. We should also be ensuring that legality is built into sinking vessels in case this becomes necessary.Splod, the only people who want all this information are undemocratic elements who attempt to thwart the will of the Australian people.Nonna,  the rights of children are being upheld by keeping them with their parents.  They and their parents are free to leave at any time.  The parents perhaps should be severly punished for putting their children in this position.Old,  the asylum seekers placed themselves on the open sea not the LNP.  They are free to return to India anytime they like.  With a global registered refugee population of 51 million,  it is just not possible for developed countries to accept any other than those who are directly fleeing death.  The occupants on the boat have arguably successfully achieved safety in India  and therefore are a low priority for resettlement. It is also possible some are guilty of crimes in SL and therefore are not eligible for refugee status in Australia.Punch,  there are 51 million registered refugees and many more who can claim refugee status.  Its a bit of simple maths that a flood of refugees encouraged by empathetic policies will overwhelm the social and economic fabric of Australia.It's total nonsence to suggest current government policy is about the welfare of refugees.  It is however about migration control.  Internationally governments have a right to decide who is allowed in and who is not allowed in.  Being an asylum seeker does not provide an automatic right of entry.  There are already 51 million refugees registered and it is outside the realms of possility for them to be resettled in significant numbers. The most humane and cost effective option is to support those in camps not resettle especially those who try to force their entry. 

A hard unempathetic policy is needed in order we have controlled migration as well as the ability to fund the millions in camps.  The only real long term solution is for refugees to work towards their own repatriation and not aim for resettlement.

Yank,

The lack of a bipartisan approach is particularly seen in the softer approach adopted by the ALP now that they are no longer in office.  This appeals to those who can't stomach the tough approaches needed to deal with this problem but who still expect the problem solved.Gerard,  the failure of current measures is more likely to usher in greater restrictions in political expression.  A flood of refugees will trigger the declaration of a state of emergency  and draconian measures.Splod,  there is a vast diffefence to seizing people and property to simply turning people away.  These people are fully aware they are not welcome but choose to violate Australia's sovereignty. In many countries they would be thrown in gaol and abused yet all we do is send them back as safely as possible.Jeremy,  signing any international agreement doesn't require Australia to destroy to destroy its social and economic fabric.  The world has drastically changed since the 1950s.  The reality of taking unlimited refugees would be the destruction of the social welfare system and social unrest.  Go and tell pensioners that as a rich country they need to share their pension with refugees.Splod,

Noone is being incarcerated or seized.  The asylum seekers are merely being prevented from arriving in Australia.Darren, they are being returned in a humane way.  Any shift in policy to empathy for arrivals without visas will result in such a flood that only far worse draconian measures will need to be inacted. Basically our duty of care ends with their repatriation.There are arguably many people unhappy with the measures of the government but many of these still believe there must be better approaches to control the flow of refugees.  In other words only a small percentage believe in no limits to refugee arrivals by boat.

There would be much greater voter mobilistion around tough measures if in the unlikely event the government allowed in unlimited numbers by boat.  As people became affected by large numbers of refugees there would be a public backlash calling for even more draconian measures.Alpo, fully concur. It's time the world accepted that national boundaries are not fixed forever. The sooner Ukraine can accept Russia absorbing some of its territory largely containing Russians, the better everyone will be.Chris, yes he does have a right to be a bigot but of course no right to break Australian laws which basically he did. Obviously he is not part of Team Australia.Scott, its not unusual for workplaces to hire people they feel will fit socially into their work environment.It is interesting that someone from Malaysia, which is itself arguably a very racist society could find grounds for criticism of people in Australia. A lot of course comes down to expectations in that the people from other societies do not always get the responses they would like.  There is a large gap in perceptions between the two parties. A person from Malaysia for example may consider he/she speaks perfect English while an Australian might have difficulty in comprehending his/her English (or Singlish as Singapore English is known).  Undoubtedly a lot of these different perceptions result in accusations of racism.

There is of course the more overt forms of racism such as abuse, hostile treatment or clear cut discrimination. These activities are often criminal or at least illegal.  However all societies will exhibit a certain level of racism generally generated by perceptions that certain groups are missing out in resources at the expense of other groups.Erika, certainly racism can never be excused. We certainly don't know the background of the person but in a country like Malaysia, your own ethnic group will always favour you in employment. Hence if it is a Chinese owned newspaper, being Chinese is a decided advantage. If it is a government job, you have no hope unless you are a bumi.  It would be very easy in these circumstances where the person has always been used to preferential treatment to cry racism if an Australian paper didn't employ her. Yet as I have suggested, her English may simply be sub standard making her uncompetitive in the market place. It is not uncommon for migrants to have an inflated view of their skills. 

aargh;

Pell was found to be innocent by a court. Tony's reference hardly is the key material for a judgement. Only about 4% of clergy are considered to be pedofiles.  The issue here is about the lack of support the Church gave to those affected by pedofiles as well as the degree to which the Church as an organisation laboured to hide problems and avoid criticism.LJG2

You need to distinguish between the Church as an organisation and the many employees of the Church who do a great job.  For too long, the organisation has seen its parishioners and clergy serving it rather than the other way around.Dave

One would wonder whether the service is value for money.David

As a practising Catholic I see a lot wrong with the truck driver analogy.  

Firstly, a trucking company simply offers a service for transporting goods not people. At no point does the trucking company obtain a fare for transporting a person.  For this reason, a trucking company has no duty of care to a passenger. A member of the Church congregation however subscribes to the Church for various spiritual services including the spiritual development of the children. There is therefore a duty of care in the provision of these services. On the other hand, if a priest journeys in mufti to another area where he is unknown and commits pedofile acts, then there is obviously no duty of care by the Church. 

Secondly, Pell's analogy reveals that those in the hierarchy view parishioners as little more than those serving the hierarchy.  There really is little sense of any duty of care to parishioners. 
As a practising Catholic,  the chief concern I have about the Church as an organisation is that it has revealed itself to be at odds with what it projects itself to be. Clearly any claim that it is about the spiritual and pastoral care of its parishioners has not been upheld by the evidence to date.  The evidence also suggests that as an organisation it has no sense of fiduciary care for those who subscribe to it. 

The image that has emerged is that it is an organisation that is primarily about its expansion, maintenance and defence. Parishioners are primarily viewed as largely ground troops useful for providing its revenue, supporting its doctrines and helping expand it as an organisation.  Despite all this individuals in the Church carry out a lot of good work. The Church as an organisation occasionally sees these people as a threat. Hence this is why Mary MacKillop was once excommunicated. 

Most of the religious are good people but they are like parishioners betrayed by the Church as an organisation.  Until the Church as an organisation radically changes and places its emphasis on serving the religious and the parishioners it has little relevance.  The days of parishioners serving the Church are over. 

JB,  Certainly from the days of Constantine to the recent past, the Church has often been a means of state control.  The movement towards a Post-Christian society is a challenge for a Church founded on imperial authority.  It needs to focus on its customers otherwise it won't have any.Jon:  Yes, certainly there won't be much change without congregations forcing a transformed power relationship.  Lots of people will just vote with their feet by leaving but that does little to force change. Lots of others will be content with the existing power relationships. It really will come back to clergy to foster change with parishioners who see the need for change.

 The biggest obstacle is the reality that most of the Church is in developing countries where authoritarianism is expected and accepted.  Migrants from China, Africa and the Indian sub continent are becoming more prominent in some parishes thus further reinforcing existing power relationships.FlapDoodle

The hearings have brought out significant deficiencies in the Church as an organisation.  I suspect little of a fundamental nature will change. Processes and procedures will be in place for pedofiles so that will become a non issue. Otherwise, its very much a grin and bear it approach with the hope time means its all forgotten.Ursus Augustus;

Pell's statement clearly demonstrates this imperial legacy that the parishioners are there to serve the Church not the other way around.Fitz

It is even worse than that. The Church was simply incapable of providing the pastoral care of the victims.clete.it is indeed inappropriate to attack Pell.  it is the organisation that is to blame and Pell has simply responded as an employee of that establishment. If Christianity is to survive there needs to be a total overhaul which will be difficult given the entrenched conservatism.The concept of Team Australia is a useful one.  The concept should of course be formative from grass roots rather than something that is top down. The statistics provided in this article provide one arena for debate which is should one of the key concepts of Team Australia be social equality.  it would be useful now that we have passed 100 years of federation and accepted migrants from all corners of the globe to define in a loose way what being Australian actually means.Perhaps the problem with the concept of Team Australia is that it needs defining.Here is a start 

Membership in Team Australia means belief in:

- An independent Australia with all public offices including President elected by the people.
- Social equality and protection for those who fall on hard times
- Freedom of religious expression 
- Gender equality 
- Protection of Australia's biodiversity
- Special status for First Australians 
- Protection of all those under the age of 18
- The right of the individual to make personal choices in all facets of life.
- Equal opportunity for all in employment and economic activities
- Mutual respect and tolerance of all Australian citizens 
- All Australia's lawsThe real question is what will an intervention actually achieve for the long term.  Any intervention is justified if there is a clear outcome that has a probability of being attained and sustained for the long term.  In the mean time current activity seems adequate.Dove

Trying to shore up any regime is a waste of effort. Regimes should stand on their own feet and not be propped up. However any regime that offers resistance against undesirable elements needs to be supported in their struggle.yank

On the contrary, Team Australia is a good mechanism by uniting people under shared values.The author is correct in suggesting the video is designed to get a response from the West, it is likely also to be both threatening to muslims internationally and appealing to some muslims.   

It would clearly unwise to have any military intervention apart from support to groups opposed to IS. This results in containment. 

The video is threatening to muslims as it is reminding them that this is a fate for them unless they support IS.  The aim is probably to at least get muted opposition.  IS also seeks to appeal to muslims as the return of the golden era of Islam.  They are presenting themselves as true Islam for those wishing to believe in something like this.struck dumb:

Yes we don't want divisions so we need the muslims to become much more Australianised and cut off from the poison of the middle east. A recent Insight Program has illustrated how out of touch muslim clerics are to the Australian born because they can only think in middle eastern terms of the past.  

Team Australia refined appropriately is a good mechanism to bring people on board.Dove

At least 150 youths have joined the fighting in the middle east not 2. This is of course a problem not confined to Australia but prevalent in Europe not to mention Indonesia and Malaysia.  The difference between these young people and those in Ukraine is that the former may have become radicalised to the extent of wanting to wreck destruction in Australia.Sir Trent

The Benbrika gang were put away for planning terrorism.  Lots of measures by authorities are currently making it difficult for these criminal to operate. 

Its nonsense however to suggest we have no problem just because bombs are not going off in buses and trains. Australians rightly want nothing to happen and for appropriate measures to be in place to make sure. 

stuck dumb

Generally agree with what you say. They really need to feel part of this society not lost in no man's land. It really will be a challenge to respond adequately to the attraction of IS but persecuting then will only make the attraction of IS greater.  We just need to make them feel much more part of our society.Sir Trent,  "bombing to oblivion" slogans have been around as long as failures to pacify insurrections.  Yes you can bomb convoys but when the enemy hides in towns and cities they are out of harms way.  Ultimately we come up with the sane dilemma as the Israelis -to totally destroy Hamas you have to destroy the Palestinian people in Gaza.Sir Trent

Fully agree with surgical strategic strikes especially in support of moderate groups fighting against IS.  
Troll

Basically it is an issue for the people in Iraq and Syria.  The US will certainly be providing air support to those who wish to resist these people.Ann

Noone is coming for any group.  The issue is one of integrating muslims better into Australian society so they feel less alienated.Tory boy

It can at least be said that the muslim representatives have not responded well to Abbott's security measures.  Indeed many of these people are part of the problem of why around 150 youth have joined the jihadists. It is apparent these reps are unable to communicate effectively with youth who basically ignore them as irrelevant.  This is why the government needs to reach out to save youths from feeling alienated in this society.  At the same time we need to implement any measures that minimise jihadist influence in Australia.Alpo, fortunately Australia will not be waking up to the noise of bombs exploding.  The LNP just has to keep up its good work of surveillance and counter measures.  Abbott is to be commended for making muslims a large part of the solution without worrying about a loss of votes. We drastically need to reduce the sense of alienation muslim youths suffer from the behaviour of Australian society towards them and the poor performance of muslim clerics.Cobbler

The concept of Team Australia does not automatically mean Abbott's perspective as a foreigner. It is a concept that can be further refined by debate and discussion.Gr8Ape

Being a citizen just means you have a piece of paper that gives you a legal status.  Being on Team Australia is another matter.  Clearly the youth who went to fight for Islamist causes are not on Team Australia.  Nor are those who do not obey Australian laws.Alpo, thank you for highlighting some of the key tenets of Team Australia. Surely Team Australia actually means a belief in democracy and the rule of law (i.e. Australian law).  Most of us would agree these are sacrosanct.  Only a total breakdown in our society would change people's opinions in this regard. 

There are however challenges to what Team Australia is. Many of our migrants come from societies where neither democracy nor the rule of law exist. Indeed many would prefer their culture and values are translocated here' For example, a submission by an Islamic Council to the multicultural review called for sharia law to be imposed on all muslims in Australia.  Unfortunately these are tendencies towards a plural society not unlike an apartheid state. This is of course not what Team Australia is about.Alpo, its not about treating people differently. It is about affirming what being an Australian is.  It is an inclusive concept not exclusive. it most respects it is only stating in plain English what is already encapsulated in law.The concept of Team Australia is that there should be a sense of being bound together with values that we all share.  It is a concept of unity in diversity. Multiculturalism was never intended to lead to pluralism or separate communities. There was always a notion of a fusing of cultures into an integrated culture.  If any ethnic group see themselves as an outpost of another country then we are clearly heading for internecine conflict.  Team Australia should therefore not be an anglo centric concept but largely inclusive of what most people can agree on.  

It is appropriate for people to accept that they have to be part of Team Australia.  It really doesn't matter where people were born, here or overseas they must subscribe to this or accept that they should move to where they think they belong.  If your loyalty is to the UK or whatever then you are in the wrong place.Alpo, I can certainly see lots of dynamism in Syria, Libya, Iraq, Palestine, Lebanon, Afghanistan and Africa.  You may feel that the events that happen in those countries would make for a more colourful and interesting Australia, however most Australians don't share your enthusiasm.Alpo

Australia has a long and proud history of avoiding authoritarianism. My grandfather campaigned against conscription in WW1 and I campaigned against conscription in Vietnam. This is very much Team Australia. An integrated society around Team Australia has much more dynamism than the fractured society multiculturalism is pushing us into.whogoes

Lobbying for something is a basic right in a democratic society. Obedience to laws and regulations is part of what Team Australia is about.  Failure to adhere to Australian laws such as pedofilia, honour killings, arranged marriages, child brides, abuse of women, committing acts for the advantage of another country at Australia's interests and training with terrorist groups places a person outside Team Australia.whogoes

It is a democratic right for any organisation including churches or individuals to push for laws. Therefore if they want to make it mandatory for you to attend Church every Sunday (as it was in the early days of the colony) or have sharia law for muslims then that is their right to pursue such legislation. Parliament decides however whether they will be appropriate laws or not.   Hence Churches really impose nothing - only parliament does. 
Caffetterra

Tax evasion, acquiring stolen property and abusing women are instances of unlawful behaviour and therefore totally un Australian.leftover, the issue here is having programs that put you into full time employment.  The LNP budget lacked substance in having programs and strategies to assist the out of work older age worker and youth.Cheryl

Team Australia is about democracy and the rule of law. Our rule of law encapsulates issues such as the abuse of women, pedofilia, child and arranged marriages, female mutilation, tolerance and equal opportunity. The rule of law generally encapsulates Australian values.  Of course there are people in Australia who don't believe in these values so it is useful to reinforce these values.Mike

The concept of Team Australia appears to be a good mechanism to drive social harmony.  From the comments however more thought needs to be placed in it to ensure it is an inclusive concept and neither an exercise in cultural imperialism nor a reification of difference.Jones Crusher,  sounds good but why are there so many terrorist organisations wishing to attack our institutions.Jones Crusher

For starters there is Benbrika and others who are in gaol.  But for ASIO and AFP we would have already had incidents as happened in Spain and the UK.Fred

It is not always clear how migration and 457 visas are reducing the opportunities for youth employment.  Unfortunately Australia has had a long history of bringing in expertise rather than developing it. Both sides of politics pander to big business with the view any enhancement of the economy helps all.  

To address the issues Clive raises it would be wise for the LNP to come up with innovative programs for enhancing youth employment especially in major developments.Charles

No doubt Clive was responding to his personal business interests. It demonstrates however there can be a point where personal business interests interfere with the representation of an electorate.The government is wise in ceasing to negotiate with Palmer who is now has a significant credibility gap with a large part of the electorate.  The limited number of PUP seats in the senate gives them the opportunity to make some changes to a budget but not to dictate what the budget will be. It would now be unwise to be seen to pander to the whims of Clive.  

The government also in the meantime needs to put a bit of vision and innovation into its budget. Balancing expenditure and revenue is sound.  They need however to explore more ways of getting more revenue from the wealthy as well as reducing expenditure to the wealthy . They also need to be coming up with better programs of getting youth into employment which can include much greater restrictions on 457 visas and other migration.whohasthefish

I would suggest more heavy lifting from those earning $200,000 and above would be a good start. 
The LNP are not noted for vision and innovation so now would be a good time to start given their expertise in economic management is now under attack. 
Sandra

The problem is that Australia has simply not as yet got used to having a multi party system. The media coverage of Clive is way beyond what should be his influence in parliament.By condemning Palmer, the LNP is effectively sidelining him.  The electors are not concerned about the internal affairs of China especially when we can do nothing about them anyway. The electors are however concerned our trade with China is not threatened so people have jobs.  By playing on this need for China, the LNP is now casting Palmer as the bad guy with whom it is not a good idea to associate with. Without influence, PUP will become superfluous.The Jones Crusher:

There is not much advantage in being ignored.Eggman

There are those who will swallow these themes but eventually they become frustrated because there is really no outcome for them.  Palmer just provides rhetoric not any result. He is really no different to the shock jocks in that regard.  

The Q&amp;A show demonstrated very clearly that Palmer is simply using the budget to grandstand and gain even greater publicity.  He has no interest in improving the budget. The only sensible comments on the program excluding Truss came from Ridout. Wong used lots of words to basically say nothing while the Vinnies rep basically came down to borrowing to spend more on welfare.  

Given supply has passed, the general issues of balancing revenue and expenditure needs further refinement including programs to get youth employed (with an emphasis on outcome not process) and increasing revenue and decreasing welfare for the wealthy. Keeping the mining tax would be a good way to penalise Palmer. There really is little point trying to deal with Palmer. 

If the LNP can't address the revenue/expenditure deficit in the Senate, best option is to have a DD and leave it to the ALP to borrow heavily to support welfare including that for an increase 
in refugee arrivals. Why burden this generation when a future one can pay for it. 
Tory Boy

Fully agree that both major parties are just too full of vested interests.  We badly need to be reducing our population intake which of course includes family reunions, 457 visas and refugees.Big Al, unfortunately it is a state body so doesn't extend to other states or the commonwealth.  It however is badly needed at the federal level.Alpo

The ALP with the Obeid scandal has nothing to gloat over. It all shows that power corrupts. Beware of the ideologue, behind all the rhetoric is a man with a brown paper bag full of money.Gerard,  Questions about the treatment of refugees are soon to be irrevelant.  The overwhelming success of the LNP in defending Australia and the ultimate settlement of those now in detention centres will mean there will be no detainees to talk about. It might then be far more moral and ethical to address the world refugee crisis.  With a likely 100 million refugees, the world needs practical solutions not diversions such as supporting human trafficking.Marilyn,  All those selected to be resettled certainly fly to Australia.  Others try to come through legitimate visas and apply at arrival.  However on the whole these circumstances can be controlled for (for example, much more stringent visa requirements).  It is much harder to control those arriving without visas by boat without the raft of measures the government has employed.  More importantly the new laws overall strengthen the process by at least allowing for quick expulsion of those who really have no case.Comrade:

Given the millions of refugees fleeing for their lives, it is important to differentiate for migration purposes between those who face certain death in a country and will never be able to return to that country and those who could face death depending where they venture in that country.Helvi,  The reality is resettlement is not an answer to solving the world's refugee crisis.  With a likely 100 million refugees and resistance by most states to accepting them it is not even physically possible to move them to Australia.  This obsession with supporting human trafficker assisted migration is just an exercise in tokenism.  It is also a lottery mentality where a lucky few get a windfall while the greater bulk of the problem remains and grows.whogoesthere;

Resettlement is not an answer. Even if we increased our intake to 100,000  it would only reduce the number of refugees in Iraq and Syria by a fraction of a percent.Ann

Australia rates number2/3 in permanent resettlement of refugees. Naturally most refugees are found in nations close to their homelands and not in the developed world. To redress that situation so that the developed world takes more refugees would be a logistical and economic nightmare.  The developed world howeverattempts to redress that by financing refugee camps.  Japan for example which accepts no refugees is a generous contributor as is Australia.With the UNHCR finding itself overwhelmed by the numbers of refugees including about 13.5 million from Syria and Iraq,  we need to be concentrating on realistic solutions not token measures such as resettlement.  The UNHCR is already confronted by the reality that developed countries have been numbed by the problem.  Resistance has emerged to accepting more refugees. Our government faced with the prospect of an overwhelming tide of humanity on our shores must do everything possible to ensure that there are absolutely no incentives for human trafficker assisted migration.  The harder we make resettlement in Australia the less likely we will encounter a disaster.  The government is to be praised for its efforts.Helvi ,  the RAAF is saving lives through enabling many people to escape the jihadists.  Once in Turkey or Lebanon those people are safe.  There is no further reason for any of those people to come to Australia since they are in a position of safety.Firty,  given there are millions of people registered as refugees, chances of getting resettled are about as good as winning the lottery.  Getting to Indonesia should not be a criterion for selection.Ultimately any law change around refugees is to improve the overall selection process.  With many more refugees wanting to come to Australia than places available, it is important that the most deserving gain entry over those least deserving.  Successful challenges to the High Court indicate problems with incurrent laws so they need to be amended to ensure only those who meet strict criteria are selected.Monkey See:

Indeed, the government has a strong mandate to control migration.  This includes selecting the right people and not allowing participation in a boat ride being  the main determinant of settlement in Australia.Walter:   Most of Australia's population comes from or is descended from people who have sought a better life including escaping civil strife. Many more people however want to come to Australia than what we can possibly absorb.

The case of SZSCA is no different to any other applicant for migration. Australia has section criteria which the Minister is strengthening.  It would appear that SZSCA is really not a priority case for refugee resettlement nor does it appear he could qualify as a skilled migrant.   


Lee:

A key issue with giving any priority to boat people is that we are de facto accepting who Indonesia has selected. It is in fact acceptance of a discriminatory practice that favours muslims.Anote: Indeed the issue of global warming has needed an international response.  Talking about Australian leadership in this matter simply ignores the reality of world politics.  Our role should be focused on making us a better economy through less dependence on fossil fuels.  No house for example should need an air conditioner through the right housing design principles.Forrest Gardener;

Good house design will eliminate the need for A/C for most of the time.  I have lived in Port Moresby and found I hardly needed any A/C and even then it was because of the problems of security in keeping windows shut at night.  

People need to move themselves off this entitlement mentality of being gross consumers of energy.Progo:  All countries like to overrate their achievements in the international sphere.  We are a small economy albeit Christian/Post-Christian, western and prosperous but can influence little in world terms.  In a way, its nice to think we occupy like New Zealand a small corner of the world where we can largely choose to ignore the problems of other societies.Alpo:  Our location means we are unlikely to be passive victims. Our economic position as Dove rightly points out does enable us to make strategic and effective  interventions in other economies. Indeed it is desirable we make such interventions rather than throw resources around where they make little effect. On the world stage we count for little. Soon we will be off the Security Council with a minnow like New Zealand finding a place. Hence let us not try to exaggerate our importance as the author of this article suggests.A prosperous western country with a small economy like Australia is simply never going to be able to exercise any form of world leadership.  Nor is there any sane reason why it would want to.BJA, There is a vast difference being highly innovative and trying to be a world leader in forging international agreements.  We can easily and should be innovative in moving away from fossil fuels but we are unlikely to be a world leader in getting others to do the same. The latter is rightly in the court of the EU, China, Russia, the US etc.Alpo, you could add to your list of interventions those by the Persians and the Turks.  The key issue however is how society should view volunteers fighting for IS. Do we simply say, that's ok because it's really our fault as friends of imperialists and others did it anyway in the Spanish Civil War. Unlike people like Hemingway however the jihadists are about the destruction of western society.Frangipani;

The term "Fascist" is largely misplaced. The archtypical Fascist states of Germany, Italy and to a much lesser degree Spain were typified as : anti-Marxist; anti-democratic; nationalistic; and, anti- religion (Spain being the exception).  Fascist states were largely conservative in nature aspiring to largely maintain the existing social order. The most radical was Germany but even there it espoused a bourgeois lifestyle and the continuance of traditional values. To a large degree they simply reflected a reaction to Marxism. The ideology was largely unclear as Goering revealed when he said national socialism was an evolving concept. IS on the other hand is about the total transformation of the state based on a clearly defined religious ideology.Comrade, You made a point largely overlooked that volunteers did not just fight for the Reds but many also fought for the nationalists. It was in the end a struggle between opposite western ideas - traditional values versus a new world stripped of past institutions. The difference between all the volunteers and jihadists is that the Spanish volunteers were in the main reformers whereas jihadists are only interested in the destruction of western society.There are interesting parallels between volunteers in the Spanish Civil War and the volunteers currently fighting in the Middle East.  Much however is superficial. Volunteers fought on both sides of the Spanish Civil War but few were necessarily alienated from the societies they came from.  They were in the main idealists seeking reform in their own societies not its destruction as is the case of jihadists. 

There is a clash of civilisations but it is no so much western civilisation versus the rest but rather a clash between progressive thinking versus regressive ideology. Jihadists as one form of regressive thinking wallow in the hope that the backwardness of many states will be overcome by strict devotion and adherence to the Quran.  Fundamentalist Christians in backward states can easily fall into the same trap. Only progressive thinking will save backward states from oblivion.David:  The clash of ideas goes well and truly beyond the issue of oil. The year 2015 for example commemorates the 200th anniversary of the battle of Waterloo which some claim signifies the victory of the beer drinkers over the wine drinkers. The battle of Omdurman in the Sudan in the 19th century is another classic clash of ideas between progressive thinkers versus the regressive.  
Whitlam is a symbol of change in the Australian political landscape.  Both the ALP and the LNP had become moribund largely fixated on the past.  Whitlam was able to turn the ALP into a party of social change and usher in new ways of thinking. He was in many ways the right man in the right place at the right time. The Whitlam years were a grand experiment which has provided an important legacy for Australia's progress.The folly of the burka ban was that it was made in a policy vacuum.  There is unlike France, no society wide prohibition on wearing the burka in public. It is just not possible to ban specific clothing or the carrying  of items into a building unless there is a security reason for doing this.  A security requirement however is only appropriate if it provides general rather than specific advice.  For example, the carrying of any container or wearing of solid head gear may be prohibited.  

James:  It is more likely that a solid head covering such as a helmet would pose a security risk than a soft head covering such as a veil.  Either way however there needs to be a clear security risk for specific apparel in order for it to be proscribed.  It also needs to be a general statement - eg soft head covering in which case veils (including those worn by nuns), beanies, caps, Akrubras and turbans would all be prohibited.James:  All that I am implying is that nothing should be prohibited unless there are strong security reasons for the ban. It seems reasonable to imply that helmets are banned from banks because there is some evidence they pose a security risk.  Otherwise why would banks worry about it.  If however this was looked at more scientifically and there is actually no evidence to suggest helmets pose a risk, then they should not be banned.Alpo:  Australia at best would be a minor player in this exercise with all personnel largely at the mercy of the effectiveness of local governance. It really is doubtful Australia would make any difference. On the other hand the risks associated with this are enormous. Our resources are best preserved when Ebola strikes our region.Moi, Your comments would make sense if An Australian contribution would end the crisis.  It would appear that this is not the case hence we need to conserve our resources to fight Ebola in the Pacific. It might be noble to use our resources lavishly globally but this is neither good fiscal management nor an effective way to use our resources.  In the meantime. any Australian who want to help is free to go there.Helvi:  Good governance mean focusing your efforts where outcomes are assured.  The government has concluded that an effort in West Africa is not only risky but most likely to have little to no outcomes.  

Certainly we now have major problems balancing revenue and expenditure.  This is all the more reason why a commitment to something risky with unlikely gains is not worth taking up.Is the ALP so desperate to differentiate itself from the LNP that it embraces this issue which in the end however does not resonate with the electorate.  It is already questionable why we are in Iraq but then that is the reality of the US alliance.  We can however happily stay away from action on Ebola in West Africa since there are already plenty of other nations helping out.  Let's focus on our region and not try to spread our resources thinly.Econ:  People are already going there to work for various organisations including international ones. The government is not stopping that happening. Understandably however the government does not want to get directly entangled in the West African situation at the risk of endangering Australian lives.  Ebola will most likely spread and Australian will then have a role in the Pacific region.Issues like this always get an emotive response.  Across Africa diseases, famine and internecine strife are claiming far more lives than Ebola.  Indeed Ebola can be seen like many diseases, natures way of dealing with overpopulation and destruction of the environment.  Any involvement by the Australian Government has to be assessed as having clear outcomes that justify the expenditure and a low level of risk.  Those who like Plibersek who argue for Australian assistance are projecting emotion over rationality. The same level of emotion will be levelled at the government should a hasty reaction result in a failed program with staff infected.Alpo:  "If we wash our hands, we have only ourselves to blame for the consequences".  The reality is Australians who are interested to go and help are free to do so now. They don't need assistance from the Australian government to do this as they can work with a range of existing agencies already on the ground. 

It is clear however that any direct action by the Australian government will have little additional impact on the outcomes.Nicholas:  Australia can certainly send army personnel on missions. However it is not clear West African nations would welcome such military support.  Nor is it certain the army has the expertise for this kind of operation.  The Government however can't just send staff of hospitals to these countries. Hence they would need to get volunteers. However staff can already volunteer and go there now so it is not clear what additional benefit there is for Australian government direct action.The issues raised by Katie Wood are largely academic in nature.  It is about what could happen but is largely outside the realms of possibility of happening. No where in her article does she mention any specific examples of where the previous legislation violated human rights.

Legislation like this is appropriate if it effectively targets the guilty and leaves the innocent alone. this appears to be the case and any claim the innocent being incarcerated for going to an excluded zone is just nonsense.  Despite what some civil rights people would like it is simply not practical to afford the same civil rights to suspected terrorists as civilians.Helvi: Because urgency is required to ensure terrorist acts are not committed, Many of those who usually call for a debate and greater discussion basically are opposed to the whole idea and want to torpedo it.Gerard the only scare campaign is that run by civil libertarians and IS on social media.  So what about collecting biodata, the average Australian is hardly going to be affected by this. Besides lots of companies already have this data on you.Gerard: What you just described is the typical fear campaign run by civil libertarians. They want to protect the guilty so they have you believe the laws will be used against you.  The robustness of Australian politics and the budget allocated to security agencies ensures the innocent are left alone and protected from violence.Gerard: These are not Australians but unlawful entrants to Australian waters. We do know what happened to them as they were sent to processing centres in Nauru.Being in an alliance with the US means we should contribute when necessary and where it does not conflict with Australia's interests.  This ensures we maximise the technological and intelligence benefits from the alliance.  

Campaigns like this also give the ADF operational experience which better prepares our forces to be combat ready should a threat arise. Real targets are very different from simulated ones as are inter service and country cooperation in a real war situation. Being combat ready may mean the difference between success and failure in the event of a conflict.QC Bob:  Indonesia's position is not overly relevant because it is firstly non aligned unlike Australia. Secondly Indonesia lacks a clear direction in these matters. It is always balancing between pandering to some of the more extremist elements (for example the imposition of sharia law on both muslims and non musims in Aceh) while containing the more violent elements.Bob:  What you say sounds reasonable and even desirable. However it is not the reality of Indonesian foreign policy.  RI is firstly a member of ASEAN and therefore involved in regional politics with its own emphasis on relations with those nations and China   Australia is simply not part of this association nor is it likely it will ever be admitted.  To abandon the US alliance in the hope we will get a better alliance with RI just ignores how Australia is viewed by RI.basel:

Our commitment to the Middle East is all about our military alliance with the US. It can be argued the commitment has significant military benefits. The ebola crisis on the other hand is strictly a humanitarian effort and there are doubts that Australia is equipped to deal with this situation.Alpo:  The Iraq adventure is pure and simple the bi partisan agreement with the US alliance.  The approach to climate change  however is largely due to the LNP electorate many of whom are people who want no interference in their lives, especially when it comes to their consumption of energy.In fairness to the politicians, neither is directly involved with the security services.  Hence it is to be expected that they do not have a detailed understanding of the legislation beyond the broad intentions and focus of the legislation.  It is in the implementation of legislation that a lot of the issues are fully sorted out. Sometimes this may require subsequent change to the legislation. Ultimately the key determinant will be the funding given to the security apparatus.  Hence we should feel confident that there will be no men in overcoats and sunglasses knocking on all our doors at 3 AM.kp: Given the number of issues of immediate concern politicians have to deal with, there are limits to the level of detail they get to know. This legislation impacts little on the lives of most people in the electorate so it is not surprising MPs don't pay a great deal of attention.lennie:  It is a reality that politicians are representatives of the people not experts in various jurisdictions.  It is not surprising that MPs not actually directly involved with the legislation do not know the finer legal points of interpretation.How fortunate it is we had no lawyers around when the wheel was invented.  Just imagine the ethical, moral and legal issues that they would have raised in order to have further discussion and development of the wheel terminated.  At the heart of all this opposition to the new legislation is an inherent disbelief in democracy and an authoritarian disposition that distrusts anything that they themselves are not fully in control of. The reality is however that Australia's democracy is very robust and any problems with the rights of citizens will be effectively dealt with.  Interference with the civil liberties of a few handfuls of suspects is a small price to pay for the safety of the Australian public. 
The flag unfortunately represents a past, an Australia comfortable as a privileged member of the British Empire.  .  Indeed the Empire died with the sinking of capital ships off Malaya in  1941. The flag no longer represents Australia and its people.  The nation has well and truly changed since the Pacific War.  Hence the flag  has nothing to do with patriotism but largely represents tribalism, a symbol for those who wish to wallow in the past and all things British.DangerMoue:  Australia today is a very different society to when the Australian flag was created.  The blue ensign is the flag of a Great Britain predominant society that persecuted aboriginal people. It is the flag of a self governing entity within the British Empire (where the sun never set).  

The blue ensign belongs to another time so when people say love it, then many of us including fifth generation people such as myself just reject it because we feel it doesn't really represent who we now are as a people. There is also a sinister racist element to those who push this flag because they are basically reifying one group within the society.  This is not the way to an open, dynamic and distinctively different society created by diverse cultures in interaction to the Australian landscape.This story is largely a beat up. Woolworths not wishing to offend anyone withdraws a t shirt from sale given complaints.  This still doesn't stop anyone from creating their own t shirts with similar statements and wearing them.  Is this happening - most likely not!  Hence really there is no story unless large numbers of people are actually wearing similar t-shirts.David's article exaggerates the impact the new legislation will have on people's lives but minimises the threat from terrorists particularly "lone wolf" operations. Of course it is difficult to prove conclusively instances of terrorists threats when ongoing surveillance is preventing such occurrences.   

The growth of IS highlights the impact of social media.  Only by keeping one step ahead of terrorists will it be possible to ensure we have no incident such as the Boston bombing or the attack on the British soldier.  

Australia's system of government is robust enough to change legislation if indeed it causes problems to the general public.  In the meantime, it is best to accept the advice of security agencies for enhanced security.  They should also be on notice that interference with the general public is unacceptable.graazt and Jimmy:  We certainly know about a couple of prevented threats so the potential is known to exist. We can't treat this like the roads where we do an upgrade where fatalities have occurred. Society is just unwilling to accept any terrorist threats to determine cost effective prevention measures. Security agencies will certainly be held to account if they both fail to achieve security and annoy the totally wrong people.  The press will certainly be at liberty to report on incompetence but nothing that subverts the security effort.Jimmy:  The robustness of Australian politics means that these laws will be under constant review.  Social media today is our greatest guarantee of prevention of excess. If people who should never have been investigated are abused in any way then heads will roll and policies will change.Pastor Farian:  Admittedly the potential for normal violence is far greater than that from a terrorist attack.  The sad reality is that prevention of normal violence is near impossible as it happens without warning.  More of course is in train to keep known violent people away from their victims.  However in the case of terrorists, it is possible to monitor situations such as telephone calls, access to websites, acquisition of multi media materials, people associations in order to identify those at risk.  

WiseOne:  The new laws are there to identify and deal with terrorists.  A terrorist can be someone from an anglo to a Uighur.  Hence it is inappropriate to say they are racist.  The police will naturally focus on areas that terrorists will interact with such as bookshops and radical preachers. 

Past experience has shown that these criminals can be identified and crimes prevented.  It is of course another matter to prevent the general run of violent crimes where there are few warning signs.John:  This also shows why it is unwise to ban organisations such as Hizb ut Tahrir because it is better to have them and all fellow travellers exposed to the sunlight. Under the new legislation the AFP have a good list of suspects and their associates under surveillance. This substantially reduces the costs and hence increases the effectiveness of the surveillance. 

It is also good for all to hear what these people are on about.  people can judge for themselves whether these ideologues believe in Australian values.WiseOne:  To declare every violent crime an act of terrorism would be to place the entire community under a state of surveillance. This is of course the ultimate in political correctness where we never speak about the groups most likely to commit terrorism but regard everyone in the community as a suspect.Adam;  The state doesn't always do the right thing but fear of that should not interfere with what is a clear and present danger. The type of leeway given should be seen as an effective means of frustrating and preventing crimes.  Many potential criminals will think twice before committing any crime.Helvi

Australia actually does far more for refugees than what Italy does. What would really move you to tears would be the conditions asylum seekers live under in Italy.Losimpson:  There will always be difficulties on places like Nauru and Manus Island despite the money spent. Inmate riots also create worse conditions. We can do better but it is always worth considering that the conditions in our detention centres will be superior to those in refugee camps.Gerard,  Without a visa and documentation, it will be normal practice to detain people (who become inmates of a detention centre) until such time as they can be processed. It is certainly a far cry from a goal because there is no fixed period of habitation in the centre not are there any requirements for detainees to perform any work.tacotaco:  The reality is that virtually no asylum seeker who arrives in Australia by boat is directly fleeing a place of persecution.  Hence when we return people to India or Indonesia we are merely sending them back to a place where they were already safe.tacotaco:  It might be desirable but it is financially impossible to afford the world's displaced people the rights and privileges of Australians.  Hence when we talk of standards they need to be international ones not Australian ones. As for other countries bearing a burden the reality is Australia through its contributions to the UNHCR is already carrying the burden of financing refugee camps.  The countries that have the most camps actually provide little since that is provided by the UNHCR.whohasthefish;  There is a EU agreement that if you have been registered in one country you cannot apply in another.  For places like Germany this means they don't accept people registered at the point of entry such as Greece, Malta, Italy and Spain.  Hence they are already ensuring they receive few refugees since there is no country near them that would create a refugee exodus.  

There is a practicality here. Having signed up to the International Refugee Convention doesn't mean Australia has to accept the world's 55 + millon refugees.whohasthefish:  There is absolutely no argument most people are refugees as defined under the current process.  The point you don't seem to get is that with 55 million registered refugees, the capacity of developed countries to absorb those who desire shelter elsewhere other than a refugee camp is limited.  Moreover, the funds of developed nations will assist many more people in refugee camps than resettlement. 

It may be desirable, ethical and moral to accept all who come for resettlement but it is unaffordable.whohasthesish:  The views of Refugee councils reflect doing the maximum for asylum seekers whereas governments have to budget for what they do.  What is in the spirit of the International Convention is not necessarily possible, practical or affordable.  It is also fair to suggest the Convention was developed for different times. No government will bankrupt their country and cause social unrest by following the interpretations of a refugee council in regard to international conventions.phurthink:  Xenophobia is hardly the concern of Australia's multicultural society.  Of greater concern to people is the erosion of the welfare system by creating  more and more recipients through large scale refugee migration.  There are 55 million refugees and while it would be unlikely most would not have the means to get to Australia,  any softening of attitude by the government is likely to lead to numbers of arrivals well beyond the capacity of Australian society to cope with.Darren:  Abuse in detention centres is a matter of opinion rather than a matter of policy.  I would defy anyone to show where it is stated policy to abuse inmates of detention centres.  It is then a subjective opinion as to whether abuse has been administered. The most reasonable approach for an opinion is to use the benchmark of refugee camps. If what happens in Australia's camps is worse than refugee camps then clearly there is abuse. However that is clearly not the case.Darren: Children are not being detained indefinitely.  it will always be best for children to be with parents.  If the parents cannot be released then certainly there need to be other options.Gerard,  the "lonely spiritless suburban subdivision way of planning" which comes from white settlement is permitting a much greater population than what existed before the invasion of 1788.  The economy not housing is the issue.  Where we
have the greatest tracts of land, the population is declining simply because there are few economic opportunities in those places.  It is also noticeable that few refugees ever go to areas where there is plenty of land. Note the outcry that accompanied the government's new work visa in rural areas for refugees. 
peterjim:  In one respect, we have actually achieved a regional solution. The advice of President SBY of Indonesia was for Australia to take "sugar off the table" to solve the problem.  The LNP has heeded this advice very well with its "no advantage" policy, boat turn backs and resettlement anywhere but Australia.  With little to be gained by getting on a boat,  few asylum seekers are now heading to Indonesia. This has benefitted Indonesia in not having to round up and place in detention camps all those who have overstayed their visas.This is just another article that implicitly advocates unlimited refugee arrivals.  While acknowledging refugees have no right to permanent resettlement the article however implicitly advocates permanent settlement in Australia or a regional location such as Malaysia.   Like all such articles it does not address cost effective options for refugees such as refugee camps nor does it address the economic and social costs incurred by large scale refugee migration.

Like similar articles, the authors simply can't come to terms with the success of the government's program.  

Steve:

"Will it be 100,000 or 5 million"  This is ultimately the deciding question based on available funds.  Boat arrivals pay their own way but those entering through the normal refugee program will have their translocation paid for by the government.  Regardless of what figure one arrives at, there still is the issue of control and this brings us back to the usual accusations of a lack of compassion.  We are a heartless compassionless society in the view of some if having settled 5 million we reject another 300.pajos:  Nominating a number is actually difficult because you need to calculate the costs of welfare, health and education.  It is also a yearly cost over many years resulting in increasing costs with each years intake. There does come a point where the government of the day either increases taxation or reduces the benefits so that all recipients including existing citizens  receive les.Ambrose;  Vocational education is extremely expensive and fraught with many quality issues such as the qualifications of trainers, having equipment that works and consumables.  We already have enough problems proving TVET to Australians let alone setting up what would be highly expensive facilities in Bali for the benefit of refugees. Besides the success of the government program means there are few asylum seekers now journeying to Indonesia.Unfortunately Bubbles this paper offers no solutions.  The only solution to date that works is the one currently implemented.Rob:  In this argument, it is important to compare Italy and Australia on the totality of actions and not just cherry pick specific actions that make Australia look bad.  

Italy like other southern European countries is an entry point much in the same way Indonesia is.  It is of course much easier to get to Indonesia than it is to get to Italy. Having been registered as a refugee in Italy however a refugee receives nothing in the way of social services nor any permanency. However in Australia's case,  refugees are permanently resettled with all the social services provided to citizens. Indeed, asylum seekers in Australia's detention camps are better off than those roaming the streets of Italy desperately seeking food and shelter. 

Italy can accept as many refugees as it likes because it costs them little. They provide no social services and consequently most refugees attempt to escape Italy to find better opportunities. Hence Italy knows that refugees are really not a problem for them. For Australia however, Australia is a final destination where substantial funds are spent on every refugee who arrives creating an increasing budget problem. 

The article actually avoids the real issue which is how to deal with the world's 55 million plus refugees. Everyday news will contain items on new columns of refugees fleeing famine, warfare or persecution. Wealthy countries like Australia can and do assist in this crisis but there appears to be a lack of a global approach.  Such an approach would be focused on causes of people fleeing and how best to assist those who have fled.  

No action by Australia to substantially increase refugee resettlement will ameliorate the world refugee crisis. Permanent resettlement is a very expensive process that can only result in much less money being available for those seeking refuge in refugee camps. Already many refugees are unable to find a place in these camps.  Hence pampering a few may result in the death of many through a lack of shelter and food.  If we are to help effectively our funds are best directed to the camps. 

It seems odd that a neighbour's cat can stray into my property, destroy biodiversity assets and yet be fully legally entitled to do so. Some of us spent substantial time on enhancing biodiversity yet we are undermined by the laziness of others. 

It's time government showed that it is keen in protecting and enhancing our biodiversity by placing prohibitions on cats, dogs and weeds grown on private land.The article provides some interesting statistics but provides nothing startling.  That 66% of respondents confirm that muslim and non muslim Australia can live in harmony dispels any notion of either Islamophobia or Islamisteria.Turkey is not unlike many other Islamic nations in having a range of interests that limit its engagement.  Firstly, it is wary of engagement with ISIS which could lead to greater Turkish public sympathy for ISIS and the start of ISIS influence in Turkey.  Secondly, it doesn't want to strengthen the Kurds. Thirdly, the growth of ISIS is also not in the interests of the Turkish government. Fourthly, it wants to be perceived as being part of the coalition.  Hence they are in a juggling act which involves more bark than bite against ISIS.Dove:  To vaporise ISIS the US would also need to vaporise the rest of the population in the occupied area. Since this is impossible it is going to be a drawn out campaign particularly since ISIS is an ideology that will have at least partial appeal to many muslims.The hesitancy of Turkey illustrates the overall weakness of this campaign.  Part of the problem is that there is an expectation that muslims will fight muslims for the benefit of the West.  It will be in the interests of ISIS now to enter into a war of attrition fighting primarily in towns and cities as well as consolidate rule.  This will make the struggle longer resulting in war fatigue and the ultimate collapse of the coalition. It is difficult to see any local forces being successful in land operations so ISIS has time on its side.

ISIS is achieving a begrudging level of respect in the Islamic world.  It addresses some key interests of muslims such as:  opposition to the West (including Israel); advocacy of muslim culture and values; and, governance according to the Quran.  This level of respect will make it increasingly difficult for muslims to fight against ISIS when many will think that it will be wrong to oppose a muslim group for the benefits of the West.Sara;  It is a fundamental right of a modern western secular state for people to raise questions about practices that seem at odds with the nature of that state.  One of the key tenets of a western society is the total separation of religion and the state, leaving religion solely with the goal of spiritual development of the members. Islam with its demands on how people dress, eat and drink along with the more fundamentalist concepts of sharia law encompasses a much broader architecture of living than what people expect of modern religion. Certainly some but not all nuns wear head gear but this is more a custom than a religious prerequisite. 


Nobody should face abuse because of what they wear.  Australia however is at war with a fundamentalist Islamic group ISIS.  Anyone therefore who appears to be in anyway supportive of fundamentalist Islam is going to run the risk of abuse at the hands of violent thugs looking for any excuse. 

People should be free to wear what they want whether it is the burqa/niqab, a bikini or a tin foil hat. It is also a legal right to be opposed to the western/Australian way of life. Australians also have the right to question why we would allow people who are patently opposed to a western/Australian way of life to settle here.Alpo;  A western secular society is an open diverse society.  Aboriginal culture is an integral part of Australian culture.  indeed if we look at the architecture of Australian society (as Noel Pearson broadly puts it) it is comprised of an aboriginal element, a pioneering element and a migrant element all of which is fused.  There are people however who have an outlook that accepts only their one set of religious, social and political beliefs have any relevance and that not only must these must prevail but that at some point they should dominate the rest of society. Such people have no place in a western secular society.Gulzar;  On the contrary,  the rights women have in western society including earning good salaries provides them with immense freedom without putting up with the domination of men. Women are able to negotiate what relationship they will have and to exit such a relationship if the man proves to be unacceptable. Women seek equality not submission to a man who wishes to guide the woman.  The status of concubines and mistresses is more likely to be seen in underdeveloped nations such as Pakistan than it is to be seen in Australia. 

Negative views in underdeveloped countries about western woman simply represent an inability to accept the equality of women.  Views such as this are incompatible with a modern secular western country.HE,  It can be argued that the term "religious observance'  pertains to matters of a religious nature not social behaviour such as prescriptions about dress, food and drink. There doesn't seem to be any issue about preventing the standard Islamic practice of calling the faithful to prayer (through loud speakers).Peter, banning the burqa/niqab will be as useful as banning Hizb Ut Tahrir as neither will positively change attitudes. The real battle is to change mindsets which in this case is moving people from a pre modern outlook to the mindset of a modern secular society. Islam in developed countries needs to reform to assist the assimiliation process,  Many muslims are currently uncommitted to change,  partly accepting some of the ideology of ISIS without necessarily embracing it while enjoying the benefits of western society.  We will all move forward when we all accept what is necessary to grow and develop a secular society.Gerard,  If anything, Australia is more open than most countries with limited to nil fencing in front yards and basic fencing in back yards.  In many countries people live in veritable fortresses surrounded by tall solid walls topped by glass or razor wire.MCC,  I concur that individualism can lead to selfishness.  However it is also true that the support given to an extended family network does not necessarily translate to any form of care beyond that network.  This of course is tribalism which in places like PNG results in a totally dysfunctional public sector where there is little sense of responsibility beyond collecting salary and other benefits for the family network.Much of what the article says may not apply to IS. There is a major difference between ISIS and other terrorist organisations.  ISIS is striving to directly achieve an Islamic state. Despite two word slogans such as "death cult"  IS has achieved success beyond belief in engaging in full scale warfare and occupying vast areas.  This elevates IS beyond terrorism to a level of legitimacy.  It can be perceived as readdressing wrongs in the socio-political sphere and fulfilling Islamic teachings. The idea of simply deradicalising young people may simply not work.Furion,  In practical terms,  what you suggest is impossible legally.  We have a problem and we need  to find ways of  assimilating people better into the values of a modern secular society.  Our experience to date should also inform decisions about immigration in regard to those groups least likely to integrate.David,  Terrorists are real albeit minor in nature but issues about exploitation of the environment and government expenditure are just opinions.  I doubt voting in the ALP will change much in regard to the latter.   

Fidanza,  The issue here is not about the crime and its punishment but its prevention.  In this respect we have more control over terrorist crime than we do with everyday crime.  The recent murder in Tenerife for example was largely unpreventable by the police.Alpo,  There is an element of truth in your comment insofar as all political parties see to gain advantage over circumstances. However it is a reality that western people have a problem with death and will go to all kinds of lengths to avoid it. Deaths by terrorism are avoidable unlike normal murders. Hence the need to have measures in place to neutralise any attempt at terrorism. 

The legislation seems reasonable to counter the current threat.  However like anything else, the proof is in the pudding.  Success will mean few people will be inconvenienced and all those with a reasonable level of suspicion will be unable to affect any threat.  What happens should not be like the security screening at airports where everyone has to put up with the process.This really is a storm in a tea cup hardly worth an article over.  Abbott actually has two points of wisdom: one, that banning these forms of dress may not have any real outcome; and, two, that the burqa/niqab are indeed confronting given what they represent as repression.  He has simply made a point and moved on hoping no doubt some in the Islamic community have a rethink.  

gerard,  you conveniently forget the rest of the story.  The first is that Australia contributes far more than Italy to refugee camps thus saving millions from dying.  The second is that Italy provides virtually nothing to refugees who get there. 

Like the deaths at sea that have been prevented, Australia's fight against ISIS will also save thousands. 

Nothing has changed in Australia in regard to migrants including refugees.  The process is as controlled today as it was in the past.  It has always been - Australia will let in those it wants and rejects those it doesn't want.Marilyn:  According the UNHCR website in 2013, Australia ranked 12 in contributions which totalled $US 57.5 million while Italy ranked 20 with $US 10.5 million.  Similarly while Italy had 92,064 people of concern, Australia had 48,062.  Given Australia provides substantial social welfare compared to virtually nothing from Italy,  Australia is carrying a much heavier load than Italy.Typical of these articles, it ignores the reality that hardly any countries offer permanent resettlement to refugees and those that do,  like Australia, only provide a limited number of places.  The article also glosses over the reality that a potential of 100 million refugees worldwide means the long term future lies entirely in their own countries not resettlement.

The government legislation is a pragmatic approach to controlling not just our migration intake but also our ability to address the worldwide refugee crisis. One such response is the bombing of ISIS which is causing so many deaths.  

Australia needs to be judged by what it achieves for refugees or potential refugees not on debatable fine points of law. 

Pearl: Yes we should at least bring in a few million. We need however to sacrifice our social welfare system to do this as it is just a wealthy country indulgence. Everyone who comes in will be forced to find work in order to survive thus driving work rates lower. However the benefit will be there will be lots of new work opportunities such as help for the retired.Marilyn: Indeed, the biggest tragedy is likely to come from inadequate support to refugees just across a border. Money spent on boat arrivals is far better spent on refugee camps.Jerry 

It is very much an interpretation as to whether Australia has breached international law or not.  A verdict can however only be achieved in a court of law which of course has not happened to date.  Given the substantial support Australia has provided refugees especially through the UNHCR, I doubt anyone would seriously attempt to place Australia through such a court.Oaktree: And as Wellington once said- they come on in the same old way and we hit them back in the same old way.John: You should therefore understand the difference between the people we brought in during the 1950s (the people we want) and those who are trying to get into today (the ones we don't want).  Leaders change, times change but migration policy hasn't.Indeed Waterloo, we keep avoiding the real elephant in the room which is population growth outstripping the sustainability of the environment. I remember keeping mice as part of my school studies for biology. When I was negligent in feeding the mice, they killed and ate each other. 

Simply moving populations who don't change their social beliefs achieves virtually nothing as they proceed then to destroy the next environmentGrandpapa:  Circumstances have moved on beyond Fraser's era. Asylum seekers are no longer travelling to Indonesia thanks to the success of the government's program.  It would actually make no sense to have a processing centre in Indonesia. 

As for other countries sharing the load, Australia , Canada and the US are the three main countries resettling refugees.  Interest from other countries is unlikely to happen. 

The Vietnam refugee programme was a manageable and limited intake.  Today there are 55 million registered refugees, a number well and truly beyond any resettlement solution.It would be foolish to pass legislation banning any form of clothing.  If there are issues of identification then there should be specific provisions at any location where that is necessary.

Wearing any specific muslim clothing establishes that person as a strict or fundamentalist follower of Islam.  The clothing is designed to always differentiate that person to those who do not believe in Islam. More moderate muslims of course prefer not to wear such clothes and make a clear separation between religion, politics and everyday codes of living. 

A major problem for muslims is that the more they differentiate themselves via clothing and codes of living the more likely they will be perceived as aliens, the strangers in our midst.whogoesthere:  It is not fair or even right but if you dress in a way different to the norm then you may receive trouble.  A case in point is the death of some UK citizens inviting a comment by a Thai politician that wearing bikinis is unwise.  

Maggie, I wonder however what would happen if Christian denominations (apart from the clergy) started wearing prominent Christian symbols what the reaction would be.  My guess it would never happen because the Australian way of life has made such a large distinction between religion and living in the society.Kym:  Locations need to be more specific as to what the security requirements are.  It would be discriminatory to simply specify say a helmet  or a hoodie.Its difficult to see what additional leadership the PM is supposed to provide. He has made it clear there will be no ban on the burqa/ niqab. Any attack on muslims is already a crime. 

If any community wants to dress in a way that makes them different to others then they will be clearly seen as different. This of course has created the divisiveness.  

The issue then is what leadership is the PM supposed to provide The reality is there is only so far you can push the pluralistic approach to multiculturalism before there is an electoral backlash.Alpo,  Surely we are more humanitarian by emphasising greater support to millions of refugees in camps than accepting permanent resettlement.  There is much more humanitarianism in providing food and shelter to refugees thus saving them from death than funding an enhanced lifestyle for a minority.  But of course if you believe governments print money at will then it is another matterLilly:  There is also the practicality of how many people countries can actually accept. For Australia the costs of supporting refugees in Australia is much higher than supporting refugees in camps.  One cost is repatriation. Movement back home from a border camp via a bus costs little but the repatriation from Australia including legal expenses and flights can cost substantial sums.Patricia,  What most people understand is that the world has an enormous refugee problem.  The best support for refugees is to provide all the basics until such time they can be repatriated. As we are a comparatively wealthy country we should do as much as we can for the refugees.  However funds are always limited and largely divided between permanent resettlement and support for those in camps.  The more we spend on permanent resettlement which can only benefit a handful, the less we have to pay for basic survival needs for the multitude in camps. Put simply, I would rather our funds prevent many people from dying rather than be used to provide an enhanced lifestyle for the few. 



This article like so many others ignores three realities:  firstly,  the number of refugees worldwide is now so huge and growing that there is no potential for any resettlement: secondly, demands on resources for refugees in camps means fewer and fewer funds available for the cost inefficient option of resettlement of a lucky few: and, thirdly, all asylum seekers arriving by boat are not directly escaping a life threatening situation.

The International Convention for Refugees is about as relevant today as laws giving precedent to horses over cars.  The numbers of refugees has now grown to such proportions that it is simply no practical  to offer safe haven in anywhere other than across borders. However it is also worth noting that nowhere does this Convention actually require any country to permanently resettle any refugee.  

Awake;  There are now about 9 million refugees in Syria alone.  It is an exercise in futility to see permanent resettlement as a solution to the growing world refugee crisis.  Every single dollar we can afford should go to support the refugees not diverted to permanent resettlement schemes for the lucky few.  Unless we prioritise our funding then millions will starve because all funds are needed to deal with this crisis.Luke, The cost of the detention centres and resettlement in Cambodia is small compared to the costs we will incur with uncontrolled numbers of arrivals by boat. Every day you will read reports of increasing numbers of refugees.  Syria alone has 9 million.  World totals are in the vicinity of 55 million registered and many more not registered. Hence the potential of a tsunami of mankind is a real one. 

The government has effectively put into place measures that ensure anyone claiming asylum having reached Australia will obtain no long term advantage. Hence the Cambodia settlement and the new visa arrangements guarantee no long term economic advantage.  As per the International Refugee Convention, refugees are provided with nothing more than temporary protection.BJA,  Yes we certainly need to care for people world wide.  In the case of the overwhelming refugee crisis, the best way to help the maximum number of people is to fund refugee camps. 

Borders may not show on a google earth map but they are there.  Try going from South to North Korea.  Border protection is an effective means of controlling migration flow and hence resources. We can help more refugees by funding camps rather than resettle.Rocdocta:

Fear of terrorism has nothing to do with the raft of measures introduced before parliament dealing with asylum seekers.  It is all about control over expenditure to ensure government can fulfil the wishes of the electorate. One of those wishes is looking after refugees which is most cost effectively dealt with by funding refugee camps.
