john1:

We could review the number of major ALP policy that the LNP opposition opposed in the Senate if you like.

But in any case, if the present government is not willing to negotiate about its policies then how can the Senate review anything? It then has the choice of becoming the house of rubber stamping or the house of obstruction. I am glad it has chosen the latter.

"A government, especially a first term government who has been freshly elected handing down it's first budget should be allowed to GOVERN."

Maybe if they wanted the chance to govern they should not have proven that their actions are so incompetent or their intentions so downright vicious.You'll be paying thousands more for two years, while the cuts in services that affect the lower classes will last until some other government is courageous enough to redress the consistent policy of successive governments to decrease the revenue base by lowering taxes and by selling off productive assets (the latest plan from the LNP involves encouraging the states to trade off productive assets {eg the power distribution network in NSW} for new infrastructure that will require ongoing costs {eg roads}).

But, don't worry, we all feel sorry for you having to pay an extra couple of percent tax for a couple of years. The people who will be unable to afford to go to the GP and to get medical tests done will be the most sorry for you I'm sure.False equivalents there Craig of Bathurst - most of those other health hazards you describe have positive effects as well as the hazard. Driving a car provides means of fast transport, processed foods/fast food are cheap and easy sources of calories, visiting Iran allows a person to see many significant sites from world history, and alcohol at least gets you intoxicated (which in small amounts in controlled settings at least gives you the illusion of positive emotions).

Smoking makes you die earlier and it doesn't provide ANY positive impact upon a person. The only 'boost' that it gives is the relief from physiological withdrawal effects.I know that prohibition doesn't work to actually stop substance use altogether, but the fact is that we don't know how many people would be using cannabis or heroin if they were to be legalised.

I seem to recall that cost-benefit analyses conducted in somewhere in Scandinavia (cannot find citation though) found that legalisation of heroin was cheaper than having it remain illegal, so there might be some merit to the idea.They should consult with them on implementation of policy but not on policy itself. The problem is that so much of our media and industry policy seems to be more in the interests of certain groups than of the whole country itself.Morally, I have no problem with them saying that anyone born after a certain date (ie those who are currently below 18 years of age) should never be legally allowed to buy cigarettes.

Except, the problem is that the government needs to make an assessment as to whether it is cost-effective to criminalise smoking and enforce the laws. When we factor in those costs compared with the efficacy of criminalisation (which is likely to be somewhat questionable given the rate of illegal drug use in this country) we have to wonder whether that is the right move to make.

I know that that is moving away from the moral angle that seems to be underlying your reasoning, but every dollar spent ineffectively on this issue is a dollar that can't be spent better on other virtuous issues.Exactly Monty B - if there is no 'Big Government' then it means that Big Tobacco and Big Carbon (and all the other Big Xs out there) run the show.

Libertarians can be very naive."Or is it just that you feel morally superior enough to dictate to someone else what they can and can't do?"

Bit hypocritical there Ben since you are arguing against wandererfromoz's right to call for social change.

Anyway, the answer to your point is that the right to smoke has a greater negative impact on society overall than the right to restrict someone's right to smoke. First we can look at the individual impact of the right to smoke - the hastened death of the individual. Second we can look at the impact of second-hand smoke on those in the direct proximity. Third we can look at the impact of smoking behaviour on the smoker's children and other impressionable young people. Fourth we can have a look at the greater health costs borne out by us through out tax dollars.It doesn't improve concentration compared to non-smokers. It only improves concentration if you are comparing a smoker who hasn't been smoking (and thus is in nicotine withdrawal) and a smoker who has just had a cigarette (and is thus no longer in withdrawal).

In any case, two of your purported benefits are caused by nicotine itself, not tobacco. Since we now have methods of delivering nicotine (which is relatively benign even if it is highly addictive) without the carcinogenic tobacco smoke it is even more of an argument against smoking.You seem to be implying that alcohol itself is to blame for domestic violence. There are a lot of people who would strongly disagree with you on that!Except we don't have to suffer a huge loss of freedom. If the list of Australians fighting overseas is as small as 150 people then it shouldn't be too difficult for ASIO to keep tabs on them and keep track of their activities.

Also, consider that hatred of our culture is only exacerbated by persisting in hatred of an entire religion rather than the tiny subsect that may actually be guilty of the crimes you accuse the whole religion of.

The lesson to be learned is that we cannot make our society completely safe from terrorism through acts of law enforcement without sacrificing the freedoms that make our society good. But one way to move further towards a society that is safer without having to live in a police state is to examine (and stop) the ways that all of us entrench social divisions - through our culture, through education, and through economics.Mick and Harry:

There is no problem whatsoever monitoring telecommunications and internet usage PROVIDED there is a court order allowing it.

I would imagine that ASIO is already well aware of the people to look out for and are already monitoring those close associated with the Australians fighting overseas (using existing legal methods for doing so). 

This is simply a new measure designed to make us all frightened and to look like the government is doing something to protect us.mick:

How about the other wartime spying - the one where the Nazis spied on their own people to find Jews, 'outcasts' (gypsies, homosexuals etc etc) and collaborators to send to their camps?

How about every dictatorship everywhere ever which first employs a secret police force to monitor their own people?

I'm not saying that I believe the LNP is doing this, but I do believe the dangers of doing it outweigh the dangers of not doing it (since there are already effective means of monitoring persons of interest in place).

People from the right are always so up in arms about free speech (ie the right to be racist) and freedom from corporate regulation (ie the rich eat the poor) but they are so opposed to freedom for personal privacy. Talk about confused values.Ben:

I was under the impression that the reason why that wasn't mentioned in the judgement is because the people pressing the claim against Bolt deliberately chose to use 18C rather than simply suing him for libel. Therefore whether he lied or not was not relevant to this particular judgement.

I believe it was a deliberate decision meant to send a message to a horribly offensive individual that he should probably rein it in a little.

So at best you can say that it was never proven that he lied. But there is a good amount of evidence to suggest that he did." Personally, I think Islam is incompatible with a post-Enlightenment humanist ethic"

Please examine your history books then Pete. It was the influence of Islamic cultures that preserved many of the technological and sociological advances of the Romans while the dark ages Europeans (read: Christians) were busy burning any materials they considered heretical. It was that preservation of ideas that helped to fuel the European Renaissance which led to the Enlightenment.

You describe Islam as if it is a homogenous grouping. There are many types of Muslims. And to think of the Islamists as representative of the mainstream Muslim opinion is akin to thinking the Westboro Baptists or the KKK representative of mainstream Christian thinking.Tory Boy:

The real problem is that Islamic countries also tend to be countries where there is a huge disparity between rich and poor. They are countries where there are huge education gaps.

This means that poor people in these countries, who have effectively no prospects to improve their lot, are more vulnerable to start believing the very simplistic messages given by these particular Islamic sects. And on top of that, often it is the religious extremists in those areas who are the only ones that provide things like schools (entirely so that they can brainwash new suicide bombers of course).

The biggest threat to western civilisation is one that is entirely of our own making. If the western world cared about addressing global economic disparity then the whole world would be better educated and less discontent. But instead we take advantage of Asia for cheap manufacturing, Africa for cheap resources, and the Middle East for cheap oil. In supporting the ruling structures in these areas we are creating the discontent which is then directed (by those in power in those countries) at us.

Thats reality from my perspective.Stockel and Cromwell:

Actually, Mohammed had a specific injunction against harming Christians and Jews. The early expansions of Islam followed his teaching.

Unfortunately, the Zoroastrians were not included in that, but if the Christians' behaviour in converting Europe is any indication they wouldn't have fared any better if it had have been Christians moving in instead.

Please consult some actual history before talking fellas."Does it matter who the group is? Waleed Aly, writing in the Sydney Morning Herald last week, argued that it does - that some deaths (and therefore lives) matter more to us than others."

I read the Waleed Aly article you linked to there and I have to say that your comment appears to misconstrue the message of the article. Aly's article does indeed say that the welfare of certain groups concerns us more than that of others, but he states it in an inquisitive way more than in a belligerent way. I took it as a comment acknowledging the flaw that we all have in being more concerned about those we can relate to rather than those to whom we cannot.

Your article seems to be proof of that, as you seem to be more concerned about the welfare of Christians (than the welfare of Palestinians etc) because you share a faith with them.Dove:

Have you considered other issues as well such as power of attorney and decisions over end of life issues? These are thorny enough even with only our current 'average' family. With multiple partners, and multiple sets of kids etc it could get very very difficult.There is a difference between removing the gender pronouns and adding whole additional sections to account for division of assets amongst multiple parties, custody arrangements, issues around medical rights in terminal conditions etc etc.snickersnee:

You establish a false dichotomy - just because the causal factors underlying the nature of one's sexuality are not all genetic (SOME of the causal factors almost certainly are though) it doesn't then follow that homosexuality is a choice.

We do not choose the environmental factors that influence the development of our personalities. Just like you didn't necessarily choose the environmental influences that made you into the agnorant (not a spelling mistake - combination of arrogant and ignorant) religious person that you clearly are.

The funny thing is that for people who follow a religion that purports to be about forgiveness, you guys can be so bad at acceptance..."Good Christian values have never hurt our society if applied in a GODLY manner"

Who defines if something is 'godly'? You? Me? Mohammed over there? Chances are we all have different ideas about what makes something 'godly'*. God? Well, he'd actually have to communicate with all of us directly to do that. Lets wait and see if that happens...

*For the record, my idea about what makes something godly is probably how arbitrary it is and how little rational sense it makes."In fact, this tactical struggle for the agenda of media coverage of politics is really a proxy for the two parties' long-term understanding of the electorate itself."

You seem to be under the mistaken impression that politicians are in charge of the media coverage of politics. I fear that the opposite is true. The only problem for the mainstream media has been that the LNP have released such a disastrously destructive budget that they have been unable to apply a favourable spin.

Now that international matters have come up to distract us the media can get back onto its agenda of focusing attention away from how incompetent the government is. (I mean why else would there be a news story about some has-been LNP person talking about Bishop as future leadership potential? Because tragic events have worked in the LNP's favour.)Lorenzo:
Do your anecdotes (which you haven't actually provided btw) do anything to counter the basic truth explained in the article that there are 10 applicants for every job?

The point is that the researchers are saying that the 'solution' offered by the government will not be effective.Easy then Skeptic - start cold-calling him. Start knocking on his door every day asking for a job.Private enterprise does create jobs - in third world countries. Which is fine, because that is the way that corporations are set up - to maximise profits at any cost.

But quit trying to feed us the line that giving more freedom to private enterprise will result in more wealth for those of us that don't own private enterprises.Actually NevinEsk, working for the dole more likely ends up increasing unemployment - now businesses can shed paid staff and replace them with work for the dole volunteers.Tough rhetoric, even if not intended to be enforced, still creates much much more stress for people who are already vulnerable due to economic and social pressures.

No 'lefty' I know thinks that all is great in the welfare sector (if nothing else, there is a whole lot of welfare going to people who earn at or above median wage), but at least we are realistic enough to know that if you cut off payments to already desperate people then they will do desperate things. Expect crime rates to go up as a result of these draconian policies.So basically you are saying that it wouldn't be policed. (Which it effectively isn't at the moment - many people simply fill in the exact same jobs in their booklet every time they have to report.)

The problem is that these sorts of measures punish the genuine jobseekers (who are more likely to do the right thing) than they do the scammers (who very quickly work out the short-cuts).

But then again this government doesn't care about collateral damage if they can be seen as being tough on something...Warrior:

This is because globalisation invariably means fewer and fewer jobs available in 'first world' countries. So of course there is no plan by either side of politics. If they wanted to actually do something about it they would have to actually do something about how easily the wealthy can move their wealth, and how easily corporations can shift their labour to places where they can pay them at slave labour rates.You are commenting on the worth of arts degrees in the job market as if it is new information. An arts degree is a stepping stone to a higher qualification that can only be studied at a postgraduate level.

And your bias against public service work is just ignorance. I certainly include my public service experience on my resume, and it hasn't hurt my chances of getting work in the private sector.Education funding is being cut significantly (at least here in NSW). TAFE placements are being cut, alternative learning centres (the places where kids who are too disruptive for normal schooling go) are being defunded.

At the same time as the government is trying to push people into work they are taking away the means by which they might have obtained employment.Reading to the elderly - yes, now we can give people with very little money free access into elderly people's homes to steal from them.

Cutting lawns? With what lawnmowers?

Assisting in a daycare facility - maybe they can waive the working with children check as well (most jobseekers can't afford it, and it takes time to do).

Going to see the sick in hospital - because there aren't high levels of training required to ensure that disease isn't spread, not to mention to ensure that they things they are saying to the sick people are actually comforting rather than the opposite.

Here's an idea gd: Think your suggestions through next time. It is a lot harder to organise volunteer work than it seems (insurance, what skills are required, OHS etc etc).

The reason why people are critical of work for the dole is because, due to some of the problems mentioned, they schemes almost invariably end up having people performing menial labour that gives them no skills or job experience.

Oh, and talking about giving back, can we institute something similar for politicians and for the elites of society?I'm given to understand that the 'amme' spelling is not the original. It was originally program, but then they took on the extra 'me' to affect French spelling (which was popular at the time).Considering that most government departments have a job freeze on at the moment, I am guessing that the government is not doing any of the lifting as far as the jobs issue is concerned.

The problem is that whenever they engage in major works projects they contract out to whichever of their friends in the private world tenders at the lowest amount just to blow it out to multiples of the actual cost to complete. If they instead had roadworks etc completed by the government it would mean that they could have a steady source of job opportunities available which would also (theoretically) boost capacity for private businesses to flourish (using the newly built public infrastructure).

But their ideology gets in the way of their practicality.Okay, I have a suggestion for you Jane. If you really believe that it is so easy to find work, how about you quit your job (which you don't like anyway) and look for another one so you can see how you go? Oh thats right, you stay in the job you don't like because you really do realise that jobs don't grow on trees (even the fruit-picking jobs are only seasonal!).

There is definitely an empathy deficit in this country. You need to understand that just because you managed to get something (eg a job) it doesn't mean that everyone else can.Because anecdotes count for more than statistics don't they Jane?

Again, if there are that many jobs out there then why are you settling for the job you don't like?Define extreme left for us Lexx. (Just curious.)

"Rorting the dole is stealing."

What are your thoughts on the many, many wealthy people who influence the political system to create loopholes whereby they can avoid paying taxes? Do you think tax avoidance or newstart fraud costs the taxpayer more money?

"Those on the extreme left hate the wealthy - just not their money."

And those on the extreme right seem to hate everyone who isn't themself or someone who shares their level of wealth, lifestyle and values. What is the difference?

But in any case, those of us in the moderate left realise that the poorer the lower classes (ie the higher the wealth inequality), the more unstable the country. Conditions are quite similar for the upper classes the world over. Except in countries where there is greater inequality between rich and poor, there tend to be a lot more coups, lawlessness, and/or politco-religious extremism, and this means that the wealthy in those countries are more likely to be displaced in periodic upheavals.

As I've said already in this discussion, lets just see what happens to crime rates if they pass these sorts of punitive measures...The other alternative is to not lower the minimum wage but also not force them to do pointless 'make-work' on work for the dole.

Maybe they could draw workers for major infrastructure projects out of the ranks of the unemployed (and pay them too) - it would mean that instead of paying for the dole bill as well as paying for some private firm to put on employees to do the work, we would no longer be paying the dole bill (and some private company wouldn't be profiteering off the public purse). It would give more practical skills than graffiti cleanup etc that normally comprises the work for the dole program. And it would get more infrastructure built (which is what the government says that they want to do).

But of course this would cost money and it clashes with the ideology of having a government that is just big enough to fit into people's bedrooms.Re 'the darkest day in Australian sport':

There are many sports fans who couldn't give a fig about the AFL. And I'm sure that there are many Aussie Rules fans who could see that there were dodgy things going on at Essendon (no matter what the outcome of the hearing is) and therefore don't give the issue as much emphasis as you personally believe it deserves.

And by the way, the only way that I have any idea what you are referring to is because I heard about the concerns raised by/about ASADA on ABC radio. So what was your argument about ABC not airing things critical of the ALP again?Actually, I was given to understand that the reason why the mining companies are 'shedding jobs' is because they no longer need people to build mines, rather just to work them.

Yes resources prices are going down from record highs, but there are still plenty of super profits there that the government should be mining for revenue rather than going for the blood from a stone approach of attacking the poorest.I'm confused: who was it that was railing so hard against reductions in family tax benefits for families earning $150k when the ALP were last in power? Who was it that set up all manner of middle class welfare which really helped to redefine the 'working poor'?

I agree that the ALP should have done more to end middle class welfare (well, doing SOMETHING would have been a start!), but you cannot realistically pretend that the ALP are to blame for our welfare bill. It is the creation of both sides of politics.'debunker':

Of course everyone has a bias, but it matters not one whit if you admit it, unless you are willing to consider that maybe your bias impedes your ability to reason clearly and thus seek to listen to people from an opposing viewpoint in an open and respectful manner. 

Clearly you do not do the latter. Nor do I in most cases (unfortunately). But quit trying to act holier than thou when you are certainly no better than the rest of us.The fact that Shorten was elected (and remains) leader proves your point santini. 

The problem with the ALP is the people behind the scenes that control the party who are the only ones who don't realise that they are the problem. 

The problem with the LNP is also the people behind the scenes that control the party - Murdoch, the miners, the business council, developers (see ICAC), etc etc etc.

At least the ALP were too busy fighting amongst themselves to seriously harm the country. Some more infighting amongst the LNP might actually just stop them from realising their masters' vision of creating USA2 in the southern hemisphere.With a senior government minister recently highlighting 'links' between abortions and breast cancer, one truly does dread to imagine what sort of 'research' will get funding."I think people like you don't understand that a tax deduction is not a concession or a subsidy. therefore it can't be the subject of rent seeking."

All of us who don't receive favourable tax concessions from the government see no difference between the handouts the 'dole bludgers' get and the tax concessions the rich people get. They both contribute to the budget deficit and they both use funding that would otherwise go to something worthwhile.

They are exactly the same thing.I suppose the point is that noone should be able to negatively gear. Losses should not be able to reduce tax paid on other sources of income. That is the classic example of capital socialising the risk while privitising the profit.At least quarantining losses against future income will stop the rampant speculation in housing, but I am still uncomfortable with the tax advantage that it gives to those with capital.

But yes FG, that amendment to negative gearing is something that I could get on board with.We've had housing shortages because the companies that actually develop new residential areas make more money if they delay opening new areas up - property prices go up in a situation where there is more demand.

There are large tracts of land with development approval in the hands of the developers. If the government actually took steps to encourage/compell the owners of large undeveloped blocks of land to develop them then we would have less of a problem.How much money were you given in the first place to afford the deposit on the negatively geared place?

And how were you lucky enough to have secured a job that allowed you to negatively gear when you were that young?

You see, some people are blind to how much good fortune they have had. Instead they arrogantly assume that they have gotten to the position they are in through nothing but their hard work.Good for you AE.

My point still stands. You were born/raised with personal traits that other people do not have, and these have enabled you to get where you are. Sure, you probably worked hard as well, but there are plenty of people out there working hard without those traits that are unable to get where you are. The arrogance comes from expecting that everyone else can do what you can do.

I really like the irony of you criticising others for expecting the government to provide for you when you yourself have acquired so much of your wealth only because the government provided favourable tax concessions for you.
"Negative gearing is only important for small investors"

How do you figure? Negative gearing just means that SOME people are able to get income without having to pay their marginal tax rate. This applies to the big investors as well.

This is such a silly aspirational argument you make here. Why should we change the rules that significantly favour the rich if it will allow a select few poorer people join the ranks of the rich? Self explanatory.People who believe in the 'free market' are only ever concerned with the distortions caused by the government and their competitors. They are never concerned about the distortions that they cause or the ones that advantage them.

There is no such thing as a free market because all activity distorts the market. Government intervention is at least nominally done with the intention of promoting fairness within the market. Private intervention invariably only promotes unfair advantage to individual/small groups of entities.WA Idea:

So why isn't my train ticket to and from work tax deductible then? That is clearly an outgoing that is necessary for me to receive an assessable income.

There are so many inconsistencies about taxation law that it isn't funny. What would be the problem with specifying more inconsistencies in restricting negative gearing deductions to be held in escrow against the date that the property stops making a loss and income is generated?"The big guys are also keen to see it go because losing money to save tax is not really a net gain situation."

It is a net gain situation when those tax savings help you to pay for an appreciating asset though. (Especially when they only pay half the amount of tax on that asset when they sell it anyway.)

Stop trying with the misinformation.What you interpret as envy others of us interpret as frustration with having to support the wealthy in society who don't feel the need to contribute a fair proportion of their income in taxation.

You talk about normal tax deductions as if there is any consistency to tax deductions. WA Ideas stated earlier that any expense that is necessary to the earning of an income is a fair tax deduction. Except, there are a whole host of expenses that are necessary to my earning of an income that I am not allowed to claim.

It is necessary for me to consume food in order to have the energy to earn an income. It is necessary for me to have clothing for safety, hygiene, and societal reasons. It is necessary for me to have accommodation so that I do not succumb to illness and so that I can maintain my hygiene. It was necessary that all of the above things were provided to me by my parents while I was growing up so that I could reach an age where I was able to earn an income. It is necessary for me to travel to my workplace to be able to earn an income.

But none of these things are tax deductible. I am not suggesting they should be. The first thing that annoys us 'too timid to take a risk' crowd is that the kinds of income more easily accessible to the wealthy are the kinds of income that have tax deductible expenses.

But the thing that really annoys us 'too timid to take a risk' crowd is that there is absolutely bugger all risk involved for people like you WA Ideas. Successive governments create tax environments specifically to advantage people with the means to invest/who earn sufficient income to make enough tax savings to invest. Then they fight tooth and nail to minimise risk to you by maintaining low interest rates and keeping taxation rates low. The thing that really annoys us is that you are not gaining increased wealth because you took a risk. You are gaining increased wealth because you started out with enough to be able to buy into the disadvantaged system.Peter the Lawyer:

Unless there is a commensurate reduction in that person's access to government provided services, or there is an additional charge placed upon them if their wealth is gained through the custom or the work of someone who does require those government provided services (provision of which is therefore of indirect benefit to the original person), then there is a subsidy by the taxpayers.

Our society costs a certain amount of money for our government to maintain. The cost for that maintenance should be borne according to means to bear the costs and according to benefits gained from provision of a stable society.

That the taxation act allows these deductions is absolutely a subsidy, as it means that people who earn less money have to pay proportionally more of the cost to maintain society.I agree Peter, but how do we determine when an issue is that black and white? How do we determine whether a viewpoint is too based on misinformation to be worth propagating?

Many would argue that climate change denial is just as unworthy of attention as the anti-immunisation argument, and for the same reasons. But many (you?) would be outraged if that viewpoint that many of us view as being based on misinformation (just like the anti-vaccination ones) were not given as much airspace as the AGW arguments.

The old way of settling this used to be about appeal to evidence. But now we have such a wealth of evidence being produced that much of it can be misinterpreted however a person wants.

So how do we settle it?Crash:

I know quite a lot of GPs and others in the medical profession (being an allied health professional myself), and not a single one of them is opposed to vaccinations.

Without knowing the details of your concerns I can't be sure, but there is a very good chance that your concerns have already been addressed in one of the many take downs of the anti-vaccination arguments.

But as I stated elsewhere in this discussion: this is one of those situations where many people make their decision and then seek facts to support their decision.They aren't alone feather duster! I long for those days too - at least back then the media didn't feel compelled to waste their resources chasing gotcha journalism and personality stories. With less pressure to fill 24 hours of news they could actually spend time and resources focusing on issues that needed in-depth exploration."Your focus is completely wrong. If one is measuring government, one does so by referring to government not to the econmy or anything else."

Ummm... no. You are wrong. One cannot measure something against itself. One needs a independent variable with which to measure a dependent variable.

"In othr words leftists tend to favour equality as the basic measure of the success of political endeavour whilst rightists favour liberty."

I disagree with this description. The reason being that on issues such as gay marriage most people from the right are in favour of imposing rules that reduce gay people's liberty to get married.

I think it makes more sense to think of people sitting in a multi-axial space where each dimension is a continuum from 'conservative' (I like things how they are now/I want things to go further in the direction we are heading) to 'progressive'* (I want things to change/I want things to go in a different way than we are heading). There can be as many dimensions as there are issues, but broad dimensions would be economy and society.

Thus, many right wingers (eg Cori Bernardi) are extremely conservative socially, but extremely progressive* economically. While most left wingers are progressive socially but conservative economically.

*I was unhappy with my label for the opposite of conservative, and then when I realised that I was going to have to label Bernardi a progressive I realised exactly why I was so unhappy with it. 'Progress' is an arbitrary concept based on the spurious idea that there is one certain path towards improvement. I do not consider Bernardi's economic views to be an improvement on what we currently have. If anyone can come up with a better word for it then feel free to tell me.I agree on the insular/internationalist dimension, and the welfare/survival of the fittest dimension as well. You can add in punishment/rehabilitation for law and order, you can add in 'culture'/money for preferred measures of social worth as well.

Yes, when you start to think about how many axes that would be required you realise why so many of us just stick to the old left vs right thing!I rather think you have just made Dunlop's point there debunker. Many people, myself included, see nothing sensible in your response to those issues. And it is fine that you hold those opinions, but you are deluding yourself if you think that you and only you have some special insight into the opinions held by the majority of the population, let alone the answers to what is the right thing that we should be doing on those issues.They don't have equal rights in all situations. Particularly with end of life matters - they are not automatically considered next of kin for example.

But that isn't really the point. The point is that they are being denied the right to get married. Same but different right?The problem for science is deeper than that - with the myriad amount of data that we have available these days we can construct plausible arguments for almost whatever we believe.

Our brains are hard-wired to collate data into patterns, and these are often patterns that are not really there. When this is coupled with the confirmation bias (tendency to give more weight to data which fits with our beliefs) that we all suffer from, it gives us an organ which is well suited to rationalising whatever we believe.

Thus, we have climate change deniers who keep bringing up the same arguments again and again despite those who bring up refuting arguments. AND we have those same climate change deniers who believe that those who believe in AGW are the ones who are being misled by pre-existing beliefs rather than being guided by science.Thanks :)

I respectfully disagree about the scientific method. I agree that it is designed to try to remove subjectivity and there are some/many scientists out there that are able to separate their beliefs and emotions out from their work to an admirable degree. But I do not think it is possible to eliminate the subjective completely though. 

But also, I believe that if we use only rational/mathematical reasoning to evaluate human behaviour it is removing a lot of relevant information relating to emotion and implicit communication. Emotions and implicit (non-verbal) communication evolved well before the capacity to reason, and thus they are less accessible to rational analysis.

I don't think we can understand human behaviour (with our present level of understanding) if we only rely on rational/mathematical reasoning.
Ann and berational:

I think we all pretty much agree actually!That would only be a middle if there are people out there who want a government fund to increase the amount of carbon out there.

If not then it is simply a seemingly broad consensus (bearing in mind that it is possible to vote for a party in spite of their position on one issue) that comes down squarely on one side of a binary issue.I was just about to write an argument against some of your solutions as combining the worse aspects of both positions, but then I reread your positions and I tend to agree with them.

I'm not sure I understand the benefits of deregulating the universities though - surely that will simply devalue tertiary education in this country.And that sort of attitude is exactly why we have the sort of politics that we have at the moment. I don't care what your position is on those issues, but if you genuinely don't care then how do you determine for whom you will vote?

Oh and for the record, your categorisation of the types of people who care is in complete. There are two more groups: those that support it in spite of being the ones who will pay for it, and those that oppose it in spite of being the ones that would benefit.

The size of those groups depends on the issue being discussed. Generally for economic issues being argued by the right, those in favour tend to be the ones who will benefit and the larger group of those who will actively be punished but have been misled into supporting (eg getting rid of the mining tax, reduction of progressive taxes etc). On the other side the larger group is those who will be disadvantaged and a small group of conscientious people who would be advantaged but oppose it on moral grounds.I agree with you Tamarrah, but I am wondering if you see any hope for change or whether you remain as pessimistic about the future as you seem to be about the present.That presupposes that reason is the basis upon which we form opinions. As indicated elsewhere I believe that 'reason' is the justification we come up with after the fact.

Also, it presupposes that we are in an environment in which all of the relevant facts are shared amongst those involved in the discussion but need to be discussed for all parties to be made aware of them all and thus reach the correct conclusion. In many of the arguments that we have we do not collectively possess all of the information needed to come to reasonable conclusions and instead we engage in battles of speculation (eg any discussion about Julian Assange and the Swedish charges).

And it finally presupposes that there actually IS one correct conclusion. It is based on the idea of an objective truth, and this then devolves into the question of whether we can actually know if what we believe to be the truth is actually the objective truth. (I am a solipsist, so I generally don't believe that the scientific method is an objective arbiter of truth, although I acknowledge that its the best tool we have.)

To a degree we can avoid this whole thing by arguing along utilitarian lines, but then again in order to know whether something is useful (rather than getting caught up in whether it is right) we still need to be able to measure the effects of it, which is very hard to do in the short-term and which involves debates about forms of measurement. At which point the whole merry-go-round starts again.

*Phew* I'm confused by all of this!I would point out a slight quibble with your description of my position - I would say that reality is out there, but it is not completely knowable. Objective reality has an impact upon the way we perceive reality, but I do not believe that we can ever perceive it completely free from bias.

Science is a useful attempt to reduce the bias though, and thus I will take a scientific/rational worldview over a religious/mystical one.

As for decisions about the way that society progresses, I would say that we are really just trying to reach consensus of opinion rather than some correct opinion. So I guess that I would alter your original statement to read that 'calm reasoned discussion should lead to a conclusion that all parties CHOOSE to agree with.'

Wow. That was a longwinded way of suggesting a small amendment to your comment. Sorry about that!Its not the young people taking advantage of the elderly. Its the wealth holders - those with enough capital to construct these myriad ways of divesting others from their wealth. Those people are generally more from the boomer generation.Well, yes of course it is getting more attention now when the biggest cohort of people ever are entering that age group.

Getting rid of those fraud schemes benefits the younger generations as well - it means that family wealth in middle and lower income families may actually remain in the family rather than getting siphoned off by corporations.Not really lapetus. Firstly, these spivs have been around since we first clawed our way out of hand-to-mouth living. And humanity has still been able to progress. Secondly, these things all exist in cycles. We are witnessing the return of hard boundaries between classes (where they are now defined by wealth rather than by titles). This ongoing stratification of society will lead to civil unrest which will either result in democratic overthrow of the current order, or if the wealthy continue to distort the system such that reform isn't possible then (later on) we will have a non-democratic overthrow of the current order which will result in some short/medium-term chaos (as we are seeing in the middle east) but will hopefully stabilise back into a more representative democracy.

So... humanity is not doomed, just facing some very tough times to come.How would we keep vested interests out? How would we keep the current power structures from being able to by-pass them?

The problem is that adding in another layer to the decision making process would complicate and delay things further. It could reduce the power of political parties, but it would also add further populism into the system - and it is populism that has led to the stagnation that we have now where we will not accept higher taxation OR fewer services.

At least at the moment we have one party arguing one side of that (even if it is on the side that is most unfair to the highest number of people). If we have a more populist body with veto powers we would never get anything done.John1:
You are blaming the ALP and the Greens for doing what they said they would and sticking with the Carbon Tax. (I can understand why you find it unusual when politicians actually stick with their stated election policies though...)

You should be blaming the PUP people and the LNP for being too incompetent to hash out the details of their agreement before the LNP took it to the vote.Realist:

ALP supporters may have done a reversal on the importance of poll numbers, but so have you guys. If the polls were relevant then (and guess what - despite our desire that it wasn't so, it actually was so), then the polls are still relevant now.

As for the FTA's, Abbott himself said that the Japanese one was negotiated for the last 7 years. Then he comes in and claims credit because he was the man in the office when the DFAT agents finally finished the deal?

As for stopping the boats, if they had done that then why is there a matter before the courts about a boatload of Tamils in Australian custody?

Its far too early to comment about the LNP's ability to keep unemployment down. We should pick this discussion up again in a year.They aren't increasing the marginal tax rate on the highest earners. They are introducing a TEMPORARY levy.

Imposing a co-payment that only really affects the poorest of individuals is probably not what most people had in mind when the government was talking about sharing the burden.Hang on APM, is this the same democratic mandate that allows the LNP to slash government services across the board? Oh wait, they promised NOT to do that.

You cannot go claiming a mandate when the government has been elected on the basis of now-broken promises.The difference is that the GFC happened - an event that noone seems to have been able to predict. Rudd is less responsible for having to go back on what he promised, as to continue to act like a 'fiscal conservative' would have put us in the same economic state as the other governments adopting austerity measures.

On the other hand, that the financial situation that we are in now is not good was known well before the election. Abbott spent much of the past 5 years bemoaning the state of the budget. But he still went ahead and promised to maintain services without increasing taxes, and then failed to live up to that promise.

That is the difference between lying and making necessary changes to suit the prevailing circumstances.In lost tax revenue caused by the GFC. 

Should they have cut their spending? Probably. But the government is there to provide services to the population. It is worth them going into short-term debt in order to maintain consistent services even while revenue is down.Just curious, were those statements given before or after they were returned to a potentially hostile government in Sri Lanka?Actually APM, I used the word 'potentially' out of politeness. The UN has concerns about the treatment of Tamils in Sri Lanka. And I think the UN know more about the persecution or lack thereof of refugees than either of us do.

But I do note the hypocrisy of you criticising me for alluding to the possibility of someone being persecuted when you yourself merely allude to the possibility of someone dying on a boat journey.

Your "fairly sure that 1000's more will die on boat journeys than by 'persecution' " is clearly so unfounded on actual evidence as to be risible. And your conclusion doesn't follow either even if we accepted your statement as fact.

It is clear that people are going to move across borders if they want to (particularly when there is persecution involved). It is clear that globally it would take a tremendous amount of military resources to forcibly stop this form of migration. So the precautionary principle and the most compassionate option is to actually resettle people at a reasonable rate around the world, rather than simply forcing them to wait in refugee camps which are squalid and very dangerous in the hope that maybe in 20 years they might get resettled somewhere.

If people were given a real option of getting out of those camps 'legitimately', then they wouldn't be desperate enough to use the people smugglers. Why can't conservatives ever get that in order to fight a war on people smuggling/drugs/terror, you need to spend more time addressing demand issues rather than just focusing on punishing supply?Oh, and one more thing APM.

You and your right-wing neo-con ilk are always banging on about government and law getting in the way of people who want to work hard and get a just reward. People who board these boats clearly have initiative, they clearly are interested in working hard to get what they want, and they seem to be most devoted to making sure that they give their families they best that they can. Surely they are the guys you should be supporting! (Plus they have money and are not afraid to bend the rules with their money to get what they want.)

These guys should be right up the right-wing neo-con alley!Post evidence APM.

Also, I wonder whether being incarcerated for an indeterminant amount of time in inhumane conditions will affect a peron's ability to contribute to society once their asylum claims are validated...Even a cursory exploration of the numbers would show you that the amount of refugees we get here is a tiny fraction of the total number worldwide.

You are utterly dismayed that the Greens and Labor have such a 'seething hatred for Australia' and yet you presumably support a government that is looking to slash spending and increase costs to the poorest in our community, a move that will almost inevitably lead to reduced consumer spending and a destruction of the Australian economy? Which side of politics is demonstrating a seething hatred for Australia now?Jeez Eric, why not just appoint one of Rupert's lackeys to the board. Oh wait, they are doing that...Instructing the Navy to open fire on all boats would also stop them.

We have to judge actions on means as well as results.Yes. The left is evil and only they would be callous enough to utilise deaths to make political gains. Except didn't the LNP opposition refuse to sign off on the Malaysia solution in the middle of the drownings? Do you think that was their way of trying to make political gains?My my, the drones are out in force today.

APM:
You are least qualified to talk about what the ALP and the left (NOT the same thing) think about anything. You present views that people in the communist party would scoff at as too extreme and imply that they are held by everyone to the left of Andrew Bolt. I respectfully suggest that this makes you sound quite irrational. You might want to reconsider your approach.

AMF:
And the LNP's policy encourages asylum seekers (I'm not sure who these 'illegals' that you are talking about are - there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum) to go to other countries and die in the attempt to get there instead. What is the difference? (Aside from the NIMBY aspect.)

So much money is spent sending boats around the borders, kidnapping people in international waters and towing them to other countries, that we could afford to settle a whole lot more refugees in Australia, and actually give refugees waiting in camps a reason to stay in the camps and await the official means of resettlement rather than be forced to choose between staying in a camp for 20 years (and please look into the actual conditions in refugee camps - its an education) or risking death to try to get their families to a better life.Forrest Gardener:

Seeking asylum may be used as an excuse for illegally entering Australia. That is true.

But that is dependent upon their claims being verified to be false. Last time I checked we have a presumption of innocence in this country.

Asylum seekers on boats to Australia are not doing anything illegal  unless their claims have been invalidated.AMF:

How about we wait for the court's ruling on the legality of towing the boats back to the country they come from.BTW, for the record I am not a supporter of the 'Malaysia solution'. I was just noting the hypocrisy in people accusing one side of seeking political gains from tragedy when both sides are doing it.But that is in dispute. It is not illegal to enter a country to seek asylum.I don't know, I would say that money spent challenging things in defence of Australian law (even if it is on behalf of non-Australians) is money well spent.GD:

Ummm... noone holds the balance of power if the Opposition votes with the Government to get something through.

The reason why the Greens were more to blame for the ETS was because they stopped action on climate change (which is a core policy of theirs). Opposing off-shore processing is something that has always been their policy, hence they weren't just opposing something sheerly for political point-scoring.Realist:

The way that negative gearing helps them to pay off the cost of the mortgage is because they can write off the lost income from the investment property against the taxes they should be paying on other earnings. So instead of paying their fair share of taxes, they are instead putting that money into ownership of an asset.

If we abolished negative gearing or amended it such that the lost income from the investment property was only deductible from the taxes paid on the income from the investment property, then a whole lot of people would no longer be able to afford their 4 investment properties as they would actually be paying tax on their other income.

BTW, capital gains tax is around half the rate of tax paid on standard income. So even if people are paying tax when they sell the property, it doesn't make up for the amount they have dodged (especially when you consider that they would surely only be liable to pay the difference in value between the original purchase price and the sale price).

For someone who accuses other people of limited understanding you seem to be demonstrating a high degree of wilful ignorance as to the real mechanics of negative gearing.Facile argument cuteyoungchic - there wouldn't be such a demand for rental properties if negative gearing didn't drive such a housing bubble.

And in any case, the taxpayer is still paying for all of those housing costs to the tune of $4 billion lost every year due to negative gearing. The difference is that instead of the housing assets being accrued by the government (as it is under public housing) it is accrued by the wealthy. 

I'd rather have suburbs full of state housing (you elitist snob) rather than suburbs that are completely off-limits to a large proportion of the population because housing and therefore rental prices are continuing to skyrocket.Graham H:

Or you could just kill off the ridiculous scheme that makes investing in 14 properties possible in the first place. Then the government could still reap the winfall in CGT takings and the property price would still drop suitably because all of the people who overcommitted on the basis that they prefer to invest in property rather than pay tax on their income would all be forced to sell when they can't afford to pay tax before paying their mortgages.Janice:

I am so pleased that you were in a lucky position with enough resources and control over your finances to be able to weather the GFC. And by the way, I consider it the one of the classiest things that a person could do to gloat about one's own financial situation and at the same time to denigrate those who were not lucky enough to be in a similar position as they were in.

You fall into that same BS argument that so many of the older generations/property owners do. You look at people who cannot afford a house taking a holiday in Bali and think that it must be their own fault that they cannot save for a deposit. Except you fail to take into account that you can have a decent holiday in Bali for less than 2 grand, whereas to get a house deposit you need at least 50 grand. So tell me: where are these people who are taking 25 trips to Bali? And over what time period are they making these trips (because if someone has been saving for 20 years to build up a house deposit {the required size of which would be ever increasing} then it becomes impossible for them to work for enough years to actually pay off the mortgage).

"I love the way so many people on this site are against anyone doing well for themselves and they are oh so concerned about government tax income"

Except that is precisely the point. You didn't do it for yourself. You were able to do it because the government set up the rules so that they advantaged you more than those who are still toiling to save for their first house deposit. You were given tax advantages that they had no access to.

BTW, I have met quite a few people who claim to have made it all on their own but who in reality have been able to do so because they could take risks knowing they had a family that would support them if the risks didn't pay off. I wonder if you are one of those type of people...Zing and Wining Pom:
A few criminals within Palestine kill a group of Israeli teenagers. The Israelis then launch a military attack in a Palestinian residential district. And this despite that the Palestinian government were aiding the Israelis to track down the culprits.

Now, I'm not a legal expert, but I was under the impression that the appropriate legal response to murder would be to arrest and try the suspected culprits.

Maybe if they did that then they would not inspire a lot of poor and undereducated Palestinians to join Hamas and launch those rockets at them. (Which do cause far less damage than the Israeli response btw Zing!)
But you on the other hand would be loving it - you'd have free reign to treat the natives however you'd like!Do facts show that though? I was under the impression that there were multiple waves of migration of 'Aborigines' to Australia. Successive waves displaced earlier waves. I have never bought the claim to be the oldest continuing culture in the world - without actual records it is all conjecture.That dwelling in the past leads to stagnation.

However, attempting to ignore ones past is also unhealthy. The true path to reconciliation is for all sides to acknowledge what happened and then to start focusing on what we can do about the situation now, rather than cashing in on past misjustices to abnegate personal responsibility in the present.How is this relevant to the article?

If you want to see something written about the RC, then you write it. But I hope you would include in there some discussion of how the LNP are resisting calls for an RC into the finance/banking sector. I hope you would also mention that the only political leader to step down in light of corruption investigations was an LNP leader.

You know, for the sake of balance.Peter:

'Make money' - theres a euphemism for you. You mean 'take money' don't you? A trader, who takes the goods produced by someone else and gives them to someone else at a higher rate hasn't made anything at all. They have simply taken more money from their customer than their customer would have had to pay to get it from the producer.

They take money by selling the product of their employee's labour to customers at a higher rate than they pay their employees. Without the employee (who apparently only whinges) there would be no way for the employer to make money.

The reason why they are protective of their wealth is because of the material and social benefits that it affords them. They feel like they have earned the money, and sure they have played an essential role in the process of connecting the customer with the good/service. But to ascribe them some special virtue as someone who 'makes money' ignores the fact that their employee makes the product/provides the service, and the customer has the money in the first place. Without either of those, the employer makes no money. And the employee and the customer also have good reason to feel like they earned their money.And just to give you peace of mind I'll take care of your passport for you as well. I'll just leave it in my safe here. Oh no, don't worry about the combination - I'll give it back to you when I think you need it...I dunno... Maybe you can't have everything?

Presumably if you are a freelance contractor working across multiple states you are quite an accomplished and confident woman. As such, you were probably better placed to find another role that didn't place such demands on you while you were rearing small children.

Or, you could have delayed having children until your contract was up.

There are many women (and some men) who actually make choices between their careers and their families. It is foolish to try to tell ourselves that we can have it all and do it well."Parents are more than capable of determining whether their child is going to be looked after by someone who will do a good job - regardless of whether that person has early childhood qualifications."

Except, the nanny will be operating without any oversight by any other adults. In childcare centres a parent can rely on there being more than one childcare worker at hand to ensure that each of the workers remain professional (or at least don't neglect their charges).

If we want to look at this from an economically rational viewpoint, we need to ask from whence the main expenses in providing childcare come. Is it the venue or the staff? Providing childcare in childcare centres increases venue costs (relative to nannying in the family home), but nannying reduces the carer:child ratio drastically and thus the staff costs are much higher.

Unless of course we decide that we should allow nannies to not have to conform to the current standards that we have for childcare workers. Which brings us right back to the first point.But at least the poor won't have to worry about where they will live and finding food etc. It will be a glorious return to the good old days of upstairs downstairs!But if they didn't have shift penalties the employers could afford to hire more people!

Which would be good because all of those people who used to get shift penalties would now need more than one job to live off...I've seen plenty of parents who don't know the first thing about the welfare of their children. Being a parent is neither necessary nor sufficient for people to have a valid opinion in these sorts of discussions.Because the parent's labour is worth more to the employer than the cost of childcare. Especially when the cost is bourne by the taxpayer and parent rather than the employer themselves.This sort of response does have a bit of the flavour of guilt to it - people are removing titles etc from Harris because they feel guilty that this man was allowed to abuse girls and women for so long despite seemingly so many people knowing about it.

And you are right, a kneejerk guilt response will not do anything about the situation.

I am pretty sure it is well-known amongst the population of people with these sorts of sexual urges that what they are doing is considered by most people to be morally disgusting. It doesn't stop them doing it. I wonder how the demonisation affects their likelihood to seek support and treatment before offending?

But having said that, I'm not sure I would want the stigma to be lifted even slightly from this type of crime.

Its a confusing issue, and I think you are right that we haven't come up with effective ways to grapple with it.She said it was made up. She said her mother told her. She didn't try to claim that as fact.Yes. Objects don't have rights. If seeing a Harris artwork or hearing a Harris song causes any victim of CSA any distress then that is too much. (Because the cost-benefit analysis comes down that way - if it were at all good or worthwhile art then it might be a different story.)Comfortably not:

As someone who used to perform DSP assessments (admittedly before they tightened the criteria under Rudd/Gillard), I can understand your frustration and confusion. One issue is that GPs/specialists don't always understand the relevant social security legislation and thus the way they fill out the paperwork can have a big impact upon your chances of getting the DSP.

When I was assessing them (a few years ago) the ruling was that a condition had to be 'permanent' (expected to last for more than 2 years) and 'fully treated' before it was even considered applicable. Then the disability caused by the condition/s had to add up to 20% functional impairment (and this was also a complicated process).

Perhaps the biggest barrier would be GPs putting down future treatments (such as surgery) which are not accessible for years due to waiting lists. (But, there was also a caveat which said that a person could refuse to consider a dangerous operation (eg spinal surgery) and still be considered 'fully treated'.)

When I performed the role we would spend quite some time contacting GPs to clarify the information they provided if it looked as if it could fit in with the criteria but the GP had filled it out 'too optimistically'. However, I am given to understand that with the tightening of rules, plus cost-cutting in the assessment process for the claims, that sort of thing may not be happening any more.

You do have options to appeal a DSP decision Comfortably not - you can appeal all the way up to the Social Security Appeals Tribunal if you and your doctors think that Centrelink got it wrong.Also having worked for Centrelink, I would bet my bottom dollar that the vast majority of people on the DSP are on there because they genuinely need it.

I don't think anyone is denying that there are rorters, we are just trying to counteract the typical right-wing argument which is to conflate the majority of deserving welfare recipients with the rorters - because it is easier for the right-wingers to justify cutting/failing to increase welfare payments if they make us believe that there are more people out there rorting the system than we think.

Also, easier to distract us from the major crimes (like major companies and wealthy individuals paying no net tax) by giving us minor crimes (like someone receiving $200 a week that they don't deserve) to get us angry."But it was my experience that many people on the disability pension are scammers"

Which gives us good information about the moral calibre of your former friends, but no actual real information about the matter at hand. Thanks!CFS and chronic fatigue are often known as 'diagnoses of exclusion'. This means that GPs do a bunch of test to rule out known causes of the symptoms and if they all come up negative and you still have the symptoms then you get the diagnosis of CFS/chronic fatigue.

I can understand your frustration FedUp, but unfortunately you are dealing with something that is currently at the frontiers of our medical knowledge. Specialists should not have been agreeing to see you if they were not able to provide you with a service. And by the sounds of things much of the advice you have received was utterly unprofessional and could be grounds to have the specialists investigated (if you have proof of their bad advice - doctors will protect their own).

The 'learn to live with it' comment, while utterly tactless, is a rationale response to chronic illness though. If we do not know the cause of an illness, and we do not have treatments for it, the only thing left is to try to help you to live as best you can in spite of the illness.

It sounds like your GP is helping you with this, so I'm happy for you. If it is working, keep doing it :)Many nutritionists claim to be experts without having any real qualifications. Dieticians on the other hand have to have qualifications in dietetics. I'd go to a dietician before going to a nutritionist!Thats the point of the NDIS. When that comes out every disabled person will receive a voucher to spend at whatever NGOs they can find. They are eliminating government departments that used to case manage for disabled people and pay the money directly to the NGOs.

There will be fewer government employees, and we will be able to see if it results in an improvement to the system. I am sceptical.The better question, genuinely ignorant, is why the unemployment benefits are kept so low. I believe that they are kept low as a deliberate incentive to push people into work. The payment is kept low enough that noone can really afford to live on it (not if they want to have house and food at the same time) for that reason.

It would be manifestly unfair to give people who are physically unable to work a payment that has been kept low in order to force recipients to work."Are we to look at the ethics of everyone before we say buy their home, or product, or see their play etc?"

In most cases I would say yes. It depends who makes the money from the purchase. In this case since one is most likely to buy a work from another collector, unless that vendor is morally suspect then I have no problem with buying the work.

Giving profits to individuals and companies that we know to be morally suspect is problematic - it is essentially rewarding them despite their actions. Of course the way we get around that is by not investigating too closely into the companies that we purchase off.TrevorN:

They were crimes. Not 'excesses'. Don't euphemise such abhorrent acts.What about Henson's personal life causes you to include him in the list? For that matter what about Wagner makes you put him in the list?

I get that you are saying that you don't care about the artist, only the art, but I'm not sure about your examples: Henson made controversial art with an uncontroversial personality (at least in terms of criminal activity) rather than boring art while having a controversial personality, and Wagner's only crime was being liked by the Nazi's (after he was long-dead).

Personally I cannot reconcile the idea of watching/liking Polanski's movies with what we know of his personal actions. While he continues to avoid justice and shows no repentance he does not deserve anyone's respect. Certainly not as someone who's contribution to humanity is as ephemeral is making movies.Shakespeare didn't exactly paint flattering pictures of a whole range of foreigners either.

But maybe I am more willing to defend Wagner because I like his works. And maybe I'm not willing to separate Polanski's works from his actions because I generally don't like arty films. I'm confused. Which is probably not an entirely bad state to be in on these sorts of issues.Your point about ancient Greek philosophers is not comparable as those philosophers were not individually misogynistic so much as most of the Greek cultures were misogynistic (particularly Athenian culture). It is not appropriate to judge historical people by today's standards. Polanski* and Harris committed their crimes under what were, by and large, the same moral standards as we hold today. Child sexual assault was much less policed then, but it was still against the law.

"Even the most hardened criminals have something they can tell us, even if it's not what they think it is"

That is a good point, but I refuse to contribute to the criminal's wealth to listen to whatever they have to tell us.

*I am treating Polanski's refusal to face charges as an admission of guilt.When they are dead, and all those affected by their crimes are dead, then sure.

Harris, and Polanski, should not be profitting through having life experiences that their actions have denied others.Okay, but you have contributed to the comfortable lifestyle of a man that you loathe by paying to watch it.

The stand-alone value of the work is quite irrelevant to me because I believe that until all the interested parties are deceased the work cannot be separated from the life of the criminal.I would think the particular joy that Rolf Harris provided to 'millions' is balanced out by the particular misery that he provided to a number of individuals. Especially considering that the joy he provided would have been provided by some other entertainer in his absence, whereas in his absence those individuals would not have been exposed to such misery.

But yes, you are free to hold your own opinion and to euphemise his crimes into 'flaws in his character' all you like.I think it is still possible for a male to express affection towards children, we just need to be careful about boundaries as we do it. This is actually a good thing, as children are not as able to notice or express discomfort as adults are. We have to provide that protection for them so that they can learn what appropriate behaviour is and thus know if someone is transgressing it with them.

Anyway, I think the context will usually tell the story for outside observers - if they see a child being hugged by their grandfather and see them smiling or responding in some other normal way then I suspect that they will see it as fine. And if the child is happy, and you as a grandfather are happy, then who gives a stuff what someone else thinks anyway!What AJS? So now Christianity gets to claim credit for the work of atheist humanitarian agencies because there are Christians working for them as well?

Sounds a bit like that thing where God gets to claim credit for all the good stuff that happens (even if it was through the hard work of some human being out there) and all of the bad stuff is the work of the devil/the evil within humanity. (Incidently, pretty remiss of God to disavow responsibility for evil being done by his employees in his organisation - is this where Rupert Murdoch gets his inspiration for his behaviour?)

Yes there is lots of charity work done by religious organisations, but lets not forget that that is also done in order to proselytise. Christianity is growing fastest in the poorest nations. I wonder why that is?Don't be so naive phil. Abbott has done the same things to the universities as he has to the states - cut their funding but give them the opportunity to rectify the shortfall by doing what he didn't have the guts to do himself.

The universities will be forced to raise their fees to make up for the lost federal funding. The states will be forced to petition for an increase in the GST for the same. Its all a very transparent attempt to shift the blame for Abbott's slash and burn economic policy."the greens will block anything that the libs put up."

And this makes them different from the libs when they were in opposition how exactly?

"Want to tax the rich - blocked, as you didn't say it will be permanent"

Agreed, that is a good example of the greens sacrificing the good solution for the hope of the perfect one.

"want to raise petrol prices by a few cents so more can be spend on road - blocked, as they want it spend on public transport"

The LNP policy sends mixed messages - increasing the fuel excise should be used as a measure to encourage people to use more fuel efficient forms of transport (either private or the much more fuel efficient public transport). But building new roads only encourages people to use their own cars more.

"want to help WEALTHY women have children - blocked since its too good for A SMALL PROPORTION OF women AT THE EXPENSE OF OTHER AREAS OF GENERAL REVENUE."

There, I fixed your statement for you.Are there strong points in the LNP team at the moment?!?It was a penalty. And we didn't even look like scoring anyway.I don't understand this comment. I play soccer (obviously at nowhere near the level of intensity as the EPL :) ) and I never ever find it hard to resist the urge to bite the other players. I never have the urge at all.

I understand that a person might get angry and lash out with a foot, a fist, or a head, but biting someone seems like a more calculated thing than simply lashing out.Re the handball on the line:
Harry Kewell did the same thing, and 'the hand of god' became one of the enduring legends of the game.

It is silly to put them up in the same list as biting someone (not that you are the only one to do it) - handballing on the line is a desperate defensive move that defenders use knowing that it will get them sent off. It is sacrificing oneself for the sake of the team.

And at least it is not doing anything that requires anyone else to get a tetanus shot!APM:

The West has been complicit in fostering the situation that allows the 'terrorist situation' to flourish. Through continued exploitation of poor countries and poor people, we have entrenched disadvantage and ill-education in areas such as Africa and the Middle East. It is poverty, desperation, and lack of education that drives people into the arms of the extremists, who offer both financial support and easy answers (your troubles are all due to the Americans etc).

Of course, the powerful people in those areas are more directly to blame, but those who hold the majority of the world's wealth have the ability to change the circumstances for those poor and desperate people by choosing to give up some of their unnecessary opulence.

The moral responsibility of the West is to show clear willingness to redistribute wealth more evenly, and to then humbly* enter into those areas and depose those who clearly do not deserve to be in power there. 

*Here humility basically means - no more Abu Ghraibs you jerks.Todd:

Would require long-term occupation. And by long-term I mean at least 30 years. During which time crony capitalism should be severely punished, and all wealth should be distributed as evenly as possible. Education should also be the number 1 priority, as giving opportunities to the young people is the best antidote to the lure of extremism.

The problem with the initial occupation of Iraq was that it wasn't long enough, and that there was too much profit taking by Western companies in the pacification and 'rebuilding' processes.APM:

And psychological warfare only works if you allow yourself to be bullied. TA's scaremongering is doing the work of the terrorists by making people alert AND alarmed.

We have security forces who are doing their job. They are more than capable of monitoring the 150 Aussies fighting overseas. After all, they successfully protected us from attacks by militants who fought in Bosnia in the 90s.Tator:
So if we chose not to spend the extra $12 billion after purchase, could we still use the planes?

If, as is obvious, the answer is no, then the cost of the planes is $24 billion and you are just quibbling.

The real question is whether we have better things to spend $24 billion on. Many of us think that we do.

Of course, the most silly thing about WS2016s comment is that the LNP is also being governed by committee. The only difference is that the people who are running the shots are the mega-rich who are contributing large sums of money to their campaigns.Dead right Jerry - when we have a greeny protester in court over a simple hoax email that made a mining company 'lose' millions of dollars in value, we can see just how pathological 'the market' really is.

And btw, that is the entity that the neocon right want to be in charge of our lives.Your memory is faulty Danny W. The Howard years, and the decision by Rudd to honour the ill-advised tax cut he promised to get into office meant that the government revenue base was in a pitiful state. I mean, who'd have thought that reducing taxes on those most able to pay, then selling productive assetts and using the winfalls of the sales to make up the shortfalls would come back to bite us?For interest rates to hit zero there would have had to be a far longer period of reduced growth/downturn, which would have caused more damage to our economy on the whole (especially in the background of a global downturn).

Precipitous action through fiscal stimulus may well have stopped all of that from happening. The point is, though, that we don't know - we don't have a separate Australia which had no fiscal stimulus with which to compare.

So again, we are doing the cherry picking of snippets of information to try to justify our own beliefs.

But I might just say that I am disinclined to listen to the analysis of economic 'experts' who failed to predict the GFC in the first-place. That includes Glen Stevens.FedUp:

I think you have that a bit wrong. The LNP budget won't fix the revenue problem they created in the Howard years because they don't see it as a problem. Their small government/ user (the poor) pays ideology has been well served in this two-part strategy. They used boom times to reduce taxation rates while they could still afford to provide the same level of services due to bumper company tax revenue, with full knowledge that when that unusually high source of revenue fell they would be in a position to implement the second part of their plan - use poor revenue as an excuse to cut services which they don't believe the government should provide (ie all of them except the ones that protect the assets of the wealthy).

The ALP were in a difficult situation due to the GFC and thus they couldn't fix the problem by raising revenue across the board (which they should do IMO, through a progressive tax increase). Vested interests worked through a willing media (and willing stooges in opposition) to prevent them from using targeted taxation to fix the revenue problem. 

But the biggest failing of the ALP is their lack of willingness to address the real argument now. They need to be out there arguing the case for the provision of government services. They need to be out there reminding us how much better off our society is AS A WHOLE than society in the US or in other countries that don't care about the poor. They need to be raising the case that paying more taxes means fewer costs for most of us in the areas of health, education, transport etc etc etc.

But they are not doing that because they lack vision and/or foresight. An ALP with vision would have been able to withstand the GFC and the media bias against them. But we have not had that, and with Shorten in charge we aren't going to get that any time soon.Your conclusion, dear Jungle Boy, was what we call a foregone conclusion.Yes... the point he was making is that the ALP managed to maintain the rating despite the GFC...Crisplion:

When one is as far from reality as Berg is it is very difficult to find actual facts with which to grapple over. Therefore, he only has himself to blame when people resort to ad hominem.

Incidently, if we are talking about reasoning errors, shouldn't we consider Berg's acceptance of Stevens' argument (in retrospect no less) to be simply an argument from authority given the amount of expert disputation at the time?The Friedmanites will never understand Alpo. Unfortunately, they have a way of sounding like they have an idea about that which they are talking, and thus they wield far too much influence.I agree that personal taxation should be increased, but at the time it would have sent the wrong message altogether. Signals are important, and the stimulus was more about the signal than about the amount actually placed into the economy.And here Peter gives us an opinion devoid of analysis!

We aren't allowed to start limiting the debt already incurred because the current government is so deluded that they believe they can go about it however they want. I mean if we didn't have to worry about simple decency or about public morals we could pay this debt off in a jiffy:

1. Sell the unemployed as slaves to foreign countries - double whammy - cash upfront and reduced welfare costs.

2. Instead of paying for life saving drugs and treatments, we could just pay for the palliative care ones. That'll really reduce waiting lists!

3. Instead of bringing in 457 workers, we could just reinsitute Victorian era policies of children down the mine shafts - the education costs would go down, and the miners could save money by digging smaller holes.Completely agree re the privitisation. If nothing else, imagine how much cheaper this would have been if they hadn't sold off the copper network during Howard's time?Peter NQ:

Do some basic research into the plan for the rollout. The idea was to defray taxpayer costs by starting it in areas where there would be a high take-up rate*. In urban areas that amount of customers serviced per metre of cable rolled out is much higher than in the bush**. If they had started in the bush the costs would have been astronomical.

*Tasmania was a different story, but I believe that was selected because it was a self-contained population that could be a useful trial site. And it was probably some pork-barrelling tbh.

**The laying costs in the city are much the same as in the bush, because although access is more difficult due to increased land usage, the pits and cables are more likely to have been maintained properly by the telecoms.

In any case, if they really wanted to be fair about it they should have started in the suburban areas that have seen no upgrades in technology for the past decade and are still stuck using dial-up. Thousands of homes that could have been serviced and thousands of customers that could have funded the next stages of the rollouts.To be honest, which politicians from either side don't belong there in the end? Very few I would suggest.Of course it only delayed the inevitable. But by delaying the inevitable it gave us the chance to actually address the underlying the problems that have caused the overvaluation of the housing market.

Unfortunately, neither government is interested in doing that. Where is discussion of negative gearing? Where is discussion of the actual productivity of property investment in general?

The problem is, that any moves to address the overvalued housing market will see people lose money. The banks will be laughing, because they will still collect the inflated loans off the investors who were too silly to see they were buying into a Ponzi scheme*. But voters will lose money, and neither side has enough foresight to realise that one of them needs to take one for the team and bring in policy that will devalue housing (for which they will lose at least one election) to fix the economy.

*I would think that this could be addressed through a super-profits tax on the banks and through redistribution of income, but people would still be unhappy.Because the crisis started over there - their economy was much more exposed than ours was.

Because they stuck with monetary measures too long before moving on to fiscal ones (ie the very thing that Berg thinks we should have done).

Because their economy was weaker than ours beforehand.I'm not really interested in your guesses about what the cash rate would have done Todd.

I'm not really all that interested in what the RBA thought would happen at the time either (incidently, the memo does say that stimulus would be necessary but Berg misrepresents it) - they were not able to see that the GFC was coming, so their ability to predict the future accurately was not all that great.

I'm more interested in what did happen - ie we didn't go into a recession like all of the other countries that held off too long on engaging in stimulus responses did.Peter:

"They can't understand that a normal deductiopn is not a 'subsidy' but a normal part of the law law."

A normal deduction is precisely a subsidy. The whole purpose of tax deductions is to prevent taxation from stifling productive economic activity. Thus the cost of taxation is subsidised by the government.

But tell me this: what exactly is economically productive about buying existing housing stock and getting tenants to subsidise the cost of acquiring said housing stock? I believe that it is the very definition of rent seeking is it not?

Incidently, the banks may well pay tax on the interest paid by the investor. But a) they pay the lower corporate tax rate and b) they have so many tax 'minimisation' (avoidance) mechanisms legislated for them that their real tax rates are much much lower.

And for the record: What the left really can't understand is why the right continue to try to propagate the delusion that the economics game isn't stacked heavily in favour of those who already have wealth.

And if you really can't see how heavily it is stacked in the favour of the wealthy, then answer me why the types of costs incurred by us wage earners in the course of earning our wages AREN'T subsidised by the government? Why can't I claim my health, transport, food, and accommodation costs as tax deductible? Without these costs I am unable to earn my income.John:

There were a number of options available to the banks when faced with such requirements imposed upon them:
1) They could bundle all of those bad loans together and pretend that that made them a solid investment and start building a huge house of cards by selling those new 'products' on to other banks and investors and thus guarantee record profits for selling garbage.
2) They could have accepted that a certain percentage of their loans would be bad and have to be written down, and thus made less profit but maintained their stability.

Remind me which option they chose? And remind me why the government didn't see what they were doing and take steps to prevent it? Could it be because they had no capacity to do so after so many of the banking regulations were removed?

Carter's policy was implemented to maintain the illusion of the 'American dream'. The shattering of the 'American dream' (aka the illusion that home ownership and subsequent prosperity is possible in an economy that is so beholden to the interests of the wealthy) could have led to widespread discontent with the economic system that allowed society to become so unbalanced in the first place. Neither side of politics wants that to happen. (Or, Carter and the Democrats didn't have the foresight to realise that the actual answer to the impossibility of home ownership was to increase incomes for the poor.)"Shirtfront the banks - you must be joking. Eventually as in 2008 they will all shirtfront themselves again."

No, they will shirtfront us and get away with our money again.AE:

Saying the word 'guvvament' all the time does not substitute for having actual ideas.

Tell us how we are getting more and more regulations in our life. Are you talking about the new regulations to protect us from teenagers with ceremonial swords?

The problem is that governments that cut public sector positions don't also cut the standards at which the public sector frontline staff have to operate at. There are still just as many demands to complete back office jobs (OHS, expenditure requests, activity logging etc etc) but fewer back office staff to do them. This means that frontline staff have to spend have their time doing back office work, and subsequently service delivery suffers.

In order to have an efficient frontline service delivery in the public sector they either need to relax bureaucratic oversight, or they need to pay for more back office staff to fulfil the oversight demands. Continuing to do what both sides of politics are currently doing just harms the quality of public sector service delivery.I think the underlying question is whether we want our armed servicemen going backwards in terms of their earnings.

Given that it is only ever the lower end of society that really go backwards in their earnings, I am inclined to believe that the market solution for determining a person's income is somewhat flawed.Its what happens when neither major party is working to represent the interests of the majority of people, and when people are not interested/savvy enough to actually check which party they are protest voting for.

As an example, I don't live in Victoria, so I am not interested or knowledgable about the election there. What little information I have suggests that the Libs are the Libs (bias obviously), Labor is selling out the state to Packer, whereas PUP is opposed to the latter. If I didn't look into it any more and had to vote there, I would probably vote for PUP.I disagree. She is enough of a colourful character that the media will pay attention to her to fill the new bulletins (because they wouldn't want to actually report on real policy etc). And because of the precarious situation with the balance of power in the Senate, she would still wield a lot of influence.

But given how quixotic Palmer is, I don't think this is really Lambie acting on her own anyway. Palmer will gain a lot by swinging the rest of PUP in line with Lambie on this issue - they will force the Government to do what they want (yet again), and they will reinforce their right-wing credentials by supporting the troops.If the government always had complete control nothing would ever get done - because the first order of business would be to dismantle everything the previous government did that doesn't fit with your ideology (no matter the actual impact their policies had on the country).

Having the house of review means that there needs to be at least some sort of attempt to negotiate legislation that will be more broadly acceptable.Freddie the Frog:

"Then why aren't late term abortions legal?"

Because the foetus has developed such that they have a higher chance for survival outside the womb?

"And what if science evolves so that the foetus can survive outside the womb at a much earlier stage of pregnancy? Do you think abortion should then be are illegal after that stage?"

I would think that abortion would be largely unnecessary then (depending of course upon the ability of the state to provide appropriate adoption services).

Okay then, so how about all of the fundamentalist Christian groups who are spending so much money campaigning against abortion rights actually just put that money into research to make such a scientific advance possible? I mean you'd have to give up your claim to the bodies of women, but it might be a more effective way of protecting foetuses...Freddie:

"I think a lot of women elect for abortion over adoption currently because they believe that they would be unable to emotionally give up the baby for adoption once it is born."

Well, firstly your comment discounts the very real physical and emotional strain involved in carrying a foetus to term, and I think it is reasonable for a woman to have a choice over whether she experiences those strains. But secondly, I think this comment also downplays valid concerns.

There are emotional and hormonal changes that happen following childbirth that are designed by evolution to make it hard for a mother to give up their child. As rational creatures we can analyse our situation and make a decision as to whether we can provide a good life for a child, but those emotional and hormonal changes are designed to override those rational decisions.

It makes a certain amount of sense to make the decision early and act on the decision not to have a child rather than to allow those strong emotions to enter the decision making process.

But, to answer your question, if we had the technology to carry a foetus to term in an artificial womb, then many more women would avail themselves of that option (again, dependent upon the improvement of the adoption system) as they would not be subject to the physical and emotional strains that adoption currently subjects them to.Freddie:

When you use terms like 'pro-abortionists' you are indicating to the rest of us that you yourself are one of the extremists unwilling to shift your stance even slightly.

There is noone that is pro-abortion. There are many people who are 'pro-choice'. The difference is that people opposed to you are arguing for the RIGHT to an abortion, not actively advocating that people SHOULD HAVE an abortion.

People on your side talk about being 'pro-life', but you don't tend to be concerned about QUALITY of life. This is why I think it is more appropriate for people on your side to be called 'anti-choice.'Freddie,

Pro-abortion is an emotionally laden term because it doesn't actually accurately represent the viewpoint of those in favour of the right to abortion. As I already made clear, those who are in favour of the right to abortion are not in favour of pressuring anyone to have an abortion. The term pro-abortion implies that they are actually going around actively encouraging women to have an abortion.

I agree that anti-abortion is an accurate description of that side of the debate (whereas the term 'anti-choice' that I used is emotionally manipulative, so I withdraw that terminology).

But if you want to portray yourself as neutral, then the appropriate terms to use would be the ones that actually represent the viewpoints of those you seek to describe: 'pro-choice' and 'anti-abortion'."We can't compare the ages pasteither, because people in the west drink more now, especially women, then they ever have."

You are kidding right? Drinking culture has been around for as long as humans have been able to ferment sugar into alcohol. In the middle ages 'children's beer' had a higher alcohol content than the beer we drink today. In ancient times it was often safer to drink beer than it was to drink the water (as the fermentation process killed the pathogens).

Educate yourself before making statements buddy.Women have all those options (or equivalent ones) as well. Why do they get an additional right that men are denied?I think the right to complete control over our bodies has always been an illusion anyway.

We all of us trade use of our bodies/intellect for income. Our actions and our decisions are all influenced by the needs of those around us as well as by our own.

And more than anything else, our bodies are subject to the effects of illness, misfortune and age.If you ensure that a man only has the right to abnegate responsibility up until the point where a woman has the right to have an abortion, I think that solves the dilemma - at that stage there is no child, only a foetus.

If the mother chooses to continue with the pregnancy (rather than seeking a partner who actually wants a child) then it is her actions that have denied her child the right to a father.

Having said that, if both parties were reasonable adults, then they should be able to come to some sort of arrangement in the interest of the child's rights. BUT this means that BOTH parties need to be reasonable adults (not just scape-goating the 'shirking dad').Yes, and if the mother chooses to continue with the pregnancy despite that the father doesn't want to be involved, then at the very least it is both of their fault that that child forgoes that right.

The alternative is for the woman to have an abortion an wait until she has found someone with whom she can share the experience of having a child. Or she could try her luck at being a single mum and finding a suitable father figure for her child.

You don't need to prevent them seeking their father out in later life. It would be much the same as when an adopted child seeks out their father. But he would still have no financial responsibility for the child unless he chooses to.Csaber:

If a woman doesn't want a child then she should take the pill/use female contraceptive device. Why should she then be given the option to abort? (Not my actual position, but I say it in the interest of balance.)

Complete denial of access to a child is only one way a father can be cut out of his child's life. How about being granted only minimal or supervised access to a child? How does a father develop any kind of relationship with his child when he only has a tiny fraction of the amount of access to his child than the mother does? (And is this the part where you deny that there are mothers out there that poison their children's opinion of their father? Just as there are fathers who do the same regarding the mother btw.)

How about when there are jurisdictional issues - like when a parent moves with the kids to another state?

I believe there are valid arguments on both sides of this issue. But your denial of the fact that there are many men out there who are denied access to their children even while they continue to financially support them indicates that you are not interested in taken an open view.Why should the continuation of the pregnancy be the default position?

We are living in an overcrowded world. Maybe if the presumption was that only committed couples who are prepared for the responsibility of raising children to the best of their abilities should continue with pregnancies, it would be better for the environment (I suspect it would be better for society as well).

If the man's decision not to continue with the child forces the woman to be realistic about her capacity to raise a child, then how is this a bad thing?Not really. It would be analogous to finding out that you were adopted. This is a difficult discovery, but it is absolutely survivable.

(And similar rules could be in place re getting the details of your father when the child is old enough that they are no longer financially dependent upon them.)I'm not sure who you are responding to Ann, but at what point in either my comment or JB's did we refer to a foetus as a child?While I agree with the need to take responsibility for one's actions, I note that those who loudly argue about personal responsibility usually do so in reference to the misdeeds of others and not so much their own.Define medically needed. 

The problem with the anti-choice brigade is that they tend to be more interested in the choice that a mother makes when the foetus is in the tummy, than in the choices that a mother is able to make when the child is hungry, emotionally distraught, or running amok.

The fact is that not all people are suited to being parents. And the more undeniable fact is that even those that are suited to being parents are not always suited to doing so at every moment in their lives.

As someone who works with families in the worst socio-economic circumstances, I can tell you that sometimes having an extra child in the family has a hugely negative impact upon the entire family.I agree with the overall premise of the article - it seems like a reactionary move to criminalise this sort of behaviour - mainly because we know that criminalisation doesn't actually stop harmful behaviour. The kind of woman who is psychologically unwell enough to continue drinking whilst pregnant is also likely to be the kind of woman who will not think through the criminal consequences of her actions.

But, yet again you bring in the BS argument against Madigan's bill. Slippery slope arguments are nonsense. Is there any way that that bill by itself will be able to be used to stop the right to abortion? We know that sex-selective abortions aren't happening on any kind of major scale, so its not impinging on anyones rights. (Although, I would hope that the bill is amended to allow for when there are medical reasons for such an abortion - ie for gender specific genetic disorders).

I loved this line:
"Firstly, women have been managing to keep the human race alive and well for thousands of years. For the vast majority of that, they've done it without the aid of government intervention or advisory bodies."

Lols. That old idea about the mystical power of women as lifebringers and how they are so in tune with their own bodies and those of their unborn children. You do realise that for those thousands of years that women have been 'keeping the human race alive' (BTW, men have had a small role in that too...) the mortality rate for women and infants tended to be shockingly high. We only survived because mothers tended to have many more children back then.

The reason why mortality rates have come down is precisely because of the scientific and legal advances (eg licensing of medical professionals, regulation of nutrients in food etc) that you are denigrating."Society may determine that where a woman has decided to remain pregnant, then harming the foetus is a crime, whilst at the same time also deciding that where the woman wants to terminate the pregnacy she has the right to do so. The two conclusions do not contradict each other."

I suppose the concern is that while it would be possible to legislate carefully enough to allow those two conclusions, there are vested interests in the legislature that would seek to allow the first conclusion to contradict the second due to their own ideological biases.

" 'the good people do not do it anyway'
and
'the bad people do do it anyway' "

I'm not quite sure which part of your comment demonstrated that that argument doesn't hold water.

The best example you could point to would be that drink driving laws have effectively reduced the rate of drink driving. But again, it hasn't stopped it all together - there is still a minority of people who get caught drink driving. Just like there is only a minority of people who drink whilst pregnant.  (Ie the good people don't do it anyway, and the bad people still do it.)
 
So how would criminalising the behaviour help exactly?It is in no way internally inconsistent to simultaneously decry the actions of the US and to disagree with the cause of IS.

It is perhaps distasteful for the left to smugly point out that the warmongering right are reaping what they are sowing, but it is not internally inconsistent.

A down the middle approach (in my opinion) would be to for the West to actively fight ISIL (not leave them alone like the pacifist left suggest), but then while occupying the ISIL controlled areas actually spend as much money improving the lives of the people within the area rather than extorting them with rebuilding and oil contracts in the name of profit (what the right is doing).

If we improve education and living standards there will be no ground for ISIL to flourish.The one part you miss there in your (probably accurate) hypothetical about ISIS' caliphate is that it would undoubtedly result in genocide and torture for any who oppose them. After some time they would probably either moderate their own behaviour in order to maintain broad support from the populace, or they would double down and commit more genocide and torture. I suspect the latter. And what we tend to see as a result of extremism is more extremism, so even if the ISIS people were eventually revolted against, I'd find it hard to believe that members of minorities who were victims of generational trauma would be capable of moderation of their own actions towards those who disagree with them*.

Do you really think the world should just sit by and let that sort of thing occur? Protection of universal human rights trumps the ideal of relativism.

*See the actions of the hardline Zionist right in Israel for proof."sexual antics of senior government ministers"

I'm confused - I though McMahon was a Liberal.

"expect a certain degree of self discipline from their elected officials"

Do you mean like claiming tax-payer funding to attend a private wedding?

It is patently obvious to most people that both sides of politics are just as capable of poor self-discipline as the other. Maybe we could spend time actually discussing the merits of policy and ideological differences between the parties?Ben:

The old Cicero line applies when it comes to determining guilt: Que bono? Who profited from the GFC? Which side of politics do you think they vote for?SVJ,

"I get it, other governments should save more so the ALP can spend it without consequence....."

IF other governments feel the need to cut back on service provision, then the least they can do is save it so that the next time a government who wants to do its job gets elected there is enough money there to reinstate all of the cut services.

Using short-term profits from mining booms and asset sales to justify permanent tax cuts creates a structural deficit. If the government's income hadn't been sabotaged by the Howard government then Rudd/Gillard wouldn't have had to borrow as much money to do what they did.spud:

You seem to want to blame the GFC on incompetence rather than on malevolence. I'd say the GFC was caused by a combination of both. There was certainly a lot of ignorance from the regulators and the ratings agencies, but there was also substantial predatory lending and profit seeking.

And as for laziness, greed and stupidity being more at home in the political left, well that clearly just shows your biases. Laziness, greed and stupidity are equally distributed on both sides of politics. NSW ICAC investigations should give you proof of that.

The only difference between the left and the right is that the left tends to use their resources for the betterment of the majority, while the right tends to use their resources to better themselves."Costello supplied many a surplus and left Swan with $40 billion in the Future Fund (as well as tax cuts to boot)."

The tax cuts were precisely the problem. They were unaffordable, but they seemed affordable because of the temporary boom.

Any CEO who presided over such a loss of income would not be seen to have done a good job. Why do we view treasurers differently?

Craig:

Removing the carbon tax is hardly an achievement. Whether you agree with it or not, how difficult is it to undo something that a previous government did?

The role of government is to provide services to the public. This government is cutting back more and more of their services. So how much are they achieving?bluedog:

Would it not be more responsible to actually invest that money in something that will improve the nation (ie perform the role of the government)?AE:

I would imagine that you are correct - most arguing against the register probably have no experience of being around a victim of these crimes. BUT, in this country we do not let the victims of crimes set the punishment for the offender. That would be vengeance rather than justice.There are only, what, 150 Australians involved?

That is not a large proportion of 30 000. I do not believe it gives us any obligation to get involved.

But I would support meaningful action. That is, send the troops back, occupy the place for the long term, give the general populace the comforts of the Western lifestyle. Let our greatest weapons - culture and greed - do the work for us. Then leave once people are better educated and generally better off and thus more satisfied with the benefits of real democracy.The Gospels weren't eye witness accounts. They were written records of oral histories. That is, they are second hand information at best. They were also written 30-70 years after the purported death of Christ.1. No, but oral histories are subject to change over time. A written source from 1BC retains the precise information that was recorded at 1BC. The problem is that there was a considerable period of time between the dates in question and the writing down of the oral histories.

2. No, because court testimony is the oral recount of a primary source. There considerable doubt as to whether the (written) Gospels were primary or secondary sources of information.

3. There is conjecture based on stylistic elements and based on certain pieces of information within them that they are eye witness accounts. But even if we put aside doubts and accepted that they are an eye witness account, this still leaves us to consider the purpose that the authors had in writing the accounts - is it possible that they stood to gain power or influence by writing skewed accounts?

Also, even if we accept that Paul actually wrote the Gospel attributed to him, do we have any original copies? Because we know that the Church has revised the content of the Bible on multiple occasions. We also know that simply translating a text can change the information within it, not to mention the possibility of unlicensed Bowdlerisations by the translator.

The point is, that having only one source of information contemporaneous to an event* does not allow us to verify what actually occurred. We need multiple primary sources, and we simply do not have that about Jesus' life.

*(Which I do not accept to be the case anyway.)You are right Snickersnee. The Bible's truth claims belong in the same place as the other works of non-fiction (textbooks on alchemy, magic, phrenology etc) that have been thoroughly discredited.M B:

There were many people who wrote for and against Team Edward amongst Twilight fans. Popularity neither makes something true nor good taste!"Unless you enjoy the bit of Leviticus where women have to wait outside the town at that time of the month"

Wouldn't they have to watch out for bears though?!?

I'm not sure of the details, but the bit about not sowing different crops in the same fields, was that to encourage people not to have multiple crops in the same field at one time. Or did it actively prevent crop rotation?People have the option of opting out, but until some school introduced secular ethics classes the opting out option simply consisted of spending supervised time in the library away from friends and classmates.

Churches have Sunday school. They also have religious school. They don't need extra time in state schools.The problem is that the religious and the non-religious have different standards of evidence. A particularly beautiful sunset might be evidence of the existence of the divine to the believer, but to the non-believer it is simply the (really pretty) diffraction of light as the sun goes beneath the horizon.

There is some wisdom in what you say though Anthony - we will never hold the same opinion as to whether God exists, so what is the use in arguing over 'proof'.deep fried bible:

This is my main problem with faith - the idea that I should follow the teachings of some divine power that is so fragile as to not accept anyone having a dissenting opinion.

I prefer to follow people/beings whose morals I respect.When did an argument from authority become solid proof of an assertion?

I learned in high school history that there are different classes of evidence. (From best to worst) Primary, secondary and tertiary sources. As near as I can tell there are no reliable primary sources of evidence that attest to the truth of the Bible's account of Jesus (even the main events). And noone here has been able to point me in their direction. (The best that anyone can say is that there is some conjecture that Paul did actually write his Gospel, but this still only leaves us with an account from someone who has a vested interested in the story.)

Perhaps you mistake disinterest from historians, or acknowledgement that there has been too much muddying the waters, with acceptance that a historical Jesus existed.Wikipedia (granted, not the most authoritative of sources) says that Pliny's correspondence with Trajan merely outlines religious acts of early Christians. It does not appear to be making any specific claims about an individual named Jesus.Of course sexism (and every other -ism that you care to imagine) exists in all major political movements to various degrees. But this still smacks of an attempt to distract attention from the far bigger failing of the right on the sexism front. 

The difference is, that while the broader left of politics has never been shy of slagging out the right wing PMs (using some really vile language), the ALP as a whole has never ENDORSED them in doing so.

There were a number of events during Abbott's time as leader wherein some really vile sexist language was used in his presence (eg 'Ditch the Witch') or at official party events. Now, I realise that things can get unpredictable at live events, but for that many things to happen and for the then opposition to come out with such weak excuses, seems to many to be indicative of a sexist culture WITHIN the LNP itself.

And where, might I ask, was Julie Bishop while all this was going on? If she wants to be able to make any claims to the right to use the sexism defence against attack, then she had better show where she took her compatriots to task for their use of sexist innuendo.

And if any of the newly minted LNP politicians are finding it difficult to cope with the name calling, maybe they should have paid more attention to the excuses giving by their own side after they engaged in sexist name calling.Oh yeah, and mining for vox pops from twitter is hardly evidence of sexism by the MAINSTREAM left against conservative women. I bet for every comment you can find on twitter against a conservative woman you would be able to find three on the blogs of the extreme right wingers like Bolt (whose opinions, btw I do NOT assume to be indicative of the mainstream right wing view).

If we wish to determine how much sexism is a problem within the 'left' and the 'right' then we need to look at some sort of average position held. I think if you are honest with yourself you would find that the average right winger is a hell of a lot more sexist than the average left winger." Labor that is populist and reflexively obstructs"

Bahaha you said that with a straight face! What do you think the LNP were doing throughout the last government? They even promised populist fantasies ('we can keep the spendings measures but get rid of the taxes') which they KNEW were unrealistic.

"Governments only change when there is a viable alternative"

The last election proved otherwise. The public knew that Abbott was bad (look at his popularity ratings compared with the 2PP figures throughout the last term), but they thought the ALP were worse.

In any case, we all know that oppositions don't win government - governments lose government.

"this is just about average for a government in difficult times"

I don't think I've ever seen a newly elected government that was given no honeymoon period by the voters like this one though. Nor do I think I have ever seen a government break so many election promises so quickly. Clearly they were hoping to pass a horrendous budget and then with each new budget remove some of the more onerous measures to try to make us grateful. Hasn't worked like that though.Ummm... do you realise that Abbott is actually Prime Minister now? Of course his name gets mentioned more than the others - he is leading the government about which this article is primarily concerning.Maybe some sort of tribune of the people position (from the Roman Republic) - laypeople whose position is elected each year (and paid separately to the other politicians) and who have some veto rights over acts of parliament. I would imagine that there would be far fewer politician pay rises if there were such a position.As much as I hate to look to the US for guidance in this sort of thing, at least when people vote for an official there (be it Republican or Democrat) they are voting for an individual with actual opinions. There are many Democrats who vote with the Republicans on certain issues and vice versa.

I think the problem with the parties is their insistence that members always vote along party lines.Wry question for you: Which side are the socialists? I see very few of them in the parliament...I'm not so sure thats a good idea. Here are some of the problems:

Are each of these referenda mandatory or voluntary?
If mandatory:
1) How many referenda should we have each year?
2) How expensive will it be to run these referenda? Do we do it like we do voting now (which is expensive and slow, but trustworthy) or do we rely on the vagaries of online systems and their potential for error ('here, I'll vote for you grandpa')?
3) How do we ensure that everyone takes part? Compliance costs would be higher than the amount you could recoup in fines.

If voluntary: 
How many people do you need to take part in each referenda for it to be binding upon the whole population?

But the biggest questions are of timeliness and competence:
How do we ensure that time-sensitive decisions are made in a timely fashion?
How do we ensure that sufficient information is given to every voter to vote responsibly on more complex areas of governance?

I'm more of a fan of some form of some form of jury duty system - where citizens are selected at random for 2 years in parliament, given 6 months of education into the act of governance itself (curriculum to be carefully selected to be as neutral as possible), and then cloistered away (with their families naturally) for the term of their service. (The site in which they all live can be carefully screened to avoid the influence of special interest groups.)

But I'll freely admit that that is a bit extreme.To be fair, the paucity of political debate in the mainstream isn't exactly the regular public's fault either. Many people are unsure where to look for answers to their question in this area.

Politics is a topic that is not to be discussed in genteel conversation (or just because you don't want to run the risk that the charming person you have been getting along with is a member of the One Nation/Communist party and now you have to talk about it), and the media is doing their bit for their masters to ensure that politic debate is dumbed down so that we become despondent and let the big end of town get away with anything.

Where is the space in which the debate about taxation and services can actually happen?I think we should combine several neighbouring electorates into 'super electorates' and then multiple representatives should be elected in each on a proportional basis.

That way we can still have the local issues being covered, but you can still get elected more easily as an independent or a member of a minor party.

The danger of strictly proportional representation is that fringe representatives get elected more easily and they can become very powerful despite their tiny fraction of the votes (see the current fed Senate). Super electorates would still require people to have a certain amount of mainstream electability, and thus less likely to be too dogmatic or unknown re their broader opinions.barsnax:

You seem to have missed Zing's point. Hate speech is presumably speech that is designed to encourage other people to hate the same things/people that the speaker does. Hatred of something alone doesn't cause violence - the decision to commit an act of harm/an act that could reasonably be expected to result in harm is what causes violence.

Of course, inciting hatred is step one of the terrorist handbook, so I can see where you are coming from as well.The Hizb-ut Tahrir fellow handled that interview poorly, but you are absolutely correct. Alberici was grandstanding so much in that interview that it was painful. I have never seen any journalist holding a line and insisting that a guest give a straight answer like that when it is a politician (who rarely ever give a straight answer). The other day a QLD politician was being interviewed on ABC and he gave a non-answer, was asked to answer the question, so he gave the exact same non-answer again and they moved on. There was no demand for him to actually answer the question.

Our country would be in a much better state if journalists interviewed politicians like that rather than wasting the 'tough act' on irrelevant minority groups like Hizb-ut Tahrir. But of course, if they upset politicians then they would miss out on all of that rich gossiping about leadership speculation that the backbenchers feed them...If this is an attempt to cut down on the "cunning use of words, images and actions" to "evoke fear and insecurity", then the LNP should watch out about the way they try to convince everyone that we need to give up all Government services in order to pay down the 'debt catastrophy'.Mack:

Bipolar disorder has particularly strong genetic predeterminants. We know this through hereditary and twin studies. We may not know the underlying biological mechanisms, but we know that some do exist."Being told I was 'ill' didn't help me at all, illness implies something you have little or no control of."

I agree with you, but the mental health professionals are in a bind: Medical and legal systems require that people be given diagnoses in order to get access to services.

The medical model proposes predominantly biological underpinnings of mental illness, and this can often lead to the undermining by medical professionals (doctors, psychiatrists etc) of psychological and behavioural therapies.

Unfortunately though it is difficult to determine whether a person's experience of depression/anxiety is due primarily to biological/genetic components and triggered by environmental factors (this generally requires medical treatment) or whether the depression/anxiety is due primarily to environmental factors (and thus more amenable to purely psychological or behavioural-based therapies).The DSM for substance use disorders includes a criteria querying the functional impact of the substance use. So if there was no functional impact then there is no substance use disorder.

However, the definition of functional impact should be broad - someone who holds down a job but gets drunk every night and alienates all of their relatives (like some that I know) definitely has a problem in my opinion.

Re the legal question, I believe that depends upon the legal definition of intoxication.Applaudanum:

Your comment implies that practitioners in this field are withholding effective treatments in order to maintain a patient base. That simply isn't the case. I am always happy to say goodbye forever to clients when I have helped them to change their lifestyle and improve their mental state. And the vast majority of mental health practitioners are the same.I agree Cloud. Too much of our response to mental illness is reactionary - dealing with people after they develop mental illnesses. We need to be exploring the ways that our society is failing to provide sufficient opportunities and support so that we can reduce the number of people who end up suffering from mental illness induced by life stress.Absolutely Wildfire2013. We were social animals long before we had all of the material belongings that we have now. It makes sense then that it is easier for us to live without our material belongings in a supportive community than it is for us to live with material belongings in a state of constant competition against one another.

Living in a truly supportive community would mean that we wouldn't have to hide our vulnerabilities from each other, and thus all of the energy that we expend hiding could be spent helping ourselves/others to overcome those vulnerabilities."I love using Tablet Devices and Game Consoles for mental exercise"

Except so many of the apps and games available are predicated on long stretches of repetitive behaviour - many RPGs require 'grinding', and FPSs rely on reaction times that take lots of practice to hone. This does not sound like behaviour that is mentally active to me!

And I believe the case in favour of the so-called 'brain-training' games and apps is quite shaky. Better to use the brain in more naturalistic ways like encouraging people to learn new, preferably social, activities. I think learning is the ultimate form of mental exercise.Well, I did say preferably social activity. The problem with online communities is that many of the behaviours that people exhibit in those communities is not acceptable in face to face interactions. If you want an example of that play COD with voicechat active!Todd:

You do realise that 'Big Health' is considerably smaller than Big Sugary Drinks (or even just one of the big sugary drinks) don't you? I think changes in societal attitude are more to do with people recognising the health and emotional impacts of consuming large amounts of processed sugars, rather than due to the meager amount of influence that 'Big Health' can exert.

Of course this isn't to say that any individual should feel compelled to stop - as far as vices go, sugary drinks are less harmful than a lot of others (and life without any vices would be a dismal experience!).

I tend to think that running 10km is generally going to have more of a beneficial impact upon a person than playing chess. BUT, for a marathon runner it might be more beneficial for them to learn something new (like chess) rather than just keeping on running the same 10km every day. I know from personal experience as someone who is more of a natural chess player than a runner that IS mentally challenging to build up to running 10km - its about learning to overcome beliefs about one's own limitations, learning to trust one's body etc etc.

I guess I'm just not quite sure why you are so anti-health Todd. For some people a focus on their physical health can promote good mental health. (Other people can develop an unhealthy focus on physical fitness, but ANYTHING in excess is unhealthy). I can't see how it is helpful to denigrate the paths that other people choose to take towards mental wellbeing.That sounds very much like you are taking one particular issue and one particular organisation and generalising too much.

I have no knowledge of Healthway, but I do know that BigSugar etc have far more influence and do far more aggregate harm than BigHealth.

Although if you include Biggest Loser in BigHealth then we might have found a common enemy!
