"Take the independent Nick Xenophon. Elected on a platform of poker machine reform. Well...hasn't he done a fantastic job in that area...not."

Well, as a SA MLC he pressured the Rann Government into cutting the number of gaming machines by around 20%. Which other state government has cut machines back once they've let them in? None? Correct. So Xenephon's managed to achieve more in that area than any other Australian, even if it less than hoped.

Of course he's going to bag out certain other minor party senators such as PUPs and Bob Day. They're his opposition and he's competing for votes with them. By contrast, Senator Madigan is not his opponent and they are known to work very well.

You have some pretty bizarre standards for judging politicians by, barsnax. Xenephon is a terrible politician because he gets stuff done, criticises his opponents and works well with others?Xenophon predicted Gillard would dud Wilkie on those reforms well before that actually occurred. Not a hard prediction to make when you look at the Labor caucus and their relationships with clubs. Wilkie was, sadly for him, the joke in that situation. How many poker machines can Wilkie claim to have closed down?Well in the current Senate he's a hell of a lot more relevant to any national discussion than Andrew Wilkie, the only person you're willing to compare him with, is. As a South Australian I can assure you he's frequently in the media on a broad range of issues. He's more active than any other SA politician, even if that's sadly saying less than one might hope.In the US, it's well known that Fox News does much better in terms of ratings and revenues under Democratic administrations than Republicans.

The theory has developed that Fox has done enough to crazy up the Republicans that they can't win an election, because of some insane positions which Fox shrilly champions. It's a license to print money for Fox.

When the IPA's reaction to Abbott not having enough control of the senate is to demand a double-d election (where quotas are half that for a half-senate election) you start to suspect they're drinking the Fox News cool-aid, but they've forgotten to set up their own subscriber TV news network first."Why suddenly such a moral outrage over what was obviously a mistake?"

There are mistakes and there are mistakes John. If I'm driving and mis-read road conditions, fail to spot some black ice, spin and hit your car then that's unfortunate. If I chug a six-pack, smoke some ice, race up your street and inevitably plough into your car then that's criminal. Literally and morally.

Using sophisticated radar-guided missiles to track, lock and shoot down planes flying at high altitude is very different to a bystander getting caught in crossfire during a gun battle. If you've got the technology, you've got a responsibility to use it to differentiate between an Antonov turboprop aircraft flying at well under 30,000 feet and a Boeing 777 jet engine airliner.

Failure to take such responsibility is arguably legally criminal, certainly worthy of moral outrage. The US Navy paid compensation in the case you refer to, unlikely the personnel were treated as criminals though."I think people knew it was a conflict zone it which weapon capabilities of these missiles and airstrikes were used without fear or favour."

Hundreds of commercial aircraft were in that particular airspace in the days prior to this event.

"this tragedy happened in a conflict zone where such military hardware was being used on a regular basis."

If I was in a warzone, blew up a civilian bus and later claimed I'd thought it was an enemy tank, how far would that get me? Look at a picture of a 777, then look at a picture of an A-26 at the same scale, then compare their respective cruising altitudes, then tell me how someone using electronic radar equipment "on a regular basis" could stuff that up? Criminally irresponsible cowboys could, sure, no one taking basic precautions though.Verify "assumptions", Noah? Why must I do everyone's research for them? Google "airlines using Ukrainian airspace" and bingo, there are some answers.

From the Sydney Morning Herald July 20, which drew info from a Der Spiegel article: "Despite the ongoing conflict with Ukraine, Russian national carrier Aeroflot flew over the area 86 times, while Singapore Airlines did so the second most at 75 times. Other carriers that used the airspace included Lufthansa, Thai Airways, Qatar Airways, Emirates and Etihad Airways."

So 'hundreds' appears to fit the bill. Learn to use a search engine Noah, it will save you a lot of time and effort."As you well know Dave a NOTAM was also issued prior to MH17 being shot down."

I'm no expert. You will note from the info you quoted that the FAA NOTAM to US-flagged planes was over the Crimea region, but did not include the area where MH17 was struck by the sam. A NOTAM relating to that region, again by the FAA and only applying to US planes, limited flights to 32,000 feet and again it's not like MH17 was outside this area.

A notice to exercise caution, even extreme caution, is not the same as a notice to avoid the region altogether.

As for the event being a learning curve for international air traffic, it's not that easy to get from western europe to eastern asia if you're excluding all airspace over Ukraine, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and Israel. I've probably missed some trouble-spots too.That's some fine US propaganda there Big Joe, but even the US military has given up on some of the lies you've written in your post. The transponder was on, it was squawking in the correct mode for a civilian craft. They've found tapes proving it. The Vincennes did attempt to radio the plane on the civilian frequencies but not on air traffic control frequencies, hence there was no way for the plane to know the communication was directed towards it. The parameters and processes the Aegius system used to identify war planes were clearly hopeless. And the Vincennes was in Iranian territorial waters, not as they stated at the time.

You should go and work for Putin, he's got an opening for a guy like you.Fair point PW. I was 11 at the time of the Vincennes incident and don't particularly recall it, but I've learned more about it in recent days. Ulitmately there was $60m compensation paid by the US Navy but no admission of guilt was made for the errors made by the Vincennes personnel which resulted in the downing of the Iranian civilian craft (which, unbelievably, the Vincennes crew apparently mistook for a Tomcat fighter). It took years in the international courts, no one was prosecuted and it was medals all around for the crew and captain. 

So, yes, if Russia behaves awfully they will be able to cite a historic precedent by the US."All one needs to do is claim "well they did it first!""

Make no mistake, millions of Russians will be very quick to remind you that the Ukraine shot down a Russian civilian plane during military exercises gone wrong in 2001 (and issued denials first, worked out what had happened second). Nothing like pretending to be the victim, eh?

Well, as previously stated, my view is that if civilians are killed during military action and it can be shown that the decision to apply lethal force was made in a way which recklessly avoided efforts to confirm that the target was military, then I for one am outraged. If others aren't, you'll need to ask them about it.

Further, I also regard as outrageous the use of human shield civilians by those engaged in military action.Yes John, I thought I had already made that clear. I'm not going to say I know everything about each incident but if there is time to make an assessment (ie the soldier involved does not believe that their death is imminent if they don't act immediately) then that assessment must be thoroughly made.

I'm not going to base my view on what is moral on the nationality of the military decision-makers whose decisions put civilian lives in peril. I make my moral decisions based on the actual events which occur.Alpo, the latest example of the devolution phenomenon is Scotland. Many years after the last battles between the Scots and the English were fought, those guys now have the option of devolution by ballot box. What the Kurds wouldn't give for such an option.

But unlike pasty Scots such as myself, the Kurds have a darker complexion so no self-determination for them.Not sure you've thought that through coyos. Putin's a target for lefty protests worldwide due to the Pussy Riot stuff, the anti gay stuff and the overall anti-human-rights vibe he's going for. 

A big crowd of wimmin and gay protesters often gives your usual lefty protest a good party feel so they'll be right into it, I reckon.@Zing, I've just done some quick reading up on who does support Putin in the west and it's the right, through and through. The French National Front, Italian fascist separatists, the antisemetic Hungarian right all love him. Pat Buchanan in the US celebrates his anti-gay policies. Hilary Clinton, on the other hand, compared him to Hitler.

It's not the left who are supporting him anywhere other than in the former Soviet Union. And they've got nothing to do with 'the left' as we understand it here or anywhere else in the west.Far too late Shane, there's many photos of separatists walking all over the wreckage and they control the area around the crash site. Although obviously journalists have accessed the area, I won't be surprised if it all gets shut down by separatists in the coming hours."damage control for the civilian airline will be a piece of cake"

The job is already done by history. If you're a Russian who's happy to be in denial your position would simply be "This was a tragedy, just like when the Ukrainian military shot down a Russian passenger plane in 2002. We are just as big a victim of these two plane crashes as the Dutch, Australians, Malaysians, Americans and the others on this plane." And get on with your day.I think British Air hasn't flown over eastern Ukraine in recent weeks but they do fly into Kiev. The US FAA banned US flights from Crimean airspace after the annexation began, but that would not include the area where this plane came down."all the missile systems in the area of Ukraine where the plane was downed had been seized by separatists"

That doesn't seem to be in dispute. The separatists announced this when they captured the missile systems. The separatists described the missile systems as non-operational but were hoping to get them working - this was well before the plane came down. These are not simple devices, they are complex and technical computer-operated missile systems requiring specialised training to operate. If you reckon the separatists have sufficient skill and training to deal with the tasks of bringing the systems up to operational state then using them then you believe that. It's more likely they had Russian help."Under the ALP we only needed to be 10% certain that they where telling the truth."

Absolute rot. We needed to be 100% certain that they were at reasonable risk of harm, which was defined as a 10% probability. That's now been redefined as 50%, "more likely than not" at risk of harm.

I notice you are happy to misrepresent the ALP but don't attempt to make the claim that under the Liberal Government people will be accepted as refugees if we're 50% certain they are telling the truth, which is the obvious implication from your statement. Partisan much?"Still, you are advocating filling limited positions with people that have next to no chance of being wrongly persecuted at the expense of those that are more certain if they return and have waited longer."

You're loving the misrepresentations today aGuy. I have advocated nothing. I have observed that the test has changed. The test is the same for boat arrivals as for refugees in camps. How therefore can you possibly conclude that one group has "next to no chance" of persecution while the other is "more certain" when both groups are subjected to the same tests, some are found to be "legitimate" refugees and others are found to not have a claim. Tell us what evidence you are basing your claims on, because it really looks like you're just making everything up."Still, are you claiming the ABC was lying?"

About what? If something is "good" or "bad", then that is subjective. You can't lie about the subjective, aGuy."The arrivals in Australia where met with a 10% test and assessed first. "

The asylum seekers in UN camps had to meet precisely the same standard. Just because you are in a UN camp does not, as your posts seem to presume, mean you qualify for resettlement in Australia. Many, many refugees are able to return safely to their homeland when the war or whatever other event made them refugees ceases. The process of seeking asylum in a resettlement country from a refugee camp is not automatic, as your constant differentiating between boat arrivals and resettled camp residents clearly suggests.

I understand where you're coming from about people in camps having awfully long delays and, in many cases, being worthy of resettlement to Australia. I just don't get why you need to make up so many fabricated "facts" in trying to get your point across."The families of the 1200 who drowned under the ALP must be wanting to know."

Presuming, as you seem to suggest, that they are happier with the current policies than the policies in place when folks were drowning (and feel free to correct me if I've misunderstood you on that particular detail) they'd want to know why so many drowned while the Libs were blocking the Malaysia solution in the Senate too.The last 550 years of Christian history (particularly in Europe)would tend to support your theory, geoffm. Most of the joint is peaceful but the tensions remain strong in Northern Ireland for precisely the reason you identify - they'd rather be disagreeing with each other than finding points of commonality.That's strange, because your commentary doesn't remotely reflect what has happened. Australia has taken the lead in investigating this atrocity, and pushing for action, along with nations such as the Netherlands. You are letting your bias blind you to reality."All these groups and medical people shouting from the rooftops about smoking and not once have I heard any of them say BAN IT COMPLETELY."

I've heard them say this many times. I've also heard them say it's the outcome they want but they know that politicians won't back them in. The Libs get fundraising bucks from the industry (or if they don't, it's a recent change) and anyone who's ever worked in a union knows how many unionists are smokers, so it's a stretch too far for Labor too. So they look at harm minimisation options which will work rather than push for a ban which won't happen in the lifetime of a current smoker.

If there's insincerity and hypocrisy at play, I don't see it coming from anti-smoking 'groups and medical people'.There's a great Humphrey Appleby quote about smokers being 'national benefactors' for the reason you outline.

They pay thousands in extra tax, but it wouldn't take too many cancer surgeries etc to chew that up, but smoking for years and dropping dead of a heart attack does seem like a good deal for the rest of us taxpayers.That's all rather extreme Christine.

The other side of the same coin you're tossing is that in a genuine liberal democracy which respects individual freedoms, corporations would leave individuals to their own decisions without dishonest, manipulative or simply stupid marketing claims or insidious denial about the realities of their product when it comes to their consumers health. Accessing services and products to quit would be simple and cheap. Taxpayers would democratically select whether to fund treatment for tobacco releated illness on government coin or let smokers fund themselves.

That world doesn't exist either. So by your extremist logic we're already in your so-called dictatorship.Muslims must take responsibility for their own, Apologist, sure. Also the Anglo community does need to take responsibility for its own too, as I'm sure you'll comfortably agree.Nonsense.  Criticizing Israel, and in particular the actions of the IDF, Jewish Settlers and Likud does not make that criticism "anti semitic".  

Drawing parallels between racist attacks on Jews and anyone criticizing Israeli policy is disingenuous at best.  Threatening children on a bus is unacceptable.  Shelling them in a UN "safe haven" school is also unacceptable.  I can criticize the latter without joining the ranks of the former. 

The fact that Carlton was "widely condemned" as anti semitic for making perfectly justifiable criticisms of the current attack on Gaza does not establish your point, but shows that the Pro Israel lobby is consistent and efficient in blanketing any criticism in any forum.
"leave the abuse to the IPA posters from Team Abbott"

The IPA are fundraising to run attack ads against Abbott. It'll be like being flogged with a warm lettuce leaf, to borrow a line."but the idea to store information off-line"

But then how are the Americans going to trawl through it in real time? Back to the drawing board with that one."we have to wait to see how it will work after the consult the public and others"

It's a bit weird. Public consultation on lots of issues is great but I don't remember it on national security measures previously. People have just had to put up with the measures which get imposed on them eg in airports or government buildings.

It's like "ASIO has told us there's an increased risk of terrorist threat. But don't go to code red, instead we'll get a focus group together and see how people feel about it."Five gold stars for that comment Chris L. That is brilliant.It's alarming that Tony Abbott can't answer simple questions about the metadata being collected. In the case of web browsing, he seems to be saying that your browser history is and isn't being collected. Or he's saying that the list of websites you go to is being collected, but if the government want to get that information off your computer (the same information, mind you) then that needs a warrant?

Can anyone clear that up?Woah, woah there JohnMenz. How did you know I checked out 100 cute cat videos online yesterday? This is all getting very Big Brother very quickly!"You just made that up. He said quite clearly that the browsed site wouldn't be accessed."

You've misunderstood my question, I haven't made anything up. We agree Abbott's saying no one is collecting screen shots of what you saw online. That is content. 

I'm asking a different question. Abbott is saying (and I'm quoting an ABC news article referred to in the above article here) ""It is not what you're doing on the internet, it's the sites you're visiting," he told Channel Nine. "It's not the content, it's just where you have been, so to speak.""

So that's the information as it shows up in my browser history, isn't it? It's metadata, not content. But the same article I've quoted states (but attributes no quote to the PM on this exact issue) that browser history information is not collected.

I can't help but feel that the PM doesn't know what he's announced. Happy to be corrected."I'm saying that he is not the relevant minister and this is a relatively complicated area."

This story has changed since you wrote that comment, Dapsta. The relevant minister (Brandis) stuffed it just as badly as Abbott in what is now the latest in a long line of stuff ups.

Brandis must go. Does Abbott have the fortitude to do it?"What`s the fuss?"

That's a question for Tony Abbott Joan. He's the guy on television trying to explain it. If there's no reason for a fuss, why is Tony Abbott trying to reassure me by saying things like ""It's not the content, it's just where you have been, so to speak." Why isn't he saying what you're saying?

"Its OK for like of Snowen and Assange to do as they please"

Snowden hasn't done much but he has confirmed to the world the sort of data collection which goes on. If there's nothing to worry about on that issue, as you say, then he's done no harm at all. So why are you critical of him and why does Tony Abbott need to try and minimise what's happening?

You need to rething your position, Joan, it fails all logical assesment."2. Since 18C wasn't needed and the incident was adequately dealt with by other law, then why DO we need an 18C in its current form?"

Serious logical error inherent in the question. She WASN'T charged under literally thousands of laws. You've just said we don't need any of them.

What sort of free speech do you want to have which is constrained by 18C? Give us an example of a sentence you would like to write but can't, just use XXXXX's instead of any particular racial reference. Show us how reasonable free speech is constrained, not just Andrew Bolt's false statements about named individuals.

See, I can attack you without referring once to your actually-quite-reasonable empathy for the ranty lady. It's your other ideas which are the problem."We are a bunch of easily panicked sheep."

Well that's clearly what Tony Abbott has in mind for us. I would like to think we're not so stupid, but time will tell.

The test for mine is simply will Abbott sack Brandis? It's not just this issue, it's the whole gammut as Annabel Crabb has outlined. No Prime Minister before Abbott would have tolerated this many stuff-ups in an Attorney General's first year in the job. Why do I keep thinking Abbott is increasingly looking weaker and weaker? Because Brandis stuffs up, stuffs up and does it all again."If you are not a suspected terrorist, you have nothing to be afraid of."

Not sure you've been paying attention Alfie. Let's take yourself as an example. I'm happy to be corrected here, but I'm guessing you're not involved in terrorism. You have no contact with terrorists, you're not a member of terrorist organisations and there's nothing in your profile which would suggest a link to terrorism. If it turns out you're Alfie Bin Laden, then obviously I'm wrong, but let's work forward on the basis you're not.

Why is effort being invested in tracking your online movements? What evidence do you have that you won't be monitored? What evidence do you have that information about you won't be misused? Be leaked? Many people have private secrets, Alfie, not all of them unlawful but nevertheless scandalous. We have legal protections for privacy for reasons, the main one of which is that we don't want or need an overarching government extending its capabilities.

Or have the terrorists already won, Alfie?"Everyone has the right to be an incoherent dribbler you know"

Oh, pocketful, I'm afraid I might well find myself stealing that line. It's Brandis's (hopefully short-lived) nightmarish career as Attorney General in a nutshell.

Abbott is going to find himself being asked why it's taking so long to sack Brandis and just what Brandis would actually have to do to get the boot."The woman who was the subject of her tirade was not in any sense under any threat nor did she suffer any negative consequences of the "racism" ."

We don't know that Iain. Being subjected to a tirade can constitute abuse. She wouldn't necessarily have to experience negative consequences of the racism immediately for there to be negative consequences.

"Sadly what this sport of issue is essentially an attempt to police thoughts and feelings that is bound to fail"

No, if she'd kept her thoughts and feelings out of the way of others who didn't need to be involved with them, she'd have had a very pleasant train ride.You will really need to hand back your psychology degree Iain. There have been some excellent developments in psychology since 1950 which highlight how wrong you are on every single detail.Of course the law can't prevent racism. Racist thought is racism. Violent thoughts, on the other hand, are not of themselves violence.

The law attempts to require us to behave in a manner which does not unreasonably cause others to be reasonably offended. The law allows for all sorts of discussions of controversial issues as long as they are held in a reasonable and not simply deliberately offensive manner. I don't see it failing or unnecessarily reducing freedoms when I look at Australia.

The law doesn't target thought-crime and of course groups of like-minded individuals can still get together and discuss all the racist ideas they want to out of earshot of anyone who might take offence any hour of the day without fear of prosecution."If I stated that all members of some "race" were evil, I could be prosecuted under the Racial Discrimination Act."

Ascribing characteristics such as "evil" to an entire race on no better basis than your own prejudice is blatantly offensive, wrong, inciteful to others and serves no benefit. I have no knowledge of what does or doesn't get picked up under the RDA, but I wouldn't object to prosecutions of this type.

If you wanted to cite some evil actions, consider the motivations for them, include consideration of cultural, religious and political factors then draw conclusions, that could well be a reasonable discussion not prevented by the RDA. But "all (insert race here) are evil, end of story, no evidence neeed" is just plain racist.The surrogacy debate should not be focused on the physical, financial and emotional concerns of adults. It should be focused on the rights of the children. Yes - it is a tragedy when couples cannot fall pregnant. However, children should not be a bespoke commodity that can be delivered to meet the emotional needs of anyone who can afford one. They should be the product of a loving relationship between husband and wife."Note the systematic "Sectarian Clensing" going on in Syria and Iraq where some of the worlds oldest Christian commuities are being driven out of their homes."

Wouldn't have anything to do with the strong links between Christians and the former Baathist regimes in those countries, would it Simon?

Iraq's Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister 1979-2003 was a Christian. Then the Americans (led of course by a Christian) locked him up. He's still in custody. Those anti-Christian Americans!Not only is there nothing new in deriding welfare recipients and stoking downward envy, there is nothing new in the policy detail either. Work-for-the-dole is old and (unlike when Howard initially rolled it out) widely understood by voters to be pointless. The opposition from businesses to the 40-job-apps per month policy was widespread and highlighted how out of touch Abbott's ministry is with its core constituency.

Add in the detail that, during some boom years in recent memory, youth unemployment has at times been quite low and the idea that there are far too many 'bludgers' out there just no longer has traction with voters.

So much lazy politics. We're down in the polls? What are the US Republicans doing this week? Can we borrow some talking point ideas? Can we rehash a Howard era press release?"Some 48% of adults earning income in Australia pay effectively no tax."

What, they're GST exempt? How?"Lewis and Woods parading their dishonest and partisan views."

Bizarre that you agree with them, then John. The authors of the article and yourself are in agreement that Australians do not consider that the government is "too tough on asylum seekers", nor could it ever be too tough no matter what the actual facts of the matter are.

There is simply no other way to read your or their quotes. You are in complete agreement. Not at all sure why you criticise them as "dishonest and partisan" then.I completely understand what you wrote John and I'm just agreeing that most Australians agree with you. Not sure why you feel the need to criticise me.

You seem to want to criticise a lot of people who are, at the end of the day, not actually disagreeing with you. Perhaps it's because you don't like our reasons for agreeing? Maybe your conscience is biting, John?"the dishonest use by Lewis and Woods of the "poor persecuted asylum seeker" smear."

If you read their actual words, John, they never use the phrase "poor persecuted asylum seeker" as you seem to have quoted them. They're not the people being dishonest here, John.Sidlaw, unlike your mind-reading skills, I was just going on their actual, you know, words. They state, and I quote, "While it has become a truism of Australian political life that you can never be too tough on an asylum seeker, it appears there are limits on how far you can bash a dole bludger."

Are you disagreeing that this is a truism? Because both the Liberal Party and I would agree that you are foolish if you do. And we don't agree on much.When I first met Penny Wong she was a plaintiff lawyer working for a large Adelaide firm.

(Yes, she's also worked as an in-house union lawyer.)"it's just too late."

Dangerous words from anyone seeking the current mob be replaced by the opposition.

Firstly, as any number of examples from the days of the Howard government showed, two years (just over two years, actually) is a very long time in politics. Sure, Abbott isn't Howard and this is one of his problems, but the electorate can turn one way or the other within a few months and we've a long way to go before "it's just too late".

Secondly, what is Labor offering? What evidence is there for the electorate to believe their lives would be better? Labor can't point to its last term in office, it can't demonstrate that it has reformed itself since September and the Libs will go hard on Shorten in an election campaign, so he's no major vote-puller either. Labor needs a spell in opposition to reconnect with communities, move past the Obeid bizzo in the case of the NSW branch and develop a vision it can take to the electorate.

Don't forget the misfortunate Neil Kinnock's optimism about his electoral chances in Britain whenever that was. Your post suggests you have."Reformed from what?... It's not people like you who will vote this total failure of a Government out.... it's the rest of us!"

Alpo, your passion is magnificent but your recent political history is lacking. Beazley was widely considered to have the wood on Howard in both 98 and 01 but small target strategies failed both times (and '01 was in bizarre global circumstances, but who knows what the next two years will hold on a global level?). In NSW, the widely despised ALP government held on in 2007 because the Libs were worse, and again no amount of small-target strategy could hide it. Federally, I see Labor as having a lot in common with the above tales of unpopular-governments-holding-on-due-to-lacklustre-oppositions. Australians don't vote out unpopular governments unless they've got somewhere reasonable to go.

The most likely scenario for Abbott losing the Prime Ministership is to lose it in the party room to one of his colleagues. If they don't think he's looking good in early 2016, he'll go.

Shorten is no Beazley. People often listened when Beazley spoke."The fate of the first-term Coalition Governments in both Victoria and Queensland will show you the initial steps of the stairwell to oblivion for Australian Neoliberalism"

Well, we shall see. I guess adding to your view is the unexpected SA state election result from earlier in the year where an unpopular Labor government was (ultra-narrowly and with the support of independents from conservative electorates) re-elected, probably significantly due to Neoliberalism's perceived contribution to the demise of Holden. Also Tasmania, where Abbott was seen to be about jobs (Cadbury, forestry) and his Neoliberalism was perhaps quite toned down.Alright Alpo, you've convinced me. The Libs will have the difficult choice in about a year and a half of sticking with Abbott or saving their bacon with Malcolm. Interesting times ahead. The recollections of the failure to go to Costello in 2007 will be in the front of the coalition party room's collective mind."As though Labor is the only other option..."

Well, only in the real world Ann. I'm sure pro-basket-weaving independents will form a unity government and it will be rainbows every day wherever it is you inhabit."Labor knows what is fair and what is not, unlike your out of touch Liberal party."

I'm a Labor left supporter, I'm also an Australian who wants the best for his nation and I make my comments within this paradigm. That I might write a centrist comment and dozens of commentators on The Drum insist I'm an Abbott fan says a lot about this site, not all of it clever.

But as a Labor supporter, I know well that Labor does its best work when its been through a rough time. The Hawke/Keating years were constructed in the furnace of the post-Dismissal period. Labor these days is dominated by idiot "advisors" still in Young Labor and reinventing wheels that their forebears invented years ago. The Liberal Party is no better. Politics is disconnected from real people and that is what is out of touch.

"Labor will not target the vulnerable"

Sole parent benefits. Shorten is backing down from what Gillard did. Nuff said."Jackie Lambie understands average Australia for eg regardless of where you stand which her personally."

Jackie Lambie thinks that Australians will vote with their hip pockets. Putting money in their pockets is good, taking it out is bad. She has no other policy ideas at all. No reform, no long term vision, just cheap populism.

Cheap populism wins votes, sure, and invariably a few seats, but never enough to make a career in politics. Average Australia is smarter than that.Good try kettles, I'm a Labor voter and former union official. There are a few Daves posting and we're not always agreed on everything.

Nor am I particularly bemoaning that cheap populism wins votes, I live in the real world and I know that whether I like or dislike some things, they're still going to happen. My point about Lambie is that she's here now but without a more intelligent approach to her work, she's only ever going to be a whinger. Australian voters expect their elected representatives to have a positive contribution to make and Lambie isn't up for it. I doubt she'll be in the Senate in 6 years time (can you see PUP surviving 6 years without an implosion?) but I'll be happy to admit I'm wrong if it turns out to be the case.

Intelligent populism can be a winner. Nick Xenephon does have a career and a quota all his own because of it. Lambie is nowhere near his standard.Chris, smearing lipstick on a bulldog looks a bit silly. I do not blame Tony Abbott for his blunderfull government, but the morbid back benches who seem to think a generation in oppossition, is all the party can and should be once the circus tent collapses in the breeze of election time. If you make the party extreme, it doubles the fall in the polls and at election. If you really care about the Liberal party, you will advocate a change in the leadership team."For decades, the USSR and Communist China were strong allies."

Yes and no. They obviously had common opponents in NATO and the US but there was a lot of mistrust too. Anyone reading your comment would conclude that there was never a military conflict between the USSR and China along their highly militarised border at the height of the cold war - there was."I only hope this anniversary year is not going to be twelve months of Nationalistic cheer-leading."

Absolutely. I've been appalled by the tourism campaign that the next Anzac anniversary has rapidly become. Yes 2015 is a century after 1915, but can't we restrain 100-year-celebrations to only be held for positive, happy events and not use the same thinking for commemorations?

The passing of 100 years is no more or less a reason to remember the deaths, terror and trauma of young men a long long way from home. That jingoistic tourists are going to spend the anniversary of the landing inappropriately draped in Australian flags dropping litter all over the joint and pretending that those who fell would approve of this is just wrong.The winners always write the history, so no great surprises, but there is nothing the Germans can do when it comes to commemorating war which will not produce criticism from British tabloids.

The Germans do not celebrate war and, as we often see in their more expensive makes of motor vehicle, it's sensible restraint. When a more positive commemoration of war effort was held in Latvia a few years ago, the criticism was very strong from around the world. From what I could see, the Latvian effort was not vastly different in tone from what we do here, but it was regarded very differently by British media and Jewish organisations (the Latvian war effort included concentration camps).

Japan and Germany have very militaristic pasts but their people today have had more cause to reflect on this than most, and we'd do better to listen to contemporary German and Japanese voices than British tabloids when it comes to issues around the commemoration of war and reasons for peace.Well that's certainly the view of the British tabloids. What's your evidence for it other than you read it in the Daily Mail, Alfie?Your forefathers have told you today that the Germans today are as arrogant now as in 1939?

I respect anyone who fought the Germans in 1939 Alfie but your forefathers read on the modern situation is very, very out of whack. There would be tanks on the road to Poland right now were that correct.I'm getting a little tired of this revisits view of The Great War, that Germany had no more guilt than any other power.  It was Germany that gave Austria-Hungary the "blank cheque" to punish Serbia, Germany Violated Belgium's neutrality that was guaranteed by the great powers in 1839."The particular minority group I am referring are the Christians of northern Iraq."

Those folk were doing a lot better than currently under Saddam. So you'll have to ask the ultra-Christian George Dubya Bush why he hates Christians."I am, of course, referring to the astonishing own goal that was the recent amendment to Australia's stance on the status of East Jerusalem."

Abbott would do himself a solid favour by channelling his inner John Howard and taking the tough decision to sack Brandis. I say 'tough' decision only in the sense that they are long-time  buds (there's that photo of them at Oxford or wherever they were). It would have been very easy for a pro like Howard."Any argument that you can make for gay marriage (consenting adults, who are we to judge what goes on in the bedroom etc) can be made for polygamy."

Nearly but not quite. Marriage, yes. But divorce would be a very different kettle of fish and you couldn't allow polygamous marriage without first resolving how divorce settlements would look."The primary purpose of marriage is to reinforce with legal sanction the right of the child to a relationship with his or her biological parents, biological grandparents and biological extended family."

So straight people with no intention of reproducing for whatever reason (health, age, desire) have no right to get married in your universe? Very offensive to many married couples right there. Shame.

Step-parenting is as old as parenting. I'm a step-dad, I've done years of dad-like stuff (sports, transport, excursions etc) and most of the pro-marriage crowd support my efforts. What of Tony Abbott's sister? She has a long-term partner who has a step-parent role with the PM's nieces and nephews, why shouldn't they be able to formalise their family relationship like my wife, my step-kids and I did?"Lets have a referendum then!"

Why? Why a referendum on this issue and not others? We never got to have a referendum when Howard amended the marriage act, why now? We don't get a referendum on issues which affect very large proportions of the community (eg the budget), why on an issue which will only impact on a few percent and have zero impact on the vast majority?

Why single out a gay issue for special legal/political treatment by the electorate? What's the constitutional basis for this? We don't have citizen initiated referenda here. Sounds like good old-fashioned gay-bashing to me."Because the truth is homosexual marriage would be overwhelmingly rejected under a secret ballot. That is why the homosexual lobby rejects it."

No, the sensible non-paranoid lobby knows that there is no constitutional mechanism to have a referendum which is binding on the Marriage Act. None. Zip. Bugger all. We're not in the business of resolving issues this way in Australia.

You obviously want a US-style approach to this, I suggest you move there where you can take part in all of the referenda you want. Of course, the courts there have regard for "freedom" and often wipe out legislation which unnecessarily impinges on it."Quite desperate 'logic'."

Okaaaay. I've asked for specific details about the legislative/constitutional mechanisms, you've refused to provide these but my very straightforward request is "quite desperate".

No. It's reasonable, because there is no legislative or constitutional mechanism which would allow the Marriage Act to be changed by popular vote. Asking for any evidence to the contrary is not "desperate", it's very, very simple. And it's a test you can't seem to pass."This sort of change is so fundamental that it is something the population should be allowed to have a say in."

Please explain to me the constitutional mechanism or other legal mechanism you are referring to which would enable a legally-binding referendum to alter the Marriage Act.

And then explain why this change is demonstrably a smaller deal than, say, the budget or climate change and explain why we don't have referenda on these.

Your discussion about "they have different opinions to you" is silly strawman stuff. If there isn't a constitutional mechanism for a referendum to amend legislation, my opinion doesn't matter one iota does it?"Finally, you need to put the gay bashing crap aside, people have a right to an opinion even if it is different to yours."

Of course they do. They can oppose gay marriage all they want. Nothing intellectually dishonest or undemocratic about it. The reference to gay bashing isn't people expressing an opinion, it's the suggestion (as you keep repeating) that this issue warrants a referendum without explaining why this issue is different to other issues equally deserving of a referendum. The Marriage Act is just that, an Act. It's not part of the constitution, there is no mechanism in Australia to change legislation via referenda.

If people want to suggest a referendum without me suggesting they're just gay-bashing, then go about it the non-homophobic way: Get a debate started about amending the constitution in favour of adopting mechanisms to change legislation via referenda. Put up some ideas about what issues would be able to be dealt with in this way (obviously, you'd need to look at excluding budgets for example, because it would not be particularly workable to hold votes on all spending measures). Support the mechanisms you need to have in place for your idea to have any value. Then once that's in place, and everyone understands the rules and mechanisms, you can go ahead and suggest a referendum on the issue all you want and I won't mention homophobia."The entire social fabric will be affected by this decision."

Please explain how. Please explain how Adam and Steve getting married and moving in next door to me is going to affect my marriage or my family. What will actually happen to the entire social fabric when this happens?

If you're straight-married, and you reckon your marriage will be weakened by gays being allowed to marry, then I've got some news for you: you may well be gay.Quite right Alfie, both sides of politics agree there is no constitutional mechanism for a referendum on the Marriage Act. We, as it appears you're pointing out, quite rightly didn't have one under Howard when he amended the Marriage Act and there is no precedent for having one now.

It's a rare moment when I'm perfectly happy to be as conservative as you are. Cheers."Plenty think that SSM is different enough to other issues to warrant a different approach"

You say it's different, you refuse to explain why, you say that lots of people agree its different but won't explain what why they do so, you say it's not about gay bashing but won't say what it's about. It's different for no reason at all?"Gillard was dragged kicking and screaming toward backing a conscience vote."

I listened to the broadcast of the ALP convention and Gilllard led the charge for a conscience vote. She passionately opposed any other means of dealing with the issue."marriage has a biological foundation which necessarily precludes same-sex marriage."

Many marriages don't. I'm a step-dad but I'm not a biological parent. Are you saying my marriage to my wife is not a marriage because we don't satisfy your definition? My family isn't real? That's pretty offensive.

Older people remarrying after divorce or being widowed has a basis, as you put it, in thousands of years in human experience. But often no biological produce.

Your definition wipes out millions of Australian heterosexual marriages and you should be ashamed of yourself.@Bluedog, not sure what you've read there but it's not what I've written.

I'm in no way offended that my step-parental relationship is not biological. It's truth, as you point out. I was responding to Tommy's claim that producing children is an inherent feature of marriages - a claim which is offensive to all married people who are not planning on producing children because it means we (in Tommy's mind) don't meet Tommy's narrow definition of marriage.

And thanks for raising the obvious point about older people having existing families. My step-kids have a gay grandfather who is unable to marry his long-term partner. My step-kids can see the injustice in this because they agree that marriage strengthens families and they'd love their Kong-Kong to be able to marry. Glad to know you share my step-kids' view of that situation.@Jimmy Necktie, you need to re-read what Tommy wrote. Tommy wrote that marriage has a biological foundation. Mine doesn't. So Tommy is either simply logically wrong in his definition of marriage or he's calling my marriage un-real. You can't have it both ways.No worries Jimmy Necktie, as long as you're happy that marriage must not necessarily produce children and therefore that gay marriage is not a problem, I'm happy. It's not the Tommy quotes you've chosen that are the problem, it's the bits I've quoted which are."So even though some marriages don?t produce children, the institution of marriage by being defined between a man and a woman still upholds and protects the right of a child to be bonded to its mother and father."

Rubbish, Tommy. I have a step-son whose father left him at age 2. He's had virtually nothing to do with him since. My step-son's relationship with his half-sister and half-brother on his father's side have remained strong because those guys are excellent humans who've looked out for their kid brother in the best of ways. Good on them. I know I've played a big role stepping up for the kid too and I'm a bit proud of it for what it's worth. Family is all about what you make it, not what the Bible says or what the Marriage Act says. That said, I know from my own experience that marriage strengthens families and I know from many tales I've heard that strong families are about love, not what particular genitals you happen to have. More marriage is good."I would favour tightening the marriage laws, making divorce much much harder, excluding older couples who are incapable of producing children are measures for example which would strengthen marriage."

Wow. Well, I'll agree that there's nothing logically inconsistent about opposing gay marriage on the basis of no biological reproduction if you also oppose older heterosexual couples marrying on the same basis. It is consistent, no probs.

It's also appalling to most Australians. So no worries about it ever being taken up."Just because it happens doesn't make it justified."

There's a significant flip-side to your arguement Michael. Lots of gay people don't realise they're gay for many years. Many have worked hard to supress their feelings and gotten married to appease family, church and their community. They become parents in the usual fashion. This might not happen if people didn't get all disapprovey about homosexuality, but I'm not holding my breath for homophobia to end. Just because it happens doesn't make it justified, though.

Tony Abbott's sister is a classic case. She didn't do any of the things you describe, but she's a lesbian parent.

Her kids deserve the right to grow up within a married family structure I reckon, I'm sure you'll disagree. Why?"Deliberately stripping a child of one or both of his or her biological parents, grandparents and extended family is a spiritual crime of the highest order."

Divorce is as traditional as marriage, so I think that horse has bolted. Also good to know you support women being forced to stay in abusive relationships."It has everything to do with their sexuality being validated and equated to a heterosexual relationship, when they are two different things."

How? What characteristic do ALL heterosexual marriages have which NO gay marriages could have? Or vice versa? If the only difference is around some little details beneath the sheets, I've got news for you - not all marriages include sex.

If all marriages are different, which they are, then why would gay marriages be inconsistent with existing marriage?Political culture is pretty bizarre these days. Stuffy politicians used to run the show, now it's recently graduated young psychos doing their work with high energy, feeding a 24 hour cycle of social and mainstream media.

The obsession is on the now and what's trending. Long term thinking (such as what might happen next week) doesn't occur.

There'll undoubtedly be an arse-kicking in this for someone but they too are quickly forgotten.No, I meant the dozens of "advisors", press secs and lackeys whose numbers have greatly multiplied in recent years. Should have been clearer, sorry."Syrian government is Bad..but ISIS is Good."

What? I've heard the media reporting that ISIS are the guys who are so dodgy that even Al Qaeda thinks they're a bit over the top. Other than in the early pre-ISIS days I don't recall any reporting of Syrian conflict which has painted the picture of anything other than a seriously complicated situation with no identifiable good guys. Which media has reported that ISIS is good?"Its the Ukrainians who are attacking the rebels"

Oooh, I was mistaken in thinking that the rebels had overtaken areas of Ukraine and were preventing the government from, you know, governing them. Turns out they were just going about their business and their own country's army turned on them?

I can see Putin's got you exactly where he wants you.Brilliant fizzer. I look forward to many more comments from you channelling your inner Tony.

On the first day of this crisis, it was the first time I can ever recall Abbott not speaking in precisely the style you mock very well. He sounded assured, he wasn't going to take crap from the Russian ambassador and for five minutes he actually looked like a statesman. Back to business as usual now though."It was supposed to be removed when the GST was introduced."

The stamp duty on residential property purchases was never one of the stamp duties earmarked for abolition. You obviously never read the fine print on Howard's election material."put GST on all as was intended and get rid of all state taxes"

Wow, the John Howard cheer squad is rewriting history today. The GST was NEVER intended to get rid of all state taxes, just the "inefficient" taxes and levies. Stamp duties on residential properties and state payroll taxes are two examples of state taxes/levies which were always too big to be replaced with the GST.Absolutely correct Ray68, stamp duties on insurance, mortgages and some other financial levies were to be abolished, residential stamp duty was never on the list. I'm glad someone other than me remembers 1998!Perfectly said well well.

You are absolutely right about religion. The real reason Cory Bernardi hates sharia law is those muslims are stealing his best ideas. The enemy of the conservative religious misogynist is actually the atheist liberal feminist, not the other kind of conservative religious misogynist.

And thus we know for certain that absolutely nothing will change.It is vital that we continue to advance a rational counter message to radical Islamic propaganda. Moreover the crucial audience is the young left leaning atheist generation we have produced. The battle ground on which this argument can most readily be won is the virulent hostility this theocratic fascism has towards women &amp; gay people. There is a lazy knee jerk on the left/green/pc spectrum to confuse islam with causes actually worth defending. All that is required to demolish this fellow travelling support group is to expose the way that gays/feminists/apostates ( amongst others ) are dealt with under sharia.Hird has done his time and, as a professional, we would consider that the prospects for his rehabilitation will be well above average. Similarly, the Essendon board will have new governance procedures and we should be confidant that the next big scandal won't be at the Bombers. (Unless the kids injected with supplements develop inexplicable health conditions, that is.)

The Essendon board was as complicit in what went down as Hird. They should not see themselves as being better than Hird now.Excellent post David. No disagreement from me whatsoever regarding Hird's responsibilties, the club's failings and the ASADA view of the matter.

Your comments that the players should be banned and, if unhappy, seek civil remedy from the Bombers would potentially kill the club financially. Many could claim to have had their careers ended by the club's ineptitude and it's easy to imagine many millions in compensation and legal fees. Sponsors and members dislike handing over their hard-earned for such causes. Insurance is unlikely to come to the party. If the club went bankrupt then that may impact on the possibility of compensation for those affected.

If the AFL wanted Hird sacked, he'd have been gone. He's not, and we can conclude that the AFL see him as a net asset to the game. What Hird allowed to happen was appalling, but on the flip side it's been so publicised that, of all AFL coaches, Hird may be now the least likely to go cowboy with his players' welfare. We can hope so, anyway.It will be interesting, Dragit. I'm no expert at all on how ASADA will look at Hird's role. If he wasn't doing the injecting or didn't know what was being injected, will he still be accused of systematic doping?@Catherine, yes, punishment in France. And he didn't get paid by Essendon this year either!! (they just chucked a huge pile of cash at him last December)Point well made Craig. Katie's really going to struggle to demonstrate lawless treatment of Aboriginal people because they weren't defined as people under law! You've really got her snookered, nice play."your story sounds like one of economic refugees headed to Australia for a better life"

You are kidding, right? The author came in 1988. There was this thing called the cold war you should really look up because it was kind of a big deal for global geopolitics for about 50 years following another thing called world war 2. There's a whole big bit about Vietnam in the story of the cold war, and one upshot is that Vietnam in the 80's was not a good place to be if you weren't well liked among the authorities.

Her family were refugees from a country recovering from a bitter civil war to which Australia was a party. We supported the guys who didn't win, for your information. The government there was not big into freedoms, economic or otherwise.@Mack, wow, what impossibly hard questions. If we can't all agree on the answers, then they're just too hard to bother with aren't they?

You might think it was wrong to let Jews seek asylum from the Nazis during WW2 Mack (it was complainers whinging about the same issues you identify which made it deadly impossible for many of them), I happen to disagree.Mack, if you re-read my post, you'll see I am not seeking any changes to current arrangements for refugee processing. I am not Christine Milne. I am only acknowledging the, you know, actual fact that Australia has accepted refugees in accordance with international conventions for many years including during 1988, and including from refugee camps around the world such as the one which housed the author for a period. If you wish to disagree with these facts, by all means do, and we'll just conclude that you're off your rocker and your views are mad. I have made no comments about what "should" have happened, only what did happen and why it happened.

The questions you have posed are not matters for me, nor do they arise as a result of anything I've posted. They are, as they have always been, matters for the government of the day. Today's government is still a signatory to the convention. They will answer your questions for you. I think you will find the answer is neither "all" nor "none" as your comment suggests are the only possible options.Mack, if you re-read my post you'll note that I'm not calling for more or less immigrants than currently. I'm not calling for changes to processing. I'm not Christine Milne and I'm not advocating "let them all in".

I am merely noting the simple, simple facts that Australia is and has for decades been a country which accepts people found to have asylum claims, that anti-communist Vietnamese people in the 1980's frequently had very legitimate claims for asylum and that 'Aussie Sutra's' decision that the author 'sounds like an economic refugee' shows terribly poor education about recent Asian history including Australia's significant role in the Vietnam war.

Your insistence that anyone who isn't rabidly anti-refugee just wants to "let them all in" is illogical. You've taken my position that the author of the article is likely to have had (like thousands of her countrypeople) a strong claim for asylum and concluded that I'm supporting open borders? It's odd to say the least.@Mack, if I'm not proposing changes to the status quo, then I'm obviously relatively comfortable with the status quo. The numbers exist. I don't even particularly know what they are. But I'm comfortable with them. So that's clearly, clearly not the same as "let them all in" if my position is broadly the same as the current one of Scott Morrison, is it?

So I've answered your question, now you answer mine: Was it right for Jews fleeing Nazi Germany to be refused asylum in other countries and sent to their deaths?"The Convention wasn't around at the time Jews were being returned to Nazi Germany."

No, it's the reason the convention exists. The world didn't want to see a repeat of what happened.

Since you've interpreted my repeated statements that I support the status quo as far as refugee intake goes as me wanting to "let them all in", I'm interpreting your refusal to answer my simple question about the Jews in 1939 as you approve of their demise in concentration camps. Shame.@KK, if you'd read my post, you'd have read the reference to the cold war. You're obviously another who's never heard of it. It was a big deal when the author's family were leaving Vietnam as refugees. It remained a big deal in Vietnam for quite a while after. Then political reforms slowly started, and most Vietnamese would not qualify for political asylum today. It was this environment, many years after leaving, that the author was able to return as a tourist to. It's not evidence of any wrongdoing by anyone.

I can't believe how poor Australians' knowledge of recent Asian history is.@aGuy, the only assumption I am making is that the author and her family qualified as refugees when they applied for asylum in Australia. It's not up to me to judge asylum claims, it's up to the immigration department. And guess what, she passed.

Vietnam was (and in ways remains) a pretty terrible place. The US and its allies (us) dropped around three times the total tonnage of ordnance on Indochina compared with all sides in World War 2, just as one example of a horrifying statistic. The wars with the French and then the Americans lasted the best part of four decades. No surprises then that the communist government/military a decade after the war was still very irrational in its policies and extremely violent in its dealings with its political enemies.

If you believe that the Immigration Department was wrong to grant the author's family asylum that's a matter for yourself and the department, but I can't see how I've erred through "massive assumptions" without the immigration professionals having badly beaten me to it."It could simply have been a lot of people wanted entry and a manager was told to get them through. You never know."

Riiight. So no government decisions about anything ever in case...well....you never know. That sounds like a productive society, aGuy."the left are well known for being caring and kind and would never support an awful regime"

The pro-communist left did lots of just that Michael. The pro-communist left were economically left and bloodthirsty in the way they went about it. Jim Cairnes wouldn't get by in The Greens these days.I find it absurd that our nation settled here in boats even our current PM fool is a boat person himself what a joke I'm so embarrassed by my own countrymen committing piracy with our navy, to bad Sydney isn't Darwin.As unlikely as it is for me to step up to custard's defense, the AFP will be as much in harm's way as the coal miners who did the initial recovery, the villagers who had bits of plane debris fall near them or the many, many other people just trying to live their lives while a civil war builds around them.

The AFP guys are probably better trained to deal and much better equipped to get the hell out than lots of others in the region.

The questions aren't so much infantile or irrelevant, just lacking any decent sense of priority given the actual context of the events in the region."(4) health and safety - if they were serious about this, they would stop them from playing sports like Aussie Rules or Rugby codes"

Absolutely. Letting sportspeople into workers compensation arrangements (as I heard proposed on a radio discussion by the AFLPA yesterday) will be the end of those sports. Any effort described as "courageous" by commentators invariably involves the sort of conduct that workers in workplaces would get disciplined for. Before you know it, it will be hard hats all around and physical conduct will be heavily reduced.It's one of my (many) ambivalences NSaGO. I enjoy watching NFL football from the US (not live, taped so you can forward the countless ad-breaks) but by the same token I would be perfectly happy to see this very watchable sport banned or heavily modified. It's hard to celebrate the achievements of players without having a degree of sympathy for the impairments they will undoubtedly experience in future years.There has been a rule change which may (or may not, time will tell) reduce the risk of head injury to American footballers.

While they are still likely to experience severe impacts including to the head, with the brain experiencing rapid acceleration/deceleration, players are no longer allowed to charge head-on battering ram style into each other.

Alright, it's not much.Not wrong. Nick Riewoldt takes a running mark throwing himself in front of Stephen Milne and an approaching pack and it's widely regarded as mark of the year. On the other hand, if I run backwards up a hallway at work and throw myself into a tea trolley, it's very much a sackable offence with the risk of the cops getting involved.

Insurance companies will struggle to understand the difference between these events. From a risk point of view, there isn't much. Insurance companies will demand that reasonably avoidable risks be avoided, and there goes the physical contact in AFL.Not bad questions Theos, but worth noting that out of all of them only the PPL is new or has changed since September. Labor has no intention of changing much when it comes to entitling the well off to welfare. They hacked into single parent payments rather than the issue of pensioners in mansions."It is a flat tax system so that poorer people spend a greater proportion of their income on tax."

Yes, if you spend all your income you're paying up to 10% of your net income in GST. The wealthy who put aside savings are paying less than 10%. It's quite regressive in isolation.

But in the case of welfare recipients, they were compensated simply in the form of welfare increases when the GST was introduced. It's been factored in. Whether welfare payments since that time have kept up may be a different issue.

The point is that you can tweak welfare payments to make changes to the GST less of a burden on those who can't afford it. It's been done before and there's no reason it wouldn't happen again."Stamp duty and payroll (State) tax?"

As a South Australian too, let me explain the historical errors inherent in your question.

Let's start with payroll tax, it's a very, very simple explanation. You've confused John Hewson's Fightback package (1993) with the 1998 GST commitments. No one was mentioning payroll tax in 1998.

Stamp duty is a bit more technical because it takes someone to understand that there are/were a whole raft of different State government-imposed stamp duties and not just the stamp duty on residential property. Stamp duties on insurance payments and (I think) mortgages were promised to be removed and were removed. Stamp duty on residential property was never slated for removal (simply too expensive to factor into the GST, even before the Democrats deal).

I'm happy to be corrected on any of the above if someone wants to cite a source which refers to Howard's specific promises in 1998.@Interesting Times.

The ALP-Greens could phase out negative gearing, close superannuation concessions for the wealthy, increase the Medicare Levy Surcharge, re-instate the Super Profits Resource Tax (without the government guarantee for venture failures which was proposed by Ken Henry), they should also be supporting more means-testing of FTB and the Health Insurance Rebate (and they should be supporting the abolishing of the School Kids Bonus), and the increase in Fuel Excise.

Much of that would directly effect me by the way but it should be done and is what the Coalition should have aimed for (I'm referring to those that they aren't already trying to implement - which is few of those from above) because it will yield more budgetary savings and should lead to not only a structural budgetary re-alignment but surplus's to pay back the debt as well as releasing revenue to pay for things like Gonski and the NDIS and increased funding for tertiary education but more importantly university based R &amp; D.

So on the one hand we have Labor who seem unwilling to impact anyone with budget decisions (though remember all the howling that occurred when they proposed marginal means-testing of private health insurance rebates and minimising super concessions for those earning above $100k as well as changes to FBT reporting? It was called class warfare) and the Coalition who seem to only want to hurt those least able to afford it while doing very little to reduce the deficit.

Abbott is the least impressive PM we've had in my life time. Shorten one of the least impressive Opposition Leaders. Both are disgustingly opportunistic in their attacks. Neither seems willing to say to their bases that some people will be effected by some budgetary changes. Both of them could form a bi-partisan commitment to phasing out negative gearing which would hit both their donor class and the wealthier end of their voting spectrum.

We don't get that though: we get a stupid Cost of Living argument by both sides while avoiding the one thing that might actually effect the biggest component of living expenses which is housing affordability - whether buying or renting.Australians might be critical of the neoliberal agenda when they're asked about it on a web-poll but they vote with their wallets the rest of the time.

Are we really going to give up being a nation of smartphone-equipped social media addicts buying cheaply manufactured crap and having little regard for Australian-made products? Reverse what's happened to car prices over the last two decades? Go back to a simpler, more honest and wholesome time when we were less hooked into the rest of the world and kept more of our national wealth for ourselves?

I happily would but I'm in a small minority. It's electronics-junkies with little idea what country they even live in everywhere I look."The majority of people would soon realise it has little effect on their lives and Labor would need to find their next gripe of the month."

The same could easily be said of the carbon tax or the Malaysia Solution under the last government. Abbott was either right in his strategy as opposition leader in going tough on everything or he wasn't. The idea that it's fine for him but awful for Shorten is just blatant partisanship."If we can divorce economics from politics and marry it to science (specifically physics and mathematics) maybe we can actually fix the system to avoid the extreme hardship it typically causes."

Lots of effort was invested in this approach to economics in the 1960s. It was considered that an ecnonomy is like a machine, and if you can set the gears correctly and apply the correct lubricants then it will work better and more smoothly. It failed.

An economy is like a mysterious animal. It doesn't always behave the same way when you poke it, sometimes it likes certain stimulations and other times it rejects them. It is far more complex than physicists are used to (a lot of physics is beautifully pure) and simply, economics is not a science. It just happens to use similar or at least comparable methodology and statistics.I'll spell it out for you more clearly then Bruce.

Unlike maths and physics which have set principles which existed long before humans and will exist long after us, economics is a purely human activity. It is the sum of the choices we make about prioritising limited resources (money, time, environmental resources, labour, family etc). When we choose to make different choices, economics changes. Physics doesn't.

You can't divorce economics from politics, as you initially suggested. It shows a complete misunderstanding of economics to think you can. There is no "right" or "wrong" solution to this fuel excise bizzo, for example. Should rich people pay more or should the load be shared more equally? Various people will give you various answers and all are essentially subjective. What we want from our economy is subjective to each of us. What Gina Reinhart wants and what I want are vastly different but neither of us are right or wrong per se.

If you divorce economics from politics you divorce it from democracy and as the Soviet experiment showed or alternatively more right-wing experiments also showed, it never works. Maths and physics are not democratic and should never be, economics is the opposite."I reject your assertion that Maths and physics are not democratic"

Righto, so if enough people vote it so then 1 plus 1 equals 3?

Because voters at various times have backed all sorts of economically contraditory desires. They have backed wage-setting and wage deregulation. They have backed higher and lower tarriff settings. They have felt the need to punish governments to vastly varying degrees about interest rates. They have voted against and then for a GST. The list goes on forever. This is vastly, vastly different to scientists settling on theories through the use of observation, experiment and analysis.

I don't dispute economics uses statistics and mathematics has a limited use. Physics concepts also have a limited use. Economics is useful to biologists looking at ecosystems too, for that matter. But economics is not science, maths and physics are no economic panacea and if you overplay them you'll do so to your great peril."If you look at economics as a chaotic system, like the weather, then there is a similarity."

Yes and no. It's more similar, sure. But the human factors at play add so immeasurably to the chaos that maths and science can only go so far in explaining it all.

Psychology and economics are not sciences. They use statistics like sciences and they utilise careful measurement and the application of logic like sciences but when you over-do the scientific approach it all falls over. The principles underpinning physics or maths or chemistry were around long before humans and will continue to be around when we're gone. The same will not be said for psychology and economics as we know them.Yes, I'm not disagreeing that economists use statistics Bruce. They do, and some of them do it very well. That's not the reason that economics isn't a science though.

Complex systems like the climate are still at the end of the day just large chemical experiments. They are complex because their size means that changes happen slowly and feedbacks occur and they are changing. The rules of chemistry and physics guide climate science.

Economic decisions are made in part because of much less tangible and rational factors. Fear is a superb example. Selfishness, greed, also. Also compassion and care too but sadly we see less of them. There is no science to these. And it's where the pull-the-levers and crank-up-the-gas models of economics as were attempted in the 1960s fall over. It's not a lack of computing power, it's a total failure of reality to match theory.There have been a few right wing military dictatorships over the decades. Spain and Argentina come quickly to mind."Marrying economics with science would not guarantee decency but it would have a much better chance than it currently does."

How does science come up with an objective view of decency when decency is a purely subjective concept?

Back to the drawing board Bruce.I never voted for Howard and I may be experiencing a dose of the old rose-coloured-glasses but I recall Howard as being far smarter than the current mob in picking winners and losers.

Of course the top end of town did better than the rest, but at least Howard kept up a discourse with 'battlers'. He didn't talk down to them like Hockey or Pyne keep doing. Liberal MPs in marginal outer suburban electorates must be increasingly nervous.

There is economic inequality and there is political inequality. If a government is going to take money or resources away from particular demographics, it never hurts to pretend you're really, really sympathetic about their pain.Good point and largely agreed Freddie. I'm particularly thinking about the early years though and your comment, while perfectly accurate, relates more to the third and fourth terms.

Amazing to think back to the days too when to contemplate the idea of "the fourth Howard term" would have had you institutionalised."the government is simply clawing back some of the unaffordable benefits that were doled out through successive governments during a once in a lifetime commodities boom"

Is that what Joe meant by "the age of entitlement is over"?

Should he have said "Howard and Costello wrecked the joint, Rudd trashed it further?" At least in Rudd's defence the post GFC stimulus held up employment and kept welfare down. Howard and Costello were, in your analysis and you're far from alone, simply inept through the pre-GFC era.

If Abbott and Hockey want us to believe it the way you've described it then they have to start telling it like it actually is. As it stands the narrative is rubbish - fuel doesn't matter to poor people and a taxpayer funded PPL scheme needs to be gold plated for the exclusive benefit of the top end of town? Really? That sounds like an inept government to me."Its validity can only be ascertained by its compatibility with free-market ideology."

Any scientist who isn't now publishing their work in the form of YouTube cute cat videos is a fool to themselves and a burden to others."global warming hysteria amongst the left"

If, as the unscientific keep insisting, it's just hysteria then my suggestion to you alphamikefoxtrot is that you could make a fortune by simply disproving all the work done by climate scientists which - ahem - alleges global warming is happening.

Come up with some science and some models which you can show are more accurate and robust than existing models and which show that global warming isn't happening. That is all you have to do.

Industries will be falling over one another to sign you up as a consultant. They'll fly you around the world and put you up in the top hotels while you tell various governments how much money and economic effort they are wasting and which can be redirected. You'll be a multimultimillionaire and you'll have saved the world.

How hard can it be to knock over a little 'hysteria', after all?Hockey went on to state that the most driving is done be residents of the outer suburbs, and he quickly played down data relating to regional residents because there aren't that many of them or somthing.

Where I live, the wealthy suburbs are not the outer suburbs nor are they described as 'regional'."And who says poor people WITH cars dont drive as much as rich people?"

When you look at the transcript (thanks ABC PM website), Hockey clearly states that outer suburban Australians are racking up the most kilometres as long as you don't count regional Australians because of some reason he doesn't identify. Outer suburban Australians are, in my experience, not doing nearly as well as those in the flasher inner suburbs. Hockey's own words in the transcript highlight the fiction of his claims."it also feeds the voyeur mentality of modern society"

Nothing modern about voyeurism. Public executions were incredibly popular voyeuristic endeavours for society in days long gone.

But yes, your point is correct. It is irresponsible and voyeuristic, as are so many other features of our fascination with celebrities. And many, many out there demand to know these details in order to complete and resolve their understanding of the celebrities they adore.

In a world where celebrities' stream of consciousness is revealed to us 140 characters at a time, little details like how someone killed themself are smaller and less voyeuristic than they've ever been before.Be really careful with these stats - you have to remember that minimum wage in the US is from $8-$10 an hour and that even though someone may be EMPLOYED they are still struggling to get by and can't survive without benefits. Minimum wage in Australia is around $17 an hour. In opposition to common belief, the cost of living is about the same when you consider just the essentials (groceries, health care and housing, etc.).

It really annoys me when people quote participation rates or employment figures which are meaningless in real life. Volunteer work or near volunteer work is not employment. 

A job has to pay enough for the person to survive on in order to be considered a job. Otherwise touting it as part of a healthy economy is just useless spin."only about a quarter trust government and telecommunications agencies to manage their personal data appropriately"

Even putting aside questions of whether spooks will misuse information, the proposal is for ISPs to retain data and supply it to government on request. Private data is hacked all the time. It is frequently released too for mischievous purposes. It's only a matter of time before this happens with our metadata.

Whatever protections are put in place, history suggests they'll only be secure for so long. It's just the sort of challenge hackers love.According to Chris Berg's article on the Drum from earlier today, this is a significant issue with data retention in Poland. His article links to an article which expresses concern about use of metadata in divorce cases or to work out the identity of journalistic sources.I don't think I often agree with you John C but you've nailed it.

Iraq, like Yugoslavia, is the sort of joint which sustains itself with a dictator who has a reputation for some brutality. As a democracy, a series of populations who have different aims and little trust for each other will always have a hard time.

For mine, it would be like the United Nations imposing that Queensland was now part of Indonesia. Queenslanders would find a lot of their state's wealth disappearing offshore, they'd be pretty desperate to re-join Australia for all sorts of cultural let alone economic reasons and they'd probably be pretty keen to kick off some armed conflict and secession. For them to remain in Indonesia would likely involve some major human rights abuses. Ugly for everyone involved.

Borders can and should change in the middle east as part of a careful diplomatic process or it's just more of the same. The safe money is on more of the same.I'd agree Harry. I'm glad that the ethical debate we're engaged in is also the natural outcome of human evolution though."even though we clearly understand how evolution works and what its imperatives are"

We also know that very little is forever. We're having a boom in population now, we'll have a crash and possibly extinction at some point. Some of the hardier among us might survive longer than others, the fact that more are genetically/physiologically 'weaker' thanks to medical science now compared with previous generations will probably help the process.

Also in relation to your comment, in terms of 'selfish genes' seeking to survive, it is common that many 'weaker' specimens have offspring who are closer to 'normal' and might potentially be 'stronger' within a few generations. Reversion towards the mean from either direction is the usual story.That's a sad and poignant tale, v. Thanks for outlining it.

For the most part, tales of ASIO goons stalking "suspicious" types are these days told for laughs. TV gardner Peter Cundell has described reading his own ASIO file and how he found the line "Cundell is clearly experiencing paranioa. He keeps telling meetings he speaks at that ASIO are probably keeping notes on him and might be listening to him right now."

It's important to remember that these activities had a dark and serious side too and your story is the darkest I've ever heard."What are you scared of? 99.9% of Australians have nothing interesting to hide from security services."

If you read the papers, John, you'll see that data repositories get hacked quite frequently. Data which should be under very tight security gets flooded onto a public website. Often results in data being misused too.

Let's say you're right and that 99.9% of Australians have nothing to hide from security services. Do that same number have no problem with the risk that their personal data will be leaked and exposed? Because history tells us it's only a matter of time.

Even the Australians with nothing to hide have no reason to trust that the government will do a better job with secure information than professional organisations can manage.What does Brandis have to do before he gets demoted or sacked? What does it say about Abbott's leadership that his Attorney General can stuff up so much in his first year in the job and still be there?Open Government? We can't mention it, it's an 'on-water issue'."If you are an Australian citizen, you are not allowed to travel overseas to fight for a foreign force in a foreign war."

Not a lawyer but my understanding is it is legal to serve in the official army of a foreign country as an Australian citizen as long as you are not participating in a civil war. It is unlawful to be in a non-government militia force.v, I'm making no comment on what should or should not occur, but I'm pretty sure I'm reading the CRIMES (FOREIGN INCURSIONS AND RECRUITMENT) ACT 1978 - SECT 6 correctly when I interpret it as exempting service with a foreign army (so long as it's not a proscribed organisation under the regulations) from the laws preventing Australian citizens engaging in hostile acts overseas.

It is lawful to join a foreign army and engage in hostile activity under many circumstances.

I'd agree that if the law said it was unlawful to join the IDF then that should be enforced, it's just that the law doesn't say what you want it to say.v, the legislation which makes mercenary action illegal is exactly the legislation I'm quoting. Feel free to actually throw a fact into this debate, but you've not done so this far. The Act prevents mercenary action without making it illegal to serve in another nation's official army. If you want to get this overturned, you'll need to convince Greek Australians to let it through because I understand more Aussies join the Greek army than any other.

Australians can and are currently serving in armies all over the joint. Greece, New Zealand (and how many Kiwis are in the Australian Army?), Israel, the US, it goes on.

As I say, I'm just trying to explain to you what the law says and what is in fact happening. I'm not arguing what's right or wrong and I repeat my earlier statement that if, as you say, it's illegal to serve in a foreign army then this should be prosecuted across the board. But if you believe what you say, can you please quote the legislation you're referring to. Then I'll agree you're right and shut up."But this Govt is different in the sheer ineptitude of many of its ministers. They're a pastiche. It's almost a comedy."

Nearly right, BJ. Many governments have comedically inept ministers. I'll agree that Brandis is among the most hilarious in my memory, but he's not without his peers in this regard when we remember previous federal and various state governments.

What is unheard of is that, stuff up after stuff up, he's still got his original job. He hasn't even been demoted, let alone sacked. That is unprecedented. Howard, to make a relevant comparison, would never have tolerated it. It makes Abbott look weak and for what gain?Gosh yes, Skeptic, if things keep to their current rate they're going to have to consider that, gasp, a woman might actually be the best chap for the job. And imagine what the boys down at the club will have to say about that!Religious education is probably of minor cultural assistance to students, like studying a relatively unused language. But no point simply focussing on Christianity as that's only one religion, it would be necessary to give equal time to all religions. As long as they're not discriminating against followers of the Flying Spaghetti Monster (aka pastafarians) I'll be satisfied.It would be far more interesting to learn about art, music, achitecture, social behaviour, literature, morality and broad factors cultural and economic development than to learn about religion. Religion has played something of a role in these things but is far from the only inspiration. So I'm happy to stick by my claim that religion is of minor cultural assistance to students.Happy to be corrected if wrong, but I thought it's been demonstrated that a certain full moon (near a solstace??) would have been perfectly framed by Stonehenge. Thought to be related to a transition away from worshipping the sun to focussing on the moon by some?The point about Chifley being a train driver who became a Prime Minister is that he could hold himself in the corridors of power despite lacking the formal education of most of his colleagues because he was principled, knew his community and voters and was a leader of people.

Senator Lambie's comments would be unremarkable if coming from a comedian, an actress or some other media personality who is famous for being a media personality. I'm a fan of Chealsea Handler's tv show and she says exactly the sort of thing that Senator Lambie was saying every night. But even if it wasn't offensive (it was more weird than offensive), it wasn't clever for a new Senator making her mark in this way.

Senator Lambiehas to maintain an air of intellectual credibility if she is to be an effective Senator. She has to understand her electorate and supporters, but not play simply to the lowest common denominator. She's not achieving any of these things in any way yet."a lot of Australians think she's a lot more down to earth than that annoying female Senator from SA whose name I shall not mention."

If that's a reference to Penny Wong, Lambie describes her as "doesn't back down, she wears her heart on her sleeve, she's sweet, I like her." If it's a reference to SHY, fair enough.

My point about lowest common denominator relates to comedians. When you're doing dick jokes, it's because the rest of your act hasn't gone well. Cue the Senator."Nobodies chair got sniffed or bra straps pulled."

The Senator felt the need to mention (in a scoffing sort of tone) that her 24 year old son claims to be hung like a donkey. That, I felt, was a bit weird. Up there with the bra strap pulling, lesser offense than the chair sniffing."Voting below the line is a nightmare however there were so many people dissilusioned by the major parties that people went to the trouble to do so."

Makes no sense. Dissillusionment with the block-ticket voting which arises from above the line voting and the risk of microparties with tiny primary votes being elected is why people vote below the line. Dissillusionment with the major parties just makes you more likely to vote for an independent, minor or microparty - above or below the line."I think it is actually better having a foreign HoS who can look at things objectively and has no self interest in the political outcome. Disinteredness is a very important factor here."

Firstly, an uneducated person reading the first sentence there would conclude from what you have written that the Queen actually makes decisions about Australia at some or any time. When has she EVER made a decision about Australia? Or another Commonwealth country?

Secondly, the notion that the best head of state is a disinterested one is ... interesting and original.Yeah, Obama was so responsible for all those bailouts which happened before he was even inaugurated. Totally plausible.Let him in, then let protesters get further into his face than the anti-protest-police usually let protesters get. Putin's anti-gay politics, the Pussy Riot affair and the recent stupidity following the shooting down of the Malaysian flight should be enough to get a well-populated protest into flight telling Putin exactly what we think of him.

No diplomatic issue, no impact on the G20 and the message clearly sent. It might irritate the right-wingers who love Putin's social agenda but no loss.We know why Germany and France prevaricate-they are more interested in trade than principles.  Germany is on a downhill run like 1933.You seem very happy to sing Putin's tune, debunker. Good on you, I happen to seriously disagree however.Zing, a lot of Putin's supporters in Europe are self-proclaimed fascists. A lot of the rest are nationalists. It's presumably the second bunch who regard 'fascist' as a term of abuse, but in the nationalist context it's a meaningless term.

By "extreme left wingers" I can only presume you are referring to guys like Pat Buchanan, former senior Reagan advisor, who is further right than just about anyone in US politics and describes Putin as "one of us". If you think Pat Buchanan is a left-winger, Zing, then you're presumably to the right of ... everyone."most commentators' furious old cold war rhetoric"

Riiight. RayS, I suggest you give up the history of 30 years ago and move to the actual world you live in. Putin's support in the west comes from guys like Pat Buchanan, former senior Reagan advisor. Unlike you, even an old cold war warrior like Pat Buchanan is not still living the cold war and he emphatically supports Putin's social agenda, describing him as "one of us". The western Right loves Putin. Tony Abbott's quote today is just another clue of this."The evidence is quite strong that Russian equipment in the hands of rebels accidentally shot down a plane."

What, they were cleaning it and it just went off? How do you "accidently" use high tech equipment to target, lock and fire on a commercial airplane 10,000 metres in the air? And then I suppose they "accidently" tweeted about shooting down a Ukrainian military plane?

Gosh, accidents certainly do happen, particularly when you're a mob of drunken gangsters playing soldiers with the support of the Russian army."I am sure American made guns are in the hands of ISIS at the moment"

Quite possible they've stolen weapons of Iraqi military, sure, but you'd be amazed at the quality of the weapons being produced in back-alley workshops throughout the mid-east by guys with little education and home-engineered tools. Just because you've got an American-looking gun doesn't mean it ever came from the US or was built under official license.I would like to strongly advise all Australians to lobby politicians to ban Putins visit. He is the guy who sponsored the SF who are perpetuating the violence in East Ukraine. He has blood on his hands . Would we allow Muammar Gaddafi to come? There are principles involved that are important . Putins home crowd will assume we accept Russian action if he is allowed to come."A slide into anarchy was - in my view - always inevitable upon the passing of Saddam; and the only possible (unlikely) alternative was that an even more brutal regime would somehow provide stability by repessing dissent."

I agree with the broad thinking, the comparison between Iraq and the former Yugoslavia is a fairly straightforward one to make insofar as both were countries which would, left to the devices of the groups inhabiting their territory, never have been single countries. That kind of situation demands very strict leadership. Whomever thought democracy might be a good idea, having seen what happened in Yugoslavia, was obviously a moron.

I further agree that the west of recent years is not to blame for today, but point out we have certainly contributed to thousands of deaths in the last decade (let's call it not-the-wests-fault since Syria fell apart, it became a local problem around that time). The west of a century ago is firmly to blame for creating the Iraqi borders and the west of today owes the poor buggers living in Iraq some effort for our previous errors. But we'll just keep stuffing it up for them like we have done since our grandparents were toddlers and they'll keep paying the price. Yay the west!I opposed the US's (and thus Australia's) invasion of Iraq because it was unnecessary and, worse, entirely counterproductive to the campaign in Afghanistan.

That said, if Amin Saikal holds George W Bush significantly responsible for Iraq's problems today, who does he hold responsible for the horror story that is Syria? The US has a lot to answer for in the last 11 years, but less today than at any point during that period. Iraq is just another domino following Egypt, Libya, Syria and significant Arab Spring movements and pro-sharia-law reactions throughout other mideast countries.I'm all in favour of bike lanes, but as I live in outer suburban Adelaide we're well catered for in that department. Sydney was never designed with anything like its current traffic in mind. Designed might not be the right word at all.

I agree with the author's plea that cyclists and motorists co-exist peacefully but it was a recent Drum article which highlighted a significant deficit in my knowledge. I'd been brought up (as both a cyclist and motorist) to understand that cyclists should be as close as practicable to the left of the road, and I'd thus concluded that riding abreast was very poor manners. Turns out it's accepted on multi-lane roads, even encouraged as a means of forcing cars to overtake in the right lane rather than share the lane with the cyclist. If I, as a cyclist and motorist who tries to follow good practice and the road rules, was unaware of this how many other drivers are too?

We need an education campaign which does more than encourage peace, we need reminders on the practical rules for dealing with situations because goodwill isn't always enough.Thanks Michael, another one I'm wrong on!

I don't care about cyclists two abreast on single lane roads if there are no cars trying to overtake, but it's a stupid rule if it holds up cars for no better reason than cyclists want to chat with each other and lack the decency to pull into single file until the traffic has cleared. Multilane roads, fair enough cars should overtake in the right lane so as long as cyclists are only occupying one lane should not be a problem."Aren't conventional cars constructed with a passenger seat adjacent the driver's seat for no better reason than the social reasons? Actually, historically the width of a lane is based on the width of two horses riding side by side for what reason? Social reasons of course. Your so called "decency" is unilateral and administered by the intimidation of cyclists by the inherent momentum of motorised vehicles. "

Right, so two cyclists pootling along side-by-side at 20 ks an hour have EVERY right to hold up miles of traffic behind them because their social conversation is the most important thing.

You're the reason motorists hate cyclists. And I write that as a cyclist.I'll go to the obvious conclusion big joe.

Pedestrians must have licences, rego, insurance and a note from mum before they so much as leave the house. That's what you're really trying to say, isn't it?

If you don't get the difference between motorised and non-motorised vehicles then we're all sorry for you. The fact is that the difference between the two in terms of risks to safety, pollution, requirements of road structure (and associated dollar cost), requirements of traffic management technology (a level crossing for motorised vehicles runs at hundreds of thousands of dollars compared with tens of dollars for similar equipment to separate non-motorised cyclists and pedestrians) and policing are barely comparable.

Add in the obvious detail that the vast majority of adult cyclists are already paying rego and petrol tax on the car which is their main source of transport (any cycling I've done since age 20 has been purely for exercise or parenting, neither of which pose much threat to society) and you're starting to look like someone who is simply paranoid about bicycles.I am also a cyclist and a motorist, and am continually baffled by the motorist rage against cyclists - to me it seems to stem from innate frustrations over traffic congestion and personal self esteem issues in some drivers.
Cyclists are clearly not really the problem in traffic congestion, and even ones who 'misbehave' are hated with a vitriolic passion that is not applied to motorists who misbehave (but who are more likely to harm others).
The lack of empathy for the human factor is striking in Australia, and I had the same impression as David Mark after resuming residence here from living in Europe. It really is a person on the bike, just like you. Maybe they are stupid, wrong, make a mistake - its possible - but they don't deserve death for it. Forgiveness please, and a little give and take would go a long way.
Cycling revolutionised my attitude in the car, where I became infinitely more patient and relaxed over my circumstances ie trapped in a metal box that is hard to put anywhere due to its excessive size - I had made a choice to drive that day and was at least not getting rained on.
Motorists have a choice - most of us do - its not about 'us' and 'them' - some people just need to maintain the rage for their own inner reasons. Its juvenile."Expensive treatment plants for their excrement. No attempt to reuse as fertilizer."

Not sure you understand how modern treatment plants work. We don't use raw sewage as fertilizer for some pretty sensible health reasons. We treat it to make it safe for use, then use it as fertilizer. Not sure what you think happens to treated sewage sludge but it's not wasted."if you think CO2 is "pollution" then you must stop exhaling right now or be a polluter yourself"

Nothing new under the sun, Mike. Dinosaurs may have changed the climate through their carbon emissions over millions of years. You have to eat and digest a lot of trees if you're a massive herbivorous dinosaur because wood isn't really that nutritional, so that's a lot of burping and farting.

We can be more certain again that the biggest extinction event the world has ever seen also came from pollution emitted by living organisms, billions of years ago. They produced a gas which didn't just change the climate, it was highly toxic to a lot of the world's life at that time (admittedly mostly bacterial) and wiped out an estimated 80% of life at that time. That pollutant? Oxygen, bad for anaerobic bacteria but it enabled the rest of us to get this far.I think the sensible middle seeks evidence-based policy where this is possible, and accepts in a somewhat ambivalent way certain political realities. On industrial relations, the sensible middle would agree that unions have the right to exist but membership should be genuinely voluntary and unions should not have a monopoly on speaking for workers. Worker protections (OHS, minimum wage) are good but should not be abused. On the environment, scientists should be given good consideration as they are on other science/health/tech issues and a limited but precautionary approach which doesn't kill industries should be pursued, however as the science becomes clearer this can be adjusted either direction according to the new science. The sensible middle is usually small-l liberal on issues such as gay marriage because there is respect for diversity.

What most politicians seem to understand by "the middle" is "the most popular view on any given issue", which is not how I'd see it.

The only politician I can think of who represented the sensible middle was Andrew Murray, former Democrat senator. Did he take positions on any issues which were far from the mainstream? (And don't cite the GST, that was at best tinkering with wholesale tax and supported by elements of both sides of politics and would not be significantly changed by government of any colour these days, so fits the definition of centrist in my book.)"it is becoming increasingly clear to me that they and the gay lobbyists are hell bent on ensuring those very same Australian people are not given a vote on the issue."

When are we ever given a vote on a single issue? It is required and occurs for constitutional changes, but there is no other mechanism for polling the electorate on specific policy matters.

Gay marriage does not require changing the constitution, so why single this out and not policy changes which actually do impact on most Australian households? Singling out a gay issue for different treatment sounds homophobic to me."Gillard was ineffective at reassuring the public that the sewn-together policy was not a harmful monster, that it would be gentle and perhaps even a force for good. Fearing the gathering townsfolk, the Labor party replaced Gillard with Rudd. Eyeing the pitchforks, Rudd promised to transform the tax into an ETS."

A clever summary of the last 6 years of climate policy, well done Sara Phillips.

Neither Rudd nor Gillard managed to effectively make the case that Australia bringing in an ETS was an important part of the world moving in the same direction. Many still refuse to believe it (and also believe that the US and China are "doing nothing" on the issue, contrary to actual fact). Labor's failure to develop a strong narrative on the issue (and others too) is the reason they're out of office and one of the reasons they struggle for credibility.Harrumph! Retirement housing is no place for ramps, grab rails or hand-held shower hoses! Don't want to attract a "oh woe is me helpless" demographic. There are profits to be made and we don't want their kind killing off our marketing!I'm waiting for the Rolling Stones to write an anthemic blues hit about the issue.Following the demise of Premier O'Farrell, who (it appears from his register of interests) failed to declare the one and only gift he received requiring declaration, I'd add political gifts to political donations in those ideas Forrest.

Just to clarify my comment about O'Farrell, the two possibilities are that he only received a single gift requiring declaration and stuffed up that single incident (not that plausible, in my view, given his amnesia about the whole shebang in front of ICAC), or he had more (as yet unknown) failures to declare. He didn't hang around long enough to answer questions so we just don't know. ICAC put up the "nothing to see here" banner before he'd even left the stand."I haven't seen anything to suggest (and ICAC certainly hasn't made a finding) that Sinodinis has done anything corrupt."

He was chairman of a company which was making large donations to a political party of which he was treasurer. The costs of the whole shebang were charged back to Sydney Water, owned by NSW taxpayers. The Libs gave the money back ONCE it hit the headlines.

Nothing to see here, eh Ben?"Of course you have nothing other than your over active imagination"

No worries John, I'll just simply reflect that we've got a situation where over $70,000 went from the company that Sinodinos was chairman to the Liberal Party, where he was treasurer, and  if he didn't know (as he claims) then that doesn't give us much faith in his competence. Is he fit to be Assistant Treasurer when he ignores less-than-trivial details?

And if there was no problem with the transaction, why did the Liberal Party feel the need to refund it?"Convinced the Greens he is pro-environment? Not on this planet he hasn't."

Is former Senate candidate Ben Oquist no longer a Green? 'Cos he's working for Clive, as widely reported in the media.I'm sure the system works well for everyone but Clive, Cranky, but there's room for your ideas too. Let the PUPs draft their own legislation, spelling errors and all. Let the Hansard print it. Let us all judge whether they're doing a better job without the interference of the Clerk. They can leave her alone and vice versa. Everyone's happy.

And Hansard will be much funnier than currently."Not sure what right an MP has in interefering in the work of the Senate."

I'm certainly not in a position to enlighten you Butz. I'd have thought that it was an abuse of the Senate and that Palmer could be sanctioned by the House of Reps for it. But the Government will undoubtedly protect Clive with their numbers. And it will all happen again tomorrow."I'm not a big fan of Clive Palmer" but you have his cv memorised? And you know what he gave as Christmas presents? Totally plausible, sure.

But, ltfc1, if Clive's so lovely why does he have to keep throwing tantrums at people? Did you see him on 7.30? I'm happy to judge him by his own behaviour, not just what people say about him, but his insistence that he not be subjected to "allegations" when he's so happy to throw them around about others is simply disgraceful. If he doesn't want to answer a question, he can do the usual legal thingo and say that's before the courts, I'm not able to discuss it in any way. Civilised. Rational. Not mad."Under our parliamentary system, public servants are supposed to be anonymous and impartial."

No, they're very prominent senior public servants. No reason for anonymity. Their work is important and should be understood and scrutinised for both their benefit and ours.

I don't think I'd previously seen a photo of the Senate Clerk but her predecessor Harry Evans is very prominent figure and well regarded for his strong defense of the rights of the Senate.The role of senior parliamentary officers, like other certain public servants who are independent of government such as judges, ombudsmen, police commissioners, public trustees etc is different to the usual public servant who is under the command of a government minister. These officials should be under public scrutiny because their own judgement is involved in their work, not just a frank and fearless recommendation up the chain to the Minister.

The Clerk of the Senate reports to/advises the President of the Senate (who is an elected Senator but not a Minister) but is also independent of the President insofar as the Clerk is obliged to be apolitical and discreet in dealing with all Senators and the President is obviously partisan. It is reasonable that they have their role scrutinised publicly. Similarly, while they are not free to run a commentary on political affairs (and this worsens Clive's attack on the Clerk, as he knew she could not give him the spray he deserved), former Clerk Harry Evans was very prominent in speaking publicly about what he perceived as threats to the independence and role of the Senate. Public servants don't do that.

It's all part of the traditional Westminster principles to which you refer. Nothing new or sudden.The recent attacks which have concerned me have been those relating to PM C-o-S Peta Credlin, Senate Clerk Rosemary Laing and the 7:30's Sarah Ferguson. I'm sure all of these women are tough enough to deal with Clive and aren't damsels in distress, but in each case Clive has felt the need to get loud and accusatory with a woman.

Despite his side-on profile, I'm not too sure that Clive's really a very big man."Senator Brandis wants to prevent an Australian 'Snowden' from emerging. This completely misjudges Mr Snowden's case."

That is hilarious stuff, Greg Barns. Mr Brandis wants to avoid having to explain to any of his foreign counterparts why Australia was spying on them. He wants to avoid anyone going public on espionage of Australian citizens of limited security concern. He wants no one to know anything about what goes on. In short, he's seen how easy Scott Morrison's press conferences are and he wants in on it.

I'd say he's judged the Snowden situation just about perfectly.What if a public official with knowledge of the spying went onto a lobbying career on the payroll of the commercial entity which benefited from the spying?I think Brandis will go the way of Conroy sooner or later. Lots of bluster but few actual reforms despite (or rather because of) some fairly one-sided debate.

The 18C changes are on hold and unlikely to get to parliament because the consultation went so badly for Brandis - he offended a lot more Liberals than was realised when he went feral with this issue. He's clearly been raked over the coals and told never to mention Israel again after his undergraduate silliness arguing with the Greens about the word 'occupied' freaked out several export industries and the entire National Party. He's been in the job for less than a year and his fingerprints are forever over numerous stuff-ups.

Contrasting his performance with that of Morrison, Hunt or even (gasp) Pyne and he is indeed the biggest loser.The idea that he'd put millions in exports under threat and create a bunch of unnecessary hose-down meetings for the Foreign Minister for the solitary reason that he'd been annoyed by the Greens' terminology is actually hilarious. And this guy is allegedly a top-shelf lawyer! It's as if he was defending OJ Simpson's murder charge and asked for the glove back after the not-guilty verdict.The only example I can think of in recent years was the case of Alan Kessing. He denies leaking reports about security flaws within Customs at Sydney Airport but was convicted of this. At worst, the results of the leaks were positive for people using the airport - they resulted in various problems being addressed rather than swept under the carpet. Like Snowden, it's only people who were so embarrassed by this that they arguably have a conflict of interest who wanted him punished.

So that incident highlights the need to protect whistleblowers, not punish them. No surprises that Brandis is going the opposite way."His personal foibles, values and business interests will come to the fore, and they will need to be explained and managed."

Clive wants nothing to do with explaining his business issues, and he will see no reason to conduct his business any differently now he's pretending to be the Opposition leader. His storm out on the 7.30 Report was the real Clive. He didn't even stay around to listen to the question or discuss why he objected to it.

Clive loves dishing it out but he can't take it."He cannot comment on court matters."

Hassa, if you seriously believe that Clive was FORCED by his legal position to yell "Don't talk to me about allegations" and storm off set then Clive's got you exactly where he wants you.

He could calmly have explained what you're saying to the interviewer and the voters in their lounge rooms. He could have appeared calm and rational. Why didn't he?Peta Credlin, Rosemary Laing, Clive loves picking on women who he knows can't go public in response to him doesn't he?My gaydar is pretty useless. I'm often surprised to be the last to work out someone is gay. And someone's sexuality isn't a big deal to me anyway, so I think that may be a factor.

I once watched then-Adelaide-Crows-coach Neil Craig pick out with perfect accuracy simply based on appearance some Port Adelaide supporters at a corporate event (no they weren't wearing team scarves, and, actually, they did look like Port Adelaide supporters). We like to affix labels to people, sexual orientation is just one. We like to guess what labels to affix and we enjoy getting them right.

It's always been obvious to me that Thorpe is somewhat effeminate in his manner, despite clearly being the toughtest athlete in the race on many occasions. He's also clearly been struggling with a few demons and as someone who did so much for Australian sport we've been hoping he'll get past those. This looks like a great step to have taken and I wish him all the best."Thorpe has previously received negotiated settlements with journalists who have stated he was gay."

I've googled various terms ("Ian Thorpe negotiated journalist" "Ian Thorpe negotiated settelment" etc) and NOTHING comes up to support your claim that this has happened. Who was the journalist and when was the article which lead to the settlement?Why do we have this debate ? I don't really care and it puzzles me that so many do

He is/was a champion swimmer and from what I have seen in the media, a decent human being and this is all that should really matter.Article ignores that Thorpie is 13 years older than an 18 year old of today working out that they're gay and how they feel about it and what they want to say about it.

A lot has happened in that 13 years. There are many more schoolkids who are comfortably out than 13 years ago. It might not be easy for everyone but there is a lot more awareness and visibility of young gay people and that's got to help.

That Thorpe felt the best way was to lie when asked about his sexuality by journalists at age 16 is nothing to judge him for.You're ignoring the HUGE influence on senate preferences of the ticket-votes which are generated by the over 80% of voters who vote 'above the line'.

The lower house elects a single member. Every voter fills out all of the boxes on the paper. If you just write a '1' and leave the other boxes blank, it's an informal vote. Political parties hand out their suggested how-to-vote information to voters but it's just a suggestion.

The effect of electing someone to a single seat using this preferential system is that the least-unpopular candidate gets elected. A first-past-the-post non-preferential system elects the most popular. Often the two systems would produce the same result, but I prefer the idea that we elect the least unpopular and not necessarily the most popular candidate.

The Senate gives voters the option of filling out all the boxes. It also gives them the option of 'voting above the line', which the vast majority of voters use. When someone votes above the line, it means their vote is counted according to the ticket submitted by the party they are voting for. This means that all 'above the line' votes for each party direct preferences in the same way. Very few voters who vote below the line, and choose their own preference flow, would make exactly the same choices as the ticket votes.

Take away 'above the line' voting and you'll be able to retain preferential voting in the Senate without electing unpopular nobodies for a stronger democracy."He made his fortune by outwitting power hungry sociopaths."

The strategies for achieving what Clive has achieved in business are vastly different to the required strategies for political success. Are Clive's voters as gullible as Greens voters, or will his support collapse due to the insane volatility of his policy ideas and demands? Time will tell.SVJ, the people who like Palmer, or what he is doing are 1/ anti-abbott - the enemy of my enemy is my friend 2/addicted to the farcical theatre Palmer provides 3/ against democratic governance (please don't try to say that Palmer's machinations are in the interest of democracy). For Clive, it's all about Clive. All the present government has to do is be patient, don't buy into the ridiculous situation and Clive will fizzle out either as a consequence of the pending legal action or the weight of public opinion who become sick of his behaviour.
You really shouldn't use Clive Palmer and 'integrity' in the same sentence, unless it is to comment on the lack of one or the other.
Clive is interested in power. Being rich isn't enough, he has discovered he can buy his way into parliament, and that people are gulliable enough to think PUP is the viable 3rd choice the Democrats used to be, and the Greens wished they were."If a democracy has the mandate to keep secrets"

I suppose that's true, but it certainly doesn't apply to the Abbott government which promised oppenness and transparency, and specifically promised weekly briefings by the Immigration Minister which aren't happening.

They might not be dictators but it does make them liars.Operational transparency, of "on-water issues"?

Pull yourself together, man. Loose lips sink ships, don't you know? These refugee chappies are damned resourceful, they've probably converted their identification papers into crude torpedos, just waiting to fire on our brave lads patrolling the oceans. Secrecy is of the utmost! It's war! WAR!!

Now if you'll excuse me I think I need to go and have a bit of a rest. Nurse!"They would be doing exactly the same thing even if there had been no drownings."

Probably. But if you are concerned about lots and lots of drownings, then you find yourself supporting offshore processing. Because it does actually stop drownings.

Yes it's horrible and it's not without it's own risk of death. But compare the risk and you find yourself supporting offshore processing. Because numerically, it's a much smaller risk.

I supported Rudd's amendments in 2008 but it was the drownings off Christmas Island that changed my mind on the issue.Ticket prices are very expensive now. Most of the games I want to attend are the games that have been made more expensive.Would the rise of Foxtel, and particularly packages appealing specifically to AFL fans and "every game live and no commercials during play" have played a role? Compared with a delayed telecast of a local game on free-to-air, Foxtel is good if you are happy to pay and it would particularly appeal the the keenest footy fans.

The irony would be that the Foxtel deal was critical in increasing the AFL's price for the television rights and thus the amount of cash available to the sport."how about separating the migrant opinion from those born here?"

The results would, in my estimation, be starkly different to the US where the existing immigrant population has been largely pro-Democrat because of immigration policy issues.

Our immigration story is different. Immigrants here have largely arrived in groups at different times. North-eastern Europeans in the post-war years, followed by southern Europeans in the 50's and 60's, Lebanese and Vietnamese in the 70's, Chinese in the 80's and early 90's, middle eastern and African since then. 

A lot of Australian migrants arrived before 1970 and they'd be identical to the broader population on the questions of immigration, possibly even more supportive of Abbott than the general population. "We were refugees but at least we turned up with papers" my Latvian grandma was heard to say at times."There are no jobs now"

The unemployment rate today, as the world economy remains relatively depressed having been so for several years, is lower than when I was entering the job market. I'm 38.

I'd suggest cutting back on the talkback radio listening Semprini, you've got that "we'll all be rooned" thinking made famous in a century-old poem about Australian pessimism. 
"I wonder why it was so simple and straightforward for us? Was it because we are .........white?"

Of course it was Deb. If you emigrated today you'd find it just as straightforward too. When non-english-speaking-migration opened up after WW2, it was the 'balts' who were first off the boat because they were......white. The Greeks and Italians came a few years later, after white Aussies had gotten used to unusual accents.

If you have to describe most Australian racism in a sentence it's that we're primarily racist against Aborigines and the latest mob to arrive, in this current time that's middle-eastern muslims (but in Pauline Hanson's day it was the Chinese, and prior to that the Vietnamese and Lebanese). Not all Aussies are racist of course, but my description fits the sort of dog whistling we see in the tabloid press or hear on talkback radio."I really don't believe there is factual information out there for the migrants to access before they attempt the trip"

Well there is a lot of Australian government PR warning of the harsh measures on high rotation advertising but of course the people smugglers have their own marketing strategies too. Neither particularly constitute 'factual information'.

It highlights the bizarreness of the government's secrecy about this stuff. If they're going to stuff people in orange lifeboats or intercept them in international waters, why not publicise it for all it's worth? "We're mad dogs! We'll find some way of getting rid of you no matter how leaky your boat is and even if our High Court gets cranky about it! Nothing will stop us!""the judges are making the rules"

Riiight. Judges, not politicians, wrote and voted on the Maritime Powers Act and the Migration Act, pigs fly and you're a brilliant lawyer.Interesting question gbe. Do laws apply in international waters? If I want to smack someone in the head is this no longer unlawful if we're on a cruise?

I think you'll find Australian naval and immigration officers are in fact bound by laws even when they're off the coast.All correct Chris, how'd you be as a suburban Family First voter who works a blue-collar job and seeing Bob Day get elected, only to hear his first media after the election being about the need to kill off penalty rates? Day has a hard-right economic agenda which will do many of his supporters no favours.

The newest FF state MP in SA is another former Liberal politician. They're mouthpieces for the Liberal Party and not crossbenchers."they have a more noble "pet issue"."

My family is not exactly the traditional model. My wife had her kids young (couple of different dads, too) and so when we got together and then married I took on four step-kids. Some of them have a gay grandfather (on their dad's side) with whom they have a good relationship. The kids are now adults and are law-abiding and involved in education, training and, in one case, parenting. It's a great family.

But when your own step-kids happily describe how much they object to everything Family First has to say about families and marriage it really hits home how spiteful and destructive Family First's "noble" view about families really is.Bob Day is a "home builder". He described himself as a plumber on radio this week. He's also a multimillionaire businessman who speaks like a Liberal rather than a cross-bencher. It's almost like he has a long history in the Liberal Party - oh, wait, he actually does and has been a prominent candidate. There's nothing "not of the political class" about him.

Two of the three members of the Family First Party elected in South Australia to state and federal parliaments are former prominent Liberals who are much more interested in bashing Labor than being tradtional cross-benchers. Why FF voters don't just do the obvious thing and vote Liberal is beyond me given the actual candidates they elect.All we've heard so far from Bob Day is about the need to abolish penalty rates. Where's FF's policy that Sunday is just another workday?Perfectly correct Socrates. Curtin and, say, Ricky Muir have quite a bit of crossover, except that only one of them seemed to develop an interest in politics and the other has gotten himself elected to the Senate regardless."Is it any wonder there is such a hue and cry in some quarters about a voting system this nation has had since its inception"

The unfortunate error in the first sentence seriously detracts from the rest of the post. The election of microparty senators attracting tiny primary votes did not happen in the days prior to group "above the line" voting for the Senate. We most certainly have NOT had that since the inception of the nation.@Stephen WS, microparty candidates did not get elected to the Senate or to other preferentially elected legislatures in Australia prior to 'above the line' voting. Any independents who were elected were elected on the basis of their actual popularity, eg Brian Harradine got a running mate up on preferences at one election.

Ricky Muir could never have been elected without the specific preference flows that follow from above the line ticket votes. If everyone voted below the line, the microparty preference spray would work very differently to how it does with ticket votes.

Your comparison with preferential voting in the House of Reps, while imperfect, makes my point. Ricky Muir could never have even run second in a House of Reps seat on his Motoring Enthusiast ticket."this is the system the LNP and ALP were happy to have when it benefited them"

I believe above-the-line voting was brought in 30 years ago to reduce informal voting. The LNP and ALP benefited by using friendly minor parties to direct preferences to them (eg anti-land-tax parties for the Libs, better-public-school parties for Labor). The effect of 'microparties' generating and preference swapping only occurred after a minor party guy (was it shooting and fishing?) got himself elected to the NSW upper house in 1995. This prompted the realisation that for the cost of putting down a deposit with the electoral authority and doing the right preference deals, you could "win" 8 years on an upper house MP salary and do no actual work at all. 

This is why all the microparties exist and preference whispering is now an actual job."if the RSL will comment"

Forget the FTA, how do you feel about Tony Abbott's announcement in the opening months of his Prime Ministership, without any consultation of the RSL, that Japan is now a "strong ally"? That's a much bigger issue than the FTA for the RSL I'd have thought, and it's a ship that Abbott has happily sailed."Excluding refinancing, housing investors now make up roughly half the new home loans being issued by Australia's banks."

This was surely never the intention of negative gearing. The distortion to the housing market by that half of the customers is insane. Come on Mr Hockey, what were you saying about the age of entitlement? What's the Liberal Party's general philosophy about distortion of the free market by policy which overreaches its original intention?I'm not convinced it was a war. It was definitely a campaign to suppress a population with frequent acts of violence and no regard for the hopes, views or even opinions of that population, and you do see that sort of thing in a war. But in a war (including the Maori War) there's usually some sort of organised military response from the other side and this article refers to none.@WP, I think Ted's question was very reasonable. GBE's count of 1.9 million deserves investigation. It is possible that the employment categories Ted raised are in fact a majority of that cohort. Which would rather undermine GBE's point.

Then you, WP, "made the Authors point" (sic) by stating that Ted attacked him/her and accused him/her of wanting people sacked. No, Ted asked two questions and made zero accusations (if we don't count the suggestion that GBE is paraniod as an accusation, I'm comfortable with this). Asking questions about where someone is coming from is not attacking them.Oh, okay, we'll ignore the generational change in our political classes from community members being elected by their peers to professional politicians who've hopped on their partisan bandwagon at university and never gotten off. We'll ingore the rise of the advisor and the armies of media flacks. We'll ignore that despite all the advisors and flacks the sense of narrative disappeared from Labor politics in the late 90's and from Liberal politics at around the time Howard won a senate majority. Without a narrative, argument becomes pretty hollow.

We'll just blame the voters and online commentators who've spent the last decade being trained to behave this way by every political campaign during that period.I don't blame you Craig. Something, and I'm still trying to work out what, happened in Australian politics in the mid 90's. My theory is that it happened in New South Wales, where the political culture is both the biggest influence on the national political culture but it's also the ugliest.

Take John Howard (please!). Not enough just to defeat Keating and be PM, he oversaw a significant cultural change in the NSW Liberal Party. The wets were all drowned. The Liberal Party became the Conservative Party and promptly became unelectable in NSW for a decade. The NSW Labor Party meanwhile became addicted to pokies and sports clubs and trendy developers and it all got pretty disgusting in the eyes of the average Labor voter. Even this year a NSW Premier has resigned over his failure to declare a gift. He went quickly before any questions about any other failings in his parliamentary register could be answered. He declared no gifts at all so we are left to conclude that the Grange was a one-off. It's a cultural issue for everyone involved as far as I can see.

Any battle of ideas has just became a slanging match of slogans. I don't blame this on 'shock-jocks' particularly, I see them as more the symptom than the illness.I only voted Democrats once but golly I miss them now.

I for one can't handle the thought of another six years of media articles about pollies and journos waiting to find out how Senators Day, Leyonhjelm, Madigan, Muir and Lambie are going to line up on matters before the Senate. My brain hurts at the prospect."Dems got wiped out once Don was no longer their leader"

I think the late Janine Haines did a great job.Interesting comment Monty. I suspect it's a relatively small number of people who fit the description you describe, but it's probably enough to make the diference in some outer suburban electorates around the country. It's probably also prevalent in country towns.

Where you really see massive numbers of the folks you describe is across the 'red states' of the US. Particularly since their president is, you know, a bit uppity (nudge nudge). Most Australian bogans aren't religious (and certainly not giving up their Sunday mornings) and this is probably the difference.Firstly, yes I've never lived in a rural community and you are correct I'm no expert in them.

I was thinking about it while considering people who vote conservative out of a sense of anger (at "them", whoever they are) despite it not being in their financial interest to do so. People in rural communities seem more likely to vote conservative even if this is against their own financial interest, but I agree I don't particularly understand their motivation to do so. If you're saying its out of a sense of community harmony then I'll accept that.I'm noveau bogan. Grew up very middle class, private Anglican school etc then met the love of my life and moved to Adelaide's outer south to raise a bunch of kids and dogs among working class, largely limited education bogans.

It's the best move I've ever made. No pretention, no BS, tell it like it is. No point arguing even when they're obviously wrong but just move on to the next topic and you'll be sharing a warm laugh pretty soon.

I just can't work out why all of them have kids called Dylan or Dillon or D'l'n (alright, made up the last one).I do drink FUIC from the 600ml carton during the week then the wife and I go to the very un-bogan Willunga Farmers Market on a Saturday and I drink the gourmet flavoured milk there. So you're very correct that I'm at best a wanna-be bogan. Can anyone think of anything sadder?What's to stop me hiring a nanny to look after the kids while the wife and I work, and giving her a shopping list to pick up our groceries (she can drag the kids around the supermarket, it's exercise right?) and get her to do the laundry when the kids go down for a nap? There's NOTHING in the article which addresses this, I note.

Taxpayer subsidised chores.

The Liberal voting crowd will love it. Joe Hockey's age of entitlement is back ... for the wealthy end of town anyway."There's NOTHING in the article which addresses this, I note."

Actually, just a quick correction to my own post, the article links to another article which directly concedes that nannies do light housework as part of their normal daily routine, plus anything required for the happiness of the children - so that's the shopping and laundry covered too. Yep, my tax dollars subsidising some lawyer's private ironing service - yay."If nannies are happy to do the ironing etc, then non-rich people can take advantage of that too, since they'll still get the assistance to help pay for a nanny."

I tried taking my laundry down to the local child care centre and advancing this argument, and I won't repeat what they said to me but you'd think a child care worker wouldn't swear quite so much."I thought nannies were live-in babysitters."

Plus they'll do housework, shopping, ironing, laundry and cooking if you start to hint you'll sack them if they don't. So that's great for those with nannies, less cool for taxpayers subsidising them."The reality is some households work better with the Nanny option and so do some children."

No mention of required qualifications for nannies in your proposed scheme I note John. Only people "not being dictated to" about what they do with their government subsidy. Hmm.

In any such scheme, you'll find nannies are a rort for getting housework, shopping and meals done while parents are working and/or playing. Kids will have much less educational and social outcomes under your proposal than they'll get up the road in the child care centre. Lazy parents win, kids and taxpayers lose. Great idea."One of the largest groups to access this service are families like mine who live in tiny remote communities and on isolated stations where other childcare services will never be offered."

No problems with your ideas for remote communities, Mother of four, but they make no sense in well populated areas where there are child care facilities. Employing a nanny for two or three kids is far less economical than having a group of staff working with thirty kids.I'm guessing you're not an economist NewsAddict.

You've included accommodation and meals in a nanny's wage and then pretended these things cost nothing to the person providing them in concluding that nannies are "far more economical".

If food and board costs nothing, I'll move into your place thanks. I won't look after your kids though so no need to pay me a nanny's wage. Now that's economical.Quite a lot of migrants turned up and became instant life-long Liberal voters, let's not forget.

My mob are Latvian. My grandparents arrived in the late 1940s and were passionately anti-communist Liberal voting New Australians, as were most of their countrymen and others from Baltic countries.

When the Vietnamese arrived in the 1970's, Whitlam famously called them 'Asian Balts', referring to their instant rejection of anything to the left of political centre. No wonder Fraser was and is pro-refugee.

I explained that story to my grandmother once and she was chuffed.The older Latvians and Lithuanians I've met wouldn't have given two hoots about the DLP or even the end of the cold war, they just joined the Liberal tribe and stayed there. They were predominantly Lutheran and not Catholic though.

It would be interesting to know whether the Vietnamese refugees have stuck with the Liberal Party which welcomed them in the late 70's. I heard new SA Governor Hieu Van Le interviewed the other day and while he was very deliberately apolitical in his interview he was clearly concerned by the tone of the government when discussing refugees today."Refugees sap the hard earned wealth of our country as many are on welfare for their entire lives here."

Well that's grossly offensive to my late grandfather, a political refugee who brought experience and skills and worked in manufacturing from the time he arrived until the day he retired in his late 60's."So why do so many of them drive buses? or work in unskilled admin or retail jobs?"

In a surprising number of cases it's because their medical or engineering qualifications are not recognised here.Not disagreed Sue, I was responding to the quoted point.

Even if they should not be practicing doctors (at least until upskilling as required) you would surely not suggest these people are unskilled, as MT_Syd was?Ah, now I get where you're coming from MT. Sorry if I misunderstood previously.

I heard a parliamentary debate about 457s about a year ago. A Lib MP was passionately defending them because he'd actually found a business in his electorate which had genuinely been unable to retain or train a worker. Specifically, the job was for a bicycle mechanic.

I haven't heard of any other examples of genuine need however."Finally, I gave in and applied for a job with a disability organisation that was, quite frankly, outside my area of interest and qualifications."

But Stella, weren't you specifically referred to by Kevin Andrews recently as an example of a disabled person who's found no barriers in getting employed? Don't tell me Kevin's telling porkies!Stephen, I refer you to this graph on the ABC http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-05-15/jericho-graph-2-government-revenue-and-expenditure/4690386 See the huge gap between government revenue and income? It seems to correlate with Labor mismanagement.I would just like too add one more thing.
Even from a purely financial point of veiw it is going too cost more per day too accomodate youths in jail (who have no other choice but too commit crimes), which makes this whole thing even more ridiculous.
But then again this will provide opportunities for profit making private prisons so there's that. This is the beginning of the american model of how an economy should be run, and we all know how well that is going.Ben, if the players aren't risking damaging their spines or their brains it's just not a real sport to Americans. And if it's just not a real sport, it's bloody obviously a communist plot. But that link to the Ann Coulter article shows a level of paranoia which the John Birch Society could never dream of.

It's not just soccer, I note, it's also the metric system.

"hey your kids risk brain damage playing your brand of footy"

Hey yank I love NFL (go Saints) but it's an amazingly brutal sport. I can tell you that no AFL player has ever used his head as a battering ram like an NFL player does (or at least used to do, have they updated that rule?) very, very often. AFL players do get concussed from time to time but more often than not the other guy gets penalised and often suspended.

As I say, love the NFL, watch lots of games but if it was banned I'd say good thing too."He is a likeable character and often is seen as doing good things for the community at large but his entry into the Senate was equally questionable."

What absolute rubbish. Xenephon was a SA state MP elected in 1997 and re-elected (with a running mate also elected from his ticket) in 2006. He quit the SA Legislative Council to run for the Senate in 2007.

He won a quota in his own right in 2007. There is no way you can say he played the system because he didn't rely on anyone's preferences AT ALL. He was elected ahead of Penny Wong, Simon Birmingham and Sarah Hanson-Young (who won less than half a quota in her own right).

You really need to check the basic facts before you hit post.Bob Day is a Liberal through and through (he's been a prominent Lib candidate in a winnable seat only a few years ago) and will be of some disappointment to the Family First voters who elected him.

His first statements upon getting elected were about the damaging effects of penalty rates on business. Imagine being a suburban FF voter and waking up after the election to hear your newly elected Senator demanding your kids take a pay-cut when they do a weekend shift in their part-time work! More recently, he's been doing everything he can to point out what he sees as evidence of defects in SA's economy.

When conservative Tasmanian Christians elected and re-elected Brian Harradine, they got a Senator who fought tooth and nail for results for Tasmania. Harradine frequently sold out his principals if he could get funds, jobs or benefits for Tasmanians.

South Australian conservative Christians have managed to elect a bloke who on his form so far is just a Liberal mouthpiece who is more interested in criticising the Labor Party than achieving actual results locally. Shame.Baz, population can be falling within a generation if we take sensible measures. It's the only way our carbon emissions will fall sharply enough to make a difference.

Your hopeless straw man about population reduction requiring killing and draconianism will only become a reality if we follow your advice and do nothing until it's the only option.

Because simple maths tells us that nothing can grow forever in a limited space with limited resources. Not that you'd guess that from anything written in your very long post.Can we "stabilise greenhouse gas concentrations "at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic (human induced) interference with the climate system"."?

Because our atmosphere is a fixed, finite size then the issue is the total carbon being pumped in. We can reduce our carbon-output-per-population but if the population grows exponentially, as it does, then we're still stuffed.

The author has written about "the question greenies are too afraid to discuss" but he's too afraid to mention population, just like governments and a lot of greenies too."the rate of growth has steadily fallen"

Perhaps, but you're really just splitting hairs - yes the rate of growth has reduced in the last few decades but it's no game changer. Improvements in medicine, sanitation and food transportation increase life expectancies so the overall number of mouths to feed and the overall carbon emissions keep going up at an alarming rate.

I hope for my grandkids sake that you're right about technology. If we don't take clever measures to reduce population now or soon, then brutality and dictatorship will certainly do the job once we start to hit a tipping point as far as our capacity to feed ourselves is concerned.Yes, we do have to steward our environment and there is reasoning and evidence for anthropogenic climate change. But, a good approach may come from less hype (e.g. as demonstrated by this superficial and inadequately researched article), more sobre thinking (for example about the risks of climate engineering), a modicum at least of hope and the goodwill to converse with those who are fearful about changes to the status quo (e.g. what the Greens seem incapable of). 

It seems to me that the biggest hurdles to sensible action in the face of greenhouse are perfectionism (the  Greens), doing anything because something must be done (e.g climate engineering) and lackadaisical journalism (eg. this article). Why did not the Greens support the Rudd/Turnbull plan as a necessary first step?.

Here's some commonsense from the FAO's document on livestock and carbon emission. Livestock are not climate bogeys:

'Possible interventions to reduce emissions are thus, to a large extent, based on technologies and practices that improve production efficiency at animal and herd levels. They include the use of better quality feed and feed balancing to lower enteric and manure emissions. Improved breeding and animal health help to shrink the herd overhead(i.e. unproductive part of the herd) and related emissions.Dear Esther

It may be useful for you to make a cup of tea and drink it while you read 'Climate Change: Evidence and Causes'. It is a joint publication from the UK's Royal Society and the USA's National Academy of Sciences". It can be downloaded athttps://royalsociety.org/policy/.../climate-evidence-causes. Or, you could look at the articles available at Australian Academy of Science and on their website.  
I was helped towards thinking for myself long ago. Fortunatelyfor me, I had a chemistry teacher who (in 1957!) explained the thoughts of the famous chemist Svante Arrhenius to a class of 15 year olds. This inlcuded the 'greenhouse' action of various gases. 

You know, the lack of science education in Australia is tanatamount to child abuse. We have deprived generations with tools for thinking and responding to pressing issues like climate change.
"McDonalds is a service."

Just because you have service doesn't mean you are a service. Service industry is not service. It is industry.What does 'professional' mean if it doesn't mean making yourself a central feature of the business of sport, Rhonda?

You're right that had this been just another boofhead we would be looking at a victimless situation without penalty. But when you're a central figure in a large enterprise in the public eye (and there would be no business model without the public eye in the case of entertainment such as sport) then it's a different set of rules as to what you're seen to be up to in public. It's not even, as the author of the article seeks to pretend, about being a role model to kids. It's about keeping things savoury as far as sponsors and their products go. It's all a business and the decisions like sacking Carney aren't moralistic, they're good marketing.

Our earlier sports professionals were quite often amateurs copping some minor remuneration for their time. They'd have behaved themselves much better for $650K per year, I'm betting.Righto Rhonda, so you think the fact that Carney is paid about twice as much as the PM makes no difference to why he got sacked? You think that the reaction by everyone would have been the same if this was an amateur out with his mates for a night on the town?

I agree with your original comment insofar as there is a lot of brouhaha for no actual crime. But you're very naive if you think that the brouhaha is not about the business that is sport, and you somehow think it's about actual sport.Not everyone running around with a bit of pigskin must be a socially aware role model. Carney could have a much easier life if he trained less, drank a bit more and ran around on the weekend with his mates at the local ground. And no one would care when a photo of him 'letting off steam' went on social media, and it would be unlikely to go viral.

But that would mean giving up the hundreds of thousands of dollars and the celebrity lifestyle.

These guys can't have it both ways. They're either professional sportsmen (with everything that means) or they're unprofessionals, also known as amateurs.No mention of the sponsors, the media deals and the personal endorsements which fund the whole bizzo Mandas?

The expectations that footballers will be role models might be, as you say, idiotic. The expectation that footballers will conduct themselves so as not to cost their club sponsors and jeapordise the whole enterprise is, on the other hand, good business and in no way idiotic.

No one cares if he pisses on himself. But he's pissing on the business which pays him so well, and that's where the problems begin.Facebook has demonstrated quantitatively and rigorously how of group think works. Facebook should be congratulated for coming clean about it. I sense a hint of envy on the part of the writer. I bet he would have loved to do the same but didn't have the tools or will to do it."there is a danger for the greens that they will be seen as just another bunch of politicians"

They are just another bunch of politicians. Egos rule the day, leaders get undermined and (as last week) occasionally rolled on policy, they struggle to enunciate economic policy (are they centrist-liberal or socialist and why won't they tell us?) and it's all going to end a la Democrats.

Like Fox News in the US, which is widely suspected of doing just enough to crazy-up the Republicans to lose (inevitably due to mad comments about rape) because its business model is much, much more successful during Democratic presidencies, the Greens are perennial oppositionists whose voice gets lost during Liberal administrations when Labor is in the relatively easy gig of opposition. They are much more vocal and media-friendly when opposing a Labor administration. Similarly, PUP won't get a look-in during a Labor administration but are very interesting currently."Bit hard to sell global warming when people can clearly see there has been none to very little."

What? You're trolling, right? The last twenty years have seen many of the hottest years on record and we haven't seen a year which is below long-term average since the 1970's.

Sydney had two days below 20 degrees this year until the end of May. People other than you can tell it's getting warmer.That wasn't my argument in support of climate change Cherna, it was a response to a specific quote in the previous post. But don't let details prevent you building strawmen, it's what deniers do all the time.

Of course weather over a few months in one place is not credible as an argument supporting the existance of climate change. I'm very happy to use the global data regarding air temperature, ocean temperature, ocean chemistry, changes to ecosystems and any other relevant facts to support the existance of climate change.

I'm also satisfied, as it happens, to concede that reducing emissions per head of population in a world whose population is increasing will probably not have the desired effect. So I'm not reading from the usual script on that detail, it appears. It's bigger than mothballing coal fired power stations I can tell you.The article is correct that Palmer's announcement is a play for time. It then contradicts this suggesting that Al Gore has successfully used this opportunity to demonstrate that action is "inevitably taking place".

It's either a way of stopping action (seems likeliest given all of the caveats Clive has thrown into his scheme) or it's action (as Gore might like to hope).

Gore is going to flush his credibility if he can't explain himself over this. His political enemies will make certain of it."How does any sane person advocate a climate change solution that is not global?"

Perfectly reasonable statement but the reality is that there is no negotiation of a global scheme and if everyone sits back and waits for a global scheme it will never happen. That's exactly how Clive wants it, he just described it rather differently while he was standing in front of his new best mate.ETS = Emissions Trading Scheme. The right to pollute becomes a tradeable commodity in its own marketplace.

Care to name any tradeable commodities in marketplaces that the top end of town isn't making money off?I think the last thing Peter Greste wants is Al Jazera getting more involved in this matter. The Egyptian regime hates them. That's pretty much the reason Greste is being treated the way he is.Nothing here helps the push for global action. Australia has moved from an example-setter to a sit-backer, meanwhile emissions go up and the planet warms.

But, as is often noted, even a global scheme which allows for indefinite growth of the human population will see the overall situation go backwards anyway.

I'm working my way towards a relatively early grave through some excellent lifestyle choices but I worry for my grandkids' futures.The more we see of Clive, the madder he seems.

The bizarre and, as it turns out, factually dodgy attack on Peta Credlin looked plain ugly. Have a go at the PPL policy, but naming an individual and accuse her of self-interest when she wasn't even going to be affected by the PPL policy looked like bashing a woman. Can't have played out well with female PUP voters."I thought that Bernardi &amp; his ilk had that position covered."

As a South Australian, I'm very aware that SA has a long tradition of supporting genuinely liberal Liberals. Steele Hall, Robert Hill, Amanda Vanstone and today Simon Birmingham are all reasonable, fairly centrist liberals who have played a fair role in shaping our nation in recent years. Chris Pyne is liberal from time to time but is generally just mad.

That the SA Liberals would put Bernardi at the top of the ticket, ahead of Birmingham, last election speaks volumes doesn't it?@Peter, your reference to "$000's of millions he owes" is, as any mathematician will tell you, a reference to zero million dollars. Or no dollars. Maths.

The actual figure is around $6 million. Neither zero nor, as you appear to have been trying to suggest, billions. Maths. It's your friend if you want to let it into your life.The idea of a Festival of Dangerous Ideas is itself a fairly dumb one. A DVD of Dangerous Ideas or a Website of Dangerous Ideas would be a far more sensible way to present dangerous ideas for precisely the reason they had to cancel this clown. 

But is anything as dumb as the idea of a Festival of Appropriately Uncontroversial "Dangerous" Ideas? What a wankfest."who gets to decide what is "appropriately uncontroversial""

Well, the organisers in conjunction with tabloid papers, breakfast television and talkback radio, as occurred in this case. My point was they're watering down their own festival so that the ideas are now only discussed if they seem a bit dangerous, not actually might be, you know, dangerous.

I'm all in favour of debating the issue of why Iran (and plenty of other places) are wrong to criminalise homosexuality, Cory Bernardi would presumably try to shut me down (although he does like criticising Iran, so hard to say) and talkback radio would have the final vote. Business as usual."Muslim culture also suppresses women intellectually."

Australia got its first female national leader in 2010. The US has never had one.

Pakistan beat us to it by many years.

That's muslim culture suppressing women intellectually?Here is a dangerous idea the festival could have considered, "Honour killings of men are justifiable". I wonder why they didn't think of it. Too unrealistic, too far fetched perhaps?Really, men have been murdered since the dawn of civilisation by their wives, aunts, sisters,  village mobs for sullying the family honour. Nah, it's just too dangerous to consider the idea of honour killings when you have your own skin in the game.Australian voters don't insist on their preferred party being ideologically pure (except for the never-satisfied purists, of course, but there are less than you might imagine and most of them grow out of it), but they do expect them to keep to a basic narrative.

Abbott has proven himself as hopeless as the two PMs before him at this task. His line about the fuel excise being effectively a carbon tax is just the latest in a long line of appalling and pointless inconsistency. The only saving grace for him is that the election is a long way off.

Meanwhile, the Greens crawl ever-closer to a Democratesque ego-driven explosion.Peter Costello's crowning achievement was the regulation which saw Australia's banks steer much clearer of high risk financial products than banks in Europe, Asia and the US.

I remember a similar proposal to the one discussed here in the late 90's. The Multilateral Agreement on Investment would have ensured a race to the bottom when it came to sucking up to corporations around the world. It was being seriously discussed by the time protests built up and it was suddenly dropped like a stone.

History should repeat here. It will only take Peter Costello to come out and rubbish this thing for all sides of politics to follow.As a card-carrying member of "the bogan masses", I think you've underestimated us.

Politics junkies will remember the Multilateral Agreement on Investment being an issue almost 20 years ago. Who knocked that disastrous little idea off (at least as far as the debate in Australia went)? Pauline Hanson, queen of the bogues.You've ignored my point in your rush to judge bogans Mitor.

Talk back radio, son. Do you hear me? I'll repeat myself. Talk back radio.

Quit your desperate panicking about bogans not getting it and get yourself on commercial talkback with your concerns. They'll be eating out of your hand and before you know it you'll be thinking about running for the Senate."But, if it's raising money. good !"

I agree, shame the Catholic Church is opposed to the research being supported by the ice bucket challenge.

If I donate one of my own cells to become a cell line, have I killed anyone? The Catholic Church says yes I have if it's a stem cell. Meanwhile a massive research opportunity with extremely promising results has a hard time going anywhere because of this stupidity.

Type 'catholic church opposes ice bucket challenge' into a search engine for news on this issue."They did build up a future fund."

No, they came up with a way of reducing the unfunded superannuation liabilities relating to some public servants. It certainly wasn't a 'future fund' in the sense of it being a rainy day resource to tide us through a tough time."all and sundry who flee such troubles as my kids sure as hell dont need to deal with the problems they import in 20 or 30 years time."

They used to say the same about Italian, Greek and Vietnamese immigrants too. Now 30 years down the track they're all happily in Team Australia."the greeks and italians came from societies based upon similar values to our own"

So why did they cop a generation of racism then? Why was everything about their culture (dress, language, food, music, family relationships, religion, funerals etc etc etc) singled out for criticism by anglos?

I don't need to try again, you need to get out more. Speak to folks who arrived in the 1950's about attitudes towards them."Nations usually make a legal case prior to taking overt military action."

The importance of this must be underlined. The US was happy to rely on information from blatantly biased sources to justify the invasion of Iraq a decade ago and it became mired in a mess because there was never a way to define when the mission would end. What would US success have looked like in Iraq? No one knew. The very opposite of previous wars which were either victorious or otherwise. Afghanistan too was a war which could never be 'won', only lost to varying degrees.

Any case to involve the west militarily in the mid east now needs to explain what the mission is, what success will look like, when the mission will end etc. Getting involved for no better reason than because we should will guarantee that we can never leave, at least not with dignity.Well he hasn't been locked up, so it appears the answer is yes. His customers also have a right to walk right past his store, and it appears there's no shortage of that."Strange clause 18C is."

Way to rewrite history aGuy, the SMH apologised for the cartoon in order to avoid problems under 18C, and if Bolt had done the same about the article you admit was "flawed" (actually full of lies, but why split hairs) he too would have had less problems.

18C works. It just doesn't work before offence is caused, quite correctly 'thought crime' is not a real thing in this country so we have to rely on people breaking the law to actually break it before we can prosecute them.

By your logic laws against murder don't stop murders happening so we should scrap them. Good one."even if you don't tell them that's your reason"

You are correct it's illegal but when a law is essentially unenforceable, as is often the case when other reasons have been put forward as the reason for being unsuccessful in an employment application, that doesn't mean much.A reference to 'new immigrants' without specifying any particular race is obviously not racist.

It's a fact frequently observed in employment law that relatively new immigrants (particularly those with limited English) are well over-represented in employment breaches on both sides (they both underpay and are underpaid). A good combination of education and enforcement is employed. And there are a good number of law firms out there offering multilingual assistance for immigrants who've gotten themselves into trouble breaching employment laws.Casual racism can just be banter as long as all parties happily understand this. Eddie's King Kong stuff up was well outside this because it very specifically referenced the then-recent incident with the young AFL fan's racist barracking which Goodes was well known to have found personally upsetting.

My (half-Chinese) step-daughter and (anglo) I get into racist banter quite often. It's hilarious. Humans have always related via the use of stereotypes. It's keeping it even and not making it one-sided which is the challenge.Clive was totally right anyway why is he apoligising? Nothing he said was wrong."Do not ask for Oxycontin"

I work in the aged care sector. I heard recently about a 94 year old rather arthritic lady who was managing (probably just) at home until her doctor changed her morphine patch over to an Oxycontin prescription. She was hallucinating severely and it was off to hospital then aged care.

So there seems to be a fair degree of inconsistency in precription practices among doctors. I'm no doctor but your situation seems much closer to what Oxycontin is actually meant for than the old lady's.Cannabis causes brain damage impacting on someone to the point where they lose the capacity to look after themselves?

No, it doesn't."A barrister for one of the victims angrily told Pell that, unlike the church, trucking companies don't claim to be moral guardians of society."

Even so, if a trucking company sent a driver out in a truck equipped with a passenger seat in the knowledge that said truck driver had a history of raping hitchhikers, and said truck driver picked up and raped a hitchhiker, then said trucking company could expect to get sued.

Pell's analogy was a disaster for his own argument. Victims must be allowed to sue the church. It's a very, very wealthy organisation and doesn't deserve to remain so.No one's suggesting you have a personal financial responsibility for the actions of priests. The catholic church does. If you've handed money to the church, it's theirs now. You're not a shareholder/owner, you're a signed-up customer.I'm not gullible enough to stick my hard-earned into afterlife insurance but many are."I fail to see why Cardinal Pell's analogy of the truck driver should cause outrage and I doubt that it has, apart from the usual select few."

Pell's analogy is outrageous because it is misleading. It is an established fact that the church moved around paedophile priests rather than excommunicate them. If a trucking company sent out a driver in the knowledge that their driver had a history of raping warehouse workers while picking up deliveries, and this subsequently happened again, then that company would expect to get sued. Either Pell is now saying the church should be open to be sued (he's not, no Catholics are but everyone else is) or his analogy is misleading. He (and you) can't have it both ways."There is still time for the Government to frame the discussion around the medium to long-term rather than the present "emergency" rhetoric it has used."

Yep, it's two more years until the only poll that matters. A long time? Abbott thinks so but Gillard would know better that it's not.

There is still time to reframe lots of policies. Higher education and particularly the application of the long-term bond rate to fees, PPL, Medicare copayments, petrol, family payments for kids school needs, there's a long list of things we weren't told about before September. And there are other improvements Abbott can make to improve the government too - reshuffling Brandis, Pyne and Truss could help a lot.

Abbott hasn't got much time to start making some big changes. If he's not up to them, the Liberal Party MPs might start making the biggest change to their Party's leadership they can.Many of the 'don't knows' are disillusioned with all of politics and are particularly turned off by childish slogans.No one bought the Team Australia stuff. Abbott had to go as far as to suggest we're going to see beheadings here and it still couldn't get traction. It didn't help his credibility that he'd invoked the anti-freedom invective normally reserved for muslim terrorists on supporters of the (wholly democratic) Scottish independence movement the day before.

Abbott is a total amateur compared with Howard when it comes to national security. Howard obviously had the advantage of operating in the immediate-post-9/11 international terrorism scare environment, but in hindsight the whole 'Be alert not alarmed' fridge magnet bizzo was actually credible because it was understated, even if we did have a chuckle at the time. Australia never used laws as extreme and bizarre as were implemented in the US (caught a plane in the US since 2001?) and yet we felt safe because the government wasn't whipping up hysteria and overstating threats.

A decade later, enter Tony Abbott."72% support for the travel restriction proposals"

Oh is that what Team Australia was about? I thought it was about why the government needs my ISP information.

And is it travel restriction proposals or just suspending the suspicion of innocence for those returning? I hadn't heard about restricting travel, just deterring violence (inevitably muslim-on-muslim violence).

I don't hate the idea of travel restrictions if it stops thugs driving bomb-laden donkey carts into mosques and markets.

It's so bloody hard to keep up with this week's racial dog-whistling though.I've just realised what Team Australia actually means.

I've just read on a news website that the government's intentions about metadata have been clarified. How do we know this? Because they're in a government document which (and I'm not making this up) was leaked to The Australian!!!

Yep, Team Australia, where we all live under the watchful protection of the right-wing Murdoch press!!!Well said Zing. Man makes god in his own image."All atheists lack a reference point to determine what is 'right' and what is 'wrong'"

Demonstrably rubbish. Not only wrong about atheists, but religious folks can't agree on what's right and wrong either."The problem is not religion in general but Islam in particular. That must be obvious to even the biggest blockhead."

No, it's religion. Let's take your example though. Islam is the problem, you state. So all muslims are the problem? Or a small minority? On the basic numbers, there might be hundreds of thousands of hard-core violent terrorists but that still leaves a billion others who aren't. So, statistically, that's a pretty small problem.

By your own logic, you are telling us that not only are muslims the problem but also catholics, US christians (there are some amazing examples of correspondence between senior US military personel in the mid east a decade ago discussing how they were doing Jesus' work by blowing up brown people), hindus, jews and people of all the other faiths who've gotten into fights or engaged in terrorism. QED religion is the problem.Don't have a go at me for simply applying robert's logic to his own argument Scott. If one-in-a-thousand or less is enough for the whole lot to be the enemy as robert insists, then yes, by that logic, families need to go too.We are all made up of the same stuff. Anyone who kills in the name of God are kidding themselves thinking that God wants them to do it. That's like a father telling one of his children to kill his siblings. Ridiculous. Man is the problem, not God.The problem is that since the dawn of religion, every violent power-seeking nutbag surrounded by poorly educated superstitious gullible desperados has claimed that "god" is on their side and for the most part they've completely gotten away with it. Probably something to do with the unquestioning nature of their followers.

It's like they make god in their own image. I know, impossible right?"IMHO the vast amounts of money could have been much better spent."

In EVERYONE's opinion (with the possible exceptions of Rudd and Swan), the money could have been much better spent. It's just that everyone's opinion about how to much better spend it is different. My spending priorities are different to yours.

Democracy 101 ateday. Your opinion is one of millions."The conservatives have divested themselves from facts and the truth. They know that if you can shout from the bully pulpit of sympathetic media, owned by blatant self-serving rent-seekers, you can create a false truth or a myth."

Hockey would do himself quite the favour if he came out and criticised Howard and Costello for the directions their budgets took, as outlined well RayS. He'd have a lot more sympathy for his budget positions than telling us poor people don't buy petrol achieved.

Of course, it would just make the PPL narrative all the more impossible to sell.Well researched Mark James, I came to say something similar but your comprehensive demolition of the article's premise is very impressive.F1 needs its bad guys and its inevitably those with precocious talent who are also precocious characters at times.

Hamilton might be a difficult bloke to share an office with but his overtaking skill was one of few reasons to watch F1 for several seasons. By all means barrack against him but the simple fact you're doing that shows that he's great for the sport.Apparantly Vettel is paid somewhere around 30 times Riccardo's salary. This year. Riccardo's CV is a lot stronger now than it was a year ago."I wish someone could name one instance where the West has resolved or helped the situation in the Middle East."

Well, Israel still exists and I doubt it would without western support. I regard that as a good thing, others may have a different view.

Afghani girls can get an education. Admittedly they could under the Soviets too. But it's better now than fifteen years ago. As Charlie Wilson's War concluded, the mistake was not arming the Mujahadeen (who became the Taliban) it was disengaging with them after the Russian war.

The West is entirely to blame for Iraq, not just post-Saddam but the entire geopolitical debacle. The West ought to open up the option of breaking up Iraq and Syria, not retaining them.The fact that the journo needs to use a fourteen year old case from the Olympics involving an Eastern European to make the point that sometimes sportspeople are fully punished despite "the Doc said it was okay" excuses says it all.

It doesn't work that way in the real world and hasn't for a long time. The players were duped, they trusted the people duping them and thus they copped a reduced penalty which reflected this. Most Australians are sympathetic. Our sports culture does not include challenging the coaches and medical staff on their decisions.

Punish the so-called sports scientists and the guys who employed them and wrote the policies under which these dodgy regimes operated. Leave it open for affected players to sue the clubs for future employment issues relating to their doping findings or unexplained health issues which are found likely to relate to non-approved peptide usage.Where's the mixed message? Foods are fine, supplements which are legal with ASADA and listed with the TGA are fine. Painkillers which are legal and do not include substances which are an issue with ASADA are also fine. Anything not in these categories is a potential problem.

Sounds entirely consistent to me."Pain is nature's way of telling us to STOP what we're doing or we'll damage our bodies."

Well, sometimes this is definitely true, other times it's down to a pinched nerve or something else which has gone wrong in the body's mechanisms for dealing with injuries.

If a club doctor or physio is satisfied that any injury is minor and unlikely to be exacerbated and injects the player with a legitimate substance which improves the pain situation, I'm okay with this. I would not object to the sort of change of rules you're calling for, it seems fair enough and of course would apply to everyone equally, but painkillers are a much smaller problem in my opinion than peptides of unknown long-term effects.AFL club doctors, to take an example, have their own association to ensure their obligations to players are not undermined by clubs or anyone else.

It's pretty defamatory to suggest that AFL club doctors are putting clubs' interests ahead of the players' health. Any such doctor would be struck off if your claim were found to be true."an employee has a duty to obey the lawful and reasonable instructions of their employer"

Getting injected with a prohibited or non-approved substance falls outside this. Therefore by definition the employee has a responsibility to themselves and their employer to make sure they are comfortable that everything they are being injected with is above board. In reality, this is much easier said than done - coaches are too well paid to have everyone questioning their instructions.Excellent points well made Culex.

You're probably going to be proven right too. I just note the contrast with the early Hawke governments which put forward policies the Liberals could accept and support (bank deregulation, floating the dollar) and remain regarded as among the best years of Labor government (the Accord, economic reform and social justice).

The Finance Minister's threats to raise taxes if the Senate can't cooperate will show many Liberal supporters that this government is worse than Swan when it comes to budget measures. The adults are in charge? This is kindergarten-level  tantrum thowing at best."since they are prepared to consider the plight of lower and average Australians"

...and then announce incredibly expensive policy on the run such as doubling Australia's defence capability overnight. It's very, very easy to "consider the plight of lower and average Australians", it's a hell of a lot harder to implement policies which will actually help the situation without the majority of the media down your throats for being ecnomically irresponsible.

You vote how you want but a PUP government would really, really disappoint you.State goverments have been law and order auctions over whatever crime is trending big with tabloids and shock jocks for the last twenty years. Both Liberal and Labor have played that card many times. It was "home invasions" and extacy dealers in the 90's, hoon drivers in the noughties and now it's drunkards throwing fists.

Mandatory detention gets a good run until it inevitably produces a particularly inequitable outcome and it is quietly dispensed with. Nothing changes, we just go around in circles."if you king hit someone and kill them, you need to be put away for a long time"

If you fail to take responsibility for your own alcohol consumption, go out for a night on the piss and wind up throwing a punch then sure. And the government could instruct judges accordingly. But what if the legislation picks up unintended actions? What if I punch someone I've just found raping my wife, kill them in the process and it turns out I've got alcohol in my system? Was I engaging in action to protect a victim or do I get 10 years, no judicial discretion?

Conservatives ought to oppose mandatory sentencing. There are ways of encouraging judges to adhere to community expectations in sentencing without stripping them of all discretion and turning them into very well paid paper shufflers."It's a stretch to see how someone trying to defend their wife from rape would be considered a coward punch."

If it fits the legal definition (punched in an instant of rage under the influence of alcohol?) then the judge has no discretion at all. That's the problem.I'm not trying to compare and I'm not trying to defend coward punching, I'm just saying that mandatory sentencing can produce unwanted outcomes and judges need discretion to make sure that doesn't happen.

My example might have been a terrible one. I'll admit I gave it about ten seconds thought. But if there's anything we learn from mandatory detention regimes it's that at the end of the day someone will be punished for a case which is outside the argument you're presenting. Your argument may well be right and fair but a careless legal definition (and there are many) will lead to injustice without judicial discretion."the British Conservative Party doesn't have anything to do with politics here"

Why do you presume 'Tories' refers only to the British Conservative Party? You obviously don't know a lot about English political history, perhaps you were forced to spend too long in school studying modern Australian studies? In any case, let Chris Pyne know it's not good enough and there must be more English history in the curriculum - he'd love to hear from you because he's keen to inflict the same history education he had on everyone else - it's less 'black arm band' than the current arrangement.

Quick history lesson: 'Tory' is not some sort of abbreviation of 'conservative'. It's a reference back to an era pre-dating the formation of the British Conservative Party by over century, emerging in 1678. They were conservative and royalist, supported the Church of England and were imperialistic. It's perfectly reasonable to use the word 'Tory' to describe the more Menzies-esque traditional elements of the Liberal Party using this word." a silly descriptor of Tories which has little place in Australian politics"

Why? It's a great word and a perfectly apt one. Why is it 'push polling'? Why is it a criticism? Tony Abbott is far more a tory than a liberal. Any dictionary will confirm this.

Labor doesn't refer to itself as 'leftard' but conservatives happily refer to themselves as 'tory' but you see no difference? Really?

"we dont have torries, we have the liberals"

Look up Tory in the dictionary, look up liberal in the dictionary, and if you really think Tony Abbott is a liberal and not a Tory then need to get a new dictionary.

Tory is not exclusively a reference to members of the British Conservative Party. It's a term which predates that party by many years and it refers to an ideology not an organisation."Uppercase "Tories" as the plural of "Tory" refers to the traditional name for the British Conservative Party."

No. The Tories were around a long time before the formation of the British Conservative Party.

You need to report to Chris Pyne, he's waiting for your call now. Tell him the school curriculum didn't tell you enough about English Civil War era politics because you spent too long on environmental issues. He'll use you as a case study and have the curriculum re-written in seconds flat."using terms that Keating used as derision"

So why are conservatives around the world happy calling themselves tories? Have you never read a right-wing British tabloid?Ahah! Now we know. Harry's objection to the word tory is that Keating once used it! He doesn't know what it means but he knows it's a bad word. Glad we finally got to the bottom of that."I'm not convinced that prison is the solution to all of the world's problems."

Many criminologists will agree with you. For many violent or disaffected people imprisonment is not much deterrent.

It has a much bigger deterrent effect among white collar criminals, or potential criminals. The thought of a couple of years inside is far more alarming to a middle aged nerd than a hooligan.Rubbish. We don't have to give them a blank cheque. We can provide funding in the form of printing and postal allowances, print and electronic media allowances and the usual guff on the ABC before the news. We can set the amount they spend and make other spending illegal.

We can buy back our democracy for not a lot of money and a hell of a lot of public benefit if we have the will.

So that makes it exactly not at all like leaving your furniture outside to prevent burglary.Weak penalties and a three year limitations clause.

Yep, that's really going to repair the broken political culture of NSW.

This is a culture which has given us Obeid, Tripodi, McDonald, Owen, Sinodinos, Owen et al. O'Farrell is regarded as an "unfortunate" victim despite blatantly breaching his parliamentary interests register requirements and giving bizarrely misleading evidence to ICAC. The list goes on and on. Let us continue to sympathise with NSW voters for the choice they face in the coming months. These same voters faced the difficult choice of replacing an unpopular and substantially broken government with a dodgier opposition in 2007 and made the difficult but logical choice and stayed with the former. Each and every NSW voter has a reasonable claim for post traumatic stress disorder.

And to save their suffering, the laws protecting them from the cheats and liars seeking political office are weak and pretty well unenforceable within the required timeframe. Those poor, poor NSWelshfolk."a law which prevents politicians from lying"

We've been over this. It's perfectly reasonable that Arthur Sinodinos doesn't recall that the business he was chairman of was making multi-thousand dollar donations to the political party he was treasurer of, then charging the lot back to the NSW taxpayer, when he was (presumably) also one of these.

He's a busy guy. Lot on his plate. How could he possibly have regard for petty details like $75,000? How, as Liberal Party treasurer, could he possibly be aware of major doners to the Liberal Party? How, as AWH chairman, could he possibly have time to consider political donations? Why, as a NSW taxpayer seeking public office as a NSW senator, would he care that NSW government funds as paid by taxpayers and voters were tied up in this?

Politicians never lie. They are just too busy to pay attention to anything at all.Oh, you meant ALL lies, not just in front of ICAC. Wow, I wasn't thinking that big. Goodness, the mind boggles thinking about how that might play out.

We'd need an entire new class of politician, wouldn't we? There would barely be a polly in the land who hadn't said something during a campaign which, even if not a bald-faced lie, turned out to be less than entirely follow-throughable. Rudd's various websites which never went anywhere, that kind of thing.Further to previous, would Brandis' failure to get through his 18C reforms, despite promising to do so, constitute a 'lie'? The IPA and Andrew Bolt would say yes. The government says it was about terrorism. Chris Pyne says it was about the consultation process.

I say Brandis' incompetence cost the government its opportunity. I would refute any suggestion Brandis deliberately lost the argument or lied.

Defining a lie is a tricky business."The only problem the coalition has, is a wealth of talent to choose from."

And yet Brandis can't get himself sacked or demoted no matter how many silly mistakes he makes? Why doesn't Abbott access his "wealth of talent" even when the IPA are preparing to run advertising against him because of Brandis? Maybe because it's a fiction Alfie?As voters and as political barrackers, we dislike politicians who are too full of spin and too sleek, but if the press gallery ever gets the sense that someone's not as quick on their feet or subject to the odd bout of nerves then they're seen as not a competent minister.

Much better to have a tonguetied honest Minister than a well-rehearsed corrupt one, one would think."Remarkable too, that while those around her failed, she apparently knew nothing."

If she'd been "one of the boys" then you'd have a really strong point. The detail you've overlooked is that the NSW Libs are culturally an old boys club. They only installed Chika when it became clear they'd lose in 1999.

No surprises at all that a female colleague was out of the loop. Business as usual in all likelihood.Like most called 'Dave' I'm not in much position to comment on feminism but I can see parallels between your words and frequently expressed frustration with the trade union movement.

The need for unions was obvious in the days preceding the 40 hour week or child labour. It was still a good idea through to the days of the Accord, the introduction of workers compensation schemes and even Workchoices. But it's hard to see it so clearly these days now that so many battles have been significantly resolved if not won. What's left is invariably very defensive and starting battles which no one cares about.What dribble Sir TT. All we saw from obama was twit that can't implement his promises, that the likes of you act as if they have been implemented. Now which century was it again that China has promised to start controlling it's emissions.JohnnoH, all you have to do is substitute the words lefties for tories and past for this and you have discribe the new-fascist left perfectly." I clearly remember the ABC giving the Labor Government an equally hard time ", you obviously did not watch or read the ABC during that period."At least Murdoch gave the last labor government a chance to prove their incompetence"

He had to. The Australian had editorialised a recommendation that its readers back in the Rudd Government in the final days of the 2007 campaign. You can find it online.

Now tell us where we can find an editorial on an ABC site advocating a vote against Mr Abbott.For the spinless new-fascist left who will not stand up agains their brother communist it does mean cuddle a koala. Now what was it that shorten said, "say nothing"Labor won a minority of the 2PP vote and a minority of seats in the Parliament. If that's an example of a gerrymander you need a new dictionary.

If two independents from seats which voted Liberal more recently than they voted Labor chose to back a Labor government that's not evidence of a gerrymandered system. It's evidence of people-in-the-know not having faith in the SA Liberals.The characters you mention, Clarke aside, have not played for a decade at the very top level. Harris has not played a lot of test cricket. Johnson was pretty sound, then a disaster for quite a while, before returning to exhaltation. There are good young bowlers entering their mid-20's and thus becoming injury-resistant, including some with test experience. There are good young batsmen who have come and gone and worked on their games and are getting to be very promising. There's bound to be a wicky ahead of Matthew Wade but if he's the best there is then he's already got test centuries overseas so that's no disaster either.

Our problems lie as always in finding the next Warnie and locking in consistent batting performances but the transitional period ahead has as much chance of being great as being a worry.Have you been following this year's Shield? There's been centuries scored, good hauls to both pace and spin bowlers, even a hattrick at the docile Adelaide Oval. Off the back of the ODD comp and in the lead up to the Big Bash there is keen interest in some performances. I just don't get Doolan's recent test selection - there have been much better performers in Shield cricket."My hope is the commentariat grows up and discuss something of relevance at the G20."

The shirtfront discussion is an international one, it's hardly not relevant. This government is a repeat offender when it comes to poorly chosen comments about other countries and then being surprised when these are reported overseas. Indonesia, occupied East Jerusalem, Russia. Abbott could have shown he understood basic diplomacy or he could significantly escalate tensions with a throwaway remark he incorrectly assumed was only for domestic consumption and he chose to do the latter.

It works both ways interestingly. Joe Hockey got sprung telling an international gathering that by increasing petrol tax the government was using taxation to reduce carbon emissions and presumed this wouldn't be reported in Australia.No, that's called a 'hip and shoulder'.

To my understanding a shirtfront need not include a full-on collision but also stopping a player by grabbing them by the shirtfront and pulling them in towards you, at which point you might as well enjoy a few choice words with them seeing as you're already in their ear.Nothing "neo" about it, accusing those expressing opposition opinions of being treasonous is classic Nazi strategy.

For the record, it's not now nor has it ever been treasonous to propose alternative viewpoints in a democracy. Acting to undermine the democracy itself is the treasonous act.The long term survival of the species seems likely. The long term survival of humans in a population in the billions seems much less likely. The story of every significant species in natural history seems to point that way.Umm, politicians are there to update legislation to conform to the their policies. Parliament is where laws are made and amended. It's their entire job. Thus the A-G in any westminster system is there to argue the case for changing laws as much as upholding them. It doesn't work otherwise.

And the Governer General is already non-aligned. So I guess you've won that one."the council had sold my information to businesses, without my permission"

Do you know this? Your application would have been publicly available even in the pre-internet era. It would have involved going to the council office rather than jumping online but those companies would be involved with councils frequently and would have just done their own research if they found it a useful marketing method.And your answer shows why people dismiss the climate change extremists as idiots. Population control is a very valid issue, just like direct action which the ALP also used as part of its suit to address the issue. Shame they are playing politics with it again with all their stupid followers joining the band wagon. I can only wonder what the more intelligent ALP supporters think of the back flip."in the real world consumption will drop with dropping population"

Only if the population is dropping in the real world. It certainly isn't.It's a terrible prediction to make but history strongly suggests we'll be dropping bombs (purely as a humanitarian measure, obviously) on the Kurds within 20 years. If the US had any decency they'd support an independent Kurdish nation (not unlike Howard on East Timor) but there's no hope for that.Why don't the Kurds deserve an independent homeland? Why can't the US use its influence on Turkey? Was East Timorese independence about 'destroying' Indonesia or was it just the right thing to do?I'd like to think so Chi but I suspect it was just some brilliant wedging by Howard to divide Labor's left and right factions. The Labor Right opposed an independent East Timor to the end to preserve the reputations of Whitlam, Hawke and Keating while the left disagreed.Once the left gets around to understanding its battle is against the right, and not slightly-different-lefties, look out world! If they could put anything like the energy they sink into each other into the main game, they might make a difference.

The plight or happiness of sex workers is only a vote-swinging issue for a very few and will make no difference to 99% of households. But the left is gnashing its collective teeth and turning a non-issue into a vote loser.

Capitalism is not exactly shaking in its boots.I'm not putting sex workers in the left bucket, I'm putting the hand-wringing concern that a Greens candidate has a personal position different to the Greens platform on sex work is a game-changer as being a uniquely leftist concern.

I agree that many sex workers would consider supporting a libertarian party such as the Sex Party.Undoubtedly guilty as charged CJ. It's quite reasonably a very important issue to some folks and the stakes are undoubtedly quite high for them. I meant 'non-issue' in the election context rather than the social context and apologise if that was not clear.

But this is a very good reason to determine the preferred solution to the issue well away from the silliness of an election campaign. The Labor and Liberal parties recognise this issue as a conscience matter for precisely that reason. If the Greens have a platform but allow their politicians to vote away from it then that's a matter for their rules and constitution.

The author of this article has turned the issue into a more personal matter than a policy matter by making it about a Greens candidate and that serves no one well.Read my post again yank. I'm no right-winger. I'm a very frustrated former lefty. I've seen far too much whinging and splitting and ill discipline within the left to retain my faith though. Most have no desire to actually come up with policy ideas which might enjoy broad support because they're too busy accusing each other of being right wing.

I'm a centrist. I can see the value in government and good policy but there is far too much stupidity, as exemplified by this article, to have too much faith in those driving very prescriptive policies.Splitters!

Precisely correct Cranky. That scene in the Life of Brian is to the left what Spinal Tap was to hair bands."I always thought it was more a dig at the Right"

In my experience the right are more disciplined than the left. The splits in religions you refer to are once-in-three-hundred year events. Yes they're bitter when they happen but they don't happen every day of the week.

The tendancy of lefties to factionalise is an everyday occurrance. Take the ALP as an example. It's more conservative (religious or pro-business) element generally exist as a single right faction but some states have multiple left factions. There are various factions within the Greens too of course, but they are less formal than the ALP's.Yep, the universe is certainly supreme to whatever isn't the universe, that's pretty hard to deny.Gregory, don't forget the billions wasted and lives lost by "re-stocking" them because the ALP and Greens put out the "come all" mat.Reagan did very little. He was in the right place at the right time to look good but in reality Gorbachev did all of the heavy lifting within his own party and his own country, on the back of other reformers like Walesa in Poland. Reagan did nothing new but Gorbachev was an extraordinary reformer.Wow, I'd never heard that story Joe but a quick google search confirms it. Thanks.Interesting perspective well argued. I don't agree with many of the government's policies but Julie Bishop is clearly one of their best performers.

Where she's demonstrably wrong about the glass ceiling though is in her own party. When Abbott announced his cabinet and was criticised for not promoting women he explained that there were many talented candidates knocking at the door. The implication clearly was that underperformers would be reshuffled out.

When we look at the underperformers in cabinet still there a year later it's clear that Abbott has no plans to make the joint any less of a sausage-fest in the future.So you're satisfied with the performance of Chris Pyne, the education minister who doesn't think women study dentistry, and the performance of the completely missing in action Arthur Sinodinos? You think there's not a woman in the Liberal Party who could be Attorney General without stuffing up the marketing of the  18C reforms? Or who might know what metadata is? Or who could resist getting into a pointless slanging match with the greens and creating an international incident?

What does a man have to do to get replaced in Tony Abbott's cabinet?Well for one a female education minister would have been very unlikely to make the sort of stuff-ups which Pyne made defending his "reforms" as somehow not being disastrous for women who take time out of the workforce before they've fully paid off their education debt.

Pyne actually said on the 7.30 Report (quote is from the transcript) "Now, women are well-represented amongst the teaching and nursing students. They will not be able to earn the high incomes that say dentists or lawyers will earn, and vice chancellors in framing their fees, their fee structure, will take that into account."

There's no way a woman would have run that appalling argument. A woman, unlike Pyne, would know that more than half of dentistry students are female, ditto law.

BTW I'm not making "the demand", I'm just pointing out the problem. If women voters are happy with Abbott's cabinet I'm sure they'll reward that. If not, it's Abbott's problem not mine.I'd have thought the excellent Mungo reference in last week's Mad As Hell joke about yet another Gough doco made by and featuring old lefty blokes would have been the last we'd be hearing about the matter, but no."The country was in a parlous state. The conomy was collapsing, the government was hopelessly incompetent and leading us to ruin."

There was a great post last week from a bloke who'd emigrated from England in 1976 and found economic conditions here to have followed a similar trajectory to what he'd experienced in the UK over recent years. Every Australian he met was blaming Whitlam for the state of things and he'd responded "Well he must have been awful because he buggered up Britain, Europe and the US too."Well that certainly confirms a lot."By making the headline number the base pay rate, they've just looked mean, giving oxygen to Lambie and her semi-literate mutterings. Good on her for trying"

Can't agree there Pete. You've very intelligently analysed the situation with defence supplementary payments but then sought to reward Lambie for spinning the situation rather than reasonably assessing it. Can't we get substance over style? Can't we as a nation agree on ideas and not just listen to the loudest whingers? When she says something that's actually been thought through I'll start listening."at least she has openly expressed views shared by many of us"

What, that she has no idea what sharia law actually is and how it relates to the lives of ordinary muslims?

You've hit the nail on the head there al.It just goes to show that if you have enough desperate shots at goal which go wide or over the crossbar you'll eventually put one in the corner and look like a pro.

Lambie has already announced her policy to double Australia's fighting force. Now she's demanding a gold-plated wage deal. She refuses to mention actual, you know, costs despite these not being that hard to estimate.

Opposition is bloody easy for the likes of Lambie and it doesn't progress this country far when our strongest opposition is also our weakest option for the difficult role of government.Yeah cracking down on Roma and Jewish minorities seems to be the obvious response to that concern Brad. Oh wait, it totally isn't.Haddin has been a good vice-captain but it's time to look to the future as far as that role is concerned and it's clearly not him.

Would Warner relinquish opening for a gig at 3? It was hard to watch him at times in the UAE where he'd bat for quite a while having just spent over 100 overs in the very hot field. Would his batting improve with the chance to have a break sometimes before going into bat in matches where Australia has fielded first? And is there a reliable opening pair who could stay in until the shine was off the ball?I'm heading down to the Adelaide Oval this weekend to check out the day-night Shield game. Hoping to see Hughes hit a lot of runs and push for a test recall, but the selectors are clearly demanding to be well convinced.Not necessarily.  She can bring her prejudices to the table as much as she likes, as we all do, but that does not mean that we can't call her on them.

Males have as much stake in, and as much right to comment on, safety and well-being of children in our society.  Once the behavior of a parent - of either gender - damages or endangers a child we all have the duty to act or at least consider what action may be beneficial.

Beyond a certain point a bunch of cells becomes a child.  That point is clearly not birth, as anyone who has suffered a stillbirth will tell you.  Once someone has a viable child inside them it stops being only her business what happens to it.  We all have both the right and obligation to protect it.Well the AFP Commissioner has promised it won't be used on journalists. And he wouldn't just be spinning on behalf of the government, would he?"he is incompetent and shouldn't be AG"

Well let's see. There was the marketing of the government's 18C reform which went so badly that the government completely backflipped, incurring the ire of some very rusted-on supporters. There was the "occupied East Jerusalem" unnecessary argument which tied up Ministers Bishop and Joyce for days for no good reason at all. There was the metadata explanation which is still getting YouTube clicks among geeks.

But hey, I'm sure his second year in the job will go much better.Long-time but now ex-Labor Party member and rusted on supporter here.

I am appalled by Labor's support for these measures while opposing public interest amendments. I was appalled by Conroy's stupid, ridiculous plans to filter the internet. Remember the dentist's office which was blocked because of an administrative error? It's all symptomatic of a much bigger problem. The Liberals are suffering similarly.

The Labor Party needs to stop getting its policy ideas from focus groups and actually listen to what the community wants. Grocery websites and protecting kids from porn when their parents are too lazy to set up their own filters is not on that list no matter what a focus group tells you.

There is no greater trashing of Whitlam's legacy than an entire caucus too frightened and lazy to listen to the community and their hearts.there are three steps to control a nation.
1. They disarm us
2. They make education unaffordable to the masses.
3. In this day they try to control the internet

This is very telling how they are bringing in new laws quickly without public scrutiny, and say we will only use them if we need to.
This is only the beginning while the general population are distracted by the melbourne cup and the next big sporting event, these laws are slowly creeping in.
We think they are stupid lol, they are doing exactly what they want to do."and now algorithms what ever they are"

An algorithm is the process you design to get the result you're after. In cooking, the we call the algorithm for preparing a meal the recipe. In the article, computers can be 'trained' to make decisions in certain 'human' ways, so we need to understand how humans operate and why we make certain decisions under certain conditions. How we break that all down and 'explain' it to a machine in computer code is the algorithm.I wasn't trying to show off. I was trying to explain that algorithms are essentially ideas and not, of themselves, scary.

You wouldn't want an explanation about a mechanical clock if you wanted to know the time of day but you might expect to get one if you're comparing it to a paperless office."No, an algorithm is not an idea, sorry. It is a mathematical process designed to provide a solution to a problem."

Righto, you can hold that in your hand can you? You can pass it on to your grandchildren? Sell it on ebay?

It's an abstract concept. AKA an idea.I agree with your definitions, I was trying to briefly explain the concept in everyday terms without sounding like a computer science teacher. If you've got a better day to day example feel free. Jehane's idea above definitely improved my analogy.The police aren't explaining what they are doing. They are discussing the legislation. That's for the Attorney General to do.

When police are in the business of legislating, that's one of the signs that it's time to move countries.If you read the quote in the article it goes well beyond operational commentary. It spins the government's insistence about how the laws will be used and ignores that the wording of the legislation makes it an open and shut case to prosecute a journalist with no 'public interest' defence even available.It would not have been hard for the commissioner to simply state that the legislation and its possible impact on journalists was a matter for Brandis as Attorney General.

I'm not surprised he's crossed the line though. I just hope someone has the decency to remind of his words when a journalist is inevitably arrested.

In a world where British anti-terror laws have been used to settle a banking dispute with the nation of Iceland we know this law will be used against journalists."If a police commissioner expressed doubts or fears about the legislation, I'm sure the author would be the first to demand that we listen to their words and take it as gospel."

Quite right. Someone expressing doubts and criticisms is news. Someone assuring us the government has it all covered despite the actual wording of the legislation appearing to offer a lot of scope for unintended consequences is spin.Nothing to do with "the coalition", it's about "the government". I'm just as critical of Labor for letting through the laws about journalists and opposing public interest amendments in the Senate.

When any neutral public servant, in this case the police commissioner, does spin for any government of any persuasion it's a bad thing. Neutral public servants aren't in the business of publicly airing their opinions for a very good reason, something you want to ignore.Righto...so you'd rather have not seen the reforms which, once bedded down by what is now agreed as actually being 'the recession we had to have', have seen an unprecedented two consecutive decades of economic growth? You'd rather see protected industries churning out high price consumables which can't be exported? You'd prefer to extend the welfare state rather than promote superannuation? You want to take us all out on strike?

Australia's manufacturing industry was killed by the rest of the world crashing and driving up our dollar. It was effectively a victim of the success of Australia's banking regulations (which, unusually, you criticise by reflecting on banking profit). If Australia had tanked like Europe and the US we'd still be building cars but lots of other Australians would have been out of work and had a very tough 7 years.

You don't want what most people want."some dodgy loans were negotiated overseas"

It's a common myth. Not so much as a dollar was ever borrowed from Khemlani.If by 'got caught out' you mean they never hid it then okay. The so-called 'loans affair' was one of the most heavily scrutinised storms-in-teacups in Australian political history. The thought that loans might be sourced other than via the Bank of England put out the top end of town in those conservative and stuffy times but would be a total non-issue today."Don't tell me anyone can justify showing this on the basis of animal cruelty."

Riiight. So horse races when distressed, collapses, dies, not cruel. But horse races when distressed, collapses, dies, shown on television news, now that's awful.

And you're lecturing others on their perspective?"I though he had the answers to everything, or at least he gave that impression."

So what's your point? Obama is a politician. He's disappointing compared to his rhetoric. Name a leader who hasn't been? What US President has passed all the tests you've set, or the equivalent ones for their day? What President hasn't left a trail of quotes they've failed to live up to?If Labor was preferred by casino moguls then casino moguls would have been making this clear months ago, not just picking a winner from a rather shabby two-horse-race as they're rounding the last turn.

Any casino mogul who backed the Liberals at this point would be, I'm strongly suspecting, not too good at their job.It was a very similar story in South Australia six months ago when Tony Abbott gave the tired and unpopular Weatherill government the boost it needed to fall over the line with independent support. Abbott at least had the common sense to talk jobs and throw money around in Tasmania but the crash of the vehicle industries in SA and Victoria are firmly blamed on Tony Abbott by locals no matter how many economists confirm it was the overpriced dollar which did it.Not to mention the basis for one of my favourite Homer Simpson gags. He's leaving NASA having done the space program few favours and he says of the astronauts he's met "Yep, they've got the right...oh....what's that stuff?"I think the author has Godwinned. How do IS fit the definition of fascist? They are religous zealots also motivated by a degree of anti-imperialism. Their methods are murderous and they need to be stopped but to call it all 'fascist' is just lazy as far as I can tell.Well then the word would be totalitarian, would it not?

Fascist regimes are generally regarded as being under central control, I'm not at all sure IS is. Fascist regimes have relationships with the private sector, that seems a relatively low priority for these religious zealots. There is religious cleansing but not ethnic cleansing as far as I can see and nationalism is not a big deal, which it would be for traditional fascists.

Fascism is a position on the political spectrum and IS is religious not political. The author is only calling them fascist in order to link in a fairly irrelevant point about Orwell, who (as others have commented) would not have been a fan of IS but would not have been a fan of any of the other players in the region either.Well then consider me corrected Zing (and frangipani).

If there's one thing I'll take Zing's word on it's facism. Thanks all.Excellent comments Dean. Just as the Mujahadeen ("freedom fighters") became the Taliban ("totalitarian") supporting Al Qaeda ("terrorists") without ever changing their attitudes or policies, there's every chance the west will be fighting the Kurds within the coming decades. Who you are and what you stand for is less important than who your friends are and who you've pissed off in the world of geopolitics.Ah, you've fallen into the conservative linguistic trap there Dick, though not through any error in the real world. The Libs don't consider that tax reform, it's probably defined as a 'handout' by Joe Hockey's office. Remember Mitt Romney and the 47%? Tax reform is when you take it off the top, not treat people equally irrespective of their income. Everything which isn't 'tricke down' is welfare.These things run in very long cycles. From Dickensian England with social and political reform arose better labour laws, a narrowing of the gap between rich and poor and a greater degree of social mobility. These are all now on the decline. Brand is years ahead of himself though in that while he's identified the issue his small group of supporters who are interested in making a change as opposed to liking a Facebook campaign have no momentum.

It has to get pretty bad before the momentum builds that there's either a political solution or failing that a revolution. We're nowhere near that, arguably at least two generations away.As Adam mentions above, it makes that eventual series victory so very sweet. I won't forget India 2004, a tour which was the making of 'Pup' Clarke and the culmination of years of development.

Australian cricket is worse for the evening-out of our pitches compared with in the 1970s and its good for world cricket that some countries have vastly different conditions to others.It's bloody good test cricket, it's a real contest, it's in a tough environment where other teams coming off good wins have suddenly found themselves struggling and I'm anticipating being glued to the Foxtel over the next several nights.

This is no disaster for Australian cricket. If we need to accept and work on our shortcomings against spin then Boof will make sure that happens.

Great to see Pakistan's inexperienced team performing."It is difficult to feel sympathy for them. Their wealth had been created directly on the backs of horrific suffering by tens of thousands of animals, over many years, with their full knowledge."

They didn't inflict the cruelty. They raised their animals in accordance with Australian law. The cruelty was inflicted in a region where the Australian government had no jurisdiction. Their industry was legal and their exports were praised by the Australian government. Then the public briefly revolted and these folks lost many thousands as a result of a ban, a decision which has never been shown to have reduced animal cruelty."There is market demand for slaves, landmines and child prostitutes (among other abominations). But it has been determined that this demand should not be met as those industries have no place in civil society. Farmers making their living off cruelty and suffering deserve the financial consequences of an outright ban."

Well (a) there are no legal participants in the slave, landmine or child prostitution industries in Australia and this is why it's a very poor comparison, and (b) if the industry is worthy of being shut down then the government owes it to the industry to do this in a careful, calculated fashion and not just rip up stumps, everyone loses. I repeat a point you choose to ignore: the Australian government has supported this industry and its exports (unlike the illegal matters you suggest are a reasonable comparison) and an instantaneous reversal of that position would be a very poor faith act. The ban you so strongly support was of course lifted by the Gillard government after a month.

If the voting public demand the end of live exports then so be it, but when industries shut down (eg manufacting vehicles) governments need to protect those who will be hurt. Many rural communities could be wiped out otherwise."I was told that the drop in power bills would be $550 per annum."

Whoever said that lied. Tony Abbott said that the "average" household (and personally I dream of living in Tony Abbott's idea of the "average" household) will save $550 per year. Electricity bills were just part of that.

Tony Abbott tells enough lies that you don't have to make up new ones to complain about him.It's a common misconception that a number of muslim countries don't let women drive; it's one, and that's Saudi Arabia. I understand that many muslim countries regard Saudi as being very socially backwards too.

Having said that, I'm pleased my step-daughters and granddaughters are living in a western country rather than Indonesia or the middle east."His 'abilities' included changing parties often"

Ooh, changing from the National Party to the Liberal Party, what a maverick!"To limit but obviously not eliminate lone wolf attacks....to do nothing would be irresponsible"

You're going to have to fill in some blanks there Brian. How do laws to prosecute journalists reporting ASIO stuffups limit lone wolf attacks? How do laws collecting all of our metadata limit lone wolf attacks?

Lone wolves act, errr, alone. The new laws can't touch them until it's too late. And the lone wolves you refer to often don't survive these attacks so it's not even like collecting information to prosecute them is worthwhile.

If the existing laws are as sufficient as laws can be to prevent lone wolf attacks (and I believe they are) then why is it irresponsible to do nothing other than resource the agencies enforcing those laws?"And yet feminie products are still classed a 'luxury' and are subjected to the GST"

You've confused the GST and the old luxury tax which disappeared last millenium. Feminine hygiene products are not luxuries, sure, but something does't have to be regarded as a luxury to be subject to GST. Like everything else in the supermarket it just has to be a consumable product which isn't a fresh food."Wasn't there supposed to be a reduction/elimination of various state taxes- eg payroll tax"

A common misconception on payroll tax - that was not part of the 1998 GST proposal but it was part of John Hewson's Fightback scheme in 1993.

Various state taxes did disappear - FID, BAD, stamp duty on mortgages and insurance. Contrary to some fanciful theories espoused on The Drum at times the stamp duty on residential property transactions was never slated for removal once the GST came in."States were supposed to abolish stamp duty, land tax, payroll tax, etc when the current GST was introduced in 2000. They didn't."

States were supposed to, and did, abolish some stamp duties (stamp duty on mortgages, stamp duty on insurance policies) and other duties (FID, BAD) when the GST came in.

Payroll tax was never part of Howard's GST policy but it was slated for removal under John Hewson's Fightback proposal in 1993. Stamp duty on residential property transactions was never part of the 1998 policy, I'm pretty sure land tax wasn't either.

The proposal was only ever to replace SOME and not ALL state taxes and levies."That's what I mean by we need a government we can trust"

Righto. So the fact we still have payroll tax is a breach of faith by Howard? Or the states?

Actually neither. The reason we still have a payroll tax is that Australian voters rejected the one offer which was put to them to replace it with a GST....in 1993. Howard's GST proposal never promised to eradicate payroll tax. No one ever offered to replace land tax. Ditto some stamp duties (they got rid of a pile of stamp duties as promised and left in others they'd never promised to replace such as the stamp duty on residential property).

We don't need a government we can trust, we need memories we can trust!So, RogerA, you're proposing replacing the existing GST with a range of wholesale sales taxes imposed at varying rates by arbitrary judgement.

Labor took a policy which would have had that result to the 1998 election but it hasn't been heard of since.I'm not going into bat for anyone Rog, I'm just mindful of actual, you know, history.

We had a system much like you describe prior to the GST. It rated toothpaste and feminine hygiene products as luxuries and taxed them accordingly.

So there you are, yes it turns out I am going into bat for a sector, it's women and folks who appreciate their dental health. Your system has been tried and it didn't work well for those two sectors, did it?Oh, and by the way Rog, the suggestion "The judgements are not arbitrary, but are a political process" is absolutely hilarious. If there is anything more arbitrary than the political process I'm yet to find it. 

The writers of 'Yes Minister' got some of the best television ever written out of the simple fact that the political process is guided by only the most ludicrous of relationships and events."I can't think of any program that Rudd will be remembered for in the years to come"

I grew up hearing about medicare and free universities and family law reforms. My kids were too young to remember the Rudd years but I believe they will be inspired in future years by recollections of the petrol price website and the grocery website and...Yep Whitey, pretty much everything anyone needs to know about Queensland politics is in that story isn't it?"An inconvenient truth for the Labor faithful."

Yes and no. Whitlam was terrifying to many because of the rate of change and the significant nature of his changes. The Liberals comfortably held office between 1975 and 1980 by leaving a lot of Whitlam's policy reforms intact. That's an inconvenient truth for the Liberals faithful.

The best years of government in our nation's history were the Hawke years when Keating was treasurer. Those reforms and the strategies for their implementation were forged in the furnace of 1975 and delivered decades of growth (even though Howard hollowed out said growth with unprecedented upper middle class welfare).He Zing - not when the legal obligations are quietly included into secret trade deals.  Why are we only finding out about these negotiations from Wikileaks ?  Once the agreement is made and released for the benefit of the peons to whom it will apply it is too late.  Australia then has an international obligation to comply with the agreement.  It has no direct effect without domestic legislation, but a brutal sanction regime kicks in if we do not.

This Government has made more inroads into the basic freedoms of Australians than any other since ... the last Liberal government, I guess.  The IP provisions are solely for the benefit of rights owners like ... oh... say Newscorp.  Entirely coincidental, of course, I am sure.  The extension of anti terrorism laws is related - these are fundamental changes to our democracy.  We need to debate them sensibly and really test whether they are appropriate.  Mr. Shorten is useless, the majority of our Media are either complicit, directly pushing for the changes or silent."The price of oil quadrupled between October 1973 and the following January. That's correct, energy prices rose 400 per cent in four months"

No it's most certainly not "correct" - as any Grade 9 maths teacher will confirm in red biro. When will the ABC hire a journalist with a basic grasp of basic statistics? (Don't get me started about my ABC Local Radio breakfast team's regular murdering of percentages either.)

If the price of something is $100 and it rises by 5% then it's now $105. If the price rises by 100%, the price doubles and it's now $200. If the price has quadrupled, it has risen by 300% not 400%.

Feel free to run this one past the Factcheck desk, it's not the sort of error they make at least."Were the dinosours once responsible?"

There is some discussion that they may have contributed to global warming. Large herbivorous dinosaurs had to consume vast amounts of hard-to-digest and really-not-that-nutritious trees and they had massive digestive systems to cope. The amount of methane produced was extraordinary. There is a theory simply based on estimated dinosaur populations and the amount of food they'd have needed that over time this will have influenced the climate during the period.

The difference between any time we can understand from geological records and now is the rate of warming. Yes climate has always fluctuated, and fluctuated considerably, but never this rapidly."Perhaps this incident will silence the critics of our present governments increased security measures"

Yep, I was cynical but call me converted! When faced (like the Canadians) with the threat of a lone assailant with a firearm and a car, new laws cracking down on internet usage, travelling to Syria and journalists reporting on security agency blunders is the obvious solution. Well done Abbott government.I was aware that the first terrorist had his passport pulled but not the shooter. In any case though, that's nothing to do with the new laws. Australia was suspending passports well before the new laws came in, such as that of the clown who stabbed the AFP officers, the new laws only crack down on those who travel to Syria/Iraq once they get home and have to explain themselves.I support the Australian government's pulling of passports off extremists, and I'm pretty concerned by criticism of the Canadian government for doing the same actually. There is a growing view within Canada that they should have let these guys go to Syria to do their killing. While being sympathetic to victims of terrorism, no it's not better that we allow our own citizens to blow up mosques full of Shiites in Bagdhad rather than stab an AFP officer here. I didn't and won't vote for Abbott but I'm pleased he hasn't tried to resort to the "let's just let them go".JohnnoH, at the risk of sounding like Barry Spurr, if you re-read my post you'll find it was dripping in thick, juicy sarcasm. I was making the opposite point to the one I think you've read.Well TA telling us that terrorism risks were increasing and raising the terror alert had no practical impact on anything. There is no reason to believe that a clown driving into soldiers or another clown acting apparently alone opening fire could be prevented by public information. There are no charges which have arisen from the police raids which suggest they prevented anything like this occurring. And the new laws would have no impact on the sorts of events which occurred in Canada because they are covered perfectly well under existing laws. There is no reason to believe that laws threatening journalists exposing security agency blunders could have had any impact at all on what happened in Canada.

So I'm supposed to be glad about nothing at all?

So not at all sure how you've exposed any failing of the left in any tangible way. And SHRIEKING IN AN POST ABOUT THE DRUM doesn't really make the right look like a sensible option.@Reality Bites, what a strange comment.

If you ask the grieving widow of a terrorist victim whether we need tougher terrorism laws then 99.9% of the time they'll say yes. By the same token, if you ask the grieving widow of a cyclist crushed by a truck whether we need better heavy transport practices, 99.9% will agree. Ask the widow of a drug overdoser whether we need law reform and once again they'll agree.

Sydney Bob's call for perspective is important because these matters have always been best addressed by calm and sensible assessment. Agreeing, as you seem to, that the threat is being inflated but suggesting this somehow benefits the families of victims is counterproductive, I can assure you."i said the threat maybe inflated i don't know whether it is or not"

The real risk of dying from terrorism is minute. The actual threat is inflated no matter what definition you use. Even in Canada more people have died from smoking in the past few days than terrorism, forget the stats regarding weeks or even months.

If dying is the problem (and it is) then governments are doing the WRONG thing if they exaggerate some causes of death while diminishing others. The Canadian deaths are awful for those involved and certainly unnecessary, but so is every workplace death, every motor vehicle death, many cancer deaths, many obesity deaths etc.

If we're investing literally millions in avoiding possibly no deaths, we're doing it wrong.The victims would each and every one say it is the same for them no matter how they went. It's simple, simple human nature. It's what we all do. It's reality. I'm sorry if it bites.My wife and I are living in Canada at the moment and we were thinking the other day of how things could have changed so dramatically.

If you changed a few variables we could have lost significant numbers of both sides of the federal parliament (a case not encountered in all of human history - I think).

So then we would go to election. The country would be in a state of fear and in all likeliness the most right winged individual you could muster would get elected in.

From that point on Canada would be a very different place.

Gives you a sense of how things can change so quickly in a place you would normally think as being secure."Correct me if I am mistaken, but weren't these private emails?"

Happy to correct you there Orion, they were the property of the university as the prof would have been well aware, his ilk not being the type to hit the 'I accept' button on the terms and conditions when logging in each day otherwise.Like every opponent of 18C, "Realist" ignores the actual, you know, reality of 18D. Comedians would have to put in some pretty hard yards to fall foul of 18C because of the 18D protections for artistic expression."So if Prof Spurr claims artistic intent then he should be ok."

What? For a so-called "realist" you are dabbling in a lot of unreality. Prof Spurr has not been charged under 18C, not sure why you're now demanding a response to a suggestion he has been.

To get back to the point though, yes a lot of comedians do engage in potentially offensive racial material and never get charged under 18C. They don't need "good luck" to avoid prosecution, they just rely on the existing law. It's right next to 18C, it's called 18D and it's not magical or demanding of good fortune, it's just good law." Love to see the defence, of artistic, when you racially vilify as a comedian,"

I'm guessing you've never heard the deliberately offensive comedian Kevin "Bloody" Wilson's "Living Next Door To Alan" then. When I was at primary school, we all knew all the words.I think that's essentially Barry Humphries' point too Jeremy. Barry's quite fair but also professionally interested point is that everyone can reserve the right to have a somewhat revolting alter ego they can perform for their friends. He's made a successful career out of his alter egos but some days they look like overtaking him. The question is whether Barry Spurr was exhibiting the same tendancy when he wrote his curriculum review bemoaning the lack of Judeo-Christian values."yet he had no idea what to do"

How soon we forget those websites....."wouldn't it at least be reasonable for everyone to know the deal up front?"

I'm guessing you're (like a significant majority including myself) not the kind of person who actually reads the terms and conditions before signing off on the agreement to abide by workplace policy/university rules/whatever Apple iTunes demands when accessing a computer.

They do tell us up front. We just skip that bit because it's boring."biased lefty judges cause problems, as in the Bolt case"

You should have run Bolt's appeal then Peter the Lawyer. Bolt didn't appeal, of course (except to George Brandis on the matter of Liberal Party policy that is)."Did it impact on the curriculum in any way?"

I don't think someone writes racist diatribes and concludes that the existing curriculum needs more Judeo-Christian and Western cultural influences (whatever that means) independently of each other rik.Hughes' leg side batting is a big improvement on what it was when he was first selected in the test side.Hughes can pull a ball from outside off stump. He couldn't before, sure, but that's not now.By the same 'thinking' it's therefore a good thing that, during the period of the current ebola crisis, hundreds of thousands of Africans have died of malaria before ebola could get them??"if waiting 30 hours by the side of the road is the only option, it pays not to be in a position to be hit by a car."

Fair enough. I just don't get what this argument has to do with ebola. If Australian aid workers get infected, why can't they be evacuated to a health facility in Europe? It's not 30 hours away.

The "30 hours" talking point has no relevance to the real world.If providing support to the global effort against ebola is now deemed by government spin merchants to be weakening on border protection and voters believe this then I can only say we've really got the government we deserve.Agreed. But I think the voting out was really hyped up by the MSM?. At the same time I'm no Labor fan. Rudd reneged on the "Moral issue of our time" and Julia did no better. 
Facts? the physics of certain substances eg. CO2 and Methane trapping heat have been dis proven. Please share Mary.You should check out the end of the George Dubya Bush post-presidential interview where he's discussing bailing out massive chunks of the US private capitalist yay-we're-the-best sector with public funds. It's like he still doesn't know how it all came to happen. He knows it shouldn't have, he knows the system is meant to operate precisely as you describe it, but here we are.Absolutely Zany. I'm not without sympathy that words put in an email well understood by the sender and recipient as hilarious but considered offensive by an ordinary person reading them out of context is a bit harsh for judging someone.

But you are 100% correct that ordinary workers would face that judgement in their workplace so to suggest the same should not apply to a professor of words is just elitism. Dr Rosewarne has done herself no favours by defending a professor on a charge where an admin worker would be out the door.Like everyone we are aware of who lived 2000 years ago (so that's not just Jesus, it's Julius Caeser or Cleopatra or whomever) their relationship with us today is the same as if they were legends. A mythology develops around them and our relationship with them is with the sum of their actual works and their mythology."How does Abbott and others in the cabinet reconcile their religious beliefs with the policies they pursue?"

Man creates god in his own image. Many, many christians believe that Jesus was all about being pure, setting an example of purity and that his central message was to keep your hand off it. Basically, religion means stop being sinful and lustful, keep sex plain and simple and for procreation only and for goodness sakes never watch rock and roll dancing.Big deal, all you have described is the process of negotiation that almost everyone does in their normal process of life. Or is this the usual sad expression we see on the ABC and this site, ALP good, LNP bad and conniving?It's just updating old practices from the days before everything was online or in a cloud - remember the time the AFP found some dodgy details in Mohammed Haneef's diary....and it turned out they were AFP notes not Haneef's own diary notes.Excellent big picture perspective there Ed. It's been missing from the discussion."totally dependent on eternal nothingness"

Nonsense. DNA is a molecule which also embodies a powerful philosophy of life's struggle to survive and which has produced life on earth in all its astonishing variety to best ensure its future.

For mine, there is nothing to worry about as far as the nothingness my conscious being will become. I wasn't alive and didn't exist in any manner in 1962 and I'm cool with that. Why would it worry me I won't see 2062?Peter, no one really dies until they are no longer remembered. They stay with us in our consciousness and we remain influenced by them, hopefully in some positive ways. When your child asks about their grandfather, you can explain ageing and declining health and ultimately death, but the important thing remains that they live on in our memories and in our hearts and when we feel sad about their passing it's just a wonderful confirmation about how much they meant to us.

It's only slightly less comforting than the heaven myth but kids get it and no one is left feeling like they've lied or been lied to."we are no longer allowed to be offensive"

And yet there was no nor could there have been a prosecution under 18C and the product was removed by the store at their own instigation, not any court's.

Could it be that we actually are allowed to be offensive? Could it be that you have to actually be vilifying someone to fall foul of the laws despite all the right-wing beat-ups? The IPA tells us not but everyone else is actually pretty relaxed about their freedom of speech.Quote:- "And how deeply strange ... once people are here what else might they be but "Australian"?"

Perhaps when people come here and become Aussie citizens then they should only hold one passport, and that is for their newly adopted country...AUSTRALIA.

I still can't come to terms with people who hold multi passports...If you have decided to become an Australian citizen then fine, but please don't chop and change with what ever takes your fancy.Interesting theory well argued Bozo.Hence bozo's theory about why the RBA is trying to deflate share prices.Yep, Tone's taking it one jibe at a time, he's put in the hard yards, he's keeping a lid on it and it'll be the best side which comes out in front on the day.I don't watch reality tv but from what I can understand among all the gnashing of teeth I'm hearing is that the properties had to go for an above-reserve price for anyone to make money.

There's your problem. If the reserve price has been set by a clever valuer, it should be pretty close to the final bid at the auction. Want a different outcome, change the rules, it's only reality tv after all. End of story.

What this isn't about is the unaffordability of Australian housing or only earning $7 per hour. These are important issues but they have nothing to do with The Block."I think that says it all about Australia and the current state of our housing industry."

What, that real estate agents are setting the reserve prices at about the price the market will pay at auction? That they're doing their job correctly? That overpaying for residential property is on the slide? I'm not seeing the disaster picture you're trying to paint AJS.Excellent observation Maxx. In the case of The Block, the question is not can one add value to a home, it's can one attract bids above the reserve price? The reserve price should never be the minimum the vendor can afford to accept (at least not if that person is paying a real estate agent), it should be the agent's best valuation of a fair market price.

So The Block is perpetuating the myths that a market can sustain paying considerably above a fair market price and that a property achieving its reserve but not much more is somehow a disaster. Insanity.My favourite line from Kath &amp; Kim seems appropriate to your comment damon. Kim is chatting with Kath and mentions in her bubbly tone:

"We had that real estate guy come over to do a valuation on our unit. He said we'd overcapitalised. So yeah, we were really happy with that!""Mathematics is actually an Art"

Ah yes, 1 plus 1 equals 3 for sufficiently large values of 1."'d say that math probably shouldn't be bundled in with arts or science, it's a thing unto itself since it's an odd mixture of elements of art, science, philosophy, logic and intuition."

You heretic, Bazza! Maths is pure philosophy, its applied form is physics (which is the applied form of chemistry, which is the applied form of biology, which is in a sort of underpants gnome sort of way the applied form of pyschology and economics).

I tried using intuition in my maths studies. I got a lot wrong."To suggest it is acceptable to abuse people in the custody of the Australian government to prevent the deaths of people not in the custody of the Australian government is at best staggering disingenuosity about our true concern for human life"

I have a true concern for human life. I supported Rudd's removal of the worst aspects of the previous Howard government's arrangements right up until 50 people drowned or died on the rocks of Christmas Island in a single disaster.

If that event did not signal a need to change direction massively on that issue, then it is you who have a staggeringly disengenuous concern for human life."I think ALL major religions should be taught in all schools."

Why bother? The chances of any one religion being the "right" one are infinetesimally small.

Just teach the kids about how religion works - people don't choose religions based on an assessment of them all and a personal choice, their family and local community chooses it for them. The biggest indicator for being christian is to be born into a christian family, go to a christian school and live in a community which will shun you if you reject religion. The biggest indicator for being muslim is the same as for christians except they're born into muslim families. Same for hindu, buddhist, whatever.

It's exactly what we'd expect to see in a universe where there is no one true god but instead humans invent religions for their own reasons."Does 'Western Culture' include the Divine Right of Kings and the Holy Duty to go on Crusade, or is it pacifist like so many Christian Mystics (not to mention present-day Quakers, Mennonites and others)? Does it mean burning witches and Protestants, or is it Ecumenical?"

Oh if only, Sleepykarly. As a survivor of exactly the sort of education Chris Pyne wants to impose on the nation, what it means in practice is learning about the development of steam power and the growth of rail networks and industrial centres across the UK. It means learning about Henry VIII's split from Rome and the reformation in Europe. If you're lucky there might be some wars to learn about, but then it's back to the boring trains.

I went to a second rate Anglican boys school 25 years ago and our history studies were so mind-numbingly tedious that I lost all interest in judeo-christian anything. Not sure that Pyne's fully thought this through."the foundation of all our modern economic, political and legal institutions"

Except that "foundation" had its own foundations. The foundation of western culture is eastern culture. The foundation of judeo-christian heritage isn't jewish or christian."Even most of the Western diet has its origins outside of the Western Empire."

No, our diet is truly western. Without modern food technology we'd never know the joys of synthetic citric acid E330, sulphur dioxide or artificial tartrazine in our foods."if Bill's best is the bastard child of 'Grocery Watch' as determined by six out of 10 people in a focus group, forget it."

Excellent line. The only reason Abbott can win in 2016 is Bill Shorten's nothingness."One might also be excused for feeling that the development of a specific vaccine and drugs was delayed until Ebola actually looked like threatening the developed world."

Don't suspect it, it's a fact. It's the inevitable consequence of decades of demanding that research have commercially attractive outcomes that there's a lot more research into treating hair loss than ebola. I'd complain to the science minister but, well, you know....Of course Mike, your shareholders would demand nothing less. My criticism was aimed at trends in publicly funded R&amp;D which occurs in universities and the CSIRO.What's sexist about David Feeny's joke about Christine Milne? I can remember an identical joke being made in a newspaper in the 1980's about the poker-faced former tennis great Bjorn Borg.

Making a joke that a woman is overly emotional and linking this back to her being a woman could certainly be mysoginistic but making a joke that someone always wears the same face is just that."the real decline started when Hawke was in power"

Not at all sure by what standard you judge "decline" but the Hawke governments were reformist, progressive and contained many ministers of considerable intellectual talent. Much less of the press-flack-driven rubbish that we see today. Chester's view of the Howard government is fair in that those guys were sneaky but they were still much more competent than what we've seen from either side since. Howard could famously hold his nerve when the media were against him, whereas Rudd, Gillard and Abbott were/are rabbits in the spotlight more often than not.Tired and thoroughly debunked criticisms AE.

Howard as treasurer delivered worse interest rates and inflation  and the recession we had to have was part of the reform which broke the decades-old boom-bust cycle and delivered twenty-something years of continuous growth. It's tiresome to have to answer those criticisms which any economist would laugh at.So you're obsessed with what interest rates briefly were 25 years ago and ignoring the structural reforms which have kept them low ever since while ensuring economic growth, stable employment and general prosperity? This is why I know you're not a very good economist.It is amazing to watch reruns of Yes Minister and contemplate how things have changed in 30 years both in the UK and Australia. Press secretaries barely play a role in YM but you find many media flacks in every ministerial office today. Ditto "staffers" (young party hacks often fresh out of uni telling highly experienced public servants why they're wrong). The rise of social media and the distorted idea we now have of the concept of voting thanks to Big Brother/Idol/internet polls must have played a role too.

Kevin Rudd might have had a chance under the old system but clearly fell under the wheels of the modern one. Paul Keating would never have sought Prime Ministerial office in the world of today when PMs need opinions about every 'trending issue'. Tony Abbott is exactly what we deserve."NSW politics it was long before 2004 that the media decided that it in fact was the Opposition"

It was the 1999 state election. The Libs had been 'out to lunch' since their unlikely and unexpected loss in 1995, their policies were slapped together (remember the promise to privatise electricity and pay $1000 to electricity account holders? And all the holes in who would or would not get a cheque?). The ALP media advisers were priming journos on holes in Liberal policies and it was almost blood-sport to watch journalists race each other to embarrass Kerry Chikarovski with another policy blunder.

You can't blame the media for the lack of decent opposition in NSW between 1995 and 2007. NSW voters re-elected Labor very begrudgingly but it's because electing the Libs would have been worse. It's only since the Liberals' hard right faction has been (somewhat) brought under control that NSW voters have been able to get rid of an unpopular government. The culture of laziness and factional division among the NSW Libs during that period was the problem pure and simple.Good thing the young lady's community leaders and religious elders weren't around or she'd have copped their criticism for her immodest behaviour. The fact that someone called 'Malcolm' twice mentions her 'lovely smile' in a brief post is all the evidence they'd need."I would love to know how many Muslims these ill-informed, right wing zealots have met or spoken to."

Well given my opposition to the hijab is based on a trade union's opposition, on reasonable feminist grounds, to the Islamic College of South Australia's threat to sack any female staff member who did not wear a hijab I don't think you could be more wrong about me being right wing."are comedians vulnerable, or worse, under these new laws?"

Comedians are vulnerable to defamation laws so they could easily be caught up under these laws too if anyone really wants to go that far. Chris Kenny had a win against the Chaser despite no one in history ever taking a word the Chaser lads say seriously."No comment made by Jones or Laws incited people to be there nor did they incite terrorism, were they unwise and did they breach their duty of care as media representatives? Very Probably, but that is far different from advocating suicide bombing of innocent civilians."

The quote from Jones in the article was precisely the way he incited people to be there. So there's that. But much more significantly, James, it is the history of laws introduced to combat terrorism around the world that those laws will be used against non-terrorist suspects. Laws brought in to regulate finance which could possibly be used by terrorist organisations were used against the nation of Iceland during the GFC. Laws brought in as anti-terrorism measures have been used against journalists and whistleblowers in many countries.

Anyone who believes these laws will ONLY be used against terrorists is simply very very naive."abandoning the actual figures"

What? How do you get the "actual figures" for employment without a system whereby we all report all our daily activities to the ABS? Big Brother gone mad. Far preferable to have beancounters doing surveys and using models than massively and expensively upscaling the ABS so they can monitor absolutely everything to get "the actual figures".Go on Paul, how would you go about collating the data on whether people were working or not? There is no process for registering employment arrangements nor is there a process for registering a decision to retire or go out of work (many leave work without seeking the dole). It's either labor-intensive surveying or a massive increase in what we individuals have to report about our households to the government, with the privacy risks that entails. How are you going to do this without "a cast of thousands"?"Although this wouldn't be an exact measurement"

Understatement of the year there Theos. It would be an appalling approximation. Think about all the couples you know where both partners are employed. One of them loses their job and their partner would have to be on a pretty low wage for them to be eligible for unemployment benefits. You've also eliminated any understanding of people retiring, and of course the other important data the ABS manage such as changes to part-time versus full-time employment.When depression/anxiety occurs due to external events in our lives this is often a normal reaction. You are right that the usual anti-depressant medications are not a lot of use in such cases and counselling may be very fruitful.

Other people experience problems because their brain's biochemistry prevents them from relaxing or enjoying good times like healthy normal people do. It's not because their life is bad, it's because their emotional reactions are warped by chemical imbalances. Emotions from passionate love to fear to abysmal sadness, after all, are just chemicals and synapses.

I think the health sector does try to distinguish between environmental and clinical mental illnesses.Wrong, the are just prepard to call a spade a spade."A liberal society means being free to "put it on" as well as to "take it off". A blanket ban on the burqa and niqab is an attack on core Australian values - freedom, equality, and inclusion."

I used to believe that. The event which changed my mind was when the Islamic College of South Australia went from sharing roughly this position with regards to its dress code to making head scarves compulsory for female students and teachers, including non-muslim female teachers. The school leadership responsible for the change in policy was of course male.

When a supposedly moderate organisation like the  Islamic College threatens to sack non-muslim female teachers for not wearing a head scarf, it paints a clear picture of what muslims think about our liberal democracy.

Go the way of France and Turkey, ban religious headwear on the grounds it is about men imposing their ways on women."People don't have to work at or attend these schools you know."

That's not good enough in a liberal democracy. We don't allow employer racism, we don't allow discrimination against the disabled, we should in our society recognise that Australian values are consistent with the suggestion that a woman's hairstyle, whatever it is, is not immodest. That's all I'm suggesting. Do you disagree?"let's show 'em by having men imposing their values on women!"

I've signed up to the White Ribbon campaign Dr Pat. I believe men can call other men out on anti-woman behaviour. That's all I'm doing in suggesting that muslim cultural leaders have shown, through their actions, that they regard women but not men showing their hair as immodest. I believe that's not consistent with Australian culture. The suggestion that I can't call out men behaving mysogninistically because I'm a bloke is appalling.That is precisely my point Catherine. As long as it was the case that it was choice and there was limited evidence of it being forced on women I had no problem. But once the Islamic College of SA took its action, which was opposed by some teachers and their union and went to the industrial commission, it was clear to me (but not lots of other posters above) that this is being pressured or forced on women.

I see banning religious headscarves as the only solution because if you can force a woman to wear a headscarf you can force her to state it was her own choice. And that's what is actually happening. I think it's wrong but lots of others obviously don't (see reactions above)."it allows the Foreign Affairs Minister to "declare" an area in a foreign country as a no-go zone"

If I was the Foreign Affairs Minister common sense would suggest I put the area of Turkey bordering Syria on that list. It's the primary point of entry by terrorists according to this morning's radio, so surely it's on the list. But surely Turkey is then very offended by this, and given our supposedly great relationship with them we're not about to offend them, especially in the lead-up to April 2015. So it stays off the list.

These laws are very silly in practice. When someone is smuggling themselves into banned areas with nothing more than a good friend to give them an alibi and a reliance on predictable diplomatic pandering they're no improvement on the old laws."Hardly influential of the government, the IPA lobbied to have 18C changed, and failed."

But that's not the story is it foxtrot? The fact is that Bolt and the IPA were successful in writing the Liberals' policy on that issue. It was only George Brandis' monumental errors in selling the policy and ASIO's realisation that the 18C laws could be used against exponents of terrorism that saw the policy fall over."Drop the JSF lemon, and save $20 billion."

Why do I think this is more about justifying the JSF (and dumping buildling submarines in a city with quite a few marginal seats) than concern for residents of Syria and Iraq?"It's time for the citizens of the middle east to take their own countries back."

Many national borders in the middle east are western inventions. People are more likely to feel tribal loyalties based on language, ethnicity and religion than national borders.

I've no doubt many middle eastern people would be happy to form new countries based on their real communities rather than artificial borders but the west and west-leaning mid eastern countries like Turkey will never allow it.

The citizens of the middle east are really about the last people you can blame. They just happen to live on oilfields. They're always going to be subject to the winds of international trade, the whims of their ruling elites and the global military industrial complex than their own self determination."Okay. Then who gets the waterholes and the oil fields?"

The west and their allies. Like always. Is there another choice???It's what happens when you're a classic liberal like Greg."Therefore I don't understand why someone would emigrate for a new life in another country but still want to dress the same and behave is if they never left home."

Southern European immigrants in the 1950's were criticised for their colourful and brightly printed shirts. Conservatives of today wish that young people dressed as well as the foriegners they used to criticise back in the day.There are three forms as I understand it Ron D. There's the hijab, which is the head scarf which does not cover the face, there's the niqab, which is a facial covering with gaps/holes where the eyes are, and there is the burqa, which is a facial covering with a dark mesh over the eyes so no skin can be seen at all. Burqas are almost never seen in Australia and where I live niqabs are rare.

It's common throughout the muslim world for female security staff to ask women to remove facial covering in a private room for identification purposes.

This whole issue was resolved in NSW by a Liberal government without fuss or controversy and it's a far cry from the circus created by Cory Bernardi and Jackie Lambie."if it is the woman's choice then who am I to say no"

I held this view right up until the Islamic College of South Australia started forcing all female teachers (including non-muslims) to wear a head scarf under their dress code. This change was brought in without consulting staff.

This was the issue which changed my view: I'm quite happy for Australia to do as many countries including predominantly islamic countries have done and ban religious head coverings.

"The only one who's had the guts to put detailed policies up prior to election since is Howard with the GST and then Workchoices."

Howard did not take Workchoices to the 2004 election. His 2004 IR policy did not include replacement of the award-based no disadvantage test which was fundamental to Workchoices. Source: Parliament House website, background notes about workplace relations reforms.

He took the GST to the election, not incorrectly, as a minor reform to tidy up Australia's somewhat shambolic wholesale sales tax system and replace it with a not-much-less shambolic alternative including taxing services ("unless you're paying cash, mate, if you know what I mean nudge nudge").Well as any kid living in poverty can attest, Hawkey's commitments were a bit more qualified than they first appeared. We'll only be taking full fee-paying students.You are presuming the Chinese government not does want to stop the uprising and the spark it brings to other parts of China. Australia did not introduce sanctions when the army turned in Thailand, or when East Timor was suffering. We live in a different world now. The media is censored in China, and they will follow the line it is Western lies, as they did before."It is not lawful to be naked in public, (except in defined places like nudist beaches)"

Not exactly. It's unlawful to expose one's genitals. Many women can walk around naked without doing this. I've heard of (admittedly European) court cases which have been thrown out over this detail."If someone wearing this tried to interact with me, I would ignore them as they have chosen to aggressively alienate themselves from me and become an object."

How do we know who you are? You're posting online anonymously, you could be male or female, you could be holding a bomb right now. It's fine for you but an affront if someone else does it?"You can't feel cohesion with someone when you can't see their face."

Says the guy (or girl, who can tell?) interacting with others online behind an anonymous three letter acronym!!!! That is hilarious."Never seen a sign requiring the removal of a burqa or similar though."

I've never seen a sign requiring the removal of a cardboard box, lampshade or oversized novelty condom either Malb but try getting past that sign wearing one of those.At an ATM you can wear your helmet anytime. I've googled any number of phrases and can't find any restrictions to that anywhere. If there's a sticker at the ATM then I'm guessing it's firmly in the realm of 'polite request', not an infringement on your rights.Burqas or niqabs? Are their eyes fully covered by thick mesh?No, Oh Lordy, I was just responding to Sack's response to a specific detail in the article. Sack disagrees that "almost no muslim women in Australia wear the burqa" but then admits that he/she might have mistaken the burqa for a niqab anyway. Technically correct is the best kind of correct.Ah, the classic 'you look different so you must be the enemy' logical error, I'll just leave this quote from Herman Goerring here:

"Naturally the common people don't want war: Neither in Russia, nor in England, nor for that matter in Germany. That is understood. But, after all, it is the leaders of the country who determine the policy and it is always a simple matter to drag the people along, whether it is a democracy, or a fascist dictatorship, or a parliament, or a communist dictatorship. Voice or no voice, the people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked, and denounce the peacemakers for lack of patriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works the same in any country.""If anyone followed the story fully, they'd know Shorten was insisting in parliament that Abbott give his own personal opinion on the Burqa issue."

I followed the story and I know you're significantly misrepresenting it. Shorten never "was insisting in parliament that Abbott give his own personal opinion on the Burqa issue." What he did was insist that the PM show leadership and give his formal position on Cory Bernardi's stunt, which until that time appeared as the Liberals' formal position.

Abbott's repeated leadership failures and lack of punishment for pretty gross incompetence is the story Shorten was raising. Abbott is certainly no John Howard as numerous ex-Howard ministers can attest.That is a very nice theory, but it ignores the fact that the vast majority of smokers start before their 18th birthday.

Kids get addicted, addicted adults continue to smoke.  It is not a "free" choice at all.  This gateway to a lifelong consumer is not lost on the cigarette companies, they just don't talk about it much any more.

They used to sell fags in child sized packages.  Not in Australia anymore, but they still do elsewhere.

I kicked the habit once I grew old enough and smart enough to realize that the only difference between me and the guy down the road with the oxygen tube up his nose was a few years.

In this country we are not in the business of telling adults what they can and cannot do.  Prohibition is always such a spectacular public policy failure anyway.

However, I don't see any great inequity in taxing a product that has no benefits and enormous costs.  There will be a point at which a high tax is a de-facto ban, and it is legitimate to debate whether we are moving from a reasonable public health response to a paternalistic nanny state prohibition.

If this senator had any integrity at all he would hand back every cent that the tobacco industry gave him and debate the merits free from the taint of being a bought and paid for lapdog.

This is not just a problem in smoking policy, either.  How long are we just going to sit here and watch our entire democratic process get subverted by scumbag industries who buy the media and our elected so called representatives in a neat little package ?The former Yugoslavia has calmed right down. East Timor has calmed right down. Afghan girls can access education in a lot more of that country than before 2002. That's off the top of my head and I'm sure there are some more."So, Afghanistan is settled?"

I'm a grandparent and Afghanistan hasn't been "settled" in my lifetime if ever. It's a relative thing. I happen to think girls being educated is better than not and it's about as much as can be hoped for in a joint like that where tribalism is everything.Why can't we just make the simple point that ISIS are murderous miscreants who are killing lots and lots of muslims. We're part of a multi-national campaign including Arab countries trying to stop them from murdering more muslims. What is anti-islamic about what's going on? Anti psychopathic fundamentalist perhaps, but not anti-islamic.

Team Australia. It's good for muslims.All excellent points Caffetierra. I too opposed the Iraq invasion, both out of concern to Iraqi civilians who suffered far more than they would have under Saddam's flight-restriction crippled regime and also out of concern that it was excellent PR for Al Qaeda who at that point were on the ropes in Afghanistan. 

What's different here is that we've been invited by Iraq's new and ecumenical government and the target is a specific force opposed to a variety of cultures with a real right to exist where they are.It's completely lacking in meaning here Harry. Over there, it's about political representation, it's about relative strength in an environment where that means something, it's about trying to secure a stronger future for 'your tribe' than 'their tribe'.

Here, it's a point of religious difference (a clerical error, if you will) which separates sects in a religious minority where there are no political points in play and those guys have a lot more in common with each other (religiously) than with the rest of us. If it wasn't for Cory Bernardi, no one would agree with their positions on homosexuality, abortion and other social issues.Tim, if you don't think "the USA really is Christian" then try running for elected office there as an avowed atheist. But you're right about the cruelty of their executions. Beheadding is an absolute doddle compared with their recent pharmacalogical stuff ups which dragged on for dozens of minutes before prisoners finally went into cardiac arrest.Fascinating you include Lebanon. The position of President in Lebanon is constitutionally reserved for a christian and it's a position which wields power. Also the head of their reserve bank.

Iraqi christians did alright until not long ago too. One was a very longstanding foreign minister, one of the country's most powerful men. The Americans have still got him locked up.

Yep, christians in the middle east have played a notably bigger role than muslims in the west.If "Climate change ( not a normal fluctuation) is happening but it is not caused by human activity" then what is it caused by?

What natural, non-human phenomenon is not "normal" (bearing in mind that in climate change language, lots of different phenomena are normally part of cycles which might take hundreds of thousands of years) but having such a rapid impact on climate systems which have always fluctuated but never at a speed like we currently see?Everyone believes what they want to believe. Except for those interested in data, analysis, modling, physics and science in general, who try to put aside prejudices and favour where the evidence points. And the 51% you refer to couldn't tell you the first thing about the science (it's all Jeremy Clarksonesque deliberate buffoonish ignorance with most of them as anyone who's ever discussed ice sheets can confirm) other than "well scientists would say that wouldn't they?"I'm not pretending to be an expert Australian but if the models are flawed then there are processes for requiring that this be identified via the same peer review/publication process that the models were initially introduced through.

If the facts are on your side then scientists will back you up. If the data is less clear than you suggest and remains open to various interpretations then that is what scientists will conclude too.

Of course it happens in science (as in absolutely every other avenue of human life) that when certain scientists come to be strongly associated with certain theories then they can become defensive about them. But peer review is a strong brake on this problem and certain journals have extremely strong reputations because of their adherence to this.You are correct, Applaudanum, that anyone whinging about the principle of "offense" while ignoring both all of the recent media involving widespread discussion about specific ethnic and religious groups and the free speech protections spelled out in 18D is flying a kite.

I'm fascinated by the revelation though that the government is hanging onto 18C with a view to prosecuting terrorist-related hate speech, which is likely to include hate speech directed at white anglo Australians.

The Bolt/Jones/IPA crowd will be fully on board!
