There have always been innocent victims of war.

There is no reason why these victims shouldn't be australians or dutch or malaysian...

This "moral outrage" simply exposes a deep hypocrisy in the popular mind , that when the "innocent lives" lost are ours, it matters but otherwise - if they are syrian or kurdish or nigerian or sudanese or tibetan or burmese - who cares?

All War is horror and tragedy and outrageous. As long as we remain indifferent to it, these tragedies will continue , which suits politicians and arms merchants but nobody else...Coogera you illustrate that hypocrisy perfectly, with your casual and  sickening readiness to advocate "destroying" villages "who support terrorists"

Innocent people EVERYWHERE have "no connection whatsoever to any war" Thats what innocent means.

It doesn't matter what village they live in. Get it? 

The truth is we are all involved and we should all be sickened and outraged and actively oppose all war, or else accept this kind of horror as the price we pay for what we allow to happen to preserve our lifestyles.I think you need some new tinfoil for your hat.

They would not have been able to identify the plane as specifically Malaysian airlines.

That you use the words "illegal" and "thousands" in your next paragraph is interesting. Assuming you're talking about Israel v. Palestine - your grasp of the issue is a bit "light"...

And, no, it's not possible when the US has tracked the missile and there are recorded instances of people crowing about shooting the plane down.

But of course, you don't let logic get in the way of rampant conspiracy mongering do you? 

Probably the same high standard of aircraft identification that lead to a KAL 747 being mistaken for an intelligence aircraft. The Royal Observer Corp holds competitions in aircraft identification to encourage a high standard of recognition but it seems the Russians accept a lower standard to the point where their operators cannot tell the difference between a straight winged turboprop and a swept wing jet transport. As you say, a cheap pair of binoculars would have been enough to tell the difference.What do intelligence aircraft look like?

Feel free to look online at images of intelligence gathering aircraft. None of them look like a conventional airliner thanks to the forest of aerials and radar housing radomes protruding from the aircraft. The fact is the Soviets blew a 747 airliner with airline markings out of the air because they panicked.My take on this is that an ill qualified missile commander ignored protocol, took shortcuts, made assumptions or misidentified the aircraft and pulled the trigger. Erring on the side of recklessness would be my description, not caution.A quick visit to the RT website will give you a depressing insight into the manipulation and distortion being employed to foster conspiracy theories. Its sick enough coming from trolls but coming from a media outlet like RT its a complete disgrace.In that case lets not forget Russia's history on shoot downs. Putting sophisticated weapons systems at the disposal of unsophisticated operators and ill managed command and control systems seems to be a Russian speciality.The U.S spy planes you are referring to were based on the 707 airframe, not the 747 airframe, and they were never painted in civil airline livery. You don't need to be a trained observer or even a pilot to recognise the difference between the various ELINT aircraft of the USAF and a civil 747.R Supwood....excellent post.Abbott is all wind and no guts. It is fine to shoot your mouth off from a far. When it comes to the crunch he will wilt like the wimp he really is. Well he could compare tough  looking photos and videos with Putin, both are wankers.  I feel great sorrow for the loss of all the souls on the plane, but Abbott is still a liar and a nobody in my eyes. I won't bother to comment on Bishop, she is just not worth my time.Those who would give up their liberty for safety deserve neither.Aaron, why are you posting here? if you don't like the truth try a Murdoch paper for Abbott bolstering, don't visit the ABC, it is that easy, oh no now I am on the list for surveillance, darn it.The dangers I see with these type of Laws , is where doe it stop? will we become like the old East Germany with a Stasi looking at everything we do? or  the USA under the communist witch hunts? I remember when the ' Net' took off and how much fun people were having ' surfing' and finding how easy it was to connect to the world. how quickly it has become a feared tool of the crooks, thieving and evil types. But that does not mean we ALL should be tainted and placed under the microscope. I hope, but, doubt this current Government has got it right, everything they do is announced with such fan fare, but often has a hidden agenda and fails the test when looked at with a clear open mind.Were you born this morning Fidanza, the number of paid, ACTU sponsored and left prices on The Drum outweighs any right wing opinion be 10 to 1.As an opinion piece one thing is bipartisan, lawyers left or right appear to have no interest in the public good, generally they are spoilt, self interested, ambulance chasers, the profession in my opinion has a lower standing than the oldest professionSo prices change in different ways across different goods and services. Why take 1,000s of words to say that?

BTW Greg, many successful economies and periods of growth happened in deflationary economic environments. While it may be true that under our typical monetary policy settings prices rise on average, it does not have to be that way. That pernicious deliberate inflation is unnecessary.What a load of crap. Where's the damage? How about all the recording studio's around the world closing down? What about all the recording engineers out of work? I've seen friends go onto the scrapheap because no one is willing to prosecute people for stealing music. And don't give me the copying is not stealing bag of arse. Copyright is law and it doesn't give people the right to copy content. It gives you the right to buy a copy for your personal use. These idiots always concentrate on the profits record companies or movie studios make but never on the people involved in the process of making the content losing their livelihoods. I support anything that stops people assigning a value of zero dollars to the work of artists just because they can. You can't walk into a car dealership and take steal a car with no consequences. You shouldn't be able to do the same with an artists work and no amount of weasel words will disguise the fact that it's theft.Why is it than anything that offered "online" in Australia costs more than what is offered in the US or Europe ?

With a VPN subscription that allows me to show the world I'm NOT from Australia I get cheaper Games Movies Music and TV.

If the Music/TV/Movie industry want to see the effective way of winning the battle against piracy then look no further than Valves online content platform "Steam" (http://store.steampowered.com/).  I don't pirate PC games anymore.  I buy it on steam.  It simplifies my game library, offers some great community tools and other bonuses to make my game time easier and more rewarding. 

Steam adds values  to my purchase.  It's easy convenient and fast.

But if your going to force me to pay $70 a month for the 2 hours of decent TV an movies a month You can shove it.  The people making piracy possible are way way smarter and will circumvent just about any way you can think of to stop it.  The tools they have made available  means it's actually easier to search an download pirated content than it is to use legitimate sites.

If the government want to stop piracy then start looking at the reason why it's rampant in Australia. Murdoch is by far the number one cause for piracy in Australia.Rough Passage...you certainly have had a rough passage..this government is wrong, wrong wrong..it has to go. No matter how many rose coloured glasses you use to view it.' Hit the reset button' sorry it is too late for Abbott, far too many lies, half truths and on water secret matters. Far too many reviews by his ' mates' for their gain only. If I see Abbott, Bishop, Morrison, Hockey or Pyne on the News I use the remote, change channels, no need to listen it will always be lies  or preach ' it was Labor who did it '  So, so fed up with the cover up, secrecy and outright contempt they show us.Esteban, the only ones with 'rat cunning' were Abbott and his team, they spewed out lie after lie and scare tactic after scare tactic and then release a budget to hurt everyone except their 'big business' mates like Murdoch. Rat cunning was Abbott and still is.Well done Noah, couldn't help but throw in some irrelevant comment about the current Fed Govt, grow up, or find a boat and sail away.

Of course the White Australia Policy was an integral part of the ALP and the Union movement, and of course Biily was a labour PM, but lets not drag them into this.Good article - using super savings would simply be counterproductive. House prices would rise further and retirement savings would reduce.

Many people on this thread argue to "end negative gearing". This is just facile. Most likely, the commenters have no idea what "ending negative gearing means'.

What would be better is to remove the exemption from capital gains tax of the owner occupied house.Heavier reds are a bit ordinary, tho.Alas, our underarm delivery has been supplanted by the exploits of Lou Vincent and (possibly) Chris Cairns.  Beaten by the cousins across the ditch again  ...It is not you Hockey it is the budget. I am sorry it is Joe and it is Abbott along with the rest of the 'entitled gang' they were all a part of the ' big lie' the big con' they all knew what they had in store for us, all of us. They lied and hid and suppressed their real agenda and believed they would be allowed to get away with it. No matter what minor changes they make or concessions they decide to allow, the bottom line is they cannot be trusted and no doubt will hide the truth behind cuts and tax increases thru a web of reforms or committees. Hockey deserves all the flak he is copping, lie and deceive it will come back to bite his more than generous rear end.This government had a ' honeymoon' period before the election. Every  slogan worked for them and it was easy, just say it and it would happen. Abbott and Hockey believed they could get away with anything and still do, but now Joe has to explain a budget and he has run out of 'slogans' and has to do the hard work, he blustered and bullied and yelled at everyone in Parliament and demanded we agree there was Emergency, urgency and desperation. However, we of the masses, thought the sky isn't falling in, Carbon Pricing hasn't ruined the country something is not right, we don't believe you. Hockey has found it is harder than just finding a three word slogan and blustering, yelling and blaming everyone else. He has shown he is not up to it and just won't get it. No wonder he is not popular, stop blaming and yelling at us and perhaps get a fair reasonable budget for everyone and it might help.I don't and never will trust Abbott, he has a mentor named Howard who lied to us big time about WMD, Abbott is no different he has been fear mongering for years and has tried it with the so called ' budget emergency' he races off to the Netherlands and then to England for what? to try and show us he is a leader? yes a leader of clowns. Remember Howard and the ' children overboard' tread carefully, this is the war he needs to bolster his lagging support, we were conned before, don't get conned again. our troops and Nation deserve better.science lover have to agree no matter how rotten this government is or how often Abbott, Hockey, Bishop, Pyne or Morrison stuff it up, a Howard advisor still manages to make out it 'was labor's fault.' they just can't see the forest for the trees."A civilised society doesn't go through each other's rubbish bins, doesn't record each other's conversations, and we don't go into enter private homes without being invited." I think what you meant to Dr Rosewarne is that an individualistic society doesn't (to use your expression) go through people's rubbish bins, isn't interested in the lives of others even those that have touched our lives in a remarkable way. Your argument really doesn't make sense. Mr Williams was a remarkable human being (and happened to be a celebrity at the same time) and touched our lives through comedy. We are naturally drawn to Nobel individuals; be it Doctors, Artists, Business people. Approach this subject with some logic and less opinion Dr Rosewarne.Her remarks and Tony's are different in severity, form and context. Therein is what counts, and why Tony absolutely deserves to be called a misogynistIt is completely unnecessary to make those preferences known, which automatically exclude a huge number of people.It is the detail of her preferences that is the problem. How, in your mind, is a gay man saying he is sexually attracted to men, and Lambie saying she wants a hung guy the same?Sounds like you're quite willing to hear the official explanation provided. What makes you more sure than the people who believe he winked because he has an awful lack of empathy? Hmm...Sure, the ABC would look awfully biased when everything else is saturated by media and co. I guess you don't actually know what real journalism looks like anymore. Anything that criticizes the liberal party is regarded as 'left wing bias' these days. It's a great shame.What would happen if I, as a man, said I only want a chick with a nice rack? Preferably one who wants to do my ironing? It is ok for her to say sexist gendered bullsh*t about a man, but the reverse is just not acceptable. What a double standard, and a typical one too. Men don't suffer from gendered stereotypes, we don't suffer from body confidence issues, we don't suffer sexism in any way... according to women in the media et al anyway. What is acceptable for one must not be unacceptable for the other.I think we so shooked at having an honest politician.It is naive to think anything we (Australia) bears any weight with Russia let alone make demands upon them. They will do and are doing exactly what they have decided is in their national interest. 

They tell our prime minister he is a fool and we must wait for proof and facts before drawing conclusions, while at the same time their proxy blocks international investigators from accessing the site wh destroyTony Abbott has my complete support when he describes Australia as a "self respecting nation". 

It is not self respecting to blow with the wind or to sit passive and gutless while someone lies right in our faces- no more especially when the subject involves the murder of our citizens and those of our friends overseas.

But it is naive and delusional to think that we can 'demand' anything from Russia. We can lodge our protest against their actions and we can ask them to facilitate the return of our dead- no more than this.

As soon as our dead are returned, our government has my full support to sever diplomatic relations with Russia- this is the only serious avenue we have to protest their actions. If the G20 do not like it, they can find another host, one more  willing to pander to Russia's lies because it is easy or economically and politically advantageous.There will be no forensic investigation of this crash- it is too late for that. We have all the facts we are going to get. There is the Ukraine, the Donetsk separatists and there is Russia. At least one of them is lying about what happened. All you need to do is read the statements from the various leaders and compare what they say to their actions to tell who are the liars. People will believe what they want to. You can sit on the sidelines and wait for facts and irrefutable evidence safe in the knowledge neither will ever come if you wish.No, compulsory third party insurance pays for compulsory third party insurance. Registration is just consolidated revenue, once costs are removed.And you sound like an unreconstructed angry ant who is part of the problem. I speak as a driver and (very) occasional cyclist.Mate just between you and me, I pay over a million dollars in PAYG tax a year let alone company tax, payroll tax, any number of levies etc and yes I pay car rego on several cars.  I would also gladly pay rego on my bikes (and those of my kids) but only if it would shut you up.  And as for knowledge of road rules, Jeez...I've had my licence for thirty something years and that's when I last read the road rules.  How about you? 

It's a very unfortunate Australian thing to give cyclists grief.  Here in the French Alps there is almost universal respect on the roads.I wish you lot would get your terminology correct whilst you are ranting.

Negative gearing is just a state, an outcome, not a policy that needs to be changed. You can no more outlaw negative gearing than you can outlaw dirt.

What the discussion needs to be about it is (a) the deductability of the interest paid on a loan on an investment mortgage against the income from that property, and (b) the ability to offset losses against other income, including for most, wage and salary income.

I'm not sure you can or should do much about (a), but (b) can certainly be looked at and wound back - reduce the ability to do this and you won't see so many interest only mortgages floating around, for a start.Thank goodness the carbon tax has gone.

It was one of the most ill-conceived policies ever imposed on Australia. Anyone who professes concern about the environment and who argued in favour of that tax should hang their heads in shame.What happens when the coal/oil runs out ?  Will the price still be lower ?

The simplest argument for moving to renewable's is that they are "renewable".  A lump of coal burnt is gone.

If you had to pay the true price (ie replacement value) of coal an oil then solar/wind would seem quite cheap.Middle Lander..it may have, but it really cost us about 25 million dollars in low life, blood sucking Lawyers wages for a sham Royal Commission.The bigger concern is are the vans really roadworthy? some look like death traps and accidents waiting to happen.JOHN 1 , If you really understood the problem with the Budget, its NOT LABOR SPENDING, it was the TAX cuts that John Howard gave to the middle class, (and labor kept I might ad) Its revenue that's the problem , NOT spending, But Tony wont tell you that.Things are only a problem if they're not true... if the richest person in Australia asserts that wages are too high because capital can find the same resources in cheaper countries and does so and an industry is thus destroyed, then how is this a "problem"?

Now I'm not saying it's going to happen and I'm not a Gina Rinehart apologist, the person you are whimsically referring to without bothering to name, but just because someone who's uber rich says something you dislike DOESN'T MAKE IT UNTRUE.

Please go back and read all the comments, in particular the one about Australians adopting critical thinking as a passion... he/she is talking about you.And by using the adjective "gleefully" you have demonstrated your worldview and invalidated your argument.

I doubt there's anything gleeful about it. It's an ideological belief / worldview just as yours is.

They believe it's in the best interests of the country as a whole in the long term. They may yet be wrong, but this is yet to be proven. And they are changing the status quo, which is necessary to get from there to here.

I'm not convinced they've struck the correct balance at all, but nor do I think the world is ending, or the consequences will be as bad as supposed.I don't know where you're living but I see, every year, a whole bunch of second generation immigrant children excelling at all our various schools, topping the charts, so to speak, and going on to do wonderful things in their various lives - outperforming the average, easily.

They certainly don't come from privelege, have social connections and a silver spoon education. - and I suspect they work very, very hard. Please explain?I'm sorry but you haven't demonstrated any link at all between your premise and your conclusion. Just because you put "and because of this" in between two thoughts doesn't mean you are correct. 

What does the word "conservatism" and its supposed meaning have to do with what you say it does? Conservatism means being conservative. How does this relate to privelege, necessarily?

I'm not saying you're wrong, I'm saying you can't make glib statements and expect that everyone's going to agree with your conclusions.The US economy might be the biggest. Explain why you think it's "the greatest"?

And look what happened to it.

Please see point from previous poster re. Australians leaning to think critically, with a passion.Such binary thinking. Just because something's more likely to happen to one group than another doesn't mean that it can't happen to the second group at all.

So if you want to think meritocracy / not meritocracy because you're incapable of holding complex concepts in your head then, no, we're not a meritocracy. But just because you've proved that something isn't an absolute doesn't mean anything. Few things are absolute.

And what is a non-meritocracy? No-one, including the author of the article, has a name for the opposite state so we can argue where along the continuum between the two we are, which is sort of the point of the conversation, really.

I'd say we're to the right of centre, if absolute meritocracy is to the right and the alternative is to the left. Well to the right, in fact. Feel free to argue otherwise, but please... facts would be nice.It is becoming clear so many Australians benefited nothing from the mining boom. Middle class and wealthy seemed to benefit most, however we have more working poor and underclass than ever. Yet these people will be hit hardest in this budget presumably because they are seen as least likely to understand or complain. This a dangerous government who are prepared to break the law and defy the courts in some far right crusade to take us beack to some distant age and attitude they see as the right way. Keating was so correct when he said "god help us if Tony Abbott becomes Prime Minister".I agree totally as it was new world economics compared to old world economics. The investment saved the day for many working Aussies and improved infrastructure which had been ignore for thirty years or more. This right-wing punish them all attitude is nauseating to watch never mind suffer as so many are doing. This desperate attempt to convince us that so many are destroying our economy by leaning is hopefully the death throes of conservatism. Turnbull...where are you???Possible? This incident was set up from the very start to place the Australian government in the worst tactical position possible. The phone calls to the Refugee Action Collective and the lawyers would have started well before the boat was even underway. Nothing in this episode has happened by chance and the Australian government and legal system is being gamed by well resourced, well connected activists.Sarah Hanson Young summed up the Green position on deaths at sea when she said 'accidents happen'. As much as people dislike Tony's new government this is one policy he promised and delivered on.The accidents we are talking about had a string of causal factors, all of them human and evenly divided between the Labor Party, the Greens and the people smugglers. If hundreds of people died in any other transport incident or series of incidents there would be a trial. In this case that will never happen, and the same parties will cause more accident in the future when there is a change of government.nicely put Steve-C: summed it up perfectly.Wrong, negative gearing is being used by working class mum and dada investors, blue collar tradies etc, with leveraged program's you don't gave to be wealthy, that is the attractiveness of negative gearing, almost anyone with a steady income can participate.

Whether this is right or wrong is not the point it is legal, and is applied to other sectors as Janda points out, except that it does increase prices I. Shares etc, Janda should know that any additional funds invested in shares increases prices until people choose to remove their funds at which time prices fall, that's how shares operateThank you for pointing that out, we'd be better off with a cash box you can just take money from when you need it, that's the union way, but you won't hear much about that on the ABCYou cannot have it both ways, the Govt; ALP and Coalition, and numerous economists,analysts etc called for alternatives to drive the economy in the wake of the mining construction boom end.  If half of all property sales and construction is due to investors then without negative gearing this number would halve, employment would drop, homelessness increase etc.

Negative gearing as many comments have indicated occurs in all sectors of the economy and society, R&amp;D, exploration are all opportunities to negatively gear, do we stop research too?Why has it taken so long for this view to be expressed?  How much longer will it take to generate a political will to implement these excellent ideas?Muir and the MEP may be fringe dwellers but remember that almost every household in Australia owns a car and that that car is a rich source of revenue for both state and federal taxes. After wages, health, food and housing this one of the main common items all Australians share so don't write him off.Anastasios...I agree, but we won't be given the evidence by our ' on waters so secretive, plenty to hide government', if we were told the truth, like we should, this government would  be deservedly sacked.If you visited Mr. Badars Facebook page immediately after this announcement what you saw was post after post about the interviews he had lined up with various media groups. The festival got its headline, Mr. Badar got his interviews and online clicks, the media got its 'islamic' story, the shock jocks got their talking points and the journalists got their weeks work written for them. This story wasn't real news. It was the media, the activist and the festival hot tubbing for mutual gain. Theres plenty of shame to go around for using the muslim community as a cash cow.Abbott has created the parliament he wants. Everyone turned off and no one listening.
This was the intention from the start and he has succeeded admirably for him.

Dysfunctional my arse, this is a contrived and planned process with total method and planning as he has no intellectual credibility and talking seriously when you are innumerate is to be avoided.

Turnbull do something for christ's sake before Australia becomes an international West Virginia.This whole' event' has been planned right down to the hour. The provocative title, the expected outcry, the highly publicised cancellation and the lecture on public hysteria and islamophobia. The public has been played from the start. This kind of shock marketing for festivals used to be interesting but now its just old. Another festival shake and bake controversy Australia and the muslim community didn't need.Doubled the deficit, are you so naive to think the govt can turn around unfunded commitments, yes unfunded commitments of the ALP's blank cheques. 

Where do you think consumer confidence would be if we just kept borrowing without seeking strategies to stem borrowing.

NDIS, Gonski, child care worker pay increases, superannuation guarantee increases haven't been funded but commitments still paid.

Including law suits and profligate spending. 

As for GFC stimulus, well 4 deaths, thousands of fires and no long term jobs of increased productivity are scarely better than $800 hand outs largely used to buy Chinese TV's all with borrowed moneySo pilots just turn up, drink coffee and punch a few buttons? 

To start with I suggest you research the aviation regulations and the various company contract requirements to familiarise yourself with just what pilots are responsible for. The short answer is 'everything' including the safety and security of the passengers and cargo not to mention a multi million dollar aircraft plus its crew. I remember a flight attendant asking a pilot why they were paid more since they 'didn't work as hard' and the answer was 'responsibility'. It can take over a decade to reach the point where one lands a airline job and another decade or more before a pilot rises to a wide body command. Once you reach that point you may have only one decade left at the wages being talked about on this forum.

It costs well over $100,000.00 to reach the point where a pilot has the qualifications to work for an airline and there is no government funded university course for airline pilots. Pilots know all about debt and they know they have two or three opportunities a year where they can lose their livelihoods through medicals and checks. This week I heard that in the last year only 300 commercial pilots licenses were issued in Australia and if that is true it indicates that young people simply can't see the point in having their family borrow 100K to fund a career where less than 10% of pilots actually get a top level airline job and those that do face diminishing conditions thanks to hostile management. Whether a job is strenuous or not is no indicator as to the knowledge and professionalism required to do it well and safely. If you think being an airline pilot is that easy by all means apply.Why can't the less well off accept, they are less well off? that question astounds me. what world are you in? please all you suffering out there in the real world just accept what Abbott and Hockey dish out to you, according to Waterloo Sunset that is all you deserve, accept you are less well off and don't expect decent education or health care after all you deserve it because you are not of the chosen ones of calibre. This Liberal / Coalition nightmare continues, Waterloo Sunset like Abbott and his rabble just don't get it.C Ash So Abbott is doing a much better job than Rudd and Gillard..what? well I suppose he has worked out how to continue to 'rort' the tax payer and get away with it, introduced secret 'on water matters' to keep us from knowing the truth, lied about changes to Medi Care and Gonski, introducing new taxes, when he said he would not, so he has mastered the art of the LIE after whinging time and time again about Gillard. He has continued the lie about the Budget Emergency and now his gang is maintaining the Scare Tactics about terrorism. He is a Rhodes Scholar at ' putting foot in mouth' . The only good job he is doing is showing everyday what a plonker he really is.I fear the NBN has been promised to Murdoch in a pre-election deal. It would explain the disgusting anti-labour headlines.

All we will hear is bad news about the NBN, the reasom being so it can be passed over to Murdoch as it is 'broke'. The promises to News Ltd. are probably enormous and this entire budget was probably run past Rupert before completion. The selfishness and  determination to defeat the democratic vote by this man is unparalleled except by totalitarian governments.The khaki elections and sheer luck with terrorist events at elections served the right so well they feel it will go on forever and have no other real alternative to the war strategy.

Spending on the health service should be increased not decreased. We have no dental plan for a start, how we call it a universal health system without that is strange. 

Abbott and Murdoch are an ignorant and dangerous combination with Murdoch willing to fabricate and Abbott willing to  take this country in whatever direction Rupert wants.I admit I don't understand the Islamic world or I should say the side of it that is always at 'War' with the west and it seems they always have a reason, in their eyes, to at times act like raving, blood lust savages. And as always continue to blame us. Whatever happened many, many ages ago offended them and it seems no what it will continue well after most of us are dust or ashes. What I do understand is how this Government under Abbott and the previous Howard government know how to pander to people like me, who have no problem with the Muslim faith, don't really understand it but tolerate their way of life as of the many faiths and religions in our  country. They play on this buy pushing the fear and scare mongering, firstly with Children Overboard and WMD now with the Operation Sovereign Borders and the secrecy, then, exploiting the detention centre riots, blaming the inmates, now it is Team Australia and talk to make vulnerable people feel uneasy by almost saying 'beheading coming to a town near you soon' I don't think Abbott is entirely to blame, but his spin doctors feed this type of propaganda to him and he is always eager to dish it out to the electorate and telling a few fibs or spruking of scare mongering comes easy to him. He may not have his finger on the trigger just yet but when the vote winning moment comes he will pounce and take all those who believed in WMD and Children overboard with him after all he has been taught by the masters.china.. the things that bind us, singing god save the queen, telling lies to the electorate, rorting expenses, making it even harder for the less well off sure these are things that might bind us in Abbott's useless mind Team Australia just another slogan to go with the rest of his crap. If he ever has a good idea then I might listen, but he is a dill and I won't get on board his Team it is rotten.Tony Abbott's view on Team Australia does not require everyone to have the same income, same blood pressure, same education or standard of living or same waist circumference. Need I go on, Jonathan? The meaning of Team Australia has been totally missed by the author.Its not that we like driving cars so much as we hate public transport. Id happily ride a bicycle or an electric scooter to work instead of take the car if the commute was short enough but I won't take public transport when it means standing up in a moving vehicle for an hour.I'm confused by the Growth of new motor vehicle sales graph. Seems to have two different lines labelled as 1%.We simply can't trust them anymore is pretty well on the mark. When they lie to us they make excuses, that they all lie and think that is ok, when caught out taking money from developers people like Abbott say it is the law that is wrong or other stupid reasons to excuse it, perhaps if voting was NOT compulsory, and I believe in our voting system, but perhaps making it not compulsory to vote  just might deliver a wake up call to politicians that we don't trust them anymore, too many lies, shonky behind closed door meetings, lunch time deals sealed with paper bag deliveries. They will  have to truly work for and mean what they say, cut out the lies and earn the votes and then be truly called Honourable , not bent. But I suppose the tooth fairy will come tonight as well.All these so called Honourable Politicians, regardless of Political preference, if caught out being corrupt, should not only be prosecuted, but immediately removed from Parliament, not just moved to the back benches. Making pathetic excuses like Abbott has mentioned is not on, it is offensive to all voters. Not only should donation laws be tightened,  Perjury Laws should be included for Parliament and Politicians after all Parliamentary duty is as sacred as a Court of Law or is the term Honourable given to those who are entitled as in a special club? perhaps then we might get people in Government, both local State and Federal who care for their electorates people and not just what kick backs and favours they might receive or give out to big business and developers.Praise for Bishop and some saying she is leadership potential, but let us not forget she also holds the name of ' the bridesmaid' being around at the demise of two former Liberal leaders. She also has a name for being ruthless as a Legal advisor, so what would she do better than Abbott? hide the lies and deception behind heavy eye paint and a cold look? If she is what a potential leader of the Liberal will be, then we are really headed for the flushing mechanism and in deep, deep doo, doo.She may have come out of this ICAC ok, but as a Minister she was, without being too crude, downright hopeless. Well I suppose if Abbott can be PM she has all the right ingredients for a Coalition leader, no worse than Truss.Freedom of thought.  Of course its only when one disagrees that there is a suggestion to stop it.  

If facts such as single women in their 20's outearn men in their 20's in the Western world, females receiving/completing more education and living longer, females receiving more funds for health and spending less time in jail for similar offences, being less likely to be convicted etc etc are harmful.....

Well, tough.  Freedom of opinion and freedom of information are essential to any healthy society.Other than the budget criticism (which I only agree with the last two points), this is more predictable one sided opinions on the lefts ABC.  

I guess it would be too difficult to find quotes from world leaders regarding this will heavy press coverage in Australia and overseas by the worlds journalists.  Other than the shirt front word problem, the acts by the government have been very successful.  

Labor previously still had the word problems and failed so many of its initiatives through no to partial funding and roll out disasters.How did taxpayers "save" Westpac? And St George was a bank long before Westpac bought them and before Kelly was involved.

I know you think you're amusing yourself, but I doubt many others find you all that witty...That's because your funds are being passively managed. When you put them into whatever investment option you choose, they're invested according to an asset allocation. If the entire pool heads south, so will your funds - there's nothing the fund can do because that's how they said they'd manage your money.

A decision to go to cash is yours alone to make, unless you employ, and pay for, an active manager or financial adviser.

For all the pain of the GFC, hopefully it's got people a bit more interested in what's happening with their money - a bit more engaged, a bit more knowledgable.Note to gbe - the market isn't bouncing along the bottom.

And default means "I don't give a rat's... do it for me"

Take an interest, don't just go "default" and you'll do better.Actually, it was the last government with the 3 years thing... This government is trying to wind that back for you.

The argument that you shouldn't pay your super fund a fee because they're not making a gain is specious. What about if they, with great skill, lose you less than you would have if left to your own devices in a market crash? Would you pay them then?

Super funds didn't cause the GFC and no-one works for nothing. Work is still required.

Kohler's argument is that you tilt fees towards performance, and it's a reasonable one - he's not suggesting performance or nothing because he understands that it doesn't work that way... and you should too. Have a think about it.Find me a retail fund that's charging 2.2% of assets - to illustrate your point, please.The biggest benefits of super go to the people that own the money when they have something to retire on.

The smaller benefit, and we can argue about the scale, goes to people managing the funds.Craig of so called Bathurst there is also paper bags full of money in the back of cars and money from developers for donations or in real talk money for 'favours' it goes both ways so don't be so selective and open your one eye.Crab walked is a polite way to say 'Gutless' but then it is Tony Abbott.You're not really Hank Moody, are you????

You could knock him over with a lettuce leaf, although the body fat % probably isn't  that much different.... :-)Of course corruption is wrong in Unions. But it seems, I said it seems to be allowed if you are a Coalition Politician. You admit to receiving paper bags full of money in the back of cars or organising donations from Miners and or Developers and still you are in Parliament. Anyone else would be in the 'dock' out the door and the tax man would be waiting. Most of the Royal Commission into Unions is going over and over old allegations and information so if it is told often enough it must be true and achieves what Abbott wants everyone to believe. He uses this method in his stuttering speeches, repeats and repeats to hope you believe it. Abbott has far too much to lose if he allows a Federal ICAC, most of his cabinet would have dodgy dealings and free pane trip type dealings to hide, so keep the attention on Unions and especially extend the Commission up to the next Election period. A little stirring and Union/ Labor demonising helps keep the big Coalition donations  for favours from developers and the Corporate World  hidden.Reading most of these posts it is clear people have really been fed the line "Unions are bad' Unions are evil" they are all crooks and are ruining this country. Please just take a breath and really think about what you have now in your workplace and your working rights. Did Abbott and Hockey provide that for you? What Liberal/National Party Politician has provided you with holidays, weekends off, sick leave, and protective clothing? FIFO workers you have good conditions in your mines, because A UNION over many years battled and battled for these things. Do you really believe a Corporation out of goodness provided this, NO a Union fought somewhere to get every right for workers. Go ahead demonise Unions, I don't care how many bag me, or call me a Mad Leftie, Union lover or knucklehead. I am sure Abbott and Hockey, Bishop, Korman and their Business mates will just love to see Medicare gone, Private Health you pay, not enough money, TOUGH, Die. Education for the wealthy, you pay, not enough money TOUGH, your kids get lousy education. But Unions are all corrupt, evil and ruin our country, WHY because Abbott told you? Well Abbott is as big a shonk and crook as any 
Union member, just look at his book launch, he tried to get thousands out of us for that, his so called charity bike ride in Port Macquarie, still won't prove that was a rort. Have good look around you the banks are crook, financial advisors are crook ,stock brokers are shonky. No it suits Murdoch and Abbott to distract and it will hurt them if we look into Corporate crimes after all they get their money from that end of town, in Paper Bags.No matter how many ways you try to dress up a  sow's ear, Bishop is not worthy of the adoration, Coalition apologists try to push on us ,glass ceiling or not, feminism or not she is as big an embarrassment as Abbott.Feminism has lost its way! It used to be about equality now so much of it has become a commitment to a biological claim that no differences between sexes could exist. All difference MUST be due to oppressionI have been thinking of crossing the 'detch' to find a place with good sense, to escape from the shambles we have here run by the fear mongering, and thought bubble government we call the Coalition.the yank...nations getting together to talk 'theories' and 'non action' and to plan the next junket in an expensive location, where we pay. A political rort at the most obvious.Reading some of the comments on here it is almost as if some people are happy two horses died.
 It gives them a chance to push their agenda. Classless.
Reading some of the comments on here it is almost as if some people are happy two horses died.
 It gives them a chance to push their agenda. Classless.
Dove, sorry, but you already are 'monitored' every time you drive on a motorway, enter a shopping centre, walk onto a railway platform, and when you use your mobile..it goes on and on...Hunter S. Thompson once wrote a terrific piece on the test pilots of Edwards Air Force base. Far from being daredevils living on the edge they were the most boring, conventional people he had ever met except for one thing. They were absolutely committed to excellence in engineering and research. It never had anything to do with testosterone or showing off. Before the author writes this sort of stuff about a group of professionals she should at least do a little research on the group and find out what makes them tick. As noted, these are the men (and women) who do the hard work at enormous risk so others can collect frequent flier points and gin and tonics in comfort at thirty thousand feet. They deserve more respect.Mungo you are so, so, right Abbott is 50 years behind now, what an absurd and abhorrent embarrassment to our nation, this thing called Abbott. A fool who knows only slogans and weak boned phrases to try and show us he is more than a bully and a dim wit, and prone to foot in mouth on a daily basis. He no doubt will introduce a increase to the GST and will more than likely announce it as usual on a Friday afternoon or during a public event when most are looking elsewhere. The current fuel excise dropped on us, just before Christmas and on the eve of a racing event is this cowards way of doing things. He is a liar and a sneak and we will get the GST increase and we will be treated to another round of ' they caused it' and then ' budget emergency' will be heralded by Hockey and Cormann and Abbott will continue to remind us we only thought we heard it. We are stuck with the Colonel Abbott Klink of Team Australia and that is one team I will have nothing to do with it stinks of favours for cash and look after the blue ribbon voter and damn the rest.Calling out "Hey beautiful" is not greeting someone, it's harassing them. Saying "Good morning" is greeting someone.The reason it took Marx five years to sell Das Kapital is because it takes five years to read Das Kapital. The problem with modern party politics is it no longer seems to serve the interests of the community and if you want some indicators look at (self) serving politicians who have posts thanks to their fathers having served in similar posts in government or in unions. Look at U.S political dynasties where even now people are discussing whether or not Chelsea Clinton should be running for President in a couple of decades on her name alone. Modern politics is a contest where the out-of-touch team with the most money and the best hate or scare campaign wins so of course Brand attracts followers.Another review by a lousy government with no plans for Australia.. what a joke on everyone.There's an interesting idea here. The proposal sounds a little like the Army Reserve in places. This might be a model that the emergency services could try.Indeed - a valid point. Pyne may have the greatest set of reforms the education sector has ever seen up his sleeve, but so long as Pyne is delivering them, there will be trouble, because of his manner, political and otherwise....The How, that's easy Kevin Rudd's precedent on the Alchopops tax!  Did you complain then?Steve, clearly you have time on your hands to pen articles for the left leaning The Drum.  If the budget measures of the mandated Govt were passes maybe no discussion would be required on the GST?  Although I think any Govt and so called economist that contributes to a tax summit where the combination of the letters G, S and T cannot be mentioned does a huge disservice to any clear thinking adult.

As for the $8 B for the Reserve bank you conveniently left out that Swan took that money out, when any "world's best practice" treasurer or economist would have been ensuring the Reserve was secure from funding issues, eh Kouk?Interesting reading Mungo. A politician who followed the rules, and as a result lost out. It is obvious Abbott doesn't follow the rules and would not have the guts, let alone morals to do so. And I must say the previous mob in NSW and the current State government in NSW still haven't learnt dodgy deals, paper bags full of money in the back of cars is wrong and developments for donations is crook, but Abbott thinks the rules are the problem, not the politicians. It is clear he would not measure up to the likes of Gough. Perhaps we will see a Politician like Whitlam again, but the  Murdochs and money men will ensure him/ her will be demonised and confined to the 'if only' pile.Rudd and Gillard did nothing but feather their own or the union nest (respectively).   Well we can see the waste of Rudd and the largesse of Gillard and the Union cronies that dictate who the real Gillard was/is or isn't.  Same goes for Shorten, we can only hope for amongst long spell of labour in the wilderness, if only to get the country back on track.I won't speak ill of the dead, but Rudd &amp; Gillard decisive?  Which flower pot were you hiding under Snake?

If you told one set of your regular customers that they would have to wait longer and pay more than other customers what kind of reaction do you think you would get. You don't have to agree with piracy but don't be surprised when it happens to companies that treat consumers as second tier customers.Theres that '97%' again. Saying 97% of scientists agree that humans contribute to atmospheric conditions through emissions is a long way from saying 97% of scientists agree that humans alone are going to cause typhoons, flooding, droughts etc. Im starting to think 'denier' is just shorthand for someone who won't tithe when asked. Climate change has been the mother of all fundraising scare campaigns.People should be judged solely on their choices. This article is ridiculous.The difference is Whitlam and Labor were in a position to implement and take responsibility for their policies as a government. The Greens can talk all day long safe in the knowledge that they will never have to face the responsibility of forming a government. The difference is that between a politician and an activist.Why is it that the 'offenders' register is for one only type crime?
If the crime is to be recorded on a public register against some one for all time; surely murderers, rapists, thieves, white collar criminals should also have their freedom, once they've served their sentence, similarly recorded and monitored so they don't offend or have any contact with people of the type against whom they originally offended.

It has never been about the child, but rather the society that allowed the child to have contact with that parent, step-parent, grand-parent, aunt, uncle or other significant other that the society feels the need to blame someone other than itself for its failures in this area, otherwise the logic would extend to all other crimes.  Remember, as mentioned in the article, it is not the stranger danger but the known person that is the most likely to cause the offence.The reason that Ebola spreads so well in Africa is that it is a Libertarian nirvana, with no effective central regulation.

Regions with proper centrally organised public health systems just aren't vulnerable to Ebola.  TB and HIV are similarly rampant in disorganised countries.'Streamers?, just like  wind farms spoil the wool on sheep and kill bats  by the thousands and destroy farmers crops and cause cancer. Looking forward to hearing more about streamers falling from the sky. Does it happen both night and day? Who says the drive in theatre is dead. Build them and they will come.The very first figure shows total emissions across the OECD - with the OECD chosen because that is what Joe Hockey was asked about.

The fact is no single country - not even China or the US - is big enough to make a difference. But if everyone thinks like that, no-one will do anything.Ignore Abbott. I think a lot of us already do. But while he has powerful friends who actually pull the strings, we are stuck with the simpleton no matter what. We are also stuck with coal  and oil for a long time, it is wishful to think of a world powered purely by Wind, Sun, wave power, thermal power or hydro only. We have huge populations in countries on our Home called Earth, who need the dirty coal and petrol NOW. Nuclear is a real alternative, BUT, it is deadly. It won't happen in my lifetime but it would be good to life in a world without fossil fuel. Perhaps I might even see the rear of Abbott being shoved out the door. who knows.Clearly longer life expectancy causes increased coal consumption.John, I was too young in his term of Prime Minister to fully understand what this man achieved for this country, he had a vision for our future as a country and good society. It was not until I was much older I realised how much we gained from his ideas and actions. It is a pity so many since then have been determined to tear it down and keep us all in the 'dark ages' No doubt this site will be attacked by the Labor haters, that is their loss if they do. Perhaps, we might see a man like him again. RIP.Do you ever countenance that you may ever be wrong, about anything, Olive?

I didn't think so.

Thus it is with the left, always with the God complex, and Gough had it in spades.

He did some good things, no doubt, and were he as awesome as you attest, would have been returned easily when the opportunity arose, but he was summarily dispatched.You can still buy such shirts online and wear them as you please. You just can't buy them at Woolworth's, a retailer that obviously has high ethical standards except when it comes to dealing with suppliers.If Parliament question time was interrupted by Code Pink would you still be upset? If those elderly 'visitors' arrived on buses that 'someone' had organised they were just copying the tactics used nearly every day by activists on the left. I think its quaint that the silver foxes made the effort to have their say instead of leaving it to the usual suspects who turn up for anything and everything.come the next winter, chilly winds and snow falls we will have to ban the balaclava, beanie, bonnet, bandana, bush hats, goggles, wrap around ski helmets, hi collared ski jackets, and scarves wrapped around faces..It really is getting a bit silly and the Senile old most biased speaker in our history has shown she really is the most silly.Typical coalition methods if it is a bad policy, and we know the Budget is not a shocker, it is a disgrace and a threat to most of us, unless we are of the 'chosen ones' and I am afraid the 'force' is not with most.. Distract from the argument by degrading the opposition and resorting to petty name calling and attack the person, not the policy. Corman should be told and not politely that carrying on like he does, he is a 'Goose' Talking to mimic Schwarzenegger, is not funny and does not impress. He used the same  poor language to dismiss criticism when the budget was announced treating us like a mere audience and trivialising what is a threat to most. He needs a lesson in pulling his head in and realising he is pathetic at comedy and no doubt at his job.Which people are you suggesting the government marshall? Signed up, and ready to head over and pitch in are we?

We have a defence force for the purposes of bombing people (and other things) should the need arise. I'm not aware of a federally funded health corps which can be immediately swung into action here.

And I'm pretty sure the defence force themselves haven't signed up for infectious disease control.Graham H: It is clear you have forgotten Abbott is the Adult in Charge now, but let us still blame Labor for all the problems we have under the idiot. Abbott and Morrison tow back boats and don't respect other countries borders, but it is easier to blame old policies, which, Abbott and Morrison ensured wouldn't work. Everyone here, but the rusted on Coalition, know Abbott is a cunning and constant liar, any friendship he pledges to the new President will be tainted as untrustworthy, he just can't be believed or trusted.We are all tribal, and using derogatory language about people outside our tribe is probably deeply ingrained. It is an alternative to using violence against them. But an open and just society requires us to respect all individuals within it. Using language like that reported, even in private, seems to me to show an inability to empathise with the people being spoken about, to see what the world might look like from the point of view of a woman, an indigenous person, an African, anyone from outside the tribe. It shows lack of respect. An intelligent and educated person should be able to choose to refrain from behaviour like this.Tim, Politicians trivialise 'things' to suit the Political interest, that is if a particular issue arises which shows people or communities will suffer if a Policy is to be introduced or implemented, then trivialise that issue , or Distract from that and change the point of argument so as the real issue is hidden and the truth ignored. ie Medicare Co payment, will hurt a lot of people, but, change the argument and continue the 'Budget Emergency' spiel and make out the public goes to the Doctors too often and for minor matters, and abuse and rort the medical system.  The media however, just love to 'blow out' or 'sensational' a trivial matter to the extent the real story is lost and again the truth is often buried or ignored, or, wash over a subject which portrays the story in a different light and portrays a politicians and or their party as evil, dumb or just outright incompetent. When Gillard was in power certain media persons, and newspapers spoke of her in less than flattering terms and mostly offensive jibes were used, The chaff bag ' statement is a good example. Front pages of newspapers with misleading headlines and cartoons were the standard almost daily occurrence. It is a pity the same media don't have the same attack mentality for our current government, but what goes around, comes around. No matter what happens the media and our politicians are  strange ' bedfellows'  neither would survive without the other, both need to feed on and off each other and with Social Media now a huge part of this cycle, we 'ain't' seen nothing yet.If Bill Shorten gets  invited any G20 evetns he'll have to stay away from the Japanese, he's prone to recalling Japanese subs attacking Australia.  Barrie care to write about that?me tooThe G20 Conference, what stupid or dumb thing will Abbott come out with at this meeting of world Leaders. It is embarrassing that this 'simpleton' is what the world sees as the best we can do. They might be going to discuss Economies and Global Growth, but one wonders how many will be laughing privately at this idiot posturing and big noting when after all he is a small fry and master of the gaffe and foot in mouth disease. He can always show them how to wear flouro vests, patronise factories workers and bakers and pull out all the videos of him doing macho stuff , oh well The  nightmare for OZ continues."Oversighted"?

Seriously.

It's scary that these people are making laws at all when they just make up words like that.a happy little debunker you should change your title to happy little coalition Abbott defender. Abbott has shot his mouth off AGAIN we may never know exactly what happened to that plane and all those souls on board. Spruiking to his loving audience that he is going to confront Putin and demand answers. What a plonker, he is not fit in my eyes to sit on a dunny truck let alone be our Prime Minister, he is no giant of world politics, he is a joke. no need to say more my words will probably not be allowed. Until the findings are revealed he might be best to stop trying to score brownie points and do the job he lied to obtain.Don't care. Will not  and do not watch it.Charles typical coalition supporter always change the subject blame the so called ' left' and Greens' Wake up Abbott and Hockey spread the fear mongering about so called ' Budget Emergency' to hide their real agenda. I am surprised you didn't blame the ABC. They have no plans for Australia's future only thought bubbles to introduce more benefits for their rich donors. It is  the Coalition in power they will take from the less well off and be happy to see them even lower. Go ahead continue your rose coloured view of the world but the blame game is over, it is this stupid gaffe prone Abbott responsible for the lousy budget and debt.Who benefits from the redirected investment? Companies specialising in renewables? Companies with no link whatsoever to the activists who helped push this issue?Careful Abbott you just might need the Health Care System we have now to pay for the Removal of foot in Mouth as you also know hospitals are used to the saying " I just put it there  and it slipped in" but I suppose you could just 'shirt front' the sick and needy tough guy.savrocca  As a surgeon you have all Dr. Friends in the system to ensure you don't pay. If you know of the all these unnecessary tests, stop it, no then your Dr. Friends and pathologist buddies miss out on the Medicare payment, just keep the rorts going. and I bet you don't think twice about ensuring you charge more than the Private Health fund covers.To suggest the ABC has been equally tough on both side of politics is laughable. Constantly interrupting one guest while hot tubbing with another is a good example of how the ABC treats its guests depending on their political affiliations. Circling the wagons and describing everyone outside the Friends Of The ABC as 'haters' misses the point that we just want 'our' ABC back.A trusted and respected media outlet would be one without apparent bias. Your producers are so busy working for one niche section of the community that you've left the rest of Australia out in the cold. Now you wonder why we don't want to pay your bills anymore.Calling him 'One Term Tony' is wishful thinking. Come the next election he still has his record on stopping boats to run on and Labor knows it.Bill Shorten and the opposition might seem like lame ducks, but with Abbott shooting his mouth off about 'shirt fronting' a leader from another country shows they just have to wait it out and the idiot we know he is Abbott will bring his own house of cards down around his scrawny backside. What a goose threatening a world leader coming here for a ' peaceful ' meeting. Abbott was the one shooting his mouth off about MH17, let us watch him find a way to crawl out this. Shorten just has to wait it out. But watch the Murdoch press and shock jocks praise Abbott for being a tough guy and bag Shorten for not being a butch , can do it all for the cameras, flouro vest  man type.Are you for real? Both Bishops and the other Coalition women mentioned here are not 'bagged' because they are women. It is because they are just as pathetic, nasty and incompetent as Abbott, Hockey, Pyne, Morrison, Truss, Dutton, Hunt and on and on. None have any new ideas to help us, but follow the party line, cut,cut,cut and cut. I don't need to  name more members of this lousy Government. I think you as an apologist for the Coalition get the message.It is not the 'feral' cats we have to worry about, but the ones householders allow to roam everywhere are the problem. I knew a woman who was buying a cat for a pet, because when she went on holidays, it would be free to roam and people in the streets around her home could feed it. I wont have a birdbath because neighbours cats prey on the birds. Education is needed for cat owners to realise just what, nuisances their own cats are.Pretty regular Verrender rant this one, with lots of holes in the argument.  I'll take just two.

Firstly, what evidence is there that the seasonal adjustment problems with the jobs numbers are related to staff cuts?  Exactly none, except of course the standard union press release.

Secondly, there is the weird relating of public service job numbers to overall employment.  If there had to be a direct relationship between these two then soome of our smaller neighbiurs, say Samoa and Tonga with workforces of less than 50,000 people would be run by just 2 or 3 bureaucrats!  That's where that sort of logiv gets you.Ridiculous comparison. The relevant one would be that Chamberlain tries to appease Hitler. We all know the consequences of the appeasement.Ann, I am amazed to what extent some people will go to side-track the issue being debated.Interesting article. I am surprised I quickly scanned the 55 comments so far and no one has blamed the ABC for causing this hysteria about Muslims and the evil headwear that has caused all the hate talk and racist attacks on women with children. I have read some of the Quran and tried to understand what has caused such friction between the east and west to have maddies like IS carry out such terrible acts. It is something which started many agess ago and beyond my knowledge and will probably never end. I do know there is good in every religion, race and culture. Our politicians are the ones stirring the hate and know it is good for their standing to be seen as true blue 'aussie' and tough on 'terror' and to play with the soldiers and military equipment and quote security laws and secret mission stuff. With a bit of luck our soldiers wont suffer casualties and IS will be destroyed and our Islamaphobia is settled before next Australia Day because all the signs are their for another Cronulla part 2.Realist So it is allowed for the Coalition in NSW and now NT to have ' slush funds' set up by donations from big developers to ensure  favourable treatment and ensure dodgy electoral funding such as the Free Enterprise Foundation, but of course they are the chosen ones and are allowed to lie and cheat and deceive. If the Royal commission claims it has found criminal conduct, why hasn't it had the Police start prosecuting? Or is it a coincidence the 12 months extension fits perfectly with the next election? It would not surprise me if this government requested the extension of sittings etc. to help take the heat off them voting time. Take off your rose coloured one lens glasses and realise the Liberal/Nationals are just as shonky crooks.A lot of puppies don't ever make it to the show. They are the ones sold to the general public for pets of that breed, often with the condition that they are desexed once they are old enough. As the breeders have only a small number of pets to offer, they generally take great care with whom they entrust their puppies to."...The reckless and inflammatory reporting on terrorism and national security makes me wonder whether we'd be better off without a media apparatus that can sink so low..."

Jonathan, you are echoing the views of so many, many  readers. Once a media house decides that they can cash in on some story, they keep on publishing varieties of the same story to the point of absolute exhaustion. Every journalist tries to cash in their honoraria and the media house keeps on publishing and publishing. ABC is no better than the commercial media in this respect.

Take the issue of burqa or niqab for example. A close friend  of mine who is a Muslim keeps on asking me why so many journalists assume that they are supporting Muslims by supporting burqa. "Last thing we need is someone 'supporting us' by continuing to emphasise one small irrelevant issue that that has created so much division and such false perception about the entire Muslim community in Australia. He said that niqab is absolutely not an issue for the Muslim community because so very few Muslim women wear it.  He actually said that he wished that no Muslim women in Australia would wear it so that we can finally concentrate on the issues that unite us rather on such insignificant garment worn by small minority of Muslim women. When will the media, claiming to support the Muslim community, write about so many examples of the great contributions, Muslim community and individuals made to the Australian community. 

He points out the overwhelming number of issues we have in common and our common future and common interests.  However our media expresses its 'support' for the Muslim community by supporting burqa; i.e one single, irrelevant piece of garment that is worn by small minority of Muslim women. He personally expressed his wish that it had not been worn.

Having said that, please consider the number of articles on this subject published by our ABC. I rest my case.

Actually, the only thing I don't like about my Muslim friend is - he barracks for Collingwood. That is very, very hard to forgive.Johnathan It will be interesting to see how many ABC haters blame Aunty for stirring this pot. I don't blame the media I blame our Politicians for using the ' terror'  stirring, half truths, conspiracy theories and outright lies to bolster their standing in the eyes of their electorate. Banning the 'burqa' or coverings in Parliament house, when there was no need for such extreme actions was a perfect example. the bsit was thrown and the  media jumped on it, fed  by the stupid speaker of the house. The media are thrown morsals by the Polies and they take the bait and we have sensational stories and all the  'journos' try to out do each other in the jargon, rhetoric and wow factor. It is becoming a bit of a laugh, but unfortunately it is dangerous to our freedoms and way of life. Our Politicians are not worthy of the attention the media give them, they are mostly morons with little or no skills or lawyers who you would not have represent you or trust with a fund. So it is not so much the 'media' but the dumb politicians who fan the flames of disquiet.Geoffrey.., fear and suspicion of the unknown. A lot of  people believe their is something evil hidden under those dreaded garments ready to be used to harm or intimidate. Forgetting anything can be hidden under any type of clothing, perhaps even the popular drizabone. Scare and fear mongering doesn't help along with a bit of the tired old argument 'it is just not Australian to wear it'. Well I suppose you will attract a lot negative and perhaps bigoted responses. With all this 'home grown terror' stuff being told to us nearly everyday  this garment  seems to be the root of  all things evil and will not be accepted anywhere let alone Parliament house.

No, we are not a nation of leaners. As a matter of fact we have never worked harder. 

Having just concluded my working life and joining the unproductive segment of our society - retirees, I watch my sons working long hours without ever being paid overtime. They tell me that working extra hours is considered as 'personal initiative' which is looked at favourably when promotions are considered. That was not the case when I was at their age. Our priorities were much clearer. We considered that our family lives are far more important than promotions or wealth accumulations. This is not the case these days.

On the other hand we currently have a small section in our community who does not have the high moral standards towards the taxpayer handouts we once had. It has also become apparent that our welfare assessment systems are not 'sophisticated' enough to 'weed out' the 'professional welfare cheats'.  It is this small, very small section in our community which creates wrong perception about the entire welfare system. It is the stories of some ridiculously easy abuse of our welfare system that  turns people against anyone receiving any government assistance. That is very unfortunate. 

The groups of people who decide to cheat our welfare system know exactly what to do and how to go about it. They place themselves ahead of everyone else in their endeavour to get welfare payment. They managed to be the 'most needy' always 'deserving' the maximum welfare benefits. 

Our current system is incapable to deal with such sophisticated welfare cheating. They set themselves up in the best way to qualify for welfare and they have all the right answers. Having worked for Centrelink I often came across claimants who present such doubtful evidence and claims. However, they know exactly what to say on any question that the system will always approve their claims.  

I referred the welfare cheats as 'groups' because there are often easily identifiable groups of welfare cheats who follow exactly the same patters when claiming the benefits. The problem is that our anti-discrimination laws do not allow us to identify these groups according to their age, geographical locations or ethnicity, which would enable far easier monitoring of their sophisticated cheating systems. We have to thrust the biggest and obvious crook as the most honest person. That is why the public treats the most honest and needy welfare recipient equally to the worst welfare cheat. 

Yes, it is the very small minority who gives such bad name to the entire welfare system. In general we are predominantly lifters with very small minority of 'professional' leaners.Another example of the blame everything except for religion argument. Radicalisation is not a disease one catches through social media etc as suggested here. It is a world view held by large minorities in the Muslim world based on holy texts. Anyone who takes the Koran, Hadith or bible for that matter literally will be radical. The radicalisation in in the texts themselves, not a misinterpretation. Until we realize this and pretend not to notice that we don't have a problem with Buddhist or Amish radicals, we won't solve anything. All the hijackers of 9/11 were college educated and had all the opportunity in the world. Support for suicide bombing actually goes up when one factors in education.This thing called Abbott has form with telling great big lies. I don't believe one word he says. He didn't hesitate with the rubbish line ' This is the government which believes in lower taxes, not higher taxes' The man has no morals he can't be trusted remember the line ' We only thought we heard it ' don't trust him, don't believe him.Of all the Federal governments I have had the misfortune to have to endure, this one has to be most outrageous. Not only do they all believe it is there right to be allowed to lie. But they continue to deceive, now it is now new tax to pay for this mission or I suppose Abbott would believe himself to be a Crusader campaigning against a Islamic horde. He refuses to tell us just what it will cost and now claims no new taxes, doubt it. Next instalments  yet to come will be blame game for budget shortfalls, the Royal Commission has been extended 12months, plenty of time to now produce conspiracy theories to blame the Unions and of course Labor. Obviously we are being set up beautifully for the 'sorrow' and 'blame'  response they will blame everyone and everything for the budget shortfalls and their lies. Be ready for a big sting, when it comes it will hurt and we will be the suckers.I don't watch Q&amp;A anymore, I stopped when the show became more about promoting an agenda rather than a discussion of varied views and opinions.  Tony Jones should be replaced by Jerry Springer if the intent is to ambush.

As for Minto's opinion, to which he is welcome to express, I stopped reading when in the 4th paragraph he writes "Inappropriate attitudes".  In my opinion this demonstrates a high level of intolerance of differing views, I'm sure Minto's has personal experience of this yet is willing to display his own prejudice.  Not a great example for a youth leader!cathy. It was a mission not a war, now who is telling lies?Mungo good article as usual, well put with good humour. However, it did not need a ' stuff up ' about the Burqa to make us realise Abbott was 'bit' of jerk, and what a useless speaker we have. Believe me I have known for a long time, Abbott is a dill.  I remember what a clown and stuff up he was in Howard's Government. Bishop for that matter was not much of a Minister , but, as the speaker, alongside Abbott they turn Parliament into the Ringling Bros. Circus.In years to come her stuff ups and biased actions will be the subject of Australia's home Videos.Amber have you hear the saying 'Truth hurts'?a moderate all I expect from Murdoch media is lies, bulldust and more propaganda to assist the lies of the Coalition, if you don't like it don't read the ABC sites, don't watch the television programs or listen ABC radio ,then you don't have to be disappointed and can believe The Daily Telegraph, The Australian, Andrew Bolt or Alan Jones it is that easy.xstephen wow you really can ramp it up..rant,rant, rant you are out of control.Before I read the name of the author of this article is was obviously put together by someone who well and truly favours the Coalition. First Abbott is riding a wave of national inspired popular support? That has got to be a piece of satire, surely? Everyone I  speak with thinks he is a 'dill' or words I can't write here. Bishop is the politician of the day feted by columnists and coterie of personal supporters as the Liberal Party's next big thing. More sublime satire, surely you can't be serious, Bishop is neither personable or charming and has a habit of stretching the truth to suit her, even when caught out, accusing Gillard of being in a conspiracy to steal from the people she blatantly lied again to cover her rear. Both Bishop and Abbott are excellent liars and deceivers and have this country in a mess, lousy budget, lousy standing in the eyes of the world and if that is the best you can produce to try and build up Bishop, you have left out the ugly bits, far too many and a lot of us voters have noticed.Simon what leftist media? Is Pravda being sold and printed here? If media criticise a Politician, male or female did you ever think the might deserve it? oh but to you that is leftist.Are you joking Macca?

Ther is no balance of the ABC,  the likes of Green and Cassidy write left leaning opinion pieces, that attract comment from both sides, very little ABC content is balanced.

Can we have same detail on the RC into Unions as we have had on ICAC?  Can the ABC report on the failings of of the NRAS?

How about including a "your say" section when the news item is about the opposition or Greens not just the Govt or PUPThanks Kate, appreciate the information about the vision and direction of the ABC, So rarely has this been presented in an unbiased and non-politicised way in recent years.  The ABC should focus on "my" ABC one where Australian taxpayers get fair unbiased or at leasted the two sides of the arguement, something the ABC stable of journalists appear incapable of in recent years.John, you know what I read when a  comment about the ABC gets a response about Murdoch.  Someone from the left must be writing it and knows the ABC are incapable of balanced reporting.  Rather if you were a true democrat you'd suggest the ABC be required to employ journalists with differing politic views rather than the current lot.

The Drum, insiders, Q&amp;A don't ask the govt questions they stack the questions, interview paid up members even partners of left wing politicians (ask Virginia Trioli) and portray only one view point.  Are you so one eyed?Fidanza  Well put I struggled to understand that ' bit taking everyone's side except Austalias' after all nearly every story is either from Australian cities , towns, Politicans, crooks, sports person or whatever and about Australia or Australian involvement. Those from overseas are normally Australian reporters giving us information that might affect us or be from our involvement. I don't think there should be a side to a story, after all, we all comprehend the message differently, that is just human nature.Tony Cross I have to agree about Henderson, not only is he a critic of the ABC, but he must be employed by Abbott as the chief apologist and excuse maker. He talks like he sleeps beside Abbott and makes out  he is privy to every thought Abbott has and can find a kind excuse for every gaffe, mistake or lousy policy the Coalition come out with. Yep he is a true ABC hater and would just love to see it gone.No matter how many stories posted here about the ABC whether they show the good or biased or supportive side to the organisation. It is always attacked by those who lean towards the Coalition, which I for a long time did,  before realising the error of my ways, as being ' leftist' and anti Australia. I am puzzled and wonder just what type of media they long for?  they appear to desire a media that panders entirely to their way of thinking and never, ever questions or presents a different view to their, at times, closed view of country and government and for that matter society. They appear to want a Dictator type reporting, sterile, non reactionary and painting a rosy picture. The ABC for a tax payer funded organisation faced with huge budget constraints and interference from both sides of Government is a modern up to date, internet, social media savvy broadcaster, and I am a old man along with many others who, has had this technology forced upon them. Thank you ABC for helping to keep us older folk in the bush informed without commercial bias or pressure.MT-Syd  these various head coverings totally at odds with what we value in Australia the freedom and equality of men and women'  not acceptable mode of dress or fashion choice you seem to contradict yourself in that statement freedom and equality but  not muslim  headwear? Many years ago the same flawed arguments were used about the mini skirt, the bikini and the punk hair styles, studded belts and jackets and men growing long hair any thing not seen as normal to the suburban way of life. Our Prime Minister and his Government stirred this crap talk into the frenzy it has become. A load of misinformation and racist, bigoted discussion. There are far more important issues in this world, but a bit of distraction only helps to hide the real agenda.No matter how deep the media dig..well Barry I don't have any faith in the media reporting the truth about the Abbott Cabinet. It was fine for the ' Murdoch' controlled media to lampoon everything the previous government attempted or achieved. But Abbott and his mixture of old hacks continually 'stuff it up ' get caught out lying and deceiving. Not a bad story or headline from the silent media. Fairfax and the ABC attempt some stories but nothing of the hate press and propaganda we experienced to aid Abbott to lie his way to the office. Barrie you and others seem content to sway along with this cabinet too scared to rock the boat perhaps? or was it just too easy to destroy a party that was not trying to rip off pensioners, workers, University Student and the sick? I can't believe how you all just let the Operation Secret on Water Matters just happen, again just too hard to go and get the story. There are plenty of stuff ups and cabinet matters if you are so called 'real journo.' to find, do the leg work and digging don't rely on twitter, facebook and the internet the old notebook and leg work is still the way to go.join Team Australia, but not if you wear a ' burqa' pretty pathetic. I am of offended every time I see Abbott wearing a high vis vest or donning the lycra or wearing a hair net in a factory in front of a camera posing for photos. It is offensive to me because it is just another beat up to try and convince voters he is the real deal. The Muslim women wear their headdress as part of their beliefs as do Nuns who wear their head wear. It is not a ' beat up' or done to offend just because Abbott, Bernardi or Lambie have their ideas about it, I don't care. To be honest, to me, all three are morons and I don't care what they think anymore. Leave the women alone, or is it beause they are women, people find them easy targets to criticise?It is understood that IS are a real threat and something has to be done to stop their barbaric ,senseless actions. Why was Abbott so eager to send our fighter planes? was he scared he might miss out on a fight, that he wouldn't have the metal to personally undertake, or, was he again shooting his mouth off just to score political red neck bonus points? He is not game enough to call it a war, everything but. Regardless no matter what action we and the west take it will end up as before. We will be shown computer guided bombs blowing up buildings and vehicles, but never mention there are people in those vehicles or buildings and some will be women and children, and the arguments will start afresh. Why are we targeting innocent victims? We know the ISIS or ISIL fighters are gutless and don't fight as a regular army, it will end up as human shields protecting them and weapons manufacturers just add to their wealth and the west is on a Merry go round. No military action is ever a better option, but reasoning is not an option with this rotten mob. We won't bomb them out of action from the air, rarely works and our politicians will favour the money side over humanitarian side, even if they pretend it is action for a humanitarian rescue. It will only end when the money runs out and the voters have had enough of paying for a war. The only political solution is a long winded peace agreement with them, where they end with their so called , ' chosen state ' but could we allow a world where a country is run by these cruel, evil, butchers? who would no doubt finance terrorists to continue bombings in our countries. And as I say we end up on the merry go round again.I'm not worrying. But thanks for caring... :-)I would have thought Labor would be opposed to faceless men in Canberra looking through our Family Ipad camera, or supporting Saudi Arabia who beheads more gay people then the Islamic State. Why vote Labor when Bill Shorten supports our right to innocence being stolen, and us a carbon copy of Mr Abbott?we don't need  inquiries into Governments, to destroy  trust . The current coalition governments in NSW, Qld, and the rubbish in Federal Government have destroyed what little trust or faith I had in our systems. Paper bags full of money, rorting entitlements, dumping in Barrier Reef Park, lies and cover ups, deals for donations it goes on and on. This Senate inquiry no doubt will be blocked and don't expect coverage by the Murdoch Media, perhaps the ABC will report on it, but will be labelled un Australian if it does. No doubt Captain Abbott and Brandis  will find a way to end or squash it or blame it on someone else.Yep, been there done that.Yes, and in all these examples it is God who did (or will do) the smiting - NOT the believers in God. Christians are commanded NOT to take vengence - because God will do that himself ( with all the facts available to him in a way that is never available to human beings).

You cannot use these verses to suggest Christians are any danger to you (unless you twist the words to mean something they do not).  

Regarding the quote about Jesus destroying families - in context this is Jesus predicting that (some) Christians will find themselves rejected by their families because of their faith in Jesus. The destruction spoken of is something predicted to be SUFFERED by Christians - not inflicted by them.I generally feel exasperated by people suggesting that Christians are Christian because it makes them happy. I became a Christian for the same sorts of reasons that many people in France during world war 2 joined the French resistance - that is because they were fighting an oppressing enemy - as is Jesus (except that Jesus has already won the decisive victory against the oppressor by the time I joined up so to speak). 

If you think I am a Christian it makes me happy - it shows you haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about. I am a Christian because Christ is the only man worthy to be King of the world and has already defeated my enemy (Satan) who is the root cause of all the suffering I and others have experienced and continue to experience. He will bring all the suffering to an end one day, and he rescued me in the meantime from being destroyed with Satan because of my sins. And he did that rescuing by paying the penalty that I deserve because of my sins through his death on the cross. For that I love him (Jesus) and will gladly endure much UNHAPPINESS - because I love him, and yet will have great joy because I know that any suffering I endure (because of my commitment to Jesus) is not in vain, but will be vindicated at the last day when Christ reveals himself in his fullness to the world.

It is the kind of joy a member of the French resistance might have had if you could go back in a time machine and give them the good news that Hitler would indeed be defeated and that therefore their struggle would have been worth the cost.A thoughtful and measured piece on the need for Christians to show love to their Muslim neighbours. He is correct to observe that Islam worldwide, like Judaism and Christianity, is a house of many mansions. 
In the third paragraph, John identifies two reactions to Islam in the post 9/11 world. On the one hand, viewing all Muslims per se as murderous and violent, and on the other, lauding Islam as a perfectly benevolent, peace loving religion. Whilst it is certainly true that large numbers of people fall into each of these two categories, I would also respectfully suggest that this dichotomy of 'extremes' is perhaps an oversimplification.  It overlooks the reality that there are others, still, who have long held a perspective distinct from either of these two extremes. I refer here especially to the large number of Evangelical Christians who would denounce many Quranic precepts and teachings as false and evil, yet at the same time, love Muslim people as neighbours created equally in the image of a loving God.Interesting that "all" of your polls results are "always" opposite to anything the Governent say or do.
Makes me suspicious of your results.
Surely from time to time there is a poll result of yours that agrees with the Government? Just once maybe? Might make your polls a little more credible don't you think.
It's a case of reading your questions and already without even seeing the poll result knowing what it will say, so what's the point in publishing it.How come the ABC rarely have columns from those opposed to open borders?
Or maybe open debate is the privilege of the left?

