Let's look at his moment shall we. He is poncing about from the  delusional stance that Putin, another strutter, will be quaking in his boots.
Was a time when this country punched well above its weight internationally. Now all it does is flap its gob and talk it up from behind the U.S bully. Actions once referred to in this country as Lairish: Writing cheques we can't cash.
Is Annabel's 'a certain fluency of expression' a euphemism for tough talk from a dullard?
I would also like to extend the argument to Mr Abbott's other goodies, his Israeli  mates, as they slaughter twice as many innocent civilians as the Russian backed fighters.
Mr Rudd's summation of Abbott's simplistic and ignorant comments is not 'diplo-babble, it's perfectly accurate, but you couldn't help yourself eh Annabel? i wonder what Canadia thinks?
One wonders if Annabel is one of the 100 or so from Abbott's office sharing the 47 million dollars to spread propaganda and scour social media. Please give the money back and use it for scientists.
Muzz, do us all a favour and go to school while you still can. If i had to mark your posts i'd have to say that you need a vast improvement on grammar, spelling and facts. 
I would also warn against plagiarism as Liberal press releases are easily obtainable.Let's also remember that Abbott and Bishop abused that position to suppress  international criticism of Sri Lanka's cruel and inhumane treatment of the Tamils. A little pay-off for taking back those escaping from that government's tyranny.If he did it would be one forty seventh of what Abbott is spending on trolls.aGuy. 'free trade means all our assets and protections gone. U.S investment means the same. The boats have not stopped and the cynical excuse about caring about deaths at sea is not becoming of honest people. The bit about Israel is Orwellian in its language.
Australia is an international laughing stock outside the local and biased press.
Please research.Susan, you know Tony Abbott made it clear that any public servant who criticised the government, even anonymously, as on a forum, would be sacked and that workmates were encouraged to dob in anyone behaving in such a manner.
Not such a stretch at all is it? We're there sister.Let's look at the facts of 9/11. The terrorists were known, the terrorists were observed training as pilots, the terrorists were all Saudis. The Bush family was negotiating oil deals with the Bin Laden family at the time. The information of an impending attack was passed up the line. All evidence at the site, 'ground zero' was collected and disposed of immediately and the Saudi's enemy, having had nothing to do with 9/11 whatsoever, Iraq, was invaded. The stupidest President the U.S has ever had was re-elected as a strong war leader. The corporate deals in Iraq were shared out, minus any tender process, to the usual suspects.

Hitler needed a terror strike against the German people to gain popularity as a strong leader, the Reichstag burned down.

Margaret Thatcher had the lowest popularity ever in her first term and railed hard against any further monetary support for  the Falkland Islands, considering them a waste of money and effort. The Argentinians wanted the Malvinas back and Thatcher quickly changed her tune and declared war sending her popularity figures up from low 20s to above 50.

Fear campaigns and overt nationalism have always been the methodology of those wishing to steal our rights and protections to implement their economic and social take-over.

If Tony Abbott's big mouth doesn't try to help push the Russians into confrontation so that he can stand behind Uncle Sam and ponce about pretending to be a strong war-time leader to impose his economic and social misery upon us will be VERY surprised. 

Who are the real terrorists?Remember folks, if you've done nothing wrong you have nothing to worry about.
Just who decides what the 'wrong' thing is, is what we have to worry about.Lorenzo, you have been duped. The only thing the Neo Cons want to spend your tax on is police and defence forces. The reason is to protect the wealthy and suppress you.
I'm sorry dude, that's just the honest truth.Very true, the catchcry of every dictator and totalitarian government ever. Thing is they decide what the wrong thing is.You only scratched the surface, Greg. The so called terror threat is a lie. It is purely the 'shock doctrine' catalyst. Use any disaster or divisive issue and confuse the population into voting away their own rights and protections.

The corporate fascist takeover is well nigh.

'Debt and Deficit Disaster' in the 3rd richest country on Earth with the third lowest debt to GDP.
'Stop the Boats' A nothing issue turned into a shock doctrine catalyst.

It suits Murdoch to get Abbott to reverse his racial vilification proposal when the Zionists turn up the heat and that pesky chardonnay sipping lefty Mike Carlton gets bullied out of his job.
Lower wages, less protection, education and health massacred, no public spending, TPP and all of our tax spent on police and the defence force to protect the wealthy.

Any 'terror' related legislation is terrorising our rights.Exactly right, Ray. I posted over 20 broken promises that i am sure of, but the mediator chose to not pass it. I guess the ABC is appropriately silenced with the threat of being sold to yet another corporate criminal.Big Ben, i applaud your admitting to voting for Abbott and your subsequent horror at his actions. Rusted on does not mean stupid and gullible.
I will, however, question your comment as to the talent on his front bench. Are you referring to Morrison, Bishop, Hockey, Pyne et al? You may have to define 'talent'.Consideredview, Malcolm Fraser is not the man he was when he lead the Libs. He was a leader in the belief in corpratisation of the country, his treasurer, Howard was a disaster and the country a mess.
Malcolm Fraser knows a lot more than he is letting on about the goings on of the CIA managed overthrow of the Whitlam government and is currently displaying his regret at what the corporate takeover of the planet has created.
I would suggest that Menzies, although right wing at the time, is probably further to the left than the Labor Party since Hawke and Keating.Appropriate name, not true Pensioners you say? Hope you feel protected.
Labor rates education highly. You should vote Labor.
Your manufacturing has gone overseas because the companies have been sold off to foreigners who would rather pay slaves to do the work and offer no personal or job protection to said workers.
Tis the employers who want more for less my friend, and they are quite happy, like yourself, to advocate a great reduction in the living standards of the majority of Australians to achieve this.Andie, if you are using to science to PROVE an argument then i have a suggestion- Listen to science! Not just the bits that suit your delusion.Thank you Chris Berg. Given enough time, you have managed to pen an accurate and unbiased article at last.
Am i cynical to suggest that this may represent the machinations of a leadership spill by christmas?Ben, when you source your information regarding asylum seekers from the very government running the illegal and secretive operation you should be very careful what you believe. The boats have not stopped.
The other two points you made are subjective to say the least. Clear mandate? MH17?No one has ever explained what is fringe, or extremist about social equality, about conservation of our life support system, about free alternative energy, about nationalisation of important industries, about equal opportunity and so on.
I would put it to you, Peter, that the sell off of Australian assets to multi national corporations is extremist, that signing the rights of our national laws over to corporations is extremist, that making support for the most in need in our community difficult to the point of  oppression is extremist, to trash science and education in a once clever country is extremist, to sack tens of thousands of workers is extremist, to take money out of vital research and infrastructure and to re-invest it in war machines is extremist and i could go on.
Please inform me as to the system that defines extremism and there you will find agenda.Yes HPH, while Mandela and his supporters were busily working for the peaceful transition to Government, the very same economic thieves came in the night and secured the controls to the money and commerce. Mbeki was seconded and assisted them to convince Mandela that 'economic reform' was vital. Freedom in that country exists on paper only.Not a bad article on the surface, from a former Howard staffer, Paula. 
I hope it's not cynical of me to think it's a way of implying that the budget is a worthy cause. It sits with the asylum seeker and climate change issues as completely surrounded by lies and emotion as a way to dupe the voting public.
The budget is a purely ideological vessel for the corporate takeover of our society and the creation of a vast new working poor and a whole new class of families and individuals in poverty. The aim is to cut wages and conditions of the workers and increase the massive fortunes of the very few by gifting them our assets and clearing away any bothersome regulations. 
Medicare, education and all other social infrastructures would be totally affordable if we stopped the sale of our income generating assets.first of all Mr Steketee, your premise is wrong.
I doubt that a reputation for fairness exists for the Libs. Fraser's small government/ big business policies, Howard's destruction of unions, education,workchoices and cruel treatment of asylum seekers and, well everything Abbott and his crew of unintelligent Tea Partiers have touched will confirm fairness is not an issue.
All of our services can be well afforded if we stop selling off our income generating assets to multi nationals. They don't want this as these assets are prime targets. These giant companies want complete control over  everything including our nation's laws. 
This is a blatant neo-con robbery of the nation on behalf of said corporations. Privatisation has ruined societies the world over, with massive increases in poverty, suicide and homelessness and has benefited only the wealthy.
Australians must get their economic and political information from sources other than local media. It is corrupt and involved, as you no doubt know.
Yes, some of the points you mentioned are needed to be addressed, but your article disguises the true agenda, the total sell-off of the nation and its resultant social and economic wreckage.Well said, Peter. And to be honest the Greens are only as far left as Labor should be.Only to say Abbott has no mandate.Accurate article, Tim.
I'm sure even those Lib supporters not receiving some of Tony's $47million in trolling fees will understand the magnitude of what the author is saying.
The entire world has, for the last 50 years and since Reagan and Thatcher in particular, been under a corporate invasion.
On September 10 2001, Donald Rumsfeld even began the process of privatising the Pentagon. Coincidence?
All the cheap toys we get from Asia are benefiting these giant multi-nationals, not the poor.
Forget your blues v's reds for a minute and see the real story. We must protect our democracy while we still can and before it and our laws are handed over to CEOs.TC, dangerous is making enemies and being involved in war crimes. Being on  the left is about making friends. 
I guess pathetic is subjective eh?When we keep illegally invading Islamic nations and partaking in the killing of a million people we should be a target,Yes Sydney Bob and a way in for him to be involved in the next war and to play the old strong leader card a' la Bush, Thatcher and Howard.
Will the voters fall for it again. You bet they will.
Oh for the good old times when a leader who declared a war lead his men into the fray. These paper tigers are despicable and they want your boys to die for their glory and money.Yes Mick, this is the first hideous thing to ever happen in history because you saw it in the Australian, (thanks uncle Rupert). 
Cool your jets champ. If you knew anything beyond screaming headlines and shrieking shock jocks you'd know this happens every day the world over.
The aim of this picture is to cause you terror. It has worked. The monsters who made it succeeded in terrorising you and so did Murdoch. They have opposing agendas, but it suited them both to post the pic.
Now you can have your tea break and maybe a bex.John, Tony really needs to arm you paid up trolls a little better. The arguments you attempt to make are dodgy at best.
Any economists not connected to the Liberal party or to the Murdoch press will destroy your economic opinion. 
I know Abbott's opinion on science and education so i don't expect an improvement from his trolls, but we want you to give us a good game.And here's me wasting so many words to say the same thing, Jaycee.
Applause to you.Mike, the opposite of 'fear mongering' isn't stupidity.Just on that global warming, Mike. Do you believe the scientific evidence or not? If you quote bits of science you really need to understand the whole picture, not just the bit that suits your mindset.
Yes, i completely agree with you. The opposite of fear mongering is reality.I think a government fear campaign had something to do with it, Peace.On the question of perceived bias by the ABC, its critics will compare it to corporate owned media outlets.
It's like saying Tony Abbott is a hard left winger because there are more extreme right wing leaders in the world.If anyone is shocked and scared by terrorists then don't become one. If we think we are more civilised then let's act it.

We are doing our very best to engage in a war that is not ours, AGAIN. 

It's a clumsy and psychotic political tool for popularity and to enforce a corporate takeover while we are distracted.

Everybody calm down and think.
They need it to oppress you, Tim. 
They need to know if you are engaging in such sedition as criticising the government, demanding job protection, demanding equality, planning a protest, looking up ways to make hash cookies, and generally trying to leave a life of freedom and liberty.
They know better than you. You are the child and they are the adults. You exist to serve the feudal lords.More fear campaigns to take away our liberty, not to protect it. More of our tax directed to security forces used to oppress us, not to protect us.
If anyone is still naive enough to think that, somehow, we are immune to a corporate fascist takeover then they are not only mistaken, they are allowing it to occur now unless they stand up and resist it. 
These people disguise unfettered capitalism as democracy. It is not.Nice try John1, but that is not the job of the senate and when a government gets in to power and governs in a way totally different to the lies they told to get there, they must be held to account, in a democracy any way.
On the disaster issue; the name for it is disaster economics and it's a tool used by the neo-cons for decades. They wait for an appropriate disaster, or manufacture one as in Abbott's 'debt and deficit disaster', and then in all the confusion they implement their corporate takeover of our rights, their privatisation of our assets, and their closure of social and community protections.
In short they sell your country to giant multi-nationals for peanuts and give them free reign to do as they will to you.
The sell off of our assets means they can call our welfare and social programmes unaffordable.
In every country in which this has happened the population of people in poverty has sky-rocketed, the middle class has mostly disappeared and the ultra rich use our armed forces and police to protect their interests. All this happens while workers work longer hours, in more dangerous workplaces, for lower pay and no union protection.
Naomi Klein has written extensively about this global horror and you can expect Abbott to be sending our soldiers to their deaths somewhere in the world in the next two years to consolidate the hold of rampant, un-regulated capitalism.I've counted well over 20 promises broken and several cases of the same promise broken in different ways. 'No cuts to health' being a prime example.Actually, the whole stupid proposal for changes came after Bolt was called on his usual racist behaviour. Particularly slurs against te first Australians. He supported Abbott pre-election and this was a payback to protect him. 
Unfortunately for Abbott and Brandis, their Jewish mates got upset when 'free speech' suddenly included them and not just Aboriginals, Musliims and asylum seekers.
The real bosses of the Libs had to step in and disallow 'free speech.' There's your totalitarianism.Boy, Ben, that's an easy one. The fact that our laws against racial vilification exist is the reason we don't have lots of race riots. Your request for something that didn't happen because said laws exist is proof enough.
Of course your Alan Joneses, Ray Hadleys and Andrew Bolts would rather it was not the case. Luckily for Bolt and Abbott foreigners can come here and be reasonably free. I just wish said foreigners would leave it how they found it.Ben, there's a little issue of illegal occupation of Palestinian land, the murder of 2000 civilians and counting, the bombing of United Nations sanctuaries, the stealing of other nation's water and on and on. These are acts of terror.Beth i must disagree with you. I think this government is totally capable of taking it worse than worst. It's trendy these days to invent new words. Lets call worse than worst an Abbott.EVAN, your ignorance on these matters is spectacular.
The boats never stopped, ask anyone you know in the navy who is prepared to tell the truth despite the gag orders.
I request you to point to the effect of the tax on you. In real figures and as opposed to the costs added by electricity providers for infrastructure maintenance.
The budget deficit, before it was doubled by Hockey, was the third lowest on Earth and we are the third wealthiest country on Earth. Do you have a mortgage. If it's more than three months of your income then you're in a debt and deficit disaster according to that loon Abbott.
Mending our relations with our neighbours?? That's a beauty. Bishop has been hell bent on destroying them, Abbott is an international laughing stock and the so-called free trade agreement is designed to give our assets and incomes to giant corporations and to give them the power to sue us for choosing not to buy their poisonous and/or damaging goods, services and/or activities.
Ideology is one thing, but you really need to understand the details before you carry on like it's some sort of footy game.
This is serious.

Correct. And what did Abbott bargain for the so-called free trade agreement with? Our car industry gone and unfettered whaling in ours and international waters. What a genius.Dove, it comes down to media then. If the population believes there are too many coming to Australia then it's an immigration issue, not an asylum seeker issue. If it's too many people illegally in Australia then its over 97% legal entry and visa overstays, not asylum seekers.
This is purely and simply a grubby political game being played with people's lives. The same people who have already suffered persecution at home. And our population is deliberately stupid and gullible. 
Our troops are also used in illegal corporate wars and we have no business being proud of what they represent.
Your prediction regarding Labor is conjecture.Right on Steve_C, the ABC honours its unbiased charter to tell the truth and the last couple of Lib governments don't want the truth told.
The simple fact is that the preponderance of corporate media leaves the ABC looking left leaning. The reality is that corporate media benefits from corporate governments and vice versa.
The more the clowns on these sites support fascist moves to silence the ABC, the more they give away their own rights to truth and freedom. So very, very foolish.please everybody do their homework and study the true ramifications of the TPP.Let's begin with his lie about not running a government that relied on the support of independents and smaller parties. I heard him say he'd take it to a election.
It's ok i never believed him.Tiliqua, don't swallow the lies. Yes there was disunity and ego driven self destruction, allied with inside power brokers working for the U.S. The previous government's achievements, however were bold and successful. 
There never was a budget emergency, although we will have one if this useless government keeps up its destruction. 
I wholeheartedly agree with you in regards to the vested interests running and ruining both parties.Yes sync, they must put it under 'operational matters'.Why they got voted out, mick, has nothing to do achievements and all to do with filthy political tricks and dirty media support.That's right Lucy, although i wouldn't consider Stop The Boats as his last ace. Remember Thatcher had an approval rating in the low 20s in her first term and all she had to do was ignite war fever for the Falklands/Malvinas to get her support up to fever pitch.
It didn't matter that she was previously active in cutting money and government support to the useless islands she saw their value in using her fear and nationalism campaign to implement her corporate takeover of her country. Interestingly enough, the war with Argentina was codenamed 'operation corporate'.The money is not where you're looking, show me. A much bigger population isn't the issue. The 17th century way of life we have is what's unsustainable. 
If you cherry pick a growing population that still burns coal and oil and gas, you're right, totally unsustainable. If you recognise that the Greens encourage sustainable energy, for which we've had the knowledge for almost a century, and is improving every day, then you'll see that we can handle a bigger population.
Sustainable land use and protein sourcing is also absolutely achievable.
Check the fabulous interweb for the myriad possibilities for sustainable living rather than to justify xenophobia and validate a disastrous election result for which we will all pay heavily.Roberto, in your effort to denigrate another's simplicity, you use the redundant assumption, 'The fact is, the people in SIEV4 most likely deliberately damaged the vessel..'. 
It is not a fact and it does not prove or disprove anything.EVAN, i've never in my life wanted so much to be wrong. I'm sure all of the world's climate scientists want to be wrong too and that EVAN guy on the ABC opinion blog be absolutely correct. 
Either way old chum, be prepared. You will be the new messiah so you'll have to get used to all the adoration, or get ready for everything you know to change with the climate.Janice the atmosphere is warming due to the dangerous levels of carbon dioxide in the air. Much of this is due to human activity, that is the burning of of fossil fuels. The sun warms the air, the carbon traps and stores the heat causing a global warming situation. The ocean is also taking in much of the carbon from the atmosphere and is becoming acidic. Most of our oxygen comes from the ocean. Trees are being felled world-wide. Trees take in carbon dioxide and release oxygen.
The Antarctic ice sheets are melting faster and the water around them is twice as warm.
Much of our arable land is poisoned through the use of synthetic fertilisers and pesticides and herbicides. Our food is also poisoned. Our anti- biotics are becoming useless. 
The future is quite easy to predict when one has an understanding of science.
TattsLotto is a game of chance so i can't help you with that one, but i hope the rest is of some assistance.
Happy learning.Paula, this 'wall of negativity' seems to imply that the rejection of this most nasty of budgets is somehow similar to the constant negativity the former government endured while it was trying to actually build this country.
Your 'fringe dwellers' comment regarding the independents and smaller parties is also a neat little trick that disguises the fact that most voters also disagree with the budget.
All in all, another glossing over by a former Lib patsy.graaazt, you're dead right, and it all goes back to the Americans saying Australia will never have another Gough Whitlam.
Our universal health system and education system would be swimming in cash if we still had our income generating assets.
The lie that we benefit from buying shares comes home to roost every time the 1% manipulate a crash where only they profit. Shares are their way of taking your money to increase their profits at no risk to them.Dean, i make a lot of noise for the political left. I believe in equality in society. The ideology you speak of is gone. Entrepreneurs starting small businesses and employing more and more people is, for the most part, a thing of the past. Most entrepreneurs these days sell out as soon as a large corporation offers big bucks. Any manufacturing is done overseas and most of the profits go overseas. Workers are subject to unacceptable conditions, with no union representation, no penalty rates and no job security.
The country would do very well for profits and employment if it still had its income generating assets. Instead they are sold off dirt cheap to (often foreign) companies.
Old ideologies are one thing, but an awareness of what corporate neo liberalism is doing around the world is quite shocking.
Oh, and on the pigeon holing of the left being leaners, can you provide some facts as my understanding is that we like to work hard for the common good. 
It may also benefit you to know i live on a small income, of my own earning, after giving away over $30 million dollars. I've never been so happy.
John, this entitlement rhetoric is just more projection. The truth is that the wealthy have the sense of entitlement and they get very upset when the serfs don't willingly accept their lot.
The taking from society in the sense of 'what it owes you' is certainly more prevalent in those who reap the riches from the worker's labour and then fail to pay the appropriate tax back to the society that allowed them to blossom.
Where is the incentive to work when your rights and protections are gone, your job security gone and your conditions, including safety, worsened by those who will not be hampered by pesky government regulations. 
Where lies the sense of entitlement?Hey Jimmy. Google a list of the previous government's legislation, passed as a minority government in a consantly negative and hostile environment and then google Sally Mcmanus' site on Abbott's actions.
All the facts you'll need.Peter, i must repeat your opening gambit and apply it to your post.
Stupid ideological nonsense.
You like to talk yourself and your position up quite a lot here. I can guarantee you i could take every thing you have from you in a dog eat dog, every man for himself set up. It is left wing society that allows you the luxury of having your opinion and being able to sprout it freely. Of the knowledge that because the less fortunate are looked after they aren't out to kill and eat you. Of course, left untethered your right wing mentality will see a militarised police force protecting the ultra wealthy too, but i doubt you'd be accepted into that clique.
Your posts are becoming more unhinged and ill informed as the government's inability is becoming more obvious to all.
I'm also realising that, although you claim to be an adherent of the Milton Freidmen school of economics, if not by admission at least by your posts, you will contradict your own statement that wages will go up.
The overriding concern of the economic right is that inflation is kept low. That is to keep the wealth providers, the workers, in their place and to ensure the high value of the assets of the ultra rich. Thus wages will not go up and unemployment will also not go up.
See you in a couple of years to compare notes eh?
Nicely written article, Tim. The projection used by the right to get into office and to stay in office is also evident in the bemoaning of the status quo it has created.
You have rightly pointed out the damage and disharmony these actions have wrought on our society and let's hope the Paul Kellys of this world are not so rusted on or subservient to realise their causes.Admirable restraint in your choice of words John51. One really does struggle to see the benefit for anyone, but the chosen few in the economic antics of these intellectual minnows.
I just hope our fellow Australians improve their 5 minute attention spans when the goodies for the middle class are handed out closer to election time. Maintain the rage.Poor old Peter. You just don't get that just because big businesses are benefiting from their lackeys in government you think the rest of society is in wonderland. It is not.

Can you direct your friend to Sally Mcmanus' site to see every decision made by your government.

The current government does have the same DNA as Howard's, i'll grant you that. Only they've taken it from nasty to evil.
When the economic and social runs are on the board you can bag the 'cretins' all you like, but when bluff and bluster and lies and slogans are gone there will be very little of value left by this ignorant and arrogant mob of gangsters.Got some news for you silver fox, the boats are still coming and the navy is sworn to secrecy. It's good to know people. 
There's only one difference. The illegal cruelty and inhumanity the LEGAL ASYLUM SEEKERS are suffering at the hands of elitist snobs who still consider themselves as good humans.Well VoterB why hasn't somebody told the Asylum Seekers that all they have to do is claim the country as part of their empire. So simple. How did they not realise this loophole.Frangipani, just take a moment to put yourself in the shoes of that 'rejected claimant'. Using the word persecuted is easy, but words are representative and the horrors of persecution need to be felt when you use that word.If i asked every poster on this site if they think they are a good and decent person, i'm sure i would get close to 100% of you answering in the positive.
Whatever contrived and convoluted reasons some will utilise to justify what horror is being foisted upon these poor and desperate people it does not escape a simple truth.

What kinds of societies through history have targeted certain groups and visited unspeakable terrors upon them based solely on the fact that they belong to said groups?
The fact that the voting public, in a so-called civilised society can be so desensitised to what is happening in their name for the so-called good of the nation reminds one of the Germans in 1939.

 When the U.S got Pohl Pot into power he began by slaying all the intellectuals, then anyone who wore glasses, as that represented a studious type.

Is it beginning to look a bit familiar yet.Peter, your recycling of the Orwellian terminology does nothing to support your flimsy arguments.
The one and only term is Legal Asylum Seekers. They need to be properly treated and assessed. 
These people are human beings, not political footballs and it is through no great effort of your own that you are fortunate enough to have avoided the lives they have suffered.
Have some damned compassion.I'm probably more inclined to mark it 100% for what's there, but would say there's plenty more you could have added.
If you understand 'disaster economics', you could only reach the conclusion that the U.S was at least totally aware of the impending 911 attack. Sitting shrub in a school reading to kids was a nice touch for the news too. Of course he had the speaker in his earpiece telling him what the words were.
Truth be told, MT, her mother 'earned' it and she fought tooth and nail for it and then she sold 20 Bn worth of our land off to the koreans so she could be the world's richest woman.Peter, 'the Lawyer' as usual you're way off. I can't speak for anyone but myself here, but i will say that i don't give a toss how loaded one gets as long as it is done ethically and with no pain or damage to others or the environment.
The envy of which you speak is the main driver of the reptillian brained capitalist zealots. It is what drives them.
Equality to the left represents equality in society not in big numbers of paper money.
Your use of Ms Reinhardt to suggest that her wealth doesn't make any person poorer contradicts her own statements that mine workers should be paid $2 an hour like the Africans. Yes, sir she does wish to make others poorer as they toil to make her more disgustingly wealthy. Fortunately she treats her own body with the same disregard and she will be not long for this Earth.Tony Abbott's job will be available soon. Just keep quiet about from where the money comes.gbe, could you kindly tell us where you get the money to go shopping if you have a mortgage or rent? I'll help, it's called income. And i'll bet your mortgage is over $10 thousand dollars too. Does that make it a 'debt and deficit disaster'?The same way Abbott got in Rattan, division and fear. One of theirs rued the fact that they didn't have a man like Abbott over there!!
And Yank2, we welcome you son and hope we've sorted this madness out before you realise it's getting as bad here.Exactly Mr Thomas and the first step to achieve the common wealth of such nations is to NATIONALISE MINES. 
This is what needs to be on the agenda. More wealth to the nation, more employment, better and safer conditions and more social infrastructure.Ho hum, way off again Peter 'the Lawyer'. If they gave a toss it would show in this budget. You need to read up on Milton Freidman for this is the road they have taken.
When you've read his baffling justifications take a look around the world at how that's all gone.
On the figure of those on the disability pension in the UK not showing up; Were they active, mobile, coherent bludgers who didn't show up or were they, perhaps, victims of some limiting disability that may have restricted their ability?I honestly hope misfortune, injury or great loss don't befall you as a lesson in humanity Zing. I sincerely hope no one ever looks down upon you with disdain and declares your uselessness because they're too self obsessed to realise the tough times visited upon you.
Your outrageous arrogance continues to amaze.Virgil, the answer is yes. In Labor it was Mark Arbib, for the Libs there are many contenders, Minchin?
The sad thing is it isn't the Tea Party, it's the corporations who own the U.S government and the CIA does their dirty work.You must mean under Fraser. Under Gough we had surplus, free education, good employment, medicare, nation building, national assets, and then.... well at least he wasn't disappeared like the leaders of other social democracies around the world.Hang on Peter, you're so often commenting on economics as if it's a science and you've got it squared. It's not a science, it has many variables and you only espouse the corporate line flogged off as science in top U.S colleges because they are funded by the very corporations that will benefit from the bogus science.
So, have your opinion you may, and i love to challenge that, but it ain't fact.Do me a favour, Peter. Can you extrapolate capitalism based on an unregulated market.
I'll give you a clue, Big Brother owns everything and everybody.Instead of asking to be spoon fed information Dave, by the way it's done you no good so far, how about you search for yourself. The information is everywhere, well, not in the Telegraph.Some recommended reading for all. Confessions of an economic hit-man by John Perkins and the Shock Doctrine by Naomi Klein.
If you wish to stay ignorant, be prepared for the consequences.
Pay careful attention middle class and the quite wealthy, you are not immune.Exactly Royce, and if you like Klein, i recommend the 'shock doctrine'. Chilling, infuriating and vital. If you've read it keep spreading the word.Thank you Patricia. this is really the tip of a very frightening ice berg. At present there are many cases where corporations are suing nations for suppressing their 'rights' to poison us, destroy our environment or crush our industries.

The U.S has been at it since WW2 and the CIA is her action arm. Monsanto (agent orange, roundup, GM frankenfoods) is said to have employed Academi -(formerly xi, formerly Blackwater) the private mercenary army known for having vast numbers of soldiers in war zones and going uninvited into New Orleans at the cost of 600 million to the taxpayers to shoot 'looters' (black ones of course), -as it's industrial espionage agent.

Think of all the South and Central American socialist democracies invaded or 'internally' ruined to put a dictator in place and there you will find U.S corporations and the CIA. Mr Whitlam's overthrow was thankfully bloodless, but the CIA engineered it. So many others were not. Sukarno's overthrow in Indonesia was a bloodbath. Iran lost it's democratic leader and the Shah was put in his place by the world's great democracy. Saddam was recovered from exile by the U.S. They financed Bin Laden against Russia, Saddam against the guy they put in Iran. And on and on and on. Look at Iraq now. They got the oil, the reconstruction and they leave desolation and civil war. The greed and stupidity of the people behind these companies and that agency is mind numbing. It's no wonder they see a great opportunity with Tony Abbott.The sad truth Fed up is that they were the highest spending and the highest taxing. Makes the waste even worse.The fact that we have any infrastructure is thanks to Labor APM. If you'd prefer your tax went to corporations and exemptions for the wealthy, that's fine, but economically you need to brush up.

The corporate media may serve its corporate party which serves its corporate masters of industry, but they have no interest in looking after you, your country, your planet or your family.

The very many independent economic experts who have lauded Labor's governance are more worthy of attention than those who will profit from Labor's fall. It's not rocket surgery.John 1, please explain how infrastructure and employment spending harmed the country and how the current mob's destruction will save the future for your kids, You may begin with the denial and inaction on climate change and go from there to cost of education, employment opportunities, care for the ill and aged, investment in research and development with the large scale sackings of scientists and intellectuals, cuts to medical and health care, cuts to indigenous programmes.
Can you point us to one country on this Earth that has benefited from these extreme right wing corporate takeovers?
If you can't see it AE i can't help you. Look over the top of the telegraph.Spending your tax on your community is economically sound. Look around at what Labor has provided.
Taxing you and giving said tax to corporations which poison you, overcharge you and rob you is not sound policy.
If you want you perception changed than change the radio dial, buy a decent paper and for god's sake do some research.Have you started your letter to Hockey for the 600Bn? Did Howard get back to you over the 300bn he gave away?I agree snufkin, and said jail time should apply to politicians who lie more-so. 
The disfunction in the ALP can be traced back through Mark Arbib to the U.S and the corporate media certainly aided in the trashing of the brand.
I, like you, offer my vote to the party, or independent showing the most concern for the proper functioning of a decent social democracy.Peter, the use of the disaster economics to paint the debt as representative of Australia being in any way in economic trouble is indicative of a) your gullibility or b) your involvement in the big lie.

It beggars belief that people think money and numbers will be worth anything when the impending climate disasters take hold.

Why is money given to corporations more important than our life support system?John, wrong, deluded and it will almost worth the disaster to watch you and your flat earthers make up fairytales about how it all came to be.
And i'm sure almost every climate scientist on Earth would be happy to see your facts in total as well.Climate change is political, it's social, it's all encompassing, oh, and the Earth is round.Okay, another LNP press release by Chris Berg and the right wing 'think' tank, the hilariously named institute of public affairs. More projection from a group only concerned with privatising public affairs.

It wasn't that the Libs couldn't sell the budget, it's that it it a stupid, cruel and greedy budget for stupid, cruel and greedy people.

If the lying T Abbott could keep one promise there would be a DD election tomorrow.

Don't try to engineer a spill that isn't there. You may wish to look to the LNP for leadership rumblings.

Let's take the three issues you named Chris. Debt, one of the lowest in the world and easily managed. At least it was before Hockey doubled it.

Boats, now costing us three and a half billion when it was 180 million four years ago. Proper on-shore processing and community integration of approved Asylum Seekers even less. Remember our international obligations.

The carbon tax. You imply that global warming is taking a little break. Your mob and your corporate press spent millions crushing the carbon tax remember? Rudd in no way tried to confuse voters on it and the corporate led hijack cost us billions. Of course the greater climate change impact of inaction will cost us dearly in more than dollars if you have the capacity to understand anything beyond paper and numbers.  'It isn't a positive, it isn't a negative it just is'???? 'Trying to make climate change a political issue'. Are you deaf dumb and blind man?

Let's be blunt about the Rudd and Gillard government's faults, they don't have the corporate press at their disposal and that's it. The continuing childish slagging off from the opposition who declared their job was to oppose convinced those too stupid or lazy to consider facts and figures. It has become all too clear why they never proposed any alternative policies while in opposition, they would have been laughed out of existence. We now face the trials of their fascist, tyrannical subservience to giant corporations as they empty our treasury to line the pockets of those who will poison us.

Your pushing Shorten to do something controversial shows that you clearly know he will remain popular for the simple fact that he's not Tony Abbott, or, for that matter, Joe Hockey, Julie Bishop,  Pyne, Morrison or any of the myriad arrogant, ignorant, elitist incompetents who pollute our parliament at present.

I doubt that even the rusted ons will be convinced by the free gifts come the next two budgets. We saw enough of that under that snake Howard. 



Yank, you don't think Abbott gave billions to the U.S war industry for nothing do you. The rider on the purchase is that we have also to use them for their eternal wars and keep buying arms and ammo.
Debt and deficit disaster only applies when we want to take money out of health and education. War is vital to the neo-cons.Unfortunately, Albo, our defences have already been breached.

 The T.P.P gives free reign of our national laws to multi-national companies, our infrastructure is being dismantled, our assets sold off, our scientists and intellectuals fired, our public servants fired or silenced, our national broadcaster bullied into conformity, our workers less protected, our international reputation in tatters, our progressive alternative energy policies trashed and our elderly and less advantaged trodden on.
Is it just because the perpetrators are mostly white that you haven't noticed?That's right Craig, it's pretty hard to ignore a problem we were front and centre creating.

The illegal invasion of Iraq, which had NOTHING to do with 911, by Bechtel, Halliburton, Lockheed Martin, Kellogs, Brown and Root and the other multi nationals, run by Paul Bremmer, Donald Rumsfeld, Dick Cheyney and the rest of the war and economic criminals, led to the creation of I.S.

Once they decimated one of the world's great ancient civilisations, all its treasures, records, books and its entire infrastructure and killed a million people, they encouraged elections.

Polling suggested the Iraqi people wanted nationalised industry and rejected foreign multi nationals taking free reign over the country.

Thus, elections were cancelled, neo-con sympathisers were put in place and the people protested. There were then tens of thousands of civilians kidnapped, tortured, killed and incarcerated to avoid the Iraqis having a say in their own future, by the U.S.

Billions of U.S taxpayer's dollars were given to the U.S companies given reconstruction contracts, which were sub-sub-sub contracted to other foreign workers. Iraqis were massively unemployed and un-included. Virtually none of the infrastructure was fixed, the money disappeared into the coffers of the war and reconstruction industry and they split.

The sheer arrogance and evil of this action created groups such as the I.S when they realised the true motive of the U.S and our own little johnny was to turn the country into the beginning of the commercialisation of the Mid east.

Our obligation is to stop being involved in the expansion of the evil empire and leave other humans alone. Where was your outrage regarding the murder of a million Iraqis?

This information is all a matter of public record and i recommend
you put down the telegraph and read up before you back the sending of our people to kill and be killed because Tony Abbott wants votes.18% and 23% interest rates with Howard as treasurer.
Swan gave us stability while the world crumbled.
Budget surpluses have no relation to good governance they usually indicate boom times or a lack of your tax being spent on your infrastructure.
Howard spent billions illegally invading a sovereign nation for U.S corporations which the world is paying for now.
Simple Simon.Rusty, he's just the ring-leader. he has a bunch of self entitled criminals working with him to abuse the system and rob the stakeholders for his own profit.Destroying unions has been a neo-con mantra from the beginning, TC. The same can be said with unions. The fact you say they have never claimed this is neither here nor there.We really prefer our leaders to lead by example Mr Abetz. How many pay increases from us, your employers, have you taken without our consent?Absolutely Johnno, was a time we were happy to pay more to fly Qantas. The service was great, the safety unequalled and one had a little pride for the way Aussies do things.
Why on Earth would we now?
You had the blood rushing the first line bobt, good work.One of the recognised signs of a fascist state: overt and encouraged nationalism.Dizzying logic as usual, Zing.
 Obviously this recent Australian wanted so desperately to be on Team Australia he picked up on the policy of the Libs. RACISM. He's now true blue as far as our P.M sees it. He even knows all about 99.94.Yes Abbott and Brandis decided to make it legal to be a bigot to get Andrew Bolt off the hook.

Of course that was until a cartoon appeared satirising the Israelis and then George Brandis decided Racism is bad again.

Of course inhumane treatment of refugees is good.

Then yesterday mr Brandis gave a 45 minute address claiming the ABC and Fairfax are anti religion and insisted that religion is the reason all human beings are equal and deserving of kind and humane treatment.

Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.Our freedom is guaranteed by the left and under immediate threat by the right.
Real nationalism is the ownership of our assets by the people and the sharing of the common wealth.
If you are speaking from a rightist point of view, which i assume you are, then you are supportive of our country being sold to giant multi- nationals and our laws being overridden by corporate laws such as those being signed by your P.M in regards to the T.P.P.
It's ok to have a side to cheer for, but i suggest you investigate what they really stand for, Peter.Well put, Ray S and it warms the cockles to see that this current madness is waking Australia up from its political apathy.
We must hold these criminals to account and show up these falsities for what they are: desperate attempts to take attention away from the actions of the Earth eaters.Exactly Daniel. Think Harvard and the like and you'll find they are privately funded for the most part.
Companies like Wal-Mart and GE etc etc pay millions to those universities. Those who study economics were only offered one variety. Milton Friedman's Chicago School variant. Many students and lecturers  opposed this obvious corruption and protested.
The schools had to offer other versions of economics....unfortunately the students who took those classes could not receive credits upon completion.
If the LNP was in power at the time of the GFC, it would have been the perfect opportunity for them to cut public spending and sell assets to multi nationals. They would have fired thousands of public servants, cut benefits to the least advantaged and plunged the economy into a black hole.
Abbot's 'debt and deficit' disaster was the disaster he had to invent after missing out on the GFC. Of course good old divisive policies around racism and sexism got him the votes of the simpletons and now he is free to rob us of our society.The third lowest debt to GDP in the third wealthiest country on Earth. Wake up, you are being used as a prole.Tator, you may have omitted the fact that on top of the purchase price we also get to go and spend millions fighting the U.Ss dirty corporate wars with them.  Abbot's busting to hang tough with the big bully and it will help his fear campaign.
Nice little deal eh?May i quote political scientist Michael Wolfe: " Conservatives cannot govern well for the same reason that vegetarians cannot prepare a world class boeuf bourguignon. If you believe that what you are called upon to do is wrong, you are unlikely to do it very well." "As a way of governing, conservatism is another name for disaster."
I appreciate your tag though. Let's hope it's true.AE, this obsession you have with thinking that the depression saving efforts of the previous Labor governments were all done with your money is nauseating. May i also blame you for spending billions on supporting the private U.S war industry.
Those many less hospitals of which you speak are the result of the greedy ideology of the fascist right, not due to any lack of money.
If you really gave a damn about where your tax went, you'd read up a bit.Your theories bear little resemblance to fact zing, and although from your previous postings i understand that facts matter not a whit, i'll just suggest you understand that the stimulus payments did just that, stimulate.
It really didn't matter if you put it towards your home loan or your drug dealer. The money kept moving in the economy.
 Yes it may seem, to a simpleton, that the government stashing piles of our tax away to buy elections or to claim economic supremacy is good governance, but it's not.
The deal is that we pay tax and the government uses its reach to maintain and improve our community.
Infrastructure (and i don't mean roads for the oil companies) is vital. This government wants your money to be given to corporations. to privatise health, universities and every other government service that made this country great. 
Make no mistake, this government is involved in global organised crime and our petty blue v's rd squabbles don't help.Despicable biased and bigoted press coverage, racism and sexism.
Simple, but true for many.Ahh, more insight from the institute of privatising public affairs. 

Still on about the big bad debt, still calling a clever and appropriate Keynesian response to the Freidman economic disaster a political move.

As for Labor's economic credentials, i suppose they were damaged if one read your mate Rupert's rags, but i prefer to pay attention to qualified economists from around the world. Not, of course those from the Chicago school hell bent on giving the ownership of all of the world's assets to a small group of Jabbas the Hut.
i hope the squeals from the right about bias are just as loud after this Labor bash. Is the Australian still doing Kevin Rudd cartoons?Burke, i've said it before and i'll say it again. If you want corporate agendas and news and programming decided by Gerry Harvey and the like, you have plenty to choose from. 
Just leave to the fair minded and educated our ABC please. They may feature such nuts as Amanda Vanstone and Peter Reith, but we take it as an overview of society and we keep abreast of the thinking of those who will sell us out.
As for the anti-Abbott claim. The day he gives the country something positive is the day the ABC will report it. Don't hold your breath old son.AE. We can completely agree on this point. The Australian doesn't sell. That's the point of the story.I guess, like Tony Abbott, it all depends on your bias, John.AE, you're just the kind of unthinking drone from whom they will happily take money too. Enjoy.Yank, you should have tuned into Orwellian speak by now. 'news' Corp has nothing to do with news. In fact Fox 'News' has been rated as having aired around 50% of its 'news' that is completely fraudulent.
Freedom, Liberty and Justice coming out of the mouth of just about any Neo-con means prison, torture and corporate takeover.
And our own P.M, well we all know that whatever he says means the opposite.What we need is an uncontrolled, uncensored ( or UN sanctioned censorship) internet.Absolutely, yank. In an article primarily referring to News Corp, the need for a free press for the sake of democracy was mentioned three times.
The agenda of Murdoch is anything but democracy. If one makes even a mild investigation into his operations, it is blatantly obvious that corporate power and weak government is his aim and his attempts to override democracy are many and varied.
Murdoch's vendetta against the ABC is nothing short of disgusting.
His Fox news pronouncement of G.W.Bush's election victory before a winner was announced sent the rest of the world's media announcing a result that was untrue.
His call to 'kick this mob out' prior to our last election was a disgrace.
His support of an illegal invasion and destruction of the ancient culture of Iraq was collusion in a massive international crime.

Unfettered and shameless capitalism is NOT democracy.Please tell me how i can unsubscribe to supporting the multi trillion dollar U.S arms industry.Disraeli, allegations of bias because your team doesn't get the same self interested and corrupted support of the corporates. How sad.

To suggest that a vendetta against the opposing parties of this corrupt fascist government by the Australian is the forefront of journalism is laughable.

The lack of positive genuine reportage and the preponderance of mud slinging and gotcha moments are getting the Australian exactly what it deserves, a very small and very ill educated readership. 

Look at the sales figures and re-define your understanding of fade away.
Ae, you make two points in your post. To which do you subscribe?Even simplistic idiots, like our current P.M know people vote for the tough talkers in war times. Weak and stupid leaders send our young to die to maintain their own power.
Abbott's 'debt and deficit disaster' shock doctrine isn't fooling most of us so it's off to war we go while he imposes more clandestine powers to authority and less freedom to us. 
We keep watching police forces here and abroad wearing all black and military style uniforms.
As for our leaders in the U.S, what a great deal; sell us billions of dollars worth of their war planes and then let us spend more money fighting their corporate wars. One of their biggest industries must flourish. 
This is designed to have no end. The market must prevail.Many agree with you fish, and John, i think SBY said 'daft'.
CC, Shorten is from the right.Yes Ben, i would. His marks were nothing to crow about either.U.S illegally invades Iraq, a country with no connection whatsoever to 9/11 and kills a million.Percy, Obama is not a warmonger. The U.S yes.Clete, easily fixed. Go to a commercial site populated by the less intelligent and the gullible, sexist and racist and you'll have your views validated.Absolutely correct Nan. It's called the shock doctrine.Better you espouse your economic wisdom, Gordon. Your post simply implies ignorance and bias.
Better you check the figures.Yes GJA, it really means everybody who watches FOX 'news'.Almost there blax5. The interests of the Murdoch empire are most certainly commercial, but their actions do not reflect American interests. They reflect, mainly U.S, corporate interests.

 The American people have had their treasury emptied by Murdoch and those he represents under the false flag of news.

 The Bush family is probably the worst criminal family in history yet they were able to falsely claim at least two elections, murder a sitting president, raid the treasury at their will, start illegal wars with corporate interests in both the destruction and re-construction sectors, and implement a false flag 'disaster' on september 11 2001 to gain the support of the population for endless fear and war and from which they will continue to profit.

It is important to remember that the paymaster of the ABC is the Australian taxpayer also and no amount of the Murdoch press's slander or Abbott's bullying should deter the ABC from telling the truth.

It is also important to note that the ABC is in no way a left wing outfit or it would surely tell the whole truth of the crimes committed against all people of the world by greedy and evil individuals and corporations. 

It would also expose the pathetic and childish LNP royal commissions over a couple of cab charges while they rort the system blind. The union bashing royal commission is just another attempt to take away worker's protections for their corporate agenda of slave wages and disposable workers.
Whenever you hear freedom and/ or liberty being used as an excuse for a crime you can bet your last dollar you're being lied to.

Tony Abbott works for them, not you.John1, since you consider democracy to be a lefty conspiracy, may i retort that your veiled argument is an attempt to re-create the sham of  the U.S.
Blatantly rigged elections and deliberate manipulation of who is permitted to vote. For example, Jeb Bush's no ex- cons and nobody with the same last name as an ex con. That covers the black vote.
Being abreast of the political landscape as the corporate press sees it? 
The truth of the political landscape is a neo-con takeover disguised as a remedy for a disaster that doesn't exist. The lefties are well abreast of the political landscape, sir, hence their disgust at the destruction of democracy we currently see.

So that way we could have a president of Glebe and a president of the CBD.I agree, GJA. If they don't stop her soon a sense of community might break out.  Perish the thought.The only way intelligence could be connected with that man would be criminal intelligence.gorlassaar, most of us think the same and generally ignore the simpletons, but every now and then we have a spray.
Well written.GRF, anyone who sprouts such economically illiterate propaganda is either very simple and gullible or set to profit from the sale of our nation and its laws to foreign corporate interests. I'm afraid you're one of them.These poor buggers are going to be called on to risk their lives for corporate expansion endlessly while this fascist government is in power. This much we know.
Tony Abbott wants his wars to be as cheap as possible. Especially considering the cost of the U.S war machine and our obligation to pay our ongoing portion.
If you are worried about our tax going to soldiers you had better not vote for the war mongers, as the costs really stack up then. 
It's ok though. It will be no time before our defence force is run down and private companies like Academi (formerly Blackwater) will be collecting ten times more from the taxpayer to oppress some poor civillians somewhere, all in the name of LIBERTY. 
I agree, Yank. As we all know Lambie is no genius, and much of her other rhetoric is quite embarrassing. This is not to say she's wrong on this issue.
Furthermore; there is no reason why our soldiers aren't employed in peaceful emergency aid situations such as fire and flood and certainly no reason why some could not be in Africa building facilities for our medical corps instead of giving $20 million to an inexperienced private, for profit, company to do what should be done by not for profit organisations. Fascism writ large.You have a clear and accurate view from your cloud castle, my friend (I'd like to say comrade, but folks get a little paranoid.)With all due respect Northern Blue and others, the 'tinkering around the edges' was done by the pollies themselves and the media about what really went down in that most turbulent of times.

It was all to do with U.S paranoia and illegal interference in so many other countries.
Now the usual dullards to whom the daily telegraph and Jones and Hadlee are the sources of education please, before you slag me off with the usual vitriol, do some proper research. It is all public record.

The best writers, of course, are those who were in the action. Jonathon Perkins' confessions of an economic hitman' will tell you the how. Naomi Klein's 'the shock doctrine' will tell you why (this does not mention the Whitlam overthrow as it was quite covert and there was no bloodshed) and Christopher Boyce's account of his time in the C.I.A doing work around Maralinga will tell you that he spoke out when he realised that his country was directly influencing the political climate of our country and he felt that was wrong. The 'Falcon and the Snowman' is a good account, or if you can get the Al Jazeera episode about he and Snowdon, you can see him trying to re-establish his life after so many years in prison for speaking out. 
All the rest is a side story hiding corruption and gullibility.Quite well put Aeon. I would probably differ on the point that the parties are indistinguishable only based on the current P.M. He is so far right i'm sure even his own party is concerned (or should be). 
You are absolutely correct about both parties serving the same master, a master not from these shores.

Rudd was selected as leader for his right wing tendencies and when his more socialist policies saved us from the deliberately contrived GFC he was ousted by the exposed U.S informant, Mark Arbib. His greatest error was to not go for a DD election over the mining super profits tax. A tax that the corporates had the dopey among us believing was a tax on us instead of the ultra rich who made money from selling our land out from under us.

Democracy, it is true, is becoming an illusion here as the fear campaigns and perpetual corporate war machine enables the dismantling of all that is democratic. I fear we may not be far off from a corporate militia rule and we all seem to be happy to let it happen.Ahh, but they were bombs we had to buy and now have to replace for planes we had to buy and now get to use, repair and maintain. It's all about the perpetual war industry. As orwell suggested, the enemy doesn't matter and is never the same.Let's remember the cause of the creation of the conservative (conserving the power of the wealthy) party was to represent the bosses. In that sense it is doing its job. The sad fact is that the LNP pretends it is representing all Australians. It is clearly not.gbe, the coffers are never empty while the country earns money. The management of the country is the government's job. This sometimes means borrowing against future earnings. The future earnings are today's progressive ideas.

If one government believes providing as many important services to its people, creating an egalitarian society, fostering good relationships with our regional neighbours and encouraging and supporting arts, education and science in return for their taxes is good management, another might consider selling those income generating assets, lowering taxes and accountability obligations on big business, giving public money to private institutions, signing agreements to hand the laws of our country to foreign corporations and providing unfair advantages to the wealthy as good management.

The best way to measure the wisdom of these ideals is to take a look into the results of each of them into the future.

IT'S TIME
I agree. Mellissa Parke for Labor and Scott Ludlum for the Greens. There is hope.I can agree with your tag at least.Somebody please wake rob up and tell him he's dreamin'.No, Harry, but they do have an extreme right wing destroyer in Harper who has joined T Abbott as an environmental criminal and international laughing stock. And Canadia used to be such a nice country. As the suppository of all wisdom might suggest.I'm afraid i'm in the same camp as the selectors have been. We want Hughes to succeed, but it's hard to watch him blow his chances when they come. Leaving him out of S Africa was a mistake, but the Poms had him worked out and psychology is a big part of the game.You mean the third lowest debt on Earth in the highest ranked economy on Earth and in the country that showed good growth through the second largest economic disaster in history?
Don't let the facts sway your posts Burke.Ben, 'the lawyer', while our governments have survived on economic performance, especially that of giant multi-nationals, that does not make it either simple or correct. It means the corporate media has done its job of convincing the gullible public that the dollar is God and that our planet is somehow immune to the laws of nature.
It is extremely ironic for the fossil fuels companies to use the example of the burning of fuels in the home as being directly responsible for the poor health of so many people when they espouse the global burning of fossil fuels to pollute our sealed atmosphere. 
Greig, it is cheaper, it is better, it has been for years. It is the solution.They have rushed to invest world-wide. This dopey little backwater is hog-tied by coal companies who continue to tell us it's cheaper to asphyxiate ourselves than to live on a clean healthy planet. 80% of all coal dug up, transported and burned never gets to the power point. All it does is murder the planet. How is that cheap?I am off-grid, i have solar and it's free!!!! The initial costs were covered in no time and as technology improves it will become even cheaper. 
When one switches on a light or an appliance knowing the power came free from that big yellow blob in the sky it's a wonderful feeling of freedom.
Do it!Peter, when the atmosphere we share manages to respect man-made borders your point will have validity. Until then it remains a delusional rant by a person unable to grasp a most simple concept.Peter, the question is always answered by the lefts/greens. It's the answer you asked us not to provide. Alternative energy is free, clean and accessible to most. That is simply true.
You may be better to ask the question: "what's an expensive, filthy, wasteful and massively environmentally destructive method of producing energy?" Then you'll get your desired answer-COAL.
dmans5, i agree, but you have to understand that the ABC is under enormous pressure to not criticise this mad government and must therefore conceal the truth of its crimes against the people of this country. When the ABC's freedom is restored, so will its balance.Olive, i have to agree. Beazley was too right and too much of a U.S-phile. He also loved war stuff. I never saw much of a leadership quality about him either although i'm sure he was a lovely bloke.
i may add, that the Libs missed out on a decent man with Dr Hewson.
Dean, does not the fact that Christopher Boyce was dismayed by his people at the C.I.A infiltrating Australian unions to turn them against Whitlam- (Hawke's name is present in this) and directly influencing the election count as a smoking gun. 
Did Boyce spend a couple of decades in prison as a result of speaking out for nothing?

It wasn't a conspiracy it was the policy of the U.S  to manipulate governments around the world to their advantage. obviously it still is. There is a list as long as your arm of countries which have had their leaders changes by the U.S.

The U.S considered Gough to be not dissimilar to Mao himself.
At the same time they killed Allende in Chile and got rid of Sukarno in Indonesia to put far right leaders in. Fraser began implementing Freidmanist economic policies even before Reagan and Thatcher.

This is all public record. The only thing we can be thankful for is that Gough's overthrow was bloodless and that is primarily thanks to him accepting the call instead of legally forcing the G.G to  replace Fraser and give him his job back because the G.G locked the gates to avoid the approach, and would have likely engaged the armed forces to implement the overthrow.I wonder, Apodeictic, whether you feel the current P.M's policies are for the better?Jim, may i suggest you understand Reid's background to put that particular tome into perspective. 
The dubious practices of which you speak were mostly his rejection of the push to become a U.S colony and embracing our place in Asia and our independence as a nation.Some people still don't get progressives, V. One can only imagine the greatness of this country had he ruled as long as Menzies.This was a great great Australian. One who cared for his country and all of its people like none before or since.
Had he not been ousted by the C.I.A through its anti commie, pro corporate global tyranny we would not have one in seven Australians living in poverty.And after Gough had dined with Murdoch and described his time with him along the lines of the dullest most tedious time he'd ever spent. Murdoch's revenge continues today.A very eloquently put summation, Grey Bags. It is a sad fact that since the beginning of man, some of our number are of reptilian wiring. To them it is success. To most, it is neanderthal enslavement to the base ego with no concern for the advancement of humanity.Tossie, 80 per cent of the coal that is dug up. transported and burned never makes it to the power point. That is extremely expensive in itself, not to mention the fact that it is killing us and our planet.
Renewable energy is FREE, that is why the capitalists resist it.OUB, the union movement was infiltrated by the C.I.A to corrupt it and to turn it against Gough Whiltlam's government.
The current slandering of the unions is pure smear designed to cause the gullible to give away their own protections, much the same as the perpetual war machine uses fear to rob us of our democratic protections.Peter, in case you haven't noticed, the unfettered market is destroying everything. That is: societies, families, economies, ecology, governments and world peace.
The constant struggle comes from business owners wanting more while they wish the wealth providers, the workers, to have less.
 In a civilised society, especially one as wealthy as Australia, businesses  need to consider their work-force as an asset and not as an enemy.
Let's forget economy and remember society. The object of business is to provide goods, services and employment so that a society can operate. This obsession with massive profits for as little outlay as possible is destroying social structure and cannot work.
Capitalism extrapolated to the nth degree means oligarchy. We can see it everywhere now as giant multi-nationals sue nations for the perceived blocking of their self declared right to take everything. Check the TPP and every other 'free trade' agreement.Why, gbe, are the banks rejecting the  payment of the fees on their borrowings?Yes, no different to the U.S taxpayer bailout of the greedy swine who caused the crash. Then, of course the swine gave themselves fat bonuses with the taxpayer funds. 
The main aim, to crush the EU before the Euro became the world currency and put the U.S into third world status.
Capitalism uses socialism when its inevitable failure occursThe left is about envy and totalitarianism and the right is about sharing Peter?
Your arguments in defence of self interest and greed are becoming less defensible by the day. It wouldn't hurt you to study your Isms.Moi, please extrapolate your belief in unregulated banking. I'm curious as to the wonders it will provide the population.Correct, Peter. Downward envy.For one so poorly educated, Max, you make much sense. When our populations main source of education is corporate media, and soon to be corporate sponsored schools and unis, there can only be corporate control.Just wanted to agree with you Ben. One values the facts the other the opportunity to indoctrinate and manipulate.When a kid spends five days a week for 12 years in an institution you can be damned sure he or she is learning social, moral and ethical lessons. To say the educators should not make an effort to pay attention to this means that someone else at the school will.Yes, V. Alas the bright scientists and engineers will struggle in today's climate while the accountants thrive.gd, you conveniently omit the extreme levels of advertising and propaganda which morph into accepted lifestyle norms to which the children and parent alike are constantly bombarded. 
When a government such as the current one seeks to destroy the only decent publicly owned and unbiased avenue for news and information in this country that adds greatly to the destruction of culture.Absolutely correct Monty and V. If you wonder why the madness of the corporate takeover of the world has no major critics in the economics world, it is because they all attend U.S universities which are funded by giant corporations who insist on Freidmanist economics being taught exclusively. They also attempt to refer to it as a science. 
Howard's attempts to get McDonalds into schools had the same motive as Abbott's attempt to privatise universities and to insist that all scientific study be commercially viable. 
Most of our scientific study is performed at unis and places like the C.S.I.R.O. To insist their work be confined to corporate interests means it is taken away from human, cultural and societal avenues.More drivel from the institute for privatising public affairs.
Two glaring anti indigenous references. Just like Howard. If only the teachers would tell their students that free settlers came here on the Mayflower and settled peacefully with no rape, murder, slavery and torture to the oldest existing population on the planet. Just like the way big Uncle Sam changed his-tory in the Fatherland.
If we really want to improve education let's tell the truth. 

Make no mistake: Whatever the right tells you is fact, is a bare faced lie and they care not a whit because most of us are too stupid or apathetic to question them.
gbe, i assume the corruption in the unions to which you refer is the C.I.A manipulated destruction starting in the Whitlam era.
They infiltrated and corrupted the unions. Read my friend.

Abbott is mentioned so often because he, quite shamelessly hung out the 'open for business' banner which, as most who pay attention know, is the victory cry of the Freidmanite capitalists who willingly destroy democracy to implement unfettered capitalism.

The result everywhere this has happened is the oppression of the population, the disappearance of the middle class, a new working poor class, a very large population of people in poverty (currently one in seven in this, one of the wealthiest countries on Earth), a very small ultra wealthy class holding most of the assets and a surveillance society where the public is treated as the enemy by the government instead of as the boss of the government.I agree AE. Only 46.5% of us consider the current government to be untrustworthy. What do they have to do for the rest to wake up??Colmery, you're sounding like a thoughtful person. Beware, you may go the way of the scientists and the intellectuals. Soon maybe even those who wear glasses.Mark, a thoughtful and reasonable Liberal party member. I don't agree on the special favours comment in regards to Gillard, but a good piece. I wish there were more astute LNP posters like you. You sound like a grown up.I said you were thoughtful earlier Mark. I have to suggest, though that you really look into the boats issue if you believe it is so important. Anyone in the Navy not too afraid to speak out will tell you the boats are still coming regularly.
Giallard said she wouldn't have a carbon tax, but make no mistake she WILL put a price on carbon. Tricky words i now, but that's what she said.
If Labor dismantles everything the LNP has done in 2016 they will have served their country and democracy well.
On your final comment i probably agree. The factions in labor, especially the powerful right, have made it something of a populist wishy washy party with a group of good, but outnumbered members holding the flag.Alfie, Rudd got in on left votes, climate change, refugees and mining super profits tax. When Labor went right they lost votes. Since Howard it seems Labor's numbers men want to run with right policies that got populist votes instead of offering left alternatives which would sweep Labor to victory. 
I think the faceless men of both parties have a lot more to do with a very large 'company' in the U.S and very little to do with the good of Australia's people.Rob, a very insightful and accurate comment. I wonder though as to the point you are making. The LNP is well and truly behind and supportive of the ills to which you refer.
Is yours a criticism of Labor's lack of focus per se? Or is it a criticism of Labor from an LNP supporter?Nice to see someone in Labor beginning to realise that voters want a choice. If the current right wing factions of the Labor party want to go that way, they should change to the LNP. Labor is supposed to be centre left.

Firstly Labor needs a strong left leader who will resist the U.S bullying and charge with treason any internal spies for the U.S. Mark Arbib got away with it and ruined the party to boot. The U.S said Australia will never have another Whitlam and they meant it. Time to stand up to the Wall street bullies.

Labor needs to nationalise as many services and assets as possible and return the people's wealth to the people. Unions need to be strengthened, not ostracised in cynical royal commissions. Countries around the world are waking up to the fascist takeover of the globe and they are fighting back before democracy is lost forever.

Mr Faulkner needs to show strength, take the lead in a new democratic Labor party and return it to its roots. There are some decent shining stars in Labor, Mellissa Parke of Fremantle for example. Why are those like her not on the front bench?An interestingly one sided account of a nation that has been the victim of the exact same Freidman inspired economic thievery Mr Abbott is hoisting upon us. The cause of the turmoil isn't mentioned, just the confusion surrounding the cure.

Most Latin American countries have been raided, often by force including 'disappearings'  and torture, to impose unaffordable World Bank and IMF loans and give carte blanche to the usual robber barons. 

To attempt to imply that our rejection of the horrors of our own fascist government's attempts to sell this country off to giant multi nationals and to rip our money from social and infrastructure causes to the pockets of the ultra rich would result in economic disaster is not only a stretch, it's a downright lie.

It is a poorly constructed, and self defeating article that is short on facts and heavy on shock tactics. 
Read between the lines on property prices and interest rates. Ours are around .25 of a percent for the average bank account. Our bosses plonk our money there too. If i make a withdrawal of $5000. the bank has to report it to the government. our press is being controlled by new legislation, we are drug tested anywhere and Mr Green is rueing the difficulty faced by those wishing to find tax free havens. Sloppy and transparent.Blind faith you say, John. What we will be paying for down the track is the fact that our assets, our laws, our freedoms and our society have all been pulled from under us and sold, dirt cheap to corporate criminals while we're distracted with the latest shock doctrine.
If you claim economic awareness you should back it up by doing some study on the subject and add a little recent world history to your search. Start with South and Central America.
Costello's waste is history as will be the wealth of this country.Troy, third lowest debt on earth, third wealthiest country on earth. Murdoch is world renowned for his manipulation of governments.
Swann was world renowned for his work as treasurer during the neo-con inflicted GFC.
What's your reality is not necessarily that of those of us who pay attention.
