Some assumptions. Russia probably has the black boxes. If the contents exonerated them, they would be known by now. If Ukraine had a clean bill then their air traffic records would also be known by now. This, like many other issues will have black, white and lots of grey.

The only people that may ever be brought to justice will be some small pawns offered up as part of a larger deal.Women and children are not able to "reject Hamas". Nor are many of the men. Your lack of empathy for Palestinians is based on what?Children don't vote, elections aren't free and fair. They can't just build a barricade and start singing you knowAllow me to agree with you 100% on both pointsTropicalcat, the Ukranians shot down a Russian passenger jet in 2001 killing all  78 on board. It was a big deal for a few days when everyone thought (and many hoped) that it was blown up by terrorists. Then it quietly exited the news.Isn't stepping out of the way and allowing a country to take ownership exactly what the world does, except it used to be called "spheres of interest"? Any country that's ever tried to fiddle in central o South America has got a bloody nose from the USA, because it's their sphere of interest. Israel is accorded a sphere of interest over Palestinian territories. Turkey and Kurdestan. France and Mali. Indonesia and West Papua. China and Tibet. Britain and Ulster. None of it's pretty and and don't support or condone a single example, and there are many more. This issue involves Russia and Ukraine, and Russia at least, views it as their own sphere of influence. I think it's what the world does. And what powerful countries constantly do is try to weak each others' spheres of influence. I guess it fill the time.Both the US and Russia are deeply involved in Ukraine. The Americans have tried to prize the major Russian satellite away through all the usual means, fair and foul. The Russians have been squeezing Ukraine so tightly that it seems to have slipped through their fingers. Putin's biggest regret must be over having played such hard boil over energy supplies. A loss of billions in revenue would, in retrospect, seem small beans against losing Ukraine itself.Back when America invaded Panama, in the last seven days the ABC went from naming a President Noriega, to calling him General Noriega and then finally Strong Man Noriega. President Saddam became Dictator Saddam in the blink of a reporters eye as well. These appellative falls from grace are what to look out for. Whilst ever the western media continues to call Putin a President, we are safe.Touche, fran. I was being selfish. When Stongman Putin leads the news, I'll start digging my bunker but not beforeIt's because there are Australian dead in Ukraine and not in Palestine.

There is almost a morbid delight for the media in having such a great ratings boost, culminating in the lurid, Easter road-toll style breakdown of the dead, state-by-state. Reporters were sent not only to their Premiers for a grief stricken comment but also to stand outside the capital city airports whilst they recorded their story. Perhaps the sign saying "Airport" was a visual aid for the viewers or perhaps they were hoping to ambush family members who hadn't got the news.

I have seen a Fox journalist rummaging through personal belongings and holding them up to the camera so that he could make a pitiable comment. I've seen the ABC reporter wander at liberty throughout the crash site whilst at the same criticising locals for not having it closed off...even though he'd previously complained about the number of checkpoints getting in. As if the media should have a red carpet. 

"Bring our boys home, Rambo" has become "Bring them home". I wouldn't at all be surprised, given that this was a war zone, that these poor innocents will somehow become sacred diggers who died in a foreign field. Stranger twists of fate, nationalism and media management have happened.I don't recall your support for the occupy anything movement, although I mightn't have been paying close enough attention. Or do you only get your endorsement if you win?There are almost no facts available this close in time to the event, but there are plenty of pre-written, pre-recorded and pre-meditated statements flying in every direction. At this stage it's safer to look at who is doing the talking rather than what they're talking about.Sometimes it can be difficult to slide a cigarette paper between the far right and the far leftA certain and categorical determination as to the cause of the explosion will be made before the wreckage has been examined and then swiftly disposed of.It's good to see a cadre of quislings lining up already to serve our future masters! Jokes aside, Australian PMs only every make pronouncements on foreign affairs after the talking points come from Washington.Clearly the western course of action will be to immediately implicate the pro-Russian forces and therefore Russia itself in order to execute whatever plans they already have waiting in the wings. 

This must be done right away, just in case it wasn't them after all. 

They need to hurry up because if it turns out that it wasn't them after all, they can either stuff it down the memory hole, blame faulty intelligence or simply deem it irrelevant after the event. 

If it was them, go to paragraph one where they "execute whatever plans they already have waiting in the wings."

That's how these thing usually work and this will be no different.Hiya Joe. Certainly a Ukrainian newspaper claiming to cite kindly donated, hours-old Ukrainian wire taps has the man taking credit. And why should I be skeptical? Just look at the ABC webpage right now showing the captured, self styled PM of the Donetsk People's Republic, surrounded by gunmen yet casually making a call on his mobile phone with his other hand in his pocket. One can only marvel at his humility for settling for Prime Minister when President and Emperor were up for grabs.Perhaps they could shine your shoes for pocket money?The rich people coming from Iran would be a far better class of refugee than the Libyian one sitting in a tent for six years. Look at the initiative, the pluck, the likelihood of replicating their wealth right here. It's positively entrepreneurial. Do you want your refugees on welfare or in business? What a strange leftists view to haveIt's been openly discussed that white zimbabweans and south africans might like to seek asylum here if their situation deterioratedI think Duniya was expressing an empathetic urge to shelter civilians currently under fire. There was no suggestion that you wear a hijabGaza isn't a country. You'll be trying to say that England stacked Coventry full of human shields nextPitiful by any standard. And just how would you advise a child or the elderly to stop a war or overthrow a tyrant or stop racial violence? Remember those chinese students who stayed after 1989? Did you suggest that they go back to Bejing and take on some tanks?What white people? Which political revolutions are you on about?Keith, I've no idea how many people changed their vote over this single topic, but I am of the opinion that it will remain a political issue well into the medium term. The LNP has the ALP over a barrel on this one, who now can only respond with trying to be even tougher or trying to be just a little bit different. There's enough perceived votes in it to make the wedge work, and perception is the only thing that counts. For most people the closest that they get to this is their living room tellie. Repeated errors by a government and a preferable leader in opposition will usually trump a single policy, IMHOKeep it up, LehanThere are two dimensions to this story. Firstly is the obligation that a government has to the country and in particular its senior office holders. And in this case, Abbott, Bishop, Costello and co. have acted and spoken in exactly the way that most people would expect in this situation. They've performed, as leaders, no worse than anyone else and better than some. The criticism of them is driven almost exclusively by political partisanship.

The second dimension is political, and the exploitation of an event, tragic or heroic, for electoral gain. In this case they've walked the fine line between squeezing some advantage (we've forgotten about the budget and recent opinion polls) and going OTT...to which, in my opinion they're close. But they need votes and this is what they do. I can only imagine what kind of theatre Rudd would have orchestrated. Or Shorten. Or Howard. Or anyone else.

These are two of the jobs of politicians, and they've done both pretty well. Get back to complaining how they manage the country because there's not really anything to see hereIn fairness, TB, the only people I saw rummaging through belongings at the crash site were the journalists who criticised the locals for both not securing the area and for having too many checkpoints. Sure I heard reporters say that the bags looked like they'd been opened, but I'm not sure what my suitcase would look like after hitting the ground at a couple of hundred kilometres an hours. As for saying someone had been lifting wallets and passports, it is possible that someone was trying to ID the corpses. There's no evidence either way, but one version certainly makes for a more sensationalist storyPoliticians are to be found at every tragedy and at every celebration, as long as the cameras are there and there's a vote in itWhat makes you think that the left are the only critics of abbott?How about the Maldives? Malaysia? Tunisia? Albania? 

On second thoughts, I say the lot of them, because violence is almost always secular and earthly in its motivation. Simply saying God is on board doesn't make it so"Islam does not tolerate secular ideology or democracy."-   Most muslims live in secular countries. Most countries with a majority muslim population are secular, with no connection between mosque and state. Most muslims live in a democracy. I've personally been in churches in Turkey, Iran, Pakistan, Indonesia and Malaysia.

Turkey doesn't fight kurds because either are muslims. Iran and Iraq didn't fight because of religion either. The fighting in Libya, the near-civil war in egypt, these are all about the usual things- power and money. Your perspective is called confiirmation bias. You've made up your mind long ago and you hand pick the things you read and hear that support your opinion and subconsciously forget the rest. But I suppose, if you can't understand the complexities of as issue, the easiest thing to do might be to reduce it to a simplistic levelYes it does, which is why hundreds of millions of muslims live in secular countries and why hundreds of millions more wish that they did too.

Islam, like any other major religion covers a very, very broad range and spectrum of belief. You can barely connect the Islam practised in KL, Jakarta or Singapore with India, or compare the beliefs and role of religion in Turkey to Tunisia. It's a religion that unites many people whilst at the same time their ethnicity, language, race and political loyalties divide them. Not every christian believes in or does the same things as each other. There's more than one church! 

The media has portrayed the gangs of the middle east and the hillbillies of yemen and afghanistan as being representative of Albanian Australians, Pakistani New Yorkers, the Iranian middle class and the hotel staff in the maldives. It's almost impossible to generalise so many disparate peoples. Why do I defend it? I'm a shafi'i sunni. I feel obliged to when others are wrong. Why do you attack it?"Our moral superiority requires us to do things the hard way"- that is one of your best. I could sell these gems on greetings cards. You meant it in a kind of nouveau white man's burden, right?Best estimates for the christian population in mosul is about a third of your figure. You didn't get it from wikipedia, did you?. This whole massacre of the innocents is just a cheap piece of propaganda. Of course the so-called caliphate are booting out the people that don't fit their bill: kurds, other sunni, shia, sufis, christians, anyone that's not like them. That's what religions like to do. But to re-style is as some specific persecution of christians is the latest heart string for the media to tug. Muslim victims don't seem to arouse the same passion as christian victims, as your post exemplifies. 


You'd not have heard of Sheikh Khalid Al Mulla, he's the head sunni cleric in secular iraq, and he said "the extremist groups of the organization of Islamic state in Iraq and the Levant wore the dress of Islam falsely to kill and displace the Christian brothers who live with us for thousands of years"We must be using that security council seat that everyone said was an overblown waste of time!Both sides do it. Where do you think most of the writers here come from!And Howard before them and Abbott after them. The parties come and go, what we do remainsStatesman? He's carried himself as well as we'd all expect from an Australian Prime Minister, but even with the help of professional media adviser's that foot of his seems to end of in his mouth from time to time. Doesn't "statesman" usually indicate someone who exerts influence internationally? He's certainly an able politician but I don't think he's a "statesman" (yet?)Politicians try to extract political gain from absolutely everything, including tragedy. It's nothing personal, it's their job."Putin has shown restraint, wisdom, insight and subtlety"- turn it up. Russia, under his leadership, screwed Ukraine so hard that they became vulnerable to outside enticements. Prying Russia's premier satellite away from them has long been a goal of the US and it was Russia's greed, insensitivity and overbearing nature that let it happen. All they can do now is try to salvage some ruins through the use of proxies. What you say has some truth and obvious knowledge but you analysis needs to be more balanced. 

The media management has been fantastic along with the whole politicking of the tragedy.RT is a good source of the kinds of news you never really see in the west...but it is very biased and should be viewed with great cautionAlmost everything has some kind of benefit, some value, however small, even if they are highly dangerous. Smoking tobacco has none. It is only harmful, it has no benefits and is addictive and will kill a very big proportion of its users. Banning it would do little, but taxing it, fining butts, restricting sale and continuing the pressures to socially outcast the users is working and should be continued. People are not born gasping for a fag- they make themselves smoke and over years pour thousands into developing their 'habit'. And the only reason why the youth do it is because they think it looks cool. Make it uncool and the problem, literally, becomes a dying one.Surely the only way for BAT to fulfill its responsibilities would be to pay for the health and welfare of their customers who are dying from the use of its productsI haven't called for a ban on smoking, so you argument falls flat. BAT provides money to governments who might or might not channel it into health care. No one here is going to buy their shares on the back of your spruikingTobacco fails to provide any of the so-called benefits on your list. Nicotine takes away self-created cravings- that is all. The non-addicted never light up in search of these effects because they are not addicted. Only the addicted need to light up. It is not the sort of drug that you would encourage your children to use because every smoking parent wishes that they weren't.Drinking milk won't kill a big chunk of its drinkers. But I do admire your obstinate stance, declaring proudly your defence of a known killer just because...because...it's fun to be contrary?Unless you're breathing rum and raisin on me, in which case you should be taxed to oblivionGet them to grow whatever they grew before they grew tobacco. That's the elegant solution.Yours is the only post to link to the two, so, who are these many who wax on?If smoking rates plummeted then the reduced health budget would offset the loss in revenue. The political resistance is only due to the time lag between the two- loss revenue today for a reduction in expenditure down the track.You will find that the facts go in the opposite directionI am asked by my government to give up some liberty for a threat that doesn't exist at the same as my government is becoming ever more secretiveBoth sides are on the record of wanting to wipe each other out, so you can leave that to one side. I don't believe that Hamas cares if Israel were a democracy or a monarchy, so you can out that to one side also.I'm not too sure about that. When most people say "muslim" they mean "dark skinned middle eastern types" and when they talk about middle eastern types they mean all muslims. It's just code for racism, for people to express their bigotry freely under cover simply because they use religious terms instead of racial ones. People do it all the time, especially here on the drumTrue, but antisemitism and islamophobia operate in exactly the same way that racism operates. They both seek to catagorise, isolate and the denigrate the target group. They are fronts, covers for racism. They stereotype and dissempower the target group as being unlike us. As being different to us and "other". It's racism in motive and in action, so I reckon the word is close enoughmike, there are plenty of atheist muslims, people who live their life according to islamic values and proclaim membership but do not subscribe to the articles of faith. They might even go to the mosque regularly for a sense of community, companionship or to keep up appearances. Weddings and funerals muslims, as I call them. Because there is no organised church hierarchy, no confession  and not compulsory church attendances, people are free to relate to their deity, or not, on their own terms. I should know, I am one. I have plenty of relatives who are and I know many, many socially who are. I imagine that the percentage increases in more affluent and educated societies.mike, you'd be on a hiding to nothing trying to tell someone else from a different religion what you happen to think that they should or should not believe in. Not being in a religion, unless you're an academic scholar, means that you actually have very little idea. 

I know what shahada means and having spent years of research and study on the qu'ran and islamic history, having traveled in Egypt, Turkey, Iran, India, Malaysia and Indonesia (about a third of the islamc world), with an imam in my family and a huge extended network of relatives across four muslim dominated countries you're simply not in a position to try and tell anyone what they believe in. You might just have to accept that I know more about the topic than you.

Now you can sit there and try all you like to tell me what you think my beliefs are. You can have a go at pigeon holing, stereotyping and catagorising people, but on this one, mike, you just don't know what you're talking about. So I'll repeat myself, there are atheist muslims who abide by islam but who may not follow the articles of faith. Plenty of people who identify with being Christians don't believe that Jesus was God. Plenty of Christians only go to church for weddings and funerals. 

1.6 billion, mike. And they don't all fit into one neat box for people to pre-judgeYou're correct in that people can call themselves whatever they like. They can also believe in whatever they like. You aren't the judge of who belongs to a religion. Your opinion only relates to yourself. I find it amusing that you think you get to decide who is a member of which religion. 

You will be surprised to learn that the Qu'ran doesn't advocate the death penalty for apostasy. In fact is doesn't contain a death penalty. For anything.People need to be able to differentiate between Australian school kids on a bus who happen to be Jewish and the actions of the Israeli government, which doesn't represent them. People also need to be able to differentiate between Australians who happen to be Muslims and ISIL. But just watch the media conflate the two, time and time again. Lazy thinking has dangersI just typed the word "Hamas" into the search field on this website. 

I got 5,581 hitsI have a suspicion that you could be close to the mark. I have no doubts that the facts, as they pan out over the next few days, will be different from the headlines todayMetadata my foot. The whole lot is being recorded, as we'll find out in a few years timeYou'd be a mug if you thought it would stay metadata-only for very longWaterloo, your comments, like your year, seem to get ever more progressive! Perhaps it was the world tour? Bravo in any case.When this threat of returning jihadists was first trumpeted in the media the officially quoted numbers in question went from 300 to 20 to 2 in less than a week. It's well for the AFP that they keep advertising themselves on Twitter otherwise our crack investigators would have no idea who's out there.

All laws of this type are abused and their application creeps far beyond the initially stated reason, so I can only live in hope that these powers will also be used to convict corrupt union officials, politicians and businessmen, who to date, always seem to walk free for lack of evidence. But what would be the odds of that....If only the law was applied equally. Susan Renouf done DUI? Walked away. Singleton done speeding at 180kmph? Walked away. Obeid, O'Farrell, Macdonald? Will walk away. Eccelstien? Walked away. The law is only equal in movies set in Camelot or Sherwood forest. The powerful are simply not subjected to the same rules as the rest of us. Silvio. Nixon. It never endsHowever it seems we're never interested using these tools to convict corrupt politicians, union officials or corporate crooks. Their burden of proof is different againWouldn't most private schools be catholic? Hardly a hotbed of extremismThe roman catholic church represents the majority of christians and it the single biggest denomination in the world. Regardless of their views that makes them the very definition of mainstream. The opposite of radical. You don't have to agree with them and you can think them barking mad, extremist they are not. They set the standard for the biggest religion.This country doesn't generally hand out rebates just because you don't use a service. Taxes pay for lots of things and your use of them is of no matter. Education, like transport, health care and the very water we drink is provided at a low cost courtesy of consolidated revenue. If you want to opt out and enjoy a superior education, nursing, private transport of fill your indoor swimming pool with Evian, than you are free to do so. But no rebates, I'm afraid. Besides, with that kind of luxury, just think of it as an additional tax.How many Australians work for Blackwater?Do it Lakemba or Punchbowl and it's free speech. Do it in Bondi Junction and it's anti-semetism. How right you areBack in the 70s and 80s the number of Australians fighting other people's wars was a real problem, unlike this politically confected outrage. After Vietnam there were more Australians who went South Africa or Rhodesia than we are currently fantasising over. Some enlisted with dog tags and serial numbers, others as mercenaries like the Selous Scouts. That's when the law was first introduced and it drew a division between, as the current offering does, between state and non state employers. That means those Australians in the Foreign Legion were ok but those in Namibia and Botswana weren't because of their "irregular" status.If you raised your line of sight above the front page of the courier mail you'd have read the condemnations from the peak iraqi islamic council, almost every grand mufti in sunni islam, the ayatolla of shi'ite iran (of all places), the agar khan and every representative islamic body in australia. Really, just because it's not spoon fed to you on 'a current affair' doesn't mean it's not happening. The very people who are so loose with labeling all muslim communities are the very ones who've never met anyTB, My take has been that antisemitism and islamophobia have the same properties of racism. They operate in the same way. Race, was we know, is a bit of a rubbery, old fashioned term and could do with an overhaul. But racism is a word, regardless of origin, thatvhas a commonly understood meaning. I'm guessing that's why. Would that mean sexism could be racism? Why the hell not!Safer than where? Safer than Australia? Or safer than areas of the UK that don't have them. They don't seem to deter people from committing crimes not do they seem to catch many. Perhaps everyone could instal the fake wooden ones and we'd all feel better?For premeditated crimes, Zing, that's a good call. There's been a wonderfully quirky study done that found that the life sized, cardboard cutouts of police officers was more effective at reducing shoplifting than warnings of cctv It would seem that surveillance is not as effective as the perception of surveillance.Let's use your sample group of one. If the vandals were known and then caught using cctv, I take it that the cameras were then removed? They could then safely be replaced with wooden ones. Your biggest threat comes not from wayward youth too stupid to wear a baseball caps and hoodies whilst kicking in the chrome on your Bentley, but from common, drunken assault, which isn't deterred by the thought of a cameraPrivacy and hiding are not the same things. Do you draw your curtains at night? What are you hiding? Do you shut the bathroom door? What are you hiding? Do you lower your voice in a private conversation? What are you hiding. It is the hallmark of tyranny to conflate the twoMuslims aren't hostile to you, APM, nor to Australia nor to western valuesAPM, I'm not saying that some muslims aren't dangerous to the country, I'm not saying that we shouldn't be careful. But you are saying that ALL muslims are dangerous and that their world is not compatible with yours. That is a staggering overgeneralisation. No, it's bigoted stereotyping. There. You got me so mad I used capitalsAPM,  Israel has just spent a fortnight blowing people up, east african christians perform female genital mutilation, male circumcision is also genital mutilation (do you count that?) and India holds the record for child brides. You base your entire understanding of muslims based on the nightly news. I'm a shafi'i sunni muslim. I'm not in a sleeper cell. I'm not trying to bring down the system from within. I have not declared a fatwah against football, meat pies, kangaroos or holden cars. I know lots of muslims from all over the world. Being migrants they love to talk about international events and what australia really thinks of them. I've heard plenty of sermons at mosques. I'm not trying to be rude when I ask you, just how many muslims have you ever really met? Like ever really talked to? I'm guessing that if they knew your views it would be a pretty short chat. You beat this islamophobic drum that is a distorted, exaggerated and perverted thumbnail of a significant global culture. Just what do you base it on? TV? Is that it?The estimates of Australians fighting in the middle east went from up to"250 to 20 to 2 within a week of this becoming a story. The government loves to say "up to" 100, which is a bit like "up to" 50% off. The fact is that not even asio or the afp have the foggiest notion of the numbers involved. And neither do you. In the current hysteria, do you think it would benefit the government to talk up or talk down the numbers?Save your effort. EP doesn't understand that abuse from the majority is not the same as abuse of the majorityI can't let you go on that one, mike. Earlier today you were singing the praises of free speech and that insulting or offending people was a trifle. You expressed concern that people were "reducing our freedom of speech in case we offend someone". You said that "better men would be turning in there grave that we are giving up our freedom of speech" and you said that "I no problem with banning speech thats causes actual harm but banning speech to stop hurt feelings is ridiculous". Copy and paste quotes.

Now, mere hours later, with a different minority group, you seem have done a 180 flip. 

Does the value of your free speech depend entirely upon who is doing the speaking or does it depend entirely on who is being spoken to?My apologies. I stand corrected. Can I blame it on a staffer? An intern, perhaps?aGuy, great to see someone standing up against anti jewish cartoons

You argued held the exact opposite view on anti islamic cartoonsThe word racism applies to this woman's rant and is independent to whatever definitions you have of left or right. Her attitude and choice of words are still in use today but we can be thankful that they are relegated to the sidelinesOr it differentiates between racial abuse and personal abuse. Slandering my race in a tete-a-tete might be less degrading, humiliating, insulting or intimidating than if you did it in front of a crowd.Alfie, you've been arguing against laws that protect minorities from abuse for all of this and any other day. Now the victims are a different group, you are in favour of them. I think it's you with the multiple sets of standardsGood postNone of that makes for an excuse or justification for her behaviour. 

You seem to have a problem with university education think that everyone younger than you is suckling from the taxpayers teat. 

In future, if you see someone in need of a seat, tap the nearest young male and suggest they get up and let the more deserving sit down. Then thank them for their manhood. Works 100% of the time.I've got a little list, I've got a little list, of societies offenders, who might well be underground, and who never would be missed. Who never would be missed.APM, your suggestions are a little like the citizenship test in that if you made Australians do it, most would probably fail. I am, however, concerned with your cherry picking, You seem worried about middle eastern homophobia without recognising that it's alive and well and living in Sydney (to say nothing of Longreach). Christian gays are either excluded from the priesthood or condemned to an eternity of hellish punishment. We won't even let them get married! I think where you hit a bump is thinking that all world's problems occur with Muslims. They don't. All the word's problems, be it in Islamic countries or no, occur with brown eyed people. From Afghanistan to Morocco, from Indonesia to Turkey, Nigeria and Central America. It's all about the brown eyed people. Ukraine is the first blue-on-blue conflict in seventy years and is the exception that proves the rule. So get down to Christmas island and look into their eyes to determine who gets in. You know I'm right. Or, this is stark raving generalisationThe is where APM happens to be bang on the money. The Drum posts a heck of a lot of articles on this topic and all of them from the same end of the opinion spectrum. There are plenty of other views and plenty of other arguments that you could make on asylum seekers. You don't have to agree with them but they can be made. But they never seem to appear on The Drum. I appreciate that the comments cover the full range if opinion (and then some!) but it's not the sameAustralians have a proud tradition of serving in other people's armies and fighting other people's wars. On any given day there are Australians serving in the British Army (and RN and RAF), US forces and lord knows where else. I've met Australians who've been in the Legion, Selous Scouts and yes, the IDF. I'm guessing that any new law would differentiate between state and non state force. This question has security, national identity and philosophical dimensions too big to unpack heremike, it would seem that the left seems only concerned about the perceived loss of innocent until proven guilty, whilst the right seems only concerned about a perceived loss of free speech. Perhaps this shows that under our system of government, there are no rights that can't be removed by a vote in parliament. Even so-called implied rights only exist because there is no explicit law. Everyone's been watching American TV for so long that their notion of rights has moved into our language and into our thinking.Their oaths swear their loyalty to the queen, to keep and preserve her majesty's peace; not to protect youWho is it, exactly, that you want to "repatriate"?PP, they'll never have the guts to come right out and say it, because muslims fail the jewish test. What I by that is that is take every islamophobic slur, slander, generalisation and innuendo, substitute "jew" for "muslim" as see if you could get away with saying that same comment in public. Odds are you can't. It fails the testYou obviously weren't living there in 1978I've yet to be convinced that existing powers are inadequate. There aren't terrorists escaping, beating court cases or slipping through loopholes. You must realise that policing agencies always want more powers. Always. One lesson that you might have learned is that anti terrorism laws in every jurisdiction end up being used for non terrorist cases. Another lesson might be that once this fear of terrorism has subsided, these laws will never be repealed. EverThat's true, but those examples relate to what we deem as being criminal. What's allowed and what's not. These proposed laws affect how we investigate, prosecute and try crimes and anything that makes it easier for people in the industry is unlikely to be put down lightly. But as I've said, I'm yet to be convinced that current laws are inadequateMy crazy idea is that ANZAC Day commemorates all wars and all war dead, yes the birth of our nation but also the tragedy of all wars. To that spirit I'd like to see Turkish troops march, or their descendants to mark Gallipoli. I'd like to see people whose grandparents fought for the Austrians, the Russians and the Italians marching proudly. The whole affair is on the precipice of militant, nationalistic triumphalism . To remember its purpose and to extend the inclusion beyond the "skips" would recalibrate the day. IMHOThank you, Diogenes. I stand corrected. I guess my point is that (the royal) we need expand the boundaries of anzac day and have it include the war experiences of all Australians. I remember during the bicentennial, the fetishisation of tracing ones lineage back to the First Fleet. And when everyone discovered that they couldn't, back to any old convict. We are now replicating this obsession with WW1 like the Daughters of the Confederacy. This reduces the number of people who connect to the cultural event. If we included all wars and all war dead, we can extend the pageant to all Australians. To my thinking, it's called inclusivityThe suggestion is to include additional Australian communities not bring contingents in from overseas. The appeal of anzac day needs to extend beyond its current boundaries. Unless of course people like a bit of triumphalismIs this the moral outrage of the hour? If the kiddies are having fun then this is no more dangerous than any other pursuit. Is is vulgar and plebian? Possibly to the patricians. The whole objection is all a bit Hansonite: "I don't like it". So don't do it. Stop being tyrannicalI see little difference between pageant parents and soccer parents, or parents who push their children into playing the violin or driving unwilling children any pursuit. But you are right, they're not my children so it doesn't affect me. I take it from your comment that they are yours?Terry, in all the MSM, over every blog on the drum (and we've both probably read them all!), of all the people interviewed, I have not yet heard one support of Palestine advocating killing more Israelis. I haven't heard one pro-Hamas commentator recommend the continuation of firing rockets into Israel. If you can find one on a drum article, I'd be interested. I have however, heard and read many opinions of those who support Israel advocate a continuation of firing their rockets into Gaza. Not a criticism. Just an observation.Zing, once again, I don't hear people sympathetic to Gaza advocating shooting at Israel. I do hear people sympathetic to Israel advocating shooting at Gaza. Am I listening to the wrong people?Zing, I suppose for those with a personal investment in the conflict it's easy to catagorise anyone who isn't a supporter as being an enemy. For the majority, neither is the case, so we might put that rhetoric to one side. You can of course, feel free to think of my as an ally, adversary, fifth columnists, enemy or quisling. I'm not fussed. My question, again, is why don't we hear more more people advocating more violence against Israel when we do hear advocates of more violence against Palestinians. If the violence is to stop, this would be a good place to start, no?There are many more options than thoseI don't choose either of those. I'll take the third optionI don't know how much you can call all Israeli's "zionists". I understand a key driver of the creation of the state was zionism. I understand that putting an "ist" on the end of the word is the new slur. But there are many non practicing jews in Israel, many secular people and more than a few arabs. Perhaps you cold be more specific with your terms?Which is why we should differentiate between Hamas and Palestinian, Palestinian and Arab, Arab and Muslim. Between Israeli and Jew, between Jew and Zionist. Failure to do so shows we don't understand the issues or it serves an agenda to conflate them. Percys choice of words slurs the innocent and I am comfortable with my stance.The percentage of Israelis murdered by Hamas rockets is even smaller. That doesn't make it a smaller crime.The concept if "an Islamic world" is a myth. Indonesia, India, Bangladesh and Pakistan is half if this so-called Islamic world. There are more Muslim living in China than Syria. Most Arabs live in North Africa. You get my point. If you are talking about middle eastern Arabs (naturally that doesn't include Iran or Turkey) then you'd be surprised. Jordan has been neutral to the conflict for decades. Iraq and Lebanon have been shattered and offer no threat. Syria is a little too busy and the Arabian peninsula is deeply in bed with the USA. That leaves no Islamic world with means or motive to attack Israel. Israel has won the strategic game and won brilliantly.On this I'd say agreed and agreed again. Interestingly the entire issue seems to barely raise the pulse of Asia, Africa and south America. Its a divide affecting the western and Islamic worlds.What I said was I've yet to see any "impartial, documented and verifiable evidence of this "persecution" of Christians of the type and manner being claimed". If you have some, share your realityZing, whilst I'm being tiresome on terminology I might remind you that most Muslims live in Asia and most Arabs live in Africa. I look forward to the increasing accuracy of your terms

Everyone's 'enemies' only understand forceOther than all the arab countries that don't fight each other and do get alongI think that both sides have been pretty clear on their intentions to destroy one anotherYou really don't have the foggiest idea what you're talking about, do you? You can't tell the difference between the actions of armed thugs and the religious beliefs of unarmed civilians, and under those back issues of solder of fortune magazines, I don't even think you want toBrunei is a dictatorshipMost muslims live in secular countries on the democratic scale. and most of the rest wished they did tooJust try and find some impartial, documented and verifiable evidence of this "persecution" of Christians of the type and manner being claimed. It all comes from unconfirmed and unreliable sources. 

This is merely the latest, fabricated outrage to create negative views of Muslims in the west. Child brides being raped to death on their weeding nights in Yemen, enforced female genital mutilation in Iraq, death penalties for apostasy and homosexuality that never seem to get carried out, Kenyan casino robbers shooting non-muslims....they are just a part of the media landscape and as grown ups we need to know the difference between fact and fiction. 

If the oil was under Tibet we'd all be hanging sh*t on the Buddhists, growing our hair long and finding obscure and ancient texts that sound objectionable to the modern ear so that we can depict them as a bunch of funny-looking weirdos.Tell me nothing. I don't want to know. And no-one else is allowed to know anything either. It's for the bestTerry, I think the whole enemy-at-the-gates, beset and surrounded card is a little overplayed. Hamas are in no way a threat to Israel, not by any measure. Egypt is safely back in the US pocket, the Arabian peninsula dictatorships likewise. Iraq is shattered and can't defend itself from  itself. Jordan and Lebanon have been out of the game for years, which leaves Syria (see Iraq). Even the Iranian under the bed is an open joke- they are literally surrounded by land, sea, air and space with American forces. They couldn't launch an attack on a goat before being vapourised. And that leaves....no-one. Israel is fresh out of enemies. Their only threats are Cyprus, a rock slide down the Golan Heights or an Australian boycott of chocolate. Their military and diplomatic strategy has been brilliantly executed. They have won and peace is there for the taking. But the question people do ask is, do they think that they've won enough?I just read the charter, mike, and I couldn't find that bit. Care to help me out?Zing, you do like that rhetorical device of describing people who disagree with you as your enemy, this time as "Palestinian cheerleaders" on other articles those that you disagree with on foreign policy are enemies of the state. I just call it a false dichotomy. The world isn't black and white and opinions that are simply miss the bigger picture. 

I don't know that the number of projectiles launched is the most accurate measure of a conflict. Were Israeli deaths way over the thousand mark and the Palestinian deaths under 50 we'd all be talking a lot less of rockets and a lot more of people. I agree with you that there is case to be made that Hamas sees a benefit from casualties, allowing them to cast themselves as warriors and protectors and to demonise Israel, but it's a limited strategy because they'll be left as the lords of nothing. And I think they know that. But Hamas have never been the problem. They are just the label of the hour. The misery endured by Palestinians was there before Hamas got control of Gaza- therefore, they are not the rootThat leaves the support of Israel as the only neutral position! I am impressed, really, but it's only sophistry. There isn't a causal relationship between condemnation, support and outcomes. Condemnation and support aren't the opposite of one another. You say that a condemnation of both the Palestinians and Israelis has no affect on the Palestinians but hinders Israel. It follows then that a condemnation of Palestinians alone has no effect on either them or Israel and that a condemnation of Israel would affect them alone. The logic falls apart, however when claiming that "equal condemnation is not neutral" because neutral condemnation is equalThis particular conflict has been going on for a generation or three, within the lifes memory of someWhere is?But surely getting involved in other people's wars is the Australian way? 

I'd like to add a hope that people don't import their hatreds here.....but from reading some of the posts, it's too lateWhich side did you choose?I hope you save all of your posts, Lehan, because I'm sure there's a prophesy in there somewhereYou don't need children to be married, except in your version

Same sex marriages won't create any more homosexuals. The end of western civilisation isn't yet nighA legal commercial partnership may consist of more than two parties, so why not a matrimonial one? The marriage contract is centred around property rights so I agree. But you're not joining mine!CP, I honestly hadn't even considered it at all until some peanut above started using a slipper slope argument linking same sex marriage to polygamy, to which I gave them the old, so what? But it probably would get difficult. Some sort of pre-nup perhaps? Some elaborate multi party contractual arrangements? What do Ernst &amp; Young do for all their partners?Those anti same sex marriage should be hiding under the bed at the thought of a vote on the matter. The campaign would expose them for they are. It would be better for them to stay in the shadows in lobbylandNo. Are you? They will be exposed simply because they are unable to find an argument to oppose something that that doesn't affect them. The exposure of the religious extremists in the campaign will taint the restSimon, there is no proposed fundamental change. We're talking about a small fraction of the population. You'll never even know if your gay neighbours get married. Unless they invite you. Which by your posts, I'm tipping they won't. The proposed change doesn't affect existing marriages or the majority of future marriages. It only affects some people's version of sensibilities. I'm sure you do things that other people don't like. Freedom extends beyond just you and into the lives of othersAgreed. A landslide in either direction would remove the perceived fears in the marginal seats and there'd be a private members bill in no time. But whilst ever both parties are running largely neck and neck and their focus groups and pollsters say the issue is worth a point or two, the issue will mark timeYou've mentioned turkey basters a few times now. Remind me to skip your house for ChristmasYou just argued your own #1...and rather well, too!Men and women are already allowed to use toilets, Australians can get welfare overseas and teenagers already drive cars. Your examples are meaningless. Marriage is a contract. Same sex couples want access to exactly the same contract because it confers a social and societal legitimacy. Existing contracts will be unaffected. Most new contracts won't be same sex. If you can pony up a reason why they should not, fire away...but I won't take the Hanson argument, I just don't like itThe Drum is rarely a good sample group, unless you're testing Smokey Dawson recliners.

I think a minority of those that support same sex marriage are vocal, and a minority of those that oppose it are vocal. The majorities on both sides are less discernible. It's my opinion that because allowing same sex marriage only affects those wanting to do it, it will pass. Then no vote is based on trying to convince people to oppose something that will never affect them but can be painted as a benefit to those that want it. Australians are pretty tolerant. The yes campaign will use "fair go" like it's going out of fashion, and if it ever went to a popular vote, would walk it in. 

What the partisans can never understand is that most people don't follow issues along party lines. Only a vocal minority does, and they rest on Smokey Dawson recliners.Good. They should be forced. It's discriminatory and if you don't like aboriginies, asians, the disabled or the ederly then you should be forced to treat them equally too. Your scenarios above are fanciful, ludicrous and not worth responding to in detailIn some interpretations of sharia within sunni islam a women may initiate divorce is the husband fails to satisfy. Fails to perform. And in some parts if shia some marriages are fixed term contracts with an option to extend. This has been much abused by the sex industry where it is "legal" to get married for 30 minutes. Both minority and fringe practices, it must be saidChris, you've put a lot of effort in you post but you didn't offer any arguments as to why you object. All you've done is repeat your position a few times: "Marriage is the union of one man and one woman". You can keep repeating it, as is your right but that's not going to win one single person over unless you cough up some reasons why that shouldn't be change to a union between two adults. We get that don't like it personally but not why someone else can't do itYou may be right, mike j...but nearly every argument against same sex marriage reduces to a religious one and one that is devout of facts in itself. Can you explain why people should oppose something that doesn't effect them?We're talking B grade telliemovies and D grade music, right? Is anyone pirating anything worth worrying about? Game of Thrones indeed. Anyone who's endured more than one minute of that costume pantomime would hardly be holding it up as some artist piece of cultural significance that's worth stealing for.The electorate generally doesn't vote oppositions in. They vote governments out. The current Liberal government couldn't win the next election if they included Jesus in a new look cabinet. The Labor opposition is just as unpopular, largely due to their leader who went to the Ian Paisley school of public speaking. The country party and the greens should think seriously about rustling up some more candidates as there will be plenty of scraps left over from this lightweight fightThat's a very Earl's Court cica 1970 view. Australia has one of the biggest economies in the world, of the biggest militaries and a population bigger than most european nations. If Laos, Malta and Zanzibar get to be independent countries but not Australia I'd be interested in your yardstick because power and relevance don't seem to applyAPM, I agree with you. There are any number of rational arguments that someone could make in articles in favour of the government's policy on asylum seekers but they are never given space on The Drum. 

Most of the bloggers in favour of the policy just happen to be unable to articulate them when they do have the space, but that's beside the pointOf course it's flawed but the government has to do something, even if it's ultimately futile.if it were a Labor government and they didn't send people, Abbott would have ripped them apart. Even if it's symbolic, unproductive or pointless, I think it's totally appropriate and smart politics. I don't see it as a time for partisanship. Witty quips are fineYank, we differ on this. Coronial staff or crash investigators would have been more practical but the afp are available. I think the public wanted a physical, in situ response if only to feel good. And I'm ok with that. They can stay in the hotel and drink vodka with the reporters for all I mindAlpo, think politically and flip it on its head. If Rudd or Shorten were PM
 and they chose not to send in a uniformed force (AFP or ADF) then Abbott as opposition leader would have torn him apart. I'm sure you could imagine the rhetoric. If a Labor PM sent them in without at least talking about weapons, they would have been torn apart. It doesn't matter if the fighting confines the AFP, ADF and reporters to the hotel bar, our government would have been to have done as much as they could to return remains and maybe even investigate. I'm hardly in the LNP cheer squad but I think they've made few mistakes on this one, other than the PR and spin overload....but that's politics, so what do you do?I really think that Rudd would have turned the whole thing into an even bigger production number, possibly taking Bono with him and maybe even the rest of U2 for a gig. Had he have none nothing but sensible diplomacy behind closed doors the opposition would have mauled him and press likewise. The public demands that the government make some kind of physical effort at the scene, or at least try. I honestly can't see the space for partisanship here. In many other places, yes, but not here.What insurgency are you referring to?APM, you have no idea what you're talking about. Every religion can be a religion of peace and every religion can be a religion of hate. And they all are. It comes down to the people practicing it. We've already established that you've never met any muslism or spoken to them about their beliefs so it's probably for the best that you play to your strengths.I used to sing Onward Christian Soldiers as kid. I wouldn't be too concerned. But of course some people try to justify their secular wars with religion, to give it a cloak of legitimacy or to spice up the rewards. Everyone religion does it. And yes, there are backstreet preachers using religion as a recruiting tool for their wars. And they are a tiny number of people. 

It's hard to read a part of the quran without coming across an injunction to defeat someone. It's a fire and brimstone text. Perhaps the Vatican should have come back with some Old Testament quotes about smitings, hip and thigh to even the odds?APM, you think that all muslims wear turbans are ride camels. The middle east, that you are fixated on, is 19% of the world total. 19%. Your views in islam are completely wrong in asia, where two thirds of the worlds muslims lived, and where I spend about a third of my time. Yes, happily and peacefully living in a muslim country, enjoying both eids and christmas. Had you ever been to indonesia (they play christmas carols in the shopping malls there, the world's most populous muslim country- you'd love it), malaysia, india, turkey you'd see a very different picture to the one that the tellie has been showing you. If you left your hotel you might even meet some locals that you could quiz. 

To balance that, let's look at a christian country of nearly 80 million. The Congo. At war with its christian self and at war with its christian neighbours in the bloodiest conflict since WWII. Go and book a return ticket and see for yourself. On second thought, don't. You won't need the return trip. And we hear nothing, nothing of the war there....but some muslim terrorists kidnap girls in Nigeria and it's the confected outrage of the week.You can interchange "Christianity" for Islam", print your post out and frame it because it's your best workjames, you'll find islam does none of those things. 

It's instructive that you ignore the view of Islam's own clergy, the senior, credentialed and influential religious leaders in communities, in countries and in the schools of Islam. You ignore what they about their own religion. Perhaps you think you know better? You ignore what the overwhelming majority of muslims say about their own religion. Perhaps you think you know better. Instead, you cite the murderers and terrorists and conclude that they are a better representation than the 1.6 billion others. There's a term for that. It's called confirmation bias. But you can drop the confirmation. 
Have you also concluded also that, because of the actions of some priests that the entire Christian world are paedophiles? Do try thinkingEvery war and act of terrorism gets condemned in every mosque in australia and by senior clerics, but make peace- not war, isn't going to make the front page in the telegraph. The only views of a muslim that are reported are the nutjobs. Go t a mosque this friday. They'll let you in, and listen to the sermon and get back to me.TGU You are half right. If they were Christians they would be interviewed on TV. Unless a muslim preaches hate, they don't get on. By same token, I didn't hear any Christians protesting about the recent anti-gay laws in Christian Uganda. Or about abortion laws in Ireland. Or about Eastern Orthodox rebels in Ukraine. An Algerian-Australian cleric is hardly responsible for what someone does in the tribal regions of Pakistan and a Malaysian can't condemn with any greater weight than you or I the maniacs in ISILI can promise you that asio and the afp have every mosque covered. Would prefer me type in capitals? 

I can't see a connection with a political left/right spectrum and terrorism but I'm sure you've got a theory...I'll get my foil hat readyJihad comes in many forms. There can be a jihad to improve literacy rates. There can be jihad to loose weight. It means a struggle for improvement and it is an obligation on all muslims to try and be better people and to struggle for improvements.  It can also mean war, but current factions and armed gangs aside, there hasn't been a religious war in centuries. There is no islamic requirement to fight in a war. None.

There is also nothing about warfare against infidels. Feel free to cherry pick a sura or three about killing unbelievers but 7th century exhortations given during a war are hardly applicable to today. Just as the Pope doesn't advocate death for adultery anymore. 

Ask some muslims if they want to wage war on you and get back to me. I'll bet there too bust paying the mortgage and making sure their kids do their homework. But I don't believe that you know any and that your opinions and edicts come straight from your isolated throneYou've seen a muslim cleric on TV say bad things in Berlin? I've seen muslim clerics in real life, right here in Australia, lead prayers for dead Israelis and their families. I've been in muslim countries where the mosques and christian churches are built literally next to each other. In Indonesia there the buddhist temples on the other side as well. Hundreds of millions of people coughed up cash yesterday for charity. Did you? Religion has and will continue to inspire the worst depravity and noblest acts in humanity. There 1.6 billion muslims in a faith that is just as diverse of christianity, with it's mainstream and it's sects. You need to broaden your perspective. It's like judging christianity by the KKK or by child molestation your faulty logic is judging a big whole by a small sample.The IRA managed to do the same things without being muslims, so there's that theory out the windowHaving lived in Ireland for ten years I'd say their take is that it's a war of nationalism and self determination. Many of the great Irish "Patriots" were protestants. There are some Catholics in the north who want to be a part of Britain. They are Unionists, although they wouldn't boast about it too loud. And there are Protestants who feel Irish and want to be a part of the Republic. Religion reinforces the cleavage line but the point of difference is political. If you want to politely find out who's who, ask them what's the second biggest city in Ulster. Those that say Derry and those that say Londonderry gives it away!Mitor, only someone trying to be deliberately provocative could draw a similarity between the IDF and terrorists. Where a legitimate comparison can be made is on the effects that war has one people. One of the main arguments against these young men going to fight in Syria and Iraq is that the effects of war are such that they might come home more damaged and even more extreme. That's a fair point. We know from our own experiences that returned aussie servicemen can suffer horrendous mental health, behavioural and social problems. War is a health hazard to both the individual and society as a whole and we shouldn't be encouraging or allowing it in any situations other than those necessary for national survival. I also think that the state should hold the monopoly on lethal force. This means it's a bad idea to let young australians go and fight for anyone, state player or not. It's bad for them and ultimately it's bad for usGet comfortable, because they do, time and time again. It's just not on the front page of the tabloidsAll of the peak islamic bodies and their leadership have condemned these things time and time again but it makes better press to find some lunatic with a constituency of none advocating extremism. Sermons in mosques do likewise. Australian mosques operate in a very non denominational way. Imagine a mosque in morocco which would be of a particular branch or islam, within a particular school and would be attending by a homogenous population. Mosques here cater to everyone from everywhere. Gallipoli mosque in sydney was founded by turks but everyone in the area attends. Preston mosque in melbourne was founded by albanians but likewise, everyone in the area attends. This makes their messages apolitical and very, very broad. I've participated in prayers for dead israelis and their families. I have no doubt that there are underground and back street preachers peddling hate and violence, but my point is that they are not mainstream. They are a marginalised minority. Every domestic terrorism bust in australia took place because of tip offs from within the australian muslim communityMaybe, but I think you could make a case that given australia has had troops fighting in overseas wars for over a decade, you could define that as being at war. Regardless of what you call it, what do we do if someone comes here to kill us like we have gone there to kill them? We'll probably pretend we never saw it comingAgreed. I'm not peddling a 'we brought in on ourselves' line at all. I merely contradict the previous post saying we are not at warAnd in 1970s FranceI wouldn't be holding my breath. No-one has managed to take the catholic church to task over their discriminatory employment practices. Many people look at yemeni or saudi society and then think that they apply across the entire islamic world. Arabs are a muslim minority group. FactI saw the uncensored photos online just this morning, and they are extremely disturbing. Not just one beaming maniac holding up a brace of heads, but heads on spikes in numbers, with more beaming maniacs posing for the photo op. In this age it's fair enough to wonder if they are photo shopped and it's all some propaganda ruse. But if they're real, they can only be taken to try and strike terror into their enemies. And they succeed. They also bear a witness to the depravity of people. The heads might well have been removed post mortem but that can't compare to american troops cutting off noses, ears and fingers in afghanistan. These pictures are genuinely disgusting. Will young men be inspired to join these outlaws? Probably.Mike, I'm glad I'm sitting down because I agree with almost everything you sayThe Fraser government passed the Foreign Incursions and Recruitment Act to stop Australians going abroad to fight, then the concern was southern africa (I served with a NZ SAS officer who was previously a mercenary there but that's another story). I am unsure as to why this can't be used or dusted off. I wonder if we already have the legal tools but are looking for political mileage?Here's a tidbit...most muslims live in secular countries with a separation between mosque and state. And most of the rest would love toPolitics has become perception management and everyone wants to keep the spotlight firmly on them (or away from them) depending on the perceived advantage. The LNP are getting benefit from Ukraine so they'll try and keep the media eye there, whilst also cleverly anticipating and blocking any ALP criticism. The ALP would swing the light back to the budget if they could and Shorten's walking the beat today trying to get some photo ops with dementia patients to that end. Until the next coup or scandel when the light will shift once more. It's got nothing to to with trying to run the country, just run the polls.Hird's not fit to be in charge of farm animals much less young people. He is joined by a staggeringly long line of other maniacs at his club, the code and the industry, but sharing the guilt doesn't erase it. This Frankenstein approach to winning sports at any costs is beyond weird.
But they make millions for themselves and others so they will all carry on with impunityI guess the counter argument, JN, is that some employers or whole industries might just drop their wages. It would do little for competitiveness but a lot for the share price. Many highly skilled employees would be insulated and the usual economic arguments on supply and demand apply, but they would also apply at the lower end of the scale. We constantly find employers exploiting people. Many others do only the bare minimum under law. With no minimum wage, I do believe that we'd create a larger and worse off working poor.I hear what you're saying, JN, and it's all true. I guess my view is that, and I'm trying to be polite, that there's an awfully big chunk of the population who are never going to be earning much. They're never going to be building on their experiences. Never improving their education. For a lot of people, the destination was reached pretty early on in life. And along with the struggling actors, these are the people on minimum wages. I suppose you could add a bunch of other categories but I'm making a point. We already have an underclass, and along with social welfare payments, the minimum wage forms a kind of business welfare. There, I said it. I shall put on a red track suite and hide under someone's bed right away! If wages fell, there's be an economic and social disaster. Some on politics and business will relish the opportunity, but there would be millions (?) made vastly worse off. IMHO, of courseAs always, you make some very good points that I will need to think about!They're only human shields if they cause you to hold your fireI wonder what kind of arms she has in mind, because the weapons normally familiar to these guys are handgunsI don't know that the ADF has even one division of combat ready troops?Come on, Joe. RT news is terrific! It's like FOX news for the other side. Both overwhelm you so much with opinion you don't even realise that you got no newsI tend to agree with most of what you write, garybenno. Abbott and Bishop have done what's expected of them with some style, whilst treading very close to OTT territory. Of course they have had one eye on the polls. Any other politician would have done the same. It's a shame in that sense that Rudd isn't still with us because whatever he'd have done, I strongly suspect that it would have involved a full orchestra and a chorus line.

What I don't understand is sending the AFP. Perhaps some experts on air crashes might have been more useful and some coronial staff. The leader of the AFP group when asked what they would be doing, said "we're there to look good in the photos". But perhaps the PM just felt he needed to send some on call, uniformed force that looked like we're doing something.The winning candidate will be the one most useful to American interests. Still, nice to live in a democracy where your vote means something. In Australia, it doesn't matter who you vote for, the outcome is always the same. And that's where foreign countries get involved- the places where the voting can really change something because the only countries left alone are the ones the get the same-old-same regardless of how the voting goesTrue, but most of us don't get paid to drink and smoke. If we did, might be able to get compensation for damages, which I had though was the issue here? It's a murky area that I ran a workshop about, re: Goodes and did he suffer a workplace injury? And yes, was coffee and pastriesPerhaps being "an outsider" is worth something in the political process? How many US Presidents campaign on the basis of "sending a message to those people in Washington"? How many of our legislators base their careers around slagging off Canberra, when they all but live there? Jokowi offers an opportunity to step away from his own personal corruption but changing a whole system?"senior military people have by far the best expertise and background in matters such as this"

Fiddlesticks. Police. Fire Brigade. Emergency Services of all kind. Merchant marine. Mining. Heavy industry. Commercial airlines. Hell, stewards at the MCG organise numbers vastly in excess of the whole army multiple times a week. If you ever got a sneak peak at the operational figures of the RAAF you'd want Alan Joyce to take over tomorrow!So you think that white western men are under threat.........do you mean globally or do you think that this is happening in white, western, male dominated australia?He wasn't quoting an Australian General. He was quoting a British Admiral.Meddling with a neighbour is empire building. Meddling on another continent is magnanimousThat's a very good point. ThanksThe government, all governments, have all the power and authority that they need to enact whatever agenda they see fit. The only recourse is through the courts as to its legality. The people can only be mobilised in a way as to threaten the future electoral prospects of the government. People power, per se, is empty. 

If you don't like the current crop, come up with some better plans and convince people of them. Problem is, both sides have much the same plans and both sides suffer from a lack of an ability to sell themGood call, Dux, and it seems that the more the major party's policies coalesce, the more bitter, partisan and divisive its all become. A trend eagerly aped by their believers, as we have to wade through here every day!I disagree, yank. They differ only on the font and colour of the document, not whats on it. Both happily continue the same paltry mechanisms of government, exclusive decision making, support of vested interests, foreign affairs and the economic architecture. Arguing over which number goes in which column is not choiceReligions, civilisations, cultures and races, being largely interchangeable, are all compatible. Your grandchildren will thank you for the tolerant world you helped to build. One post on The Drum at a timeToday's official government line is 150 "known radicals" and 60 fighting overseas, which would include Iraq amongst a number of other places. Not 60 with ISISTanveer Ahmed, who also styles himself as a comedian(!) and who's contributions are no longer welcome at the SMH because of his plagarism, wasn't writing about islam as a whole. He was writing about the Lebanese community, not in any research capacity, but because of his unique insights. Because he comes from Bangladesh. One swallow...summer...and all thatHow right you are. He stood for the seat of Marrickville and is a LP councillor for Canada Bay.Bev, shi'ites and sunnis haven't been warring since the 7th centuryDo tell of these continuing events? I've prayed with Sunnis in Shiite mosques...and visa versa.Fidanza, as you'd probably know, there are more theological and liturgical differences between Anglicans and Catholics. The only divide between shia and sunnia is who should be the rightful holder of a position that doesn't exist! Sunnis, in the absence of a caliph work on the consensus of the community and (most) shia keep the the book open for their hidden imam. It's all very academic, unrelated to day-to-day life and not of interest to the majority of muslims. The national, cultural, racial and linguistic divides within islam are of far more weight.We certainly shouldn't base our criteria for refugee acceptance on religionOn the contrary. Australia s one of the least religious countries on earth. They will feel left out, and their beliefs, if the people who frequent this site is anything to go by, will be mocked.On the 25th July, the UN's deputy humanitarian coordinator in Iraq, Jacqueline Badcock old reporters that up to 4 million women and girls aged 11-46 faced the risk of genital mutilation. "This is a fatwa from Isis". A document circulating on social media purporting to be the ISIS fatwa was in fact dated July 2013 and originated in Aleppo, Syria, and was widely described as having being photoshopped.

This has been a confirmed fake news story bu Ahmed Obaydi, a spokesman for the Mosul police, Al Anan TV , ISIS, UN and the BBC. Same for the "convert or die" stories. 
Every single Muslim leader, both spiritual and secular, of all branches of Islam and every peak and representative body in Australia has been condemning terrorism and violence. Google it. Watch their and read their statements. These actions are condemned in every mosque. I'm not sure how many Muslims you've spoken to about this, but you can't grasp the tenor of multiple communities simply by watching TV. The media sells more advertising space by presenting you with the insane fringe. "Muslim leader is normal and speaks sense" is not going to headline anytime soonMaybe it's because we live in arguably the most affluent society on earth. Maybe it's because we live in just about the safest place on earth. But neither side of politics is ever interested in articulating a vision, a plan, a future or a programme of improvements (pork barreling and election promises aside). 

Rather, they constantly paint a scenario of the end of the world were the other side ever allowed to run the shop. Negativity, dishonest spin, character assassinations and a downward rhetorical spiral, reinforced by a media who sell advertising space through hysteria, shock and fear. And it would seem that the closer the major parties get to one another in terms of their policies and, of course, the more they are funded by the same interests, the pettier, bitchier and nastier it all gets. They all do it. There is no governance. There is only politicsYou don't have to be a conspiracy theorist to have connected those dots. But it helpsNeither the Muslim Brotherhood, not any other Muslim group has ever used a law against you. You just made that upLike I said. No laws threatening you. Stop exaggerating"one cannot discuss or debate merits of the religion with a practising Muslim"- yes you canThe tomb of Jonah must be robust indeed. It was reported destroyed on the 18th of June.  Again on the 4th July. Then the 7th of July. The 14th. And most recently on the 24th- the same say that the Iraqi airforce bombed the city.  No photographs or footage in any reports have been verified as the tomb.

On the 19th of July, and on the say-so of one Canadian civil engineer, Rabea Allos, St Ephraim?s cathedral in mosel was reported to have been burned to the ground. This was uncritically reported using footage of the fire at St Tadros in Egypt in 2013. St Ephraim?s was again reported as being burned down on the 26th of July. The ?after? photos were those taken inside on the 27th November, 2009 after it was shelled.

By the by, there are countless examples of Islamic art depicting animals, humans, the prophet and angels. Many from the dynasty once centred in Baghdad .
At present, the only statements, agenda, motives, aims or messages of "ISIS" comes out of Twitter, even though there have been two media reports of their Twitter account being disabled. They also, we are assured, released a Five Year Plan on PDF. 

Their leader has no date of birth and no photo which shows him standing next to anyone else. During his "sermon" in a mosque we are told is Mosel, all he did was read versus from the qu'ran. When he lead the prayers, the faces of the those behind him were pixeled out. Are we now sensitive to the privacy of the worlds most dangerous terrorists? THe scene was filmed with at least four cameras and it that's their army then we can put the kettle on. They were all either boys or old men.  

Do date, the expulsions, forced conversions, FGM, burials alive, sex slavery and destruction of churches have, one by one, been debunked by verifiable sources in Iraq. They are involved in a violent civil war and I wouldn't go near them, but the fabricated news stories and confected horrors attributed to them are unending. Cannibalism will be nextCoogare, I'm not having a go at the Indians when I say that their government acknowledges 180 terror organsations in India with over 800 cells, although governments are always prone wild, politically motivated exaggeration. 

Before everything was blamed on the muslims, india blamed everything on the sikhs. Many terror attacks have been by homegrown radicals pursuing either religious or secular agenda. Hindu nationalists attacks have been called "saffron terrorism". They have attacked numerous mosques, most notably in 2007 when they blew up the mecca masjid mosque in hyderabad. More bombs were found outside timed to go off when emergency crews had arrived and crowds had gathered. Nice. In 2008 they detonated a bomb in a muslim market in ahmedabad
Where your cherry picking comes undone is that as a whole, the world's muslims are not constantly engaging in wars on unbelievers. The injunction you quote is of god, telling his prophet to win a war. If you want to be more realistic it is the prophet justifying the war for his followers. And you'd never see that sort of stuff n the bible, would you? If you believe that sura is true, do I take it that you believe all of the other ones?Obama: Just. Another. American. President.

Comes to power on a hopey-changey platform as an outsider sending a message to those people in Washington. Starts a couple of new wars. Powerless to make social reforms in his own country. Just like all the othersCan you the irony in proclaiming a separation of religion and government, whilst scoring anothers' religion and then expressing a wish to "save the Christians" only, leaving everyone else to their fate? Probably notI think you're onto something, GO. Perhaps if they called it Terror Tracking, a Safety Filter or a Dirty Fingerprints?Simply apply the China test. Had China taken it upon itself invade Afghanistan under the justification of ridding the world of Bin Laden and the Taliban with the help of its client states, would we have supported it? Had China decided to drop bombs in Iraq to restrain ISIS and drop supplies to help the displaced, would we support it? If it's a yes, then it's probably a good idea. One might also try the Russia testWe're not talking about internal structures here, Zing, We're talking about actions taken outside of a nations borders. Power projection. Actions are equalThe entire thread is there for you to read, not just one postmike, that's a better question than any answer I could give. Some people seem to be able to get along and some other don't. Majority groups might have a different opinion than minority groups. I'm always amazed that Indonesia has held together for so long, and even more amazed at their sense of nation, of the political unity that people have, regardless of their ethnicity, primary language or religion. With some obvious exceptions, obviously. In Australia the debate has always seemed base itself not on what other people might want to do, but on the fear of losing something of oneself. Maybe it's useful to reflect that nationalism is recent and took centuries of evolution to achieve. Maybe it's still evolving?mike, that does seem to be the fear, that muslims in australia will somehow, some day want to change the the culture of millions to something that resembles yemen. It's stoked by the media, of course, whose standard depiction of a muslim woman is behind a black veil. It's a load of rot. Muslims who've come to australia have come here not just for a better life but for a different life. It mightn't be visible to the naked eye but most have shed much cultural baggage already. Children born to muslim parents grow up in a place where religion is optional. Many will take that up. But the media can always find some nutjob, who represents no-one and who speaks for only himself and maybe a backyard collection of idiots to make statements that sharia law is coming, cover your women and kiss goodbye to a bacon sarny and a beer. Indonesia would be a shafi'i, sunni majority- shafi'i being the school of islamic jurisprudence...kinda like church. Kinda. Indonesians tell me that their country is different because it and Malaysia were the only muslim countries that converted without an invasion or war. Interesting point.Turkey and Indonesia just had peaceful, democratic presidential elections. Malaysia, Bangladesh and Jordan have their problems but they are all within the definition of secular democracies.Of course their laws are based on islamic values. Their muslims. If you ever come here to Australia, people openly speak of a judeo-christian tradition with a legal system inspired from same. The default setting for swearing statements is on a bible. We open our parliament with prayers to a god. I can't remember which one but it's probably jesus or jehova. We hold official, state memorial services for the dead in christian places of worship, last week in fact for the airline crash, and we got one of every priest that we could find. We use taxpayers funds to send chaplains into schools and into the military to preach their faith through the public purse. On the 25th of april we commemorate an historic event by praying, singing hymns and listening to priests. And our head of state is the head of the church. In fact, they are prohibited to be of other religions or even marry them.

What was your point about secular countries again?The strong do what they can, the weak suffer what they must. You are right, Zing. And when the west is no longer able to do as they please, someone else will do as they please. I'd just wary to ascribe a morality to powerJN, hiding something is not the same thing as privacy. I'm not hiding anything in the toilet but I shut the door for privacy. Just because you don't want someone looking doesn't mean there's a plot afoot. I have nothing to hide from the government and I'm also hiding nothing. The two aren't exclusiveJN, perhaps my answer is too!But bombs were actually going off in the UK then. People were actually be killed. This is just a PR campaign so we'll not march in the streets to oppose our latest foray into Iraq. There is no threat. Calm yourselfTwelve plots my foot. The best anyone in asio or the afp has ever been able to muster are whisperings, conspiracies and a some entrapped talk. No-one has ever had a plan, materials, means or anything remotely constituting a scheme. These have more in common with medieval treason plots. I am unimpressedThe DFAT web page says Australia is imposing sanctions on Russia because of it's "threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity" of another country. Good thing we don't do thatI appreciate your stance and it shouldn't be mocked. I should, however, be questioned. Is your favour of chaplains because they too are christians? What if they were secular social workers? Or shi'ite clerics? What if the message of particular chaplains ran contrary to your brand of christianity or taught your beliefs were heretical?They might do good work, the issue is whether or not it should be compulsoryOther than art, music, architecture, social behaviour, literature and the moral, cultural and in some cases economic development of civilisation in it's entirety, I'd agree that yeah, religious education is only of minor cultural assistanceThat would depend on taste but the point I make is simply that you can't teach one without the other. Learning about the ancient greeks without their gods or the crusades without christianity robs it of context. The pyramids, stone henge, sistine chapel can only be grasped if you understand the religious context. Nothing to do with belief. Religion has played such a central role in humanity that any retrospective that ignores it will get a lesser pictureI'm notIt's almost impossible to study the history of anything without understanding the history of religion and as such is an integral part of every curriculum. But that's different to the peddling of a set of beliefs that by definition seek to exclude others and unlike other subjects, fails to predict a thing. Other than predicting bad human behaviour. Any spiritual and scientific claims of religion must remain in the home and out of the private purseChildren are incapable of making informed choices. Ever heard of santa claus?There's a fair bit of evidence for baby jesus. Not so much for the virginity of the mother or the angels, I grant youTurn it up. Protestant nations shot, stabbed and colonised whole continents. Ask the indigenous peoples of north america and australia, the non-whites in south africa or plantation slaves in the usa just how compassionate they were.It's inappropriate language for a senator, Alfie, not argument, and she'll have the electorate to answer to. If they agree with us, she'll be out of a job. I didn't see anything offensive in her remarks, but I haven't read the full transcript...it got tedious, to be frank. Which bits have got your gander up?Thanks for your thoughts. "Winkgate" was just a load of media hype. I thought Abbott was just letting the host know that he was ok to take the call. And just like this load of media hype, the electorate will be the judge. I'm uncertain as what your point actually is or who it's aimed atThis wasn't written by an ABC reporterWell put, Corsair, but I don't believe we have a mechanism for sacking people for this kind of thing mid-term. We can all brush aside her inexperience, high spirits, low guard and general stupidity for even having that interview...but we are all not senators. I'd ship her off somewhere to wherever we shipped off all those other no-goods that have fouled that chamber from Coulston to Harradine to SlipperaGuy knows this subject. Malcolm Gladwell even wrote a book on it called "Blink", a gee-whix airport paperback, but plenty of cited studies demonstrating just that, with examples from NASA, the military, agriculture and the arts. He called the phenomena 'thin slicing'And you just won gold!Maybe it's not enough? Maybe we should send 2,000? 

I have no idea how selection works, but given the vast majority don't even make the finals, why don't we just send the ones with a chance? At the Olympics, both summer and winter, we have people in just about every event and they haven't got a hope or they come last. Why did we even bother? I suppose if they did some choock raffles and baked lamingtons to fund it I wouldn't mind"Panem et circenses"- give the masses bread/dole and entertainment/circuses and they'll be happy (and leave the ruling elite alone)Which is not surprising given all the european sportsAustralia wins more medals than africa because of the european bias to the choice of sports- get it?People who watch sport can pay for it. User pays, like they do for F1, The World Cup, AFL and Basketball. And if you don't watch it, it's free. The competitors in Glasgow are not amateurs. They have no other jobs, their source of income is us and if they win and gain some kind of fame they won't be asked to pay HECS back from their years at the AIS.

If there is a benefit to the country for giving them money I'd like to see it, but I feel it might be as elusive as doing the cost-benefit analysis on paying for Oprah or Tiger to come out here.I don't agree. Abbott has seized on this opportunity to try to establish some statesmanlike qualities for himself, just like any other PM would do and I think he's stuck a pretty good pose.On the contrary. Now is the time to get thoroughly hysterical and forget all of those facts. Instead of simply getting the air traffic control details we're going through this drawn out pantomime of the crash site and adding innuendo to slur. Some may even be true, but they don't tell us what happened. Am I the only one who remembers 2001 when Ukraine accidentally shot down a Russian airliner? Israel hasn't forgotten and has a memorial to their nationals that were on board.Holding arms manufacturers accountable for the crimes committed with their weapons? Novel idea. The USA, Russia, China, Britain, France, Germany and many more would have a lot to answer for.There were two or three last week. You can check the archivesEven those struggling under a dictatorship tend to resent a foreign invasion and any Iraqi government for the time being will be seen as a stooge of those invaders.Zing, quick note. You don't need to call them "Islamic" militants. We're talking about Iraq here. They're unlikely to be Anglicans. "Militants", "rebels", "terrorists", "insurgents", "what-you-will" will do just fine. Most are fighting for power, political gain, hegemony, control and domination, so even "Islamist" is a bit wide of the mark. Obviously there are too many motivated by some version of their own religion, so I'm not sure what you'd like to call them. "Extremists"? "Fanatics"?Religions don't invade- political entities invade. Your lack of any historical framework and ignorance of the middle east, the arabs and islam is staggering. Even wikipedia would helpI guess the people on Easter Island had these exact conversations tooIndeed, dubious. They're not citizens, not even residents. Given that the oath offered up doesn't specify any laws of succession, we should just bit the bullet and have your own Queen. Someone from Masterchef, perhaps. The role has no real role, so let's get a local real nobody. I've long been a advocate for the benefits of hereditary positions, and given the stability, tradition and good government that we've inherited from the crown, things could only be better if our PMs, Ministers, Governors, Police Chiefs and possibly School Head Masters be passed on to their eldest sons and kept in their family in perpetuity. We would simply be extending and deepening all of those good benefits that we gain from a hereditary monarch. Either that or it's the daftest way to run your affairs, I'm not so certain.That was Louis IX, "I am the state"Zing, "The sovereign is the Crown. The Crown is the Government. The Government is the State" is a terrific slogan! You have a gift. 

I suppose where we must part is that I have a soft spot for democracy. I kinda like having a say, however small, in who holds the positions of authority. I like to help choose them myself, or at worst, have my representatives choose them. Having officials who hold their positions by birth is anathema to to those values. 

For what it's worth my slogan (and it will never be as snappy as yours) would include something radical, like the world "people". But you are welcome to your love of hereditary figures.....although it does seem strange given that it's not even you that gets to hold them? Or are you really a peer?Private commercial interests are the national interest and it is negotiated when Prime Ministers sip bubbly from a millionaires yacht or when they kowtow their way to a NYC mansion to be anointed by a billionaire- or to their resort on the Barrier Reef. It is fine tuned when Premiers meet in private with casino owners and next day pass laws on poker machines. It is made public when ex-politicians become  non-executive board members for the companies that they helped enrich. 

You had me at "hello". The only difference I see between political parties is that one feels the (historical) need to court the working vote, and then has to perform gymnastics and contortions to try and keep their vote and please their paymasters. The other just pleases their paymasters. I wish I knew the answer.Anyone with the conceit, vanity and ego to even suggest that....deserves my vote!Indeed, JN, however if left to one's darkest imagination I'm sure even more offensive words could be plastered on the side of a commercial vehicle. Is there a limit? At what point are turnips and grandmothers considered off limits but sluts are ok? We shouldn't ban these things, but I trust that this kind of exposure will put the requisite commercial pressure on the company to change their tack. Mind you, if you discussed this at a boardroom meeting, what would your colleagues have to say? Indeed, if a junior presented you with this idea, how would have you responded? It says a lot about the culture of an organisation that this was deemed appropriate for public display.Agreed, with the caveat that there are English words that, by law, they can't put on the sides of their vehicles. Paddock words, as we used to say back on the farm.  I doubt the CEO of said firm would like anyone to stand outside his daughter's school and call her the names on his vans. It's a shame that in this age people think that the use of offensive words is a good way to enrich themselves. Clearly they never had a wholesome rural upbringing ;)Lampooning the more powerful, the more influential, the more dominant lacks the impact of doing the same to the less powerful, influential or dominant. This is why white people calling minorities bad names has a far greater effect than white people being called "skips" (or worse). 

In case you've missed it, our country, culture, society and species is run by men. For a group that has only about 50% (or less) of the heads, men are pretty much in charge of everything. Calling men dumb in your citations is harmless. Calling women dumb is not, because of the power imbalance. A child yelling that their parents that they are stupid carries less weight than a parent yelling at their child that they are stupid. Surely this is self evident?Hardly. Not all actions are equal, as my examples clearly demonstrate. And that itself is the point which, in the notable absence of any contrary position, stands. If you haven't figured out who the powerful are in our society then it's obviously not you.Of course you're right, whogoesthere, and most indigenous Australians are no longer the vulnerable and the powerless and they can shrug off some silly, stupid, racist jokes. Perhaps Wicked could expand their repertoire and include some on the vehicles in the top end? I'm not suggesting that women are all Olive Oil nor am I saying that these vans are a version of Smell the Glove, but I am saying that calling people sluts on your advertising platform is unacceptable and I am astonished that this needs explaining. PS That's hardly being the fun police and I don't even come from South Australia!@JN- Gee, you can't even sneak in a bit of rhetoric in now days! I guess I was using to explain the concept of power imbalance as opposed to using it as an equal example.Apex fallacy? Try your own average fallacy. Men are more powerful, on average. Clearly those begging for spare change at circular quay are doing it tougher than gail kelly, but you're trying to subtly substitute the average for a very particular and self selected group in order to try and make a point. Phooey!I'm surprised that anything I say can elicit a "wow", but thanks. Try this line of reasoning: line up the most powerful people in Australia- heck, the world if you like. What strikes the observer is the disproportionate number of men. White men. White English speaking, middle aged men. But just because all dogs have four legs doesn't mean that everything with four legs is a dog. The powerful are men, but not all men are powerful. Still with me? Good, because this one is simple too. Ridicule of the powerful by the powerless, if even noticed, will have a very small impact. Ridicule of the powerless by the powerful can have a massive impact. They still teach this in schools, right?frog- Why do I treat men as one homogenous clump when discussing gender? Gee, I wonder. Would it be because they are men? As you can't grasp such simple concepts I'll away with youGoodness me, not another one. Adman, the only boots being stuck into suicide victims are the boots in your mind. And calling women sluts won't bring any of them back.Really. You're getting yourself wound up over claims, statements, positions, articulations, utterances, comments, opinions and comments that have not been made. Have a cuppa and re-read the whole thread. I said the powerful impact greater on the weak than the weak on the powerful, in gender, age, wealth, position, race, ethnicity, language or anything else. I suspect that we hold much common ground.Standards would prevent that being on a billboard, radio ad, tv ad or magazine ad (with the exception of Swank, Ribald, Bawdy or whatever lads mags there our now days). The side of a van is clearly an advertisment. Thankfully, they will all be gone by the weekend. I'll take odds.Australia has progressed in bounds over the last generation. It is now unacceptable to make racist, homophobic or sexist slurs, even in jest (how is it funny anyway?). Our country is vastly more open, tolerant, inclusive and fair. We're hardly there yet, but if you look back to the culture of, say, the 70s, or later, it's a different country. The true robustness of the Australian character is a fair go, standing up for one another and championing the underdog. All of which are incompatible with these tawdry van scribblings.Ah, but you see had the company in question chosen to say naughty girls rather than slut, we wouldn't be having this discussion. The issue is not the concept but the language. If you are unsure of words that one shouldn't use in public I'll email a list and you can shout them out into a kindergarten or police station and exercise your freedom of speech until the cows come home. Or until the divvy van door shuts behind you. I'll help you post bail. Promise.Your welcome. Being merely "risque" I didn't know if your vocabulary was downright filthy or not. I too have enjoyed sporting fixtures where everyone gives sexual advice to the players and umpires, but those words weren't blazoned across the stadium or used at quarter time to flog a product. And whilst we pay handsomely to be on the roads, it's not quite the ticketed event that a football match is (naturally I understand that only AFL fans are capable of such behaviour). Yes, the slut walk uses the same word but think about the meaning that is being applied. They are defying the label, in the way a gangster rapper might uses words to describe black american that only an afl fan would dare to use.Forty years of systematic indoctrination of the youth and there is not one scrap of evidence to show for it. The country hasn't put a boomerang and sickle on the flag, people keep voting the Liberals into power and we deregulate, float, privatise and sell off like never before. I'd ask how you've managed to figure all of this out on your own, but I'm not sure I really want to know. Does it involve foil hats?Entertain me: how do you explain it when people vote labor in? A lapse in contrariness?GraemeF you are right again. The not-so-funny part is watching all of the involved politicians end up as directors on the boards of the companies involved&gt; Even they're not so stupid as to take cashThere's a section toward the end of every single news broadcast on every single channel called something like 'the markets' where they tell people who already know what the price of west texas crude is. I have never in my life seen a  regular section on social issues or organised labour. From the news I know the names of a few celebrity ceo's, but not one union official (other than all those in and out of courts). That's not a bad indication of the political leaning of the mainstream media. Even that whipping boy of the right, the abc, coughs up regular shows on capital. Is his name kohler? Just never on labour. Given that very few of us have any interest in the strength of the dow or the yen but a great deal of us are paye types, this is the very definition of bias. And it aint left wing bias.Not one single sitting senator of any other party picked up on this procedural point either. Settle yourself. A politician spat their dummy. Nothing new to see hearMost of our politicians run the country for the benefit of the rich and powerful. Public opinion always comes a poor second, and you too could rattle off a long list of examples for both. Ministers luncheon with magnates and we call it good government. They legislate and then become board members once they leave politics. Palmer is simply a rich and powerful person doing it all himself. The major parties despise him only because he is cutting them out of the action. Their role as middle men has been sidelined. One billionaire messing up the gravy train for the employees of other billionaires? I'm not too fussed. This is how our system works. It's simply now open for all to see. And aint it ugly? The rest is just the pantomime of an antiquated westminister system of men in breeches and maces and arcane rituals that you need to lawyer to understand. It makes zippy headlines but it's not even remotely important.On the face of it, that's a pretty slick point. Bravo! 

For mine, the whole debate seems to boil down to an individual's view on the nature of the state. Whom does a government represent, where do they derive their authority, what is the nature and extent of that authority and how is that challenged? There are some that view the state as an entity unto itself, which, upon inception, is bestowed with powers proscribed within some set of rules. It doesn't really matter whether your version of the state has hereditary elements, religious appointees, democratic elections or military positions. The state rules the people. 

For others, the state is an extension of the population and exists only to serve, service or execute the will of some population. The state is subordinate to its citizens. Neither view is entirely accurate or realistic and most contain a blend or synthesis of both perspectives.

Snowden either stole, betrayed the state and committed treachery, or he blew the whistle in the excesses of government secrecy. You don't have to be left wing or right wing, or pro war or anti war, you don't have to wear a suite or wear dreads. It's a matter of how people view their own government. And that viewpoint predicts people's opinion on this issue to very high degree of accuracy.Hiya, Joe. But agree so often, even when disagreeing. Most people, whilst seeing a parliament or president or court of law as an extension of the people struggle when the agencies of government get second hand, beyond the immediate sense of mandate. Much less third or fourth hand. People might see the military, as one example, of executing the will of the citizenry yet baulk when they discover the techniques of the intelligence types. Maybe they just don't want to know, maybe they are naive, or maybe they feel that their mandate only goes so far. IMHO, the current crop of high profile whistle blowers exemplifies this concept of limited mandate. People might see the necessity of MI6 but not MI5. They might see the necessity of lethal force but not only quibble on it's nature but also it's secrecy. Many people consider the breach of perceived mandate to be greater than any damage caused by the leaks. They would see that the secrecy represents the greater threat.Snowden's main effect was to embarrass western governments and that will not be tolerated. He will be pursued until he is caught, or dead, or both. He has been and will continue to be likened to an enemy agent who snuck out across the wire and gave the secret plans to the enemy. 

Those that prefer to blithely place their continuing trust and unerring loyalty in the bosom of their government will continue to besmear anyone who dares try to pull back the curtain. For them, it is better that no-one knows what's there. Unfortunately, they will receive no reward other than their own personal swell of pride.That's your definition of a "super jihadi"? The bloke's never had dirt under his fingernails. You'll have to do better than thatThe only things that the LNP and ALP can ever agree on are parliamentary pay rises and the exclusion of minor parties and independents. Both sides stand shoulder to shoulder when it comes to muscling new players out of the political game. Now, as well as the normal situation of having MPs doing the bidding of their plutocratic masters, we have a plutocratic MP! Cut out the middle man.I find it difficult to imagine Shorten being a PM. He may not even survive the next electoral loss. But that's sometimes the job of an opposition leader, to absorb the blows until a new leader comes along. Sneddon, Hayden, Peacock, Downer, Hewson, Beazley, Latham, Nelson all did yeoman service to their party, held the fort and then had to make way for someone with greater electoral pulling power. Shorten will be added to that list. 

My prediction is that the next ALP prime minister has never been on the front bench. Hell, they may not even be in parliament yet! But the ALP will need to restrain their historical urge of parachuting a celebrity into their (shadow) cabinet only to see them flounder in the house. 

It's still a game for the LNP to lose but they've yet to really do anything worth changing your vote over.In fairness, Patrick, I don't think that people, in general, change their voting behaviour because of broken promises either. Someone wiser than me wrote here today that you don't vote an opposition in, you vote a government out. For the ALP to be swearing anyone in anytime soon, a lot of people in a lot of seats who voted for the LNP are going to have to change their minds and vote ALP. And I don't believe that there are enough reasons for that. Yet. 

Thinking Abbott is an oath breaking rotter is all well and good if one already leans to the left but it won't change the government. Only swinger can do that.Indeed. A weak party will often use a strong senator to shoulder their work. Senators can be less 'touchable'. It's hardly new, but this time round is a great example.That would hardly discount him from being a role model, in fact the common experience of feeling the need to conceal one's sexuality would resonateYou'd have to ask Thorpe about what his message is, but if the implication is that there are still stigmas associated with coming out,  then staying in the closet is a message that would be very well understood by many people for many reasons. Personally I think he, like other sports people, are role models only to the kiddies aspiring to that particular sport. No-one else is really bothered. Still, I've got five cents that says he'll lead 2015 Mardi Gras. Care for a piece of that action?That's the difference between coming out and being caught out. George Michael must rue the day that he chose not to have that press conference. 

If Thorpe feels the personal need to disclose his most private preferences, then good for him. I can only assume that making the announcement in the most public way imaginable is cathartic. I can only assume that he lied to the pubic previously in order to keep his sponsorships and endorsements. I probably would. I suppose he also made money off this interview.

Other that I am surprised as to the level of interest in someone else's sexuality. The media feeds off this kind of display and it would seem the pubic does too.Thorpe is a private citizen engaged in his own employment, he's not an elected public official. He is at liberty to disclose, reveal or do other wise with any aspect of his personal life.Sage like counsel as always, OUB. However, if he lied then he only lied about himself and was done without damage to anyone. Also, if he lied, might he not have fibbed in order to maintain his plump endorsements? And after all, isn't lying for money the noblest act a sports celebrity, or indeed any of us, can aspire to?It's hardly immoral. We all lie, about our waistlines, our grey hair, our salary, income, personal relationships, job description, cold sores or menopause. If telling the truth about such personal issues had the potential to impact on our income, then I doubt you'd be calling anyone immoral. Sexuality is our own business and neither truths nor lies affect anyone else.That just justifies the need for more researchThen don't pay any attention to the "alarmists". The scientific community barely does. You only hear about them because the media needs something sensational to sell advertising space with. Have a look at a more consensus view, the middle ground of climate scientists, working independently from each other, with no commercial relationship to one another in different parts of the world. Look at the commonalities and similarities with their research. Not Prof. Mc Mad and his oven-bake theory.Terrific post! I have noticed that motorcycle fuel economy has not really changed over the last forty years, for what that's worthWell put, and correct, Grumpy. In order to justify the accelerating destruction of our habitat for financial gain people have become fixated on arguing whether the temperature has changed and if so, by what agency. That can be argued until the cows come home, distracting everyone from the other issues.If you say that humans didn't evolve, with a due sense of caution and dread, can I ask what your theory is? And would your theory be based on more, or less evidence than evolution?The current supply of the current forms of energy make the people that count untold billions

The people that count are able, through their untold billions, to influence their governments through transparent and legal means

The people that count are in no way interested in decreasing their wealth, so no real efforts will ever be made into developing alternative forms of energy

Everything else is is just hot air to placate the voters (who are certainly not the people that count) and to try to look good for the next election, after which, nothing will change

All of the main political parties are the same, and those that aren't, will be

Think Easter Island
Agreed. I also agree that you've just described pretty much every politician of every stripeIf you rewind the tape you'll remember Howard and Peacock fighting each other for the crown tooth and nail. In fact he had so many tries someone nicknamed him Lazarus.Clearly the Japanese exhibited some sadistic cruelty that one associates with the dark ages. No doubt the Japanese also exhibited bravery and pluck from time to time. Abbott's was an insensitive blunder but not one to get your you-know-whats in a knot. 

War by definition is a barbarous, criminal, degrading act of bestial cruelty. We only quibble by degree (chopping the head of POWs being lesser than or greater than carpet bombing civilians) and we quibble over perspective, in that only our diggers performed heroic acts of gallantry.There was an article right here on The Drum just a few days ago around indigenous massacres in Australia. The overwhelming tenor of the posts was that it was a long time ago and that they should just get over it. 

There a regular articles on China, to which the majority of blogs say that they are basically an expansionist, warmongering, aggressive, cruel nation of war criminals. 

Victim and villain, it would seem, are rubbery and interchangeable concepts. Just no-one mention our unprovoked invasions otherwise I won't know what to think.That's not really an argument. It's a piece of time bound rhetoric, valid only until the next tragedy, which is inevitable, regardless of who's making policy.Let me repeat myself. I might have been too complex. Saying there has been no deaths at seas since a certain point in time is only a valid point up until the next death. The claim that this length is good is totally depended upon time. It's not unlike factory signs telling you how many days since the last accident. The number is great, but gets reset when the next one occurs. That shouldn't be to hard for you.

To your bizarre questions: no, no, no and I don't what you mean by asking me "Really??". Thanks for the thumb up on my honesty though, but my post wasn't related. Are you ok?You try to make the case below that refugees don't want to work and that they are a drain on welfare. Well, these ones do want to work. Aren't they exactly the sort that you should be encouraging?HRH Frank, disagreeing with you isn't a crime...except within your imperial realm, where it obviously is. Down here on boring old earth, arguing a position different to you is neither treason, treachery, aiding nor abetting. If you think otherwise, you're free to dob.The facilities used to be dreadful in B&amp;G...no-one would mind. How about Toad?I don't know about 40 years ago....20 perhaps, but I take your point. I imagine that there's plenty of room in the arts faculty too, and growing! The reality is that Australia has no shortage of capacity to house, feed and clothe extra people. It's a big place and we're rich. The issue seems to be whether we want to, or closer to the mark, whether or we think particular people are deserving. What's the post grad house on the corner of Barry Dr and Northbourne.....or has that gone the way of the thunder lizards too?There are a number of rational, sober ways that you could argue in favour the current policy. Just for a change it might be interesting to see one on The Drum?To keep heaping on the irony, the current situation is a money spinner too. There are huge sums of taxpayers money dolled out to private industry in the form of the contracts to manage, administer and support asylum seekers, plus the military budget, plus the court overheads, plus the media. The status quo is worth billions too, just to different people.Wouldn't throwing the people in gaol cost even more money?A clean-skin has it's advantages but the primaries are a long way off. This is all very much conjecture.There's more certainty and sense in trying to pick the Melbourne Cup winner for 2016 as presidential candidate. 

Pretending either could put Canada on a map is a joke. Just because you are a secretary or a minister doesn't mean you know the subject manner. She has been the mouthpiece of the administration. No more.Hasn't every President bombed someone or waged war on someone? Democratic, Republican, it doesn't matter. Kennedy escalated the cold war but only Nixon could go to China (old Vulcan saying)A US President a mere puppet to the military, you say? They're all the same, I say.Millions of dollars from $2 shops? That's a hell of a lot of santa hats!@Artful Dodger. Let it go. You know that this site is full of people who rejoice in writing the most provocative things that they dare and if you read their posts carefully, their position chop and change on order to get the reactions they crave. I reckon you even know who they are.Given Australia is going to be sticking with it's policy for the foreseeable future, I'd have thought the best course of action would be to provide all medial assistance for these people in our care and then process any claims they may have as per normal. I don't understand the Mrs Lovejoy impersonations from one corner or the Ming impersonations from the other.The single biggest threat to the sovereignty of Australia is the presence of foreign military bases on our soil. They not only declare our future judgements regardless of the situation but they make us a garrison. Operation Sovereign Borders is barking up the wrong tree.Or we could take it the extreme and let maritime arrivals be our selection criteria. If you are wealthy enough, brave enough and persistent enough to get to Ashmore Reef on a rusty tub, then you're in. You've shown the kind of entrepreneurial spirit that we need and adventurous pluck of our forebears. Why should we we waste our resources on a bunch of no hopers sitting on their bums in camps? We want to the well heeled types who will start up their own businesses when they get here. No those lazy folk with a handout mentality and a sense of entitlement. Why hadn't someone thought of this before?I'd have thought that the AFL wants more people in the stands but needs more people on their sofas. Advertising revenues dwarf ticket sales and you can fit more people on sofas than in docklands. I agree that buggering about with schedule, pricing and the on-field move from entertainment as a by-product of a game to entertainment as the product has damaged their brand. I'm not a fan myself but it's a common theme across professional sports.The warning sign was when all codes stopped referring to teams by their names and instead began using their mascots. Gone are Footscray, North Melbourne, Canterbury-Bankstown and Eastern Suburbs. After all, an animal is easier to relocate than a suburb.Shows you how closely I follow it! But thanks.Likewise"Helping" people die, assisting their suicide, killing them, call it what you will. For those in favour it's a no brainer. I'll leave the religous counter arguments for someone else, but there is a secular, humanistic counter argument. That is that giving someone's death door a nudge shut opens up a legitimate slippery slope. It can be seen as a threshold moment from where we allow some people to kill some others. Sure there are safeguards but the precedent will be set. The same argument is used against the death penalty. 

We acknowledge that the state holds the monopoly over death. Once we allow citizens to exercise it, this can then be extended in the future. Euthanasia has been applied in other places in this very manner. We all want to hold the right to die but to whom and under what circumstances do we give the right to kill? The argument here is that it is safer if the answer is no-one.

Given that I personally actually agree with the idea I think that this one will stay in that nether land of 'not enforced' until such time as our ethical framework can cope with it.graazt, thank you. For the record I am a long time supporter of voluntary euthanasia so perhaps I wrote it for my own benefit. I just wanted to articulate the opposite point of view, for if we can't grasp the other side, we don't understand out own.It has always been in the interests of the major political parties and their dependent journalists to portray minor parties and independents are a joke. If you make a living pretending to be the mainstream establishment then everyone else, by definition, must be portrayed as fringe.That's not quite true, Zing, and I've spoken publically on the criminality and human rights violations of palestinian rockets into israel on a number of occasions over the last six/seven years, particularly but not exclusively on gaza. Transcripts are even available on the web. And I can tell you for a fact that Israel has broken ceasefires with pretty much the same frequency as palestinians and mostly for parallel domestic reasons. Sticking your fingers in your ears works fine at one level of debate but just undermines so much of ones argument at another.Terry, has it never occurred to you that the Palestinian civilians are as much a victim of the Palestinian militants as anyone else? I have no idea why you or anyone else would want to label the very victims of violence as the instigators. People lament how out of touch and unrepresentative our government is: do you think the Palestinian Authority would be more representative or less? In your eagerness to defend what you see is a just cause you seem to only recognise one category of victim.DaveM, you raise a number of points but don't connect or develop them. My post states that the majority of Palestinians don't want to be blown up, by either side. Your first paragraph in no way addresses civilian issues other than to suggest that there are no civilians there and that everyone is a militant. Is this your position?

The rest of your points might be better used on threads where they are relevant.Given your hatred of people different to yourself has now devolved into claiming that civilians on the "other" side to you actually want to be blown up, you posts are no longer of interest.All three have a claim because all three are branches of the same religionThe west has a military presence in most countries of the middle east and has started most of the recent wars there. The biggest arms deals in history of from the west into the middle east. So much for having nothing to do with the situation.

For a culture that rejects modernity they do a good line in airlines, computers, satellites, smart phones and cars. You have been there, right?

Palestinians is not a person. It does not have one will, one mind, one motivation and one objective. It is "governed" by people even less representative than our own. Israel can't stop deranged settlers from going a shooting spree anymore than Palestine can stop every thug from firing rockets over their fences. I can't fathom such forceful defence of civilians literally one one side of a road whilst showing contempt for those on the other.Once again, Terry, your legitimate criticisms lie squarely at the feet of the so-called Palestinian authorities and not the civilians themselves. Do you blame Syrian civilians for what Assad has done, or Iraqi civilians for Saddam? I have read any post of yours that indicates that you are willing or able to differentiate between the two.I'd have thought there might be some "pull" factors due to the state of israel. The jewish population of europe has experienced similar declines. I wouldn't read anything sinister into it. 

BTW, the centre for sephardic studies puts the jewish population in iran at 35,000, the christian science monitor at 40,000 and the tehran jewish committee claims a congregation of 25-35,000 with 100 synagogues. Where are you figures from? Census figures will be skewed when people practice a faith but do not record it on the form.Didn't that just happen to an arab boy this week? Like, seriously, exactly that?Other than to grab a cheap headline there's excuse of putting the state of israel and nazis in the same sentence. Middle eastern jews in situ and the europeans that took over have a built a remarkable nation, made sometimes for remarkable by comparing them to their neighbours. 

I do take your point that if they are not careful then this will poison them. A militarised society built on warfare and expansion has already cast a long shadow over what it means to be israeli and polarised in the minds of many what it means to be jewish. If they don't figure out when to stop the whole experiment may well define their self identity, and not in good way.

As an example of that, look no further than (much of) the arab lands where a resentment and hatred has become a creed and where a political and military difference has become religious. This bitterness is in danger of poisoning what it means to be an arab and has even spilled over into what it means to be a muslim.

The military hardware, the deathtoll and the battle is asymmetrical. The hatred isn't. The only consolation is that both populations are ill represented and ill served by their political classes, as are we.As late as the 1990s a proposed Japanese Peace Park in Canberra was scotched because of opposition by the RSL. There's plenty of SE Asian countries with an even nastier taste in their mouths.Mike (the other one), "The blade itself incites to violence". Homer. No. The other one.All religions are based on made up stories. Otherwise it'd be called history. The sword of which you speak symbolises the house of saud and is nothing to with islam. It is a temporal not religious motif. Other countries have spears, shields, castles and coats of arms. Weaponry would seem to be common enough on flags.The ALP would have done and will do exactly what the LNP are doing with asylum seekers, possibly with a nicer face and more family-friendly spin. Abbott bashing, whilst fun and possibly even politically advantageous doesn't detract from the reality than in 3-6 years, it will be business-as-usual on the high seas.Allow me to respond. Current asylum seeker is an extension of ALP policy. In fact, during Rudd's Napoleonic comeback he announced much of the framework that we see now.

The reality is that whether you like it or not (and I know you don't because I don't either), the current policy might not be a vote winner but it's a vote retainer. The LNP needed wedge points that they could use to win the votes to get into power. We know the slogans, we know the short list and we know the outcome. Fact is that many Labor voters thought and still believe that there were too many people coming to Australia. 

The current ALP leadership can't and won't go to the polls on a platform of reversing the current policy. Sure they'll offer some visible and minor exceptions, but the structure will be the same. This is now a bipartisan issue. It doesn't matter whether the whole issue has been blown out of proportion for political gain and it certainly doesn't matter what means are used. This is a country happy with supporting our troops- they don't give a hoot for asylum seekers in boats. In fact, I rather think some hate them. 

So I stand by my comment that Labor would have done the same and stand by my prediction that Labor will do the same.Media, I say to you yes, yes, yes, and no.

With a little bit of help from ones media friends one can create a bugbear from almost anything. Popular hysterias are common enough with fads, trends and fashions being created in marketing agencies every single week. People want to speak like, dress like and act like the people they see in the tellie-box. Tell them that they're being invaded, tell them that lots of them are in burkhas and show them d-day armada style pictures (file footage) of the very boats and it's not difficult to shape public opinion. 

People are less likely to change their vote for a possible future good than they are for a present fear. Stopping boats doesn't win many votes but not stopping them will lose votes. This is what started the race to the bottom with both sides trying to out tough each other on asylum seekers who had by now been painted as a human avalanche of well heeled, undeserving, queue jumping, aliens. And how easy has it been to conjure up a string of half argument against them? 

Labor will be thrashed is they go to an election proposing a change in policy. The meme is firmly implanted in the public mind. Facts and stats don't matter. Emotion matters. This is why they are silent on the issue, why they have no policy on the issue and why they are happy for this parliament to last as long as possible, on the off chance that something land in their lap.

Come next election, they will be too scared of losing votes and so to win back their own socially conservative base they will keep the current policies although they will try to make it look fluffy and pink. I'll take odds on it.Are you suggesting Australia ally itself to China?Like capitalism, democracy and vanilla, communism comes is a number of flavours. When we're in a mud flinging mood, China is on one end of that palate. When we want their money, they're at the other end. It's sensible to acknowledge the shades of grey.Even as an attempt at a provocative polemic this falls far short of your usual standard. Enemies and/or traitors indeed! May you find what you're trolling for.They looked at the death tolls at Kapyong and Long Tan and said that they weren't real wars either! I'm sure they'd be all too happy to hear you regurgitate it down at your local RSL!So to get the label "war" from you someone needs to have princesses? That is gold. Or do you mean they need princesses AND slaves?Allow me to outrage you further. Most Australian wars were indeed optional, not always for the participants but almost always for the government. And I'm not concerned over who you dream that might take offence. 

Saying the that what occurred on the settlement frontier in Australia was't a "real" war is like trying to tell us that Korea wasn't a "real" war either. Legal definitions aren't important. People took other people's land by deadly force and they were resisted. This took place of a long period of time and in different locations. It's all been on the historical record for some time but given you like your wars with pith helmets and scarlet jackets on both sides, you will be disappointed. 

Recognition is hardly divisive. It acknowledges that an armed struggle was required to build Australia, as opposed by one given over by the tooth fairy.Proposing an acknowledgement in the AWM, the holy of holies, in 2014, is indeed controversial, and probably deliberately provocative. Activists do that in order to try and claim some middle ground in the same way that writers here like to exaggerate in order to achieve the same end. 

But let's forget the location for a moment. Modern Australia has all but erased indigenous memory from the mainstream culture. There are place names and the odd artists, but I personally struggle to name one dish, dance, garment, piece of folklore, tradition or belief. 

I can rattle off the souix,apache, navaho, iriqoix, mohawk, cherokee and a dozen other north american tribes, perhaps helped by the fact that so many have become associated with military hardware and cars. Just don't ask me to name indigenous tribes here.

Likewise i know Stitting Bull, Red Cloud, Pontiak, Geronimo and Crazy Horse (he has a stature!) ....just don't ask me to name anyone here other than Benelong. 

Australians have recognised or incorporated nine tenth of nought of indigenous culture. There has been a conscious effort not to. We might all be enlightened and liberal today, but those of us here that remember attitudes in the 60s, 70s and 80s will know what I'm on about. 

So, IMHO, if they erect a 60' bronze to the indigenous resistance, nude, on a field of dead troppers Or and Azure A Seven-pointed Star Or, and for Supporters dexter a Kangaroo, sinister an Emu, both proper, I am ok with it.The US supreme court ruled that there is the possibility of dividing the union through' revolution or consent of the states'. Lincoln always styled the confederates as being in open rebellion and never recognised a secession. Other than the predictable (and unsuccessful) "hang jeff davis" campaign, for all the so-called traitors, very few were taken to task, other than some of the more notorious cavalry rough-riders and famously the CO of andersonville. 

For an excellent record of all the so-called traitors, do visit the south. The place of full of statues dedicated to them. Even jeff davis!I can't agree with you Kevin52. You might recall how we didn't recognise Korea or Vietnam as "wars". They didn't fit the strict legal definition of the time, even though every Australian could see plainly that they were and that their veterans should be according the same respect. What do you call them now?

There are over 100 indigenous languages in Australia, two dozen in usage. There were four-eight times that many prior to colonisaiton. Each and every one of them describes that takeover in terms that translate to "war". IMHO you're judging this from the wrong perspective. It doesn't matter whether what happened meets a Battle of Waterloo definition of military engagements looking out from colonial settlement, whether the war act covers this or if it's in the AWM remit or not. From the 400-800 other sides it was without a doubt, a war, where they mustered every available man to arm themselves to repel the invader. Let's raise our level definition.It was a war from the perspective of the communities that fought against invasion, and it's them that we're talking aboutI had thought that Aboriginal refers to a specific group, in this case, indigenous Australians, whilst aboriginal refers to initial inhabitants in general. But I'm frequently wrong.Your argument was used to deny many Australian veterans recognition. When you take out a formal recognition of war, our anzac parades start to look a hell of a lot thinner. Well done.If it was a debate over erecting a bronze to the colonial troopers killed on duty fighting the natives, you'd see the usual suspects dancing a very different tune on this one. Suddenly is would have been a great and might war!The germans didn't lose all claim to their land. They got to keep it. So did the japanese.30,000 people, over 150 years, across a continent? That's less than one a day. Sounds like a low ball figure to me but if you've got anything other than opinion I'm all ears.In the same way that black americans are responsible for slavery. Right.That the majority of deaths in the second world war were civilians doesn't mean that there were no battles. That most indigenous peoples succumbed to diseases doesn't mean there weren't wars.Activists often let their passion get in the way of tactics.

What they "should" be proposing is to erect a memorial to the soldiers, troopers and police that died whilst on duty during the settlement of Australia. Call it a war and you can make some campaign medals and have some great-great grandchildren cry on camera at its unveiling, perhaps an episode of "Who do you think you are?". Then you have your war, everyone accepts and supports it and the indigenous warriors get their recognition via the back door. I am saddened that my tongue in cheek cynicism might be close to the mark.This would have to be the low watermark of The Drum. An article is written on the shallowness, pettiness and inanity of partisan politics and it is instantly buried under an avalanche of shallow, petty partisan posts.There are people living in Australia from almost every country on earth. People have always gone "home" to kill others. Some of them we sanction and excuse, others we decide to be hysterical about.At least someone is getting something positive out of this.What on earth are on about? We are only responsible for our own country and can't dictate to others how they work. Do go to the most populous muslim country, with it's catholic and protestant churches standing along side buddhist temples and the all those mosques. Go into a shopping mall in December where most of the staff wear elf, reindeer and santa hats with christmas carols over the PA. You'll be able to catch up with friends because most people take tame off over christmas. In an Islamic country. People care free to engage in whatever cultural activity they desire. There'd be a word for that. Multiculturalism.What an insensitive thing to say about Israelis. They share more than enough of our culture and history to be able to integrate just fine into Australia. They're not perfect but you couldn't really call them THE most violent and oppressive in the world.Keith, there's always (some) wisdom in what you say and am an admirer of your stabilisation message. Do notice how many of the bloggers who argue against environmentalism in the name of profits also argue against migration for the environment!And the country shall be made in your image so as their very clothes do not offend your sight.I am agreeing with you. Someone must have opened one of the seven seals. Whilst I think abuse isn't exaggerated in it's breadth, I do think that the definitions by which it is judged is creeping. This is no defence of Harris and I shall burn my signed wobble board forthwith.It is a crippling illness and you do yourself credit by sharing it. I hope it helps overs. Thanks.Come on Zing. The author is writing an article for discussion, or dissection as we do here. I'm not making accusations when I say that if the article was a composite or even conjectured tale in order to illustrate a point, that would fine with me. They're not submitting a scholarly article for our peer review. Ease up.Thank you for sharing. It's brave and no doubts helps many.Of course lots of people falsely claim disability. Of course most are genuine. The secret is working out which is which without penalising those in need. 

Any debate will be lopsided whenever one side thinks everyone is cheating and the other side thinks no-one is. Given the absence of people arguing that no-one is cheating, that kind of narrows down where the bias is.And I felt so assured when John McCain was over in Syria recently, meeting with ISIL leaders and associated ratbags and other proxies.Young men need little encouragement, justification of 'brainwashing' to go war. It's rarely just one factor; patriotism, tribalism, religion, all my mates are doing it, it's better than doing nothing. Take out the almighty and the hereafter and the world will be no better.Russia and China would have killed the same number whether they were atheist, orthodox, buddhist or jedi. They were brutal dictatorships pursuing a very earthly agenda- something familiar the world over. 

I shouldn't worry about a clash of civilisations. Everyone has been wearing blue jeans, drinking coke and watching Rambo films for some time. The things that unite humanity are far greater than the things that divide us. Try to get out more.But stability is not "our" goalWe are all about the supply of resources and economic stability, via any form of government. It's usually those outside the fold that must suffer instability...until they see the light.Not quite. The evangelical and expansionist strains of Islam are all but dead and are gone except in the fantasies of some middle eastern terrorists. No school of sunni Islam interprets texts or preaches that message any more. And I've got a shiny penny that says no credible shia scholar does either. Now I'm not talking about the two-bit salvation evangelists or the fringe ratbags that our media loves to put on tv because they shock. I'm talking about the consensus of mainstream Islam: heads of universities, councils and interpreters of texts and Islamic scholars whose fatwah carry weight. 

If you think that the Islamic world is becoming less fragmented then I'll have what your''re having.Just what do you think is the constituency of Musa Cerantonio? Anyone with a beard and a kaftan can claim to be a sheik, mufti, preacher or cleric. You don't need any paperwork to back it up. The media rarely interviews anyone of importance in the Islamic community. They aren't shocking or controversial. Instead they give airtime to the most outrageous and provocative individuals, none of who speak for for too many people other than themselves and the nitwits who turn up their garage for ranting every Friday. All you need do nowdays is say something that might support an enemy of the alliance and you will have the 'links to AQ' label applied because it sounds dangerous and is totally untestable. You seem, like a good many others, seem to have mistaken arabs with the middle east and the middle east with Islam. 

Every domestic animal that gores little children is a dog, but not all dogs gore little children. You might want to think about your reasoning.Conduct participatory democracy and election via Facebook and Twitter on your phones. Discuss and engage in the issues (threads) of your choice, "Like" what you will.

Probably just get the same old same but with pictures of pollies holding up handwritten cardboard messages asking for 'likes'.The power of political parties is buttressed by the laziness of the populace. They do all the work so we don't have to. Even elected representatives reduce their effort when in a party. Someone else tells you what to do and how to do it. There's no crime in it. Maybe it's just human nature?The government will only call a DD if the polls and portents are favourable and they think they will gain advantage from it, or their backs are to the wall and they have no other option. Sweep the senate clean or pray to be saved by your numbers in the reps. The history of the move has no bearing on today any more than the last time someone won an away game on this ground has on this match.I've no idea what criteria you could use to differentiate the twoI have never heard of Scandinavian countries being known as feminine or Australia (and most of the rest of the world) known as masculine. Where's that from?Can't we start charging for our peace keeping?We could wait for the pull factors, or we could push them ourselves. Like a protection racket. Our senior alliance partner does a brisk trade in the area, maybe we can lean on a few coral atolls for some extra bucks?Were it not for the P&amp;L, that could describe nearly every large organisation on earthWhat's worse, the media  fawning over a cheap celebrity or the impunity with which sports behaves?That's a feeble argument. Dead people don't fix problems.The patient you described does not "have" to spend all of their money on cigarettes. Were they to spend "none"of their money on cigarettes their health and finances would improve greatly. As you say, if it was their decision to use tobacco it's their decision to stop.Try convincing big business of that! Much of our economy is geared around consumer spending and to that end our economy is most easily grown through the growth in the number of consumers. This goes some way in explaining why both the major parties have no intention in reducing migration.You're preaching to the converted, Kerry...but preach on!Agreed. I think somewhere, someone in the greens thought that they could make the transition from environmental lobby to a party of protest to genuine third player to the-sky's-the-limit! They might be on the mark broadening their agenda in terms of appealing to their base. After all, there is a correlation between environmentally driven voters and a certain degree of progressive socialism, but it has and will continue to conflate their core message and that, in my opinion, will prevent the expansion of their voter base. Have we seen their high water mark?The lawn would be an asset of it was appreciating in price.I'd have thought the idea was to make some forms of energy more expensive to reduce their use whilst encouraging the development of more sustainable forms. If you think it's a conspiracy to bring down capitalism you might be surprised to find out who's "in" on deal.Interesting point, OUB. Is there a counter case to be made that you can never build enough roads? That billions in road improvements will be negated by more cars? There must be a benefit in mass transit over mass traffic? Just wondering.Cheers. I've got the same transport as you, so at least we've declared our bias. My skepticism tells me that our short term political and economic systems will literally run themselves, and us, into the ground. No-one will ever make the big decisions. Best refer it to a committee.I've read that line from so many people pretending to be ex-Labor voters that it has no meaning anymoreIn all fairness, journalists don't really interview anyone on environmental issues. The greens try to get their heads on tv whenever they can, and it's usually because it's an occasion where their vote counts, and to date, that's been on social and economic issues.Unless of course it's a consultative referendum which doesn't change the constitution which we have from time to timeMilitary people get little education or experience in finance. They are brilliant at running search and rescue, fighting bush-fires, logistics and the like but I'm not sure I'd trust them on this one.

I'd be curious as to the kinds of jobs that ex-asic employees move into?Direct representation results in the public wanting a handout. Indirect representation results in political parties giving vested interests a hand out. A lose-lose situation.That was my understanding from day one, Fran. Unfortunately the media saw an easy headline.It's dangerous to the share price of Lion Nathan but to little else. Many churches and religious movements across all of the evangelical faiths preach a world wide mission, a global ministry where everyone follows the same creed. And none of them will ever be successful. Make no mistake, nationalism is stronger than religion in the musim world. Pakistanis and Malaysians, Tunisians and Turks, even Iraqis and Egyptians, both arabs, are not in the business of surrendering political and economic control to the other in pursuit of some caliphate mumbo jumbo. That's a tale best left to the western media.The English speaking countries are in lock step with each other on deeper and more enduring levels but are not within a bulls roar of uniting. In fact, witness the nationalist rivalrly between them.Own goal. You just listed countries wrecked by foreign intervention. 

The so-called shia-sunni divide only exists in so far as it can be used to divide arabs and persians. As branches of islam they are no different spiritually. Only temporally. It's also a handy terminology if you don't understand the details, in the way Northern Ireland is easily and wrongly thought of as a Protestant-Catholic issue.Arabs and persians would agree 100% with my statement.  But don't take my word for it, ask some sunni and shia scholars in Australia. You will need to re-evaluate your position.In all three cases there is an ethnic division which leads to political divisions. People no longer get flayed in the market place because of either their sacrament or who they list as the caliphs. It's not as simple as to say shia and sunni are at each others throats. I wish I could upload a photo of myself taken on an Indonesian street corner with a sunni mosque, shia mosque, catholic church and buddhist temple on each corner. My point is that the these two branches of Islam (and there are others) are far less at odds than our media would simplify. Religion is always used to amplify divisions. If the Hazara were sunna they would still be persecuted, because they aren't Taliban.They just need more. You got it half right.You might only be able to test that hypothesis when the refugees start arriving from white, English speaking countries.Zing, I'd suggest that the Festival committee is more interested in promoting their gig than stopping honour killings or any other injustice. There's no crime in drifting from a Festival of Dangerous Ideas to Offensive Ideas as long as we all acknowledge that it is just another form of entertainment. Not there to educate, not there to inform. Just to entertain.I think the ultimate responsibility for coming up with the title of the night rests with Simon Longstaff and Festival committee. They dreampt is up and asked Badar to speak. Stupid him. It's like asking a Catholic priest to speak on why the age of consent should be lowered. Brilliant if the controversy goes you way, a catastrophe if it doesn't. This didn't.A Caliphate is their ultimate goal, not their only goal. You'll find most religions have stated aims of uniting the world under their leadership, be it the World Wide Church of God, Benny Hinn's ministries and even those pesky papists. Badar is a fringe player with fringe views amongst the muslim community. You can sleep well tonight.Hizb ut-Tahrir could be the biggest political force in the middle east for all it matters here. The wealth of polling done in Australia shows that muslims are almost exclusively divided along the ALP-LNP split. Funny that. Most Australian laws are already sharia compliant with the obvious exception of the gaming and liquor license laws and some finance, so you need not feel conflicted there either. As I doubt you even know what jihad means (I'm on a fitness jihad right now) I need not go further.Badar was asked by the Festival to speak on the topic that they created. He was probably chosen because of the controversy that was already attached to him. He has said that he intended to use his time to illustrate Islamophobia, in that many people automatically think of muslims when they think of honour killings despite the fact many non-muslims in India and Africa also conduct these murders. But you'd need to talk to him for a better insight.A caliphate would be bad news for everyone, but given the fact that Turks don't want to be rules by Pakistanis, Albanians have little in common with Malaysians and the arabs can't agree on diddly squat, it will never happen. Most muslims live in secular counties and most of the rest wished they did to. As for moderate muslims, you need to meet some! They are everywhere and the overwhelming majority."Surrogacy is Child Trafficking", "Slavery is Big Business", "Women are Sexual Predators", "Now I'll have to Kill You". All previous topics at the Festival of Dangerous Ideas.

Uthman Badar, a man with form, was chosen to kick off the debate in favour of the affirmative. Stupidest decision he ever made. He thought that he'd use the topic to illustrate Islamophobia. We'll never know if he hit his mark because the night, as we know, was cancelled. It's no use citing his public and long standing position against honour killings, all that matters is that you can link a sensationalist headline to a muslim. Deeper analysis usually disappoints. 

Maybe that's why the committee for the Festival of Dangerous ideas decided to move from dangerous to offensive?And we never will tolerate it. I saw a heart wrenching doco on young women in India who'd been attacked with acid for basically not going along with a guy. Tonight on the news was a man who deliberately ran over his ex with his car- we don't use the term but it was, by the same definition, an attempted honour killing. 

We have a zero tolerance on anyone committing any kind of behaviour and it's a message that we probably need to keep reinforcing with new arrivals.Seems about rightWhen auto workers lost their jobs it was bully for them, the overpaid bludgers. Now it's loggers and the tissues come out.Better roads don't lead to fuel economy. Better cars and better methods of transport do. Whilst you're right that Kiama is gagging for a light rail, the reality is that most of the juice gets used in the cities, on a per capita and an overall basis. Probably makes more sense to target them first.Post of the month!Don't sweat it. They'll just parachute in a "non" political popularist. Someone untainted with the party structure or the unions. A nouveau drover's dog, but someone who doesn't recognise a poisoned chalice! The ALP loves to head hunt and they love the idea of an all-star line up. They won't be able to resist.Right there with youYou will not only measure the relevance of the course to the job market but you won't be able to differentiate the graduate's job seeking and interviewing skills. So that's a fail.

There is no case, example or evidence that universities offer dud courses in order to re-sell a better course to their alumni. So that's another one.You make a good point with some of the courses you mention, and many of them will barely produce an employed graduate on that field. There is the counter argument that people don't study philosophy to be a philosopher (I know one sound engineer and one computer programmer) and you don't study music to be a rock star. But that is a long way from saying that they are deliberately offered in order lure the unsuspecting into coming back to do another degree.It was once explained to me that the original tree is better because you can't replant wildlife (and all of the other whatsies that grown in the ecosystem). There is a tremendous market for farmed timber but people don't want  to wait for their money. Instead they'd much rather cut down something that isn't theirs for the swift buck. Once we truly put a value on the environment that includes time and the cost of replacement, the market will be capable of finding a solution. It's just that right now we only value the price of a piece of wood. IMHOYour post is so obviously correct it is a wonder that others are so blindLB- good post and in the public domainAustralia need only send a single F18. The US is looking for extra flags in the alliance. They don't need our planesYou are correct. Not surprisingly, no-one ever says how many Australians they even think are in the middle east without added the caveats "up to...as high as...it is believed/understood". Listening the government, AFP and ASIO is like reading New Idea. Their get-out-of-gaol card is that they add the old "OR giving support to", so 150 could two in the trenches and "as many as" 148 nurses. Like you, I am not scaredWon't get fooled again?Looking back through history it always seems amazing that people were so gullible to believe WWI propaganda, and then were so stupid to continue the Vietnam War. Even the outright lies of the Gulf War II should have given people some pause, but a glance at the chicken-hawk posts here, I see that stupid is as stupid still does.What's one value that's different?Our alliance partner need to prop up it's Iraqi vassal against a rebellion. And as a consequence, so do we. Whether someone says its legal or not is just a frippery to minimise domestic opposition. But that's all this propaganda campaign is about, to stop the anti-war protests from repeating themselves.

You can pick the hawks, the paid shills and the wanna-be-soldiers from the way they fetishise over the make and model of military hardware and qoute their tabulated data like a trump card ad nauseam, to the regurgitation of vague and meaningless phrases: "deployed in conjunction"..."high state of readiness"...and you know it's time to get up and put the kettle on when you hear "troops/boots on the ground"I suspect you're right, if only because Iraq needs bunging up right now. The pressure that was on Syria and evidenced in every regular news story regarding their outrages towards the (then styled) rebels and freedom fighters has been scaled back. The Iraqi civil war has reached a stage where it is obvious that they need a bail out, ironically from the same gas-happy, heart eating freedom fighters! The pressure is off Syria and must be breathing a little easier...but not for long. Once Iraq is more stable to pressure will right back on and new outrages will be layered on the public to prepare them for the next regime change. Unless of course the US dramatically changes their strategy of the last 70yrs, or they get sick and die or decide to act like no other power has ever acted. But I think notAs might be, Moi, but it's all academic as no-one would ever be taken to account, called to answer, much less charged with any wrong doing with or without a justification.They might be paying for aid out of consolidated revenue and borrowing the money to pay for your pension for all you'd knowTender spot, huh? Looks like o got it in one!I think that's the simplest and probably most workable analogy. I'd add that whilst there clearly has been a Catholic/Protestant divide in (Northern) Ireland and it marks a point of differentiation, neither the Unionists nor the Republican movements have ever been fighting for a religious, spiritual or liturgical outcome. Motives are more vanilla and secular. Similarly, whilst using the language and justifications on religion, no-one in the middle east, not even isis are trying to achieve a religious agenda. Ascribing religious motives is just clumsy propaganda. These men are fighting for a much higher cause than the hereafter: power and money. And only once their actions become a threat to someone else's power and money does anyone talk of doing a damn thingThe only statements made ascribing anything other than political motives for Isis havebeen made on rhtheir behalf, courtesy ofthe US state department.That raises some of the most interesting questions in a while. Indeed, what makes a nation sovereign and where does this sovereignty come from? By what legitimacy can it be taken away? And now we have non state players, like the ones you mentioned, that might be stronger, more powerful, wealthier and have a bigger army than a sovereign state? I'm not so sure it all goes back to your beloved 30yrs war, but given I can't think of a better example, you have the call.That's a good point and an example I get. Some notion of consensus of recognition. Now, like the rise of the middle class, non-state players are more powerful than most countries. Hanseatic II. I wonder if the days of the nation state aren't numbered until quaint, like the traditional counties.You can't tell us that you are in favour of this military adventure? Syrians weren't good enough for you, they could be gassed and have their hearts ripped ope and you didn't stir. And the Congo? Never heard a peep. Are you supporting an intervention there? How about do something to save the victims of the Burmese junta? Or does, as I suspect, humanitarianism only kick in if it complements the strategic aims of the alliance? It's ok to say so. Just have the steel to say it.Terry, if I recollect you openly weighted the casualties in the Gaza crises lamenting the few and blaming the many. In seeing some dead children as less worthy than others, you are the very acme of consistency.Heroin and ice are forms of euthanasiaHow much more racism would you take before you thought that there was a problem? How many more attacks on jewish school kids? How many more people being denied work because of their colour? How often would you need to see racist rants on public transport? I'm just trying to establish your threshold. It would be a shame to benchmark Australia against Malaysia or Saudi Arabia. Just because we are better than the worst doesn't make us any good. We should aspire to betterTeam Islam? I must have missed that in the article. I guess if we can sub teams Team Judaism, Team Christianity, Team Buddhist, who all would regard this earthly nation as a speck in their version of the big picture, then Team Islam should be ok too. Likewise for team British-Australia, Greek-Australia and whatever other attachments might internally bind our society.You don't have to be white or Australian to be racism, but the members of the dominant group need to understand that their behaviour carries much more weight and has much more of a social impact than the actions of a minority. Both a wrong. One has a much larger affect. We can't stop racism anywhere but hereWhen was the last time you were in England? There are absolutely no off limits areas in the UK because of sharia law. There are plenty of areas that different people daren't venture into and for plenty of reasons. None of which includes sharia law, a concept I'd bet a peanut that you don't have the foggiest notion of. 

Let's take the NSW seat of Lakemba for your lesson. At the last election for the Legislated Assembly (that's the lower house to you) 43% of those eligible voted for the Liberal candidate. In the Legislative Council (upper house) the coalition candidate got 48.57% of the first preferences. Labor got 24.05%. 

One major argument against women getting the vote was they they'd all vote together as a block and take over the world. Do you even know what happened? Muslims don't "vote muslim". The Australian Muslim community votes along the lines of individual political preference. It doesn't vote as a block. The only discontent on the verge of festering over, is yours.Is that the experience from which you developed your extraordinary empathy for minorities?Come on fran, you know the rules. If you disagree with me, you are a troll. If you don't agree withe me, you are diametrically opposed to me on every possible issue. Anyone that disagrees with me is a leftist, luvvy, latte sipping, rusted on pinko who's a soft on drugs, soft on crime, soft on terror, soft in the head tree-huging, climate warmist engaging in class warfare, the politics of envy and has a sense of entitlement. Unless of course they are from the loony, greedy, aggressive, baby eating right. 

True. And I suppose if you are getting obscene phone calls you could just not answer the phone or if you are getting threatening messages in the post you could not open your letters. I think in this case the medium is not really the issue as much as content isMaybe because it's when a man threatens to rape and murder a woman it carries more of threat then if a women threatens the man. This is the depth of online vulgarity and it goes on. I have had people threaten to behead and dismember my children and pets, use them as sexual objects on each other and just about every concept that you'd find in De Sade's works. Women are not more fragile but the threats carry a weight, generally speaking. Maybe that's why? Just musin'"Afterlife Insurance". That's gold. I might just use that and pass it off as my own!Now where have I recently read articles and posts smearing a whole religion on the basis of the actions of a minority....?

The Catholic Church's apologies are made thinner because they had to be caught first. Instances of legally proven abuse get the required treatment but there is much less soul searching, internal investigation or attempts at reform regarding the cover-ups. Any large population group is going to contain a criminal element, so Catholics themselves can't really be blamed and nor can the majority of the clergy. But the institutional behaviour has been shocking. To be fair, it's not a million miles away from the institutionalised behaviour of the military, but perhaps we expected more from the agency of the allmighty than we do of our trained killers?So you are in the highest income tax bracket and you want t complain that a) no government has thanked you, publicly or with a modest trophy, and b) you want the people who earn less than you to present you with a gift of financial assistance. And who said we don't live in the age of entitlement?The Qu'ran contains no death penalty for anything, apostasy included. There are countless millions of nominal Muslims, like Easter &amp; Christmas Christians...or Weddings and Christening Christians. As a Muslim you don't have to go to a Mosque. You can pray at home if you wish. Prayer times are windows, so you can say you prayed whenever you like. You can actually not pray, if you wish. You can sneak food in during Ramadan. There is no doctrine, no Church law, there is no priesthood to which you are answerable. It's between you and your god on the day of judgement.Personally I find k-pop videos on a sunday afternoon is some quality time that fathers can spend with their kids!You'd be hard pressed coming up an example of a war that fought to affect a religious outcome, like change a doctrine, convert a people or change a belief. Every "religious" war can have the religion removed and it would have still taken place.Humanity doesn't need religion to divide into us and them, and it doesn't need religion to justify attacking someone else to steal their resources. We can do that on our own. 

Take away religion and the same base and lofty human ideals, motivations and behaviours will remain but in different forms.Her's how I see it, APM: The US is doing whatever it takes to secure it's interests in the middle east, to defend the security of it's allies and to deny resources to it's enemies. Any other unchecked power would do the same. It's not nice or pretty but its been unfolding before our very eyes for some time. It would take an effort to miss it.

The US and it s allies (that's us) have not had reason to fear, hate or wish ill upon the inhabitants of the middle east prior, so the cover story, the spin, the window dressing has become radical islam. And like a child molesting clergy and a sexist military there is more than enough ammunition to take a minority and present it as the majority. 

Vae victis: by vilifying and demonising muslims in the middle east, we by design and default vilify and demonisd muslims in Australia. The Bosnians, who built Preston Mosque in the 1970s. The Grand Mosque in Auburn, build by the Turks and named in honour of their shared bond with the rest of Australia as Gallipoli Mosque. Westall Mosque which is home to the Indonesian and Malaysian post doctorate community at Monash University. The Bengalis at Quakers Hill. All have been labled as disloyal, untrustworhy, unAustralian, terrorists and the enemy. People who get up, eat breakfast, commute to work, pay the mortgage, go to school concerts, watch the footy and go the maccas. 

The counterbalance to the anti-muslim sentiment that is required to justify middle eastern intervention is to make some effort of inclusion. To let this section of Australia know that they are indeed welcome, contrary to the pages of the tabloids, contrary to hysterics of some politicians, some hysterics of talk back radio and hysterics of some that post on The Drum. The consoling news is that if a muslim doesn't consume the domestic media, they find Australians, almost without exception, as being tolerant, embracing and supporting. 

Cheers, mike, but I don't draw the same conclusion. ISIS nee Al Nusra nee AQ in Iraq, nee the Republican Guard were allowed a free reign in Syria, committing the same atrocities and even hosting Senator McCain for their troubles. Only now that they are threatening the American backed regime in Baghdad does the US pretend to care. And so ISIS becomes the very legion of the damned, the maddest baddest sand buccaneers to ever mount a camel. Every possible exaggeration, distortion, spin and propaganda device is rolled out to justify the American strategic decision. The level of violence and the alleged religious motivation are just that...a justification. The US needs it's regime and so these rebels can't be allowed to win the civil war. And that's probably fair enough too. They might well be the most civilised bunch of corrupted stooges in the middle east.Pull your head in. Australians who happen to muslims are represented in local, state and federal governments as elected representatives and and as public servants. Australians who happen to be muslims are in the police force of every state and in the AFP, the defence forces and are teachers and nurses. Australians who happen to muslisms played professional football in both Sydney and Melbourne over the weekend and Australians who happen to be muslims cheered them on from the stadiums and from their living rooms. Australians who happen to be muslims host TV shows, write articles in the newspapers and the drum and run small and large private companies. Real problems mixing in, huh?

Your lack of knowledge of Australian muslims is equaled only by your lack of knowledge of the qu'ran. You can cherry pick any piece you like- just try to find a single school if islam that follows it. Like St Peter at the Pearly Gates, the flood, the holy trinity, transubstantiation, speaking in tongues or papal infallibiity, they don't speak of the whole. But given you seem to believe in the qu'ran, and you given you quote it as the source of your argument, you left the nice bits out. Care for me to fill you in?I certainly didn't 'resort to telling you' bad bits from the bible, you did that job well enough yourself. What I did was point out that not everyone in a religion believes everything in their scriptures. Christianity is much, much more than the Bible and Islam is more than the Qu'ran. Most Christians don't go around wanting to kill people for religious transgressions and neither to most Muslims. Just because you can find a verse on it doesn't mean that's what people believe. 

You say you know Muslims. Great. How many of them are into violence? How many of the parents of the kids that your child plays with advocate the violence that you think is compulsory for Muslims? You fall into a great hole when, as a non believer, you not only think you know someones religion better than them, you actually have the gall to preach it to them! I can only assume that your Muslim neighbours are familiar with your views on their behaviour?

Indonesians, Albanians and Turks have no more obligation to march against violence than you. Many already have. But just because they are Muslim doesn't mean they own or are responsible for what protagonists in a middle eastern war do, simply because they invoke the same name of the religion.PeterS, muslim countries are at war, which doesn't mean that war is a muslim thing. All the countries you mentioned are mainly populated by brown eyed people. Maybe war is a brown eyed phenomena? Going by your logic, of course...

Your list of conflicts is impressive, and let me share with you what really connected them. Power, money, greed and politics. Every terrorist group, rogue state, internal conflict and civil war on your list is an example of political violence. All protagonists are trying to achieve some kind of dominance. Not one, not one are trying to change doctrine, speak peace unto the heathen or advance god'a kingdom in the here after or the here and now. They might invoke the name of god, but not one are on a religious mission. Even ISIS has their primary goal as toppling the western backed regime in Baghdad. Religion is a justification, not a cause.

Why don't you do yourself a favour and ask all these muslims that you claim to know and ask them what they believe? Ask them if they teach their children what you seem to have stuck in your head. Why are you not worried that your child will be murdered by their muslim friends, given you claim that to be your wiki-understanding of islam?Korea, Tibet, Thailand, Congo, Ukraine, Sierra Leone...or don't they fit your story?Not Turkey. At the time of the crusades that was the Byzantine Empire. Ottomans didn't cross into western europe for another three centuries. The first wave of crusaders happily slaughtered Christians and Jews alike in pursuit of their land grab. Fighting muslims was not the sole reasonAnd before that Anatolia was was a a happy, tolerant, multifaith pagan society, until the Christians came and smashed the temples and burned the heretics. What's your point?I'm not from the Byzantine culture. Are you?The West only ever attacks, invades, backs coups, suppresses revolts and changes in regimes in the name of freedom, democracy and humanitarianism. It's everyone else that's mad, bad and dangerousAustralian Muslims lured to the middle east are most likely of middle eastern origin themselves and can already speak Arabic. Indonesians will stand out like the proverbial. One would be obvious. 500 would be ridiculous. There is no threat thereThe "Muslim World" is only a concept. It has no reality. Turks don't cooperate any more or less with Malaysians just because they share a religion. Likewise for Albanians and Egyptians, Indonesians and Indians. 1.6 billion people are divided by race, ethnicity, language, nationality and most importantly, political views. They are not going to combine. They only pray to the same God. That's where it endsI believe that the immediate aim is to shore up the current regime in Baghdad. There are always targets of opportunity in the middle east for the Americans after thatCoogara, It would only be a waste of time if the ultimate goal was stability, democracy and prosperity for the middle east. If the ultimate goals was a divided and fragmented region under petty tyrants dependent on foreign power to lord it over their oil supplies, then it would make a of of sense.You already live under Sharia law. With the exception of liquor licensing, gaming and some financial regulations, all of Australia's legal code is sharia compliant. There is no book called Sharia Law. There is no chapter of the Qu'ran or volume of Hadith. Sharia Law just means in accordance with a set of beliefs. A number of countries profess to have Sharia Law and no two of them have the same laws. 

Those Australian Muslims wanting to change Australian laws fall into two groups. Firstly, those that want some civil cases to be determined by their own community, in the same way Australian Jews do. The other is the rabid fringe that only the tabloids seem to be able to track down and who speak on behalf of bugger all. The overwhelming majority quite like our judicial system and it's one of the things that brought them here in the first place. 

So don't peddle this rot that Australians want to stone, behead or whip naked through the streets of Adelaide those that transgress their God. Do yourself a favour and go and talk to Muslims. Get your information first hand. Not this tellie nonsenseAh, the old some-of-my-best-friends-are-muslims chestnut. Well maybe you should ask them what they want? I'd be interested to hear.

Yur Australian examples are those that want civil cases to be determined by their religious rules in the same way that religious Beth Din courts can settle matter in Australia for jews. That's been going on for some time. Your other examples are from other countries and so are irrelevant.Well put. I am amazed that it isn't self evident. Perhaps our media has something to do with it. Who says propaganda doesn't work?CORRECTION: a minority of africa-americans are better off. The majority died of mistreatment, raped, thrown overboard, whipped and shot.Only middle class, middle aged, middle intellect white men would be better off. And not all of themConsult with the other side? Share power? Surely not! This underscores the fundamental floor in the Westminster system. Only half of the parliamentarians are ever working at one time (committee work excepted) and the other half are spending their time and effort on trying to undermine and destabilise. The adversarial system loses 50% of its capacity from the get go and needs to spend much of the balance defending itself against mindless attacks. And people say "if it aint broke, don't fix it". It's broke. Party politics has broken it. And their supporters carry much of the blameThe shadow cast by the institution of slavery is long indeed. Lincoln's proclamation no more eradicated racism than the 1967 referendum in Australia did. These legacies, and feel free to throw in the legacies of Native Americans, are not resolved overnight. They set the groundwork for ongoing prejudice, bigotry, hatred, violence, victimhood and the resultant poverty, under education and riven societies that we see now. That's as may be for background but it scarcely explains this week. We can be but thankful that we are more tolerant, embracing and willing to have wealth redistribution in this country.Exactly. There are also obviously local issues being heaped on top of, rather than replacing the usual causes.Better a Hemingway than a Tennessee WilliamsLeela made the show worth watching! Sons and fathers all over the globe tuned in to see some of that action!I agree. He was also helped by the script writing genius of Terry Nation. With a good story and good acting you were prepared to forget about the tin foil and cardboard setsToot offered an explanation, not an attack on your post mick, which was by any rational standard, complete cabbage. You don't have to be a American living in America to hold the only valid opinion on humanity. Although given your level of provocative language you may well fit in better over there. They even let you shoot your neighboursIn fairness there, Terry, we are all more familiar with and have more experiences of our own backyards. This makes spotting things to criticise easier. Also, we wish our backyards were better, so most criticism is directed with some construction. Racism goes in every direction, and it is amplified by power and privilege. This is why when it is undertaken by the majority it is greater than when done by a minority- even to a smaller minority.You're right, mike, and that's an under communicated statistic. There is an argument to be made that we should look more towards a per capita income measure than just people, but that can overlook the social opportunity costs of accommodating new arrivals. Like it or no, new arrivals are a plank of Australian economic growth and prosperity and will remain so for some time. In retrospect it's also been the key driver in the cultural evolution of the country. Some are uncertain over the future direction of our social evolution, but that's common in every stage of our past and will probably remain a feature well into the future. IMHOThat's just a selective list of different attacks conducted by different people from different countries with different motives. Typing the "islam" or "muslim" next to each of them doesn't establish a connection. You'll have to do better than thatWe've all known for some time that major arms purchases have less to do with any real need for the ADF and more for a kind of trans-national, taxpayer funded subsidy to the American arms industry. Everyone else on "our" side, all the other vassals from Canada to Kuwait are in the same boat. I see it as less as a defence expenditure and more like an imperial tribute, our tithe from vassal state....Ming?Islam doesn't have priests. There is no ordination. No-one is channeling divine truth for anyone elseFrom one religious fundamentalist fanatic on about anther bunch of religious, fundamentalist fanatics. Not a reliable witnessThe man is an embittered priest from a rival religionDon't they need to?I have yet to meet any set of parents who have had more children because they think the world needs more Muslims, Baptists, blue eyed, red headed, korean, Collingwood supporters or any other broader group. They have children because they themselves want them..unless you know different? 

By the way, you do know that a third of the world's muslims live in countries that have elected female leaders, don't you? You do know that being down on gays is not a muslim phenomena, don't you? Think Uganda, think Australian marriage laws. And freedom of speech? Try finding one single follow up story on the racist attack on the jewish school bus on the 7th and then get back to meSo you can't count Indonesia because they are over representative of muslim? Nonsense, and it goes to show how many people look at Arabic culture and think that it stands for Islam as a whole. 

I lived in Ireland for a decade I know women who were pressured out of using birth control on religious grounds. Many doctors and chemists won't prescribe the pill for unmarried women. I wouldn't read anything suspicious into that one. They're not trying to breed the world over to the papacy...or out breed Ulster for that matterGoogle "Chechnya" and you'll discover that the Russians hype up a faux terror threat for their own purposes just as well as anyone. Have a look at western China whilst you're at itCorrection: real terror, faux islamistLike the longest and bloodiest war since WWII istill going on in the Congo. Like Rwanada and Burundi? Like the civil war in Mexico? The Ukraine? Or do you have them down as honorary Muslims in your little book?Were that happening, Australians would make it stop using altogether different meansYank, the current extremists de jure want to win a civil war in iraq. Any external focus that they may or may not have is entirely concerned with stopping the usa from bombing them to pieces. They have no ambitions over regarding what anyone else does in their own countryMost muslim youth that I've met have to do their homework and chores before they can play video games which consist of american content. The threat of young men becoming so naffed with their lives here that they decide to go and fight in someone else's secular civil war is pretty low. How many are there now? Is it two? We've probably more aussies in ukrainewhogoesthere: taking offence at a belief is a bit precious. Taking offence at words and deeds is another thing entirelyGive is a break: Ignorant bigotry can only really be presented by ignorant bigots. The sad reality is that in order to justify western military intervention where the resources are we've had to concoct a reason to hate the locals. We chose their religion, and if the oil was in Tibet we'd be giving the Buddhists a hard time too. Perhaps most worrying is that all the years of education that people enjoy they are unable to shrug off inductive reasoning and confirmation bias. As witnessed by the tripe written here. AssalamualaikumThe media has played a role in conflating the actions of the a part with the whole. There were chemicals found in QLD this week which required the army bomb squad. Had the owners been muslim, we'd have known their religion. Methodists and Lutherans commit crimes, but only muslims have their religion named in the media. The public is presented with a narrative that the religion was the cause of the behaviour, in the same way that we are seeing a flare up of the long running Iraqi civil war and the best the media can do is paint the side we are against as being muslims, whilst forgetting the ones we are propping up are also muslims. This leaves the feeble minded with the notion that islam causes these eventsISIL no more speaks for nor is representative of islam than paedophile priests speak for or represent catholicism or the kkk speaks for or represents protestants. Saying that you are on a mission from god doesn't make it soAccording to the international media this event took place: "purportedly, allegedly, it is thought, believed to be, is said to be authentic, believed the video was authentic, claim to have beheaded, appears to show". Make of that what you will 


The US National Security Council's spokesperson said that they had "reached the judgement that this was authentic". The FBI says they have "?no reason to believe? it?s not real. An unnamed US official says "it appears to be authentic", two on condition of anonymity say "there is no serious suggestion that it's a fake". The State Department's press office say "purports to be" and that "the intelligence community is working as quickly as possible to determine its authenticity. If genuine..."


Whilst the White House has yet to make a statement saying that the two camera, radio miked footage of no-one being beheaded is genuine or not, the UK Prime Minister began his condemnation of the event with the caveat "If it's true"
Nomadesque, and all done in minutes over breakfast! The weasel words just leaped off the page at me. Then I found out that ISIS didn't even show the beheading on their video, which is just as well as the knife the guy was brandishing couldn't behead a goat. Then you can imagine my surprise when I found out that some people are following some bizarre trend to not to look at it, as if they're boycotting a product. But I suppose if no-one is looking at it no-one can spot anomalies...It was reported by the media outlet he was working for. Their press statement is onlineISIS didn't release a video of the beheading. The censored themselves. It goes from a motion to cut, to a severed head we assume was the same person. One wonders why ISIS have become so sensitive to western viewers...and one wonders why we are urged not to even look at it?ISIS killing muslims didn't really inflame people. In fact, there's many regulars on this site who say that they deserved it for not fighting back and winning. 

Then ISIS are reported to have committed atrocities. Ho hum, said the war weary. Then ISIS got stuck into the Christians, and that was a big of an issue...but now they kill an all American and public opinion has been layered so comprehensively that not only has any opposition to a new war been averted, many people are actually cheering for one. 

And in all the noise and distraction, one has to ask why, when the UN names their list of ISIS leaders that they placed sanctions on, why did they leave al-Baghdadi off the list?1.6 billion muslims are not normally in the business of beheading people, which would make this, by definition, extreme. Fundamental followers tend to recluse themselves in prayer, meditation and looking solemn trying to lead a holy life. Radicals seek changeAustralia is not "serious" about human rights. Australia is "selective" about human rights. Just like everybody elseToo true, in the same way that we support dictatorships with our friends and allies but use democracy as a reason to attack our enemies.China and Japan will eventually relocate factories to North Korea for the cheap labour....and rehabilitation will follow, much in the same way as the west is turning a blind eye to Burma for the same economic gains. ROI is amoralIf the communist party disappeared tomorrow and china was "under new management" they'd continue to pursue the same agenda that they pursue now- one of national self interest. I don't think that the colours that their government fly would affect much at allWhatever a major party does or says anything it is excused as having some kind of mandate. Whenever a minor party comes along that threatens to upset their cosy duopoly we see them close ranks, and with the aid of the media, belittle them. Their mandate is ignored. We saw this with One Nation, the the Greens, numerous independents, and now PUP. They may well be worth belittling but it would be better to do so on the basis of their ideas (or lack thereof). 

Palmer represents a massive threat to the way the major political parties do business, who take in money from private concerns and then legislate in their favour and/or hand them largesse in the form of contracts. Palmer cuts our the middle man, He is the private concern and he means to legislate in his own favour and hand himself largesse. 

So what's worse? A parliament acting in the benefit of corporate interests or having the corporate interests themselves in parliament. I suggest that the threat is not to our political system because that's how it's worked for a long time. The threat is to the private political parties, and with their control over the machinery of state, they won't go easily. They might even try to pretend that there's a value, ideal or principal at stake.Steal a billion, get the presidency. Well putA triple metaphor in your opening sentence. Even I'm impressed!That's exactly why she shouldI think that's it's just the biggest wad of cash that will fit into your pocket. Anything larger will need a bag. Preferably brown. Paper is goodThis is not an aberration any more than Obeid &amp; Co. were an anomaly. This is how our system works. Bring on a federal ICACThe article was written by a what is, in effect, a sub-contractor. They author doesn't work for the ABC. Perhaps your beef is that this site doesn't post enough pro-government articles? Please write one, and we can all give you the benefit of our intellectual critiqueAre these the socialists working for Kerry Stokes or Rupert Murdoch?I did but see him passing by as well. 

Abbott did what was required of a PM who has lost civilians in an international outrage which has still yet to be adequately explained or apologised for. Abbott has done what a satellite state of a major power should do, and that is act as a proxy to continue diplomatic pressure on the rival state, and this good work would have also been done were Gillard, Holt or Humphrey B Bear in the lodge. 

He's still so obviously out of his depth it's not funny and would serve his country just as well if he never spoke in public again. The coalition is fortunate that Labor can't even conjure up a half wit on their side- that's what will win them a second term. But make no mistake, the inept ramblings of the PM might make you want to cover your eyes and ears, but we can all be thankful that the only people on earth that noticed, was us. The only people who have seen the footage are the Australian public.

In the meantime, the PM looks fantastic in his tailored suites, he has a commanding look about him and should just stand there, statuesque.I'd doubt that a single country broadcast a Shorten soundbiteWe are so conditioned by the employer-employee paradigm that we wait, cargo-cult like, for the government to deliver prosperity. It's all in someone else's hands and they must be propitiatedWhenever Australia loses a test, or a series, we get this kind of nonesense. Clarke is the best cricketer in Australia. He's also the most experienced. Ejecting everyone over thirty in some cricketers Logan's Run will only make room for some unknowns in grade cricket. Pretty much everyone who is good enough to play First Class cricket in Australia is a known quantity. And bugger all of them can make the step up to the international level. In the current climate, getting rid of your most experienced players won't make room for anyone remotely as talented. That's just nonesense.

This is only a source of angst because a terrific Pakistani team, against all odds (pun intended) just thrashed Australia. If it's not the first time the Australians have ever batted on anything other than a flat, day-three wicket, I'll be surprised. With the amount of limited overs cricket played there may well come a day when everyone will play on consistent, equal and standardised artificial tops. They almost do. But in the meantime, with everyone preparing surfaces to benefit the local team, Australia got caught out away from home, in a strange land, with the odds stacked against them..and got done. 

It's good for the game, good for the players, good for bookmakers and no cause to dump the best players. IMHOPoint taken, and well made. There was long a time when someone had to die tor a spot to open up in the XI. It was easier and faster to be on the MCC Members waiting list. Perhaps the commercial nature of the modern game makes it harder for younger player to get genuine opportunities to work themselves up?And so irrelevant and so unimportant that they'll be back again and again to see who's commented on their post!Tony Abbott acted exactly the way an Australian Prime Minister should: tough talk at home for a domestic audience and gently on the international stage. The article is about how the media have blown it all out of proportion, possibly impacting the polls. And that Abbott's choice of language fueled the media. I think it odd to interpret criticism of an Australian PM as indicating support for a Russian president...or you could try reading the article. It's about how the media latched onto a loose remark by the PM and how that may have squandered a rise in the polls usually experienced when the government talks it up in international affairs. If you are so sensitive to observations on political figures you might find the home &amp; garden blogs more to tasteCharles, some of the more colourful headlines in both electronic and print media on this issue came from those very media organisations that are most sympathetic to the ruling party. Perhaps their circulation figures and ratings were more important?At a guess...the Australia Electoral Commission doesn't release the figures for campaign donations until a couple of years after the event (three?). I strongly suspect that we'll shortly find that dirty energy put their hands deeply in their pockets last election to get this kind of political support. And I strongly suspect that they gave generously to both sidesIronically it's been the media more frequently disposed towards the government that's made the most mileage out of shirtfronting and red flotillasYou've certainly nailed CEOs, politicians and much every hierarchyCan't we just dust off those old forts we built just for this occasion?I'm sure some nobody will have a fatwah over it. I doubt the Amish will embrace it either. The ayatollah himself watches satellite TVPutting a picture of an airliner on the front page of the daily rag doesn't quite evoke the same feelings as pictures of boats pressing southwards, full of strange people to ruin the placeThat is possibly the most sensible comment that's anyone's ever made on this topic. Bravo!Very well put, GreybagsThere's a truth in what you say, Coogara, but Australia is hardly Olive Oil. We're hosting the G20, not the G100. When you sort all countries by GDP or GNP or defence spend (typical measures) or life expectancy, health care, education or pretty much any measure going, Australia comes out in the top....20. Hardly imperial, but minnow neither. Whilst we can ignore other societies, which we do with the exception of cheap US TV from yesterday, we can't ignore their economiesComforting to know that someone else is following this one tooI'll think you'll find it is the coalition government at the G20 who is re-trumpeting these deals. The federal opposition aren't invited. It makes me wonder if you really understand what "left" and "right" wing actually means? You're giving the impersonation in your posts of someone who calls everything they don't like as simply "left"I don't know about that, Charles. My tally brings the stupid and the evil to be about neck and neck. I believe it to be a mistake to view the planet in terms of a left-right political spectrum. It is at the heart of the free enterprise system that the resources be sustainable and that the environment in which the market operates be also sustainable. Environment conservation and management is the flip side to environmental harvesting. Ensuring we don't befoul our nest or run out of resources is hardly the exclusive domain of the left. 

The most naive observers of this current gab-fest are the ones who think that government targets are made with any intention of trying to achieve them. We will all be long dead before the affects of industrialisation really start to bite which takes all of the motivation out of reducing today's power and profits. Easter Island, Charles. Easter islandThat is some, off topic rant! Are you claiming that "the left" are the cause of global warming or that neither exist?A comforting pledge. Be sure to let someone know if you know any grownups, and if they start to discuss something more complicated than your reply. That would be cause to break out the lolliesJust in case it's never occurred to you, if Rudd or Gillard were still in power there would be the exact same outcome: nothing. But it would have been spun into a press conference crossed with a musical where the audience would have gone home feeling warm and fuzzyRather than listening to Australian journalists you could listen to journalists from The Australian. They might express views more to your tasteI'm right there with you on the closed questioning technique shared by bad salespeople and bad journalists. Being combative dressed up as hard hitting, hoping for a loss of temper or 'error' that will fill the balance of the 24hr cycle with the sound bite they were looking for.Empty promises designed to appease populations who are hoping for some concerted action by governments who are paid for by the commercial activities causing all the problems, who won't change, who will continue to fund political parties who will continue to make empty promisesEmpty promises designed to appease populations who are hoping for some concerted action by governments who are paid for by the commercial activities causing all the problems, who won't change, who will continue to fund political parties who will continue to make empty promisesSome good points, as always, Joe. I'd say the real difficulty facing the west is convincing anyone that it is somehow wrong to attack another country. Or perhaps that should read, European countryIf Australia has taken steps toward the right itself it hasn't been lead by the right side of politics. It's been the left's own abandonment of their aims that has given us a small "l" and big "L" liberal partiesThe only negativity I'd ever express about "the left" is that is doesn't really exist. Not on parliamentary politics anyway. The right could have drifted far to the right, but a left that remained committed to organised labor would have anchored things somewhat. Paul Keating once accused John Howard as having a similar background to him, but had 'sold out to the north shore burghers' The Left as sold out, and with it any restraint on the right. Both are needed and both have been invaluable in creating modern Australiafran, I must confess that my knowledge of Canadian domestic politics isn't what it should be, so I'll take your authoritative word on these New Democrats. I used the word "liberal" in my rant to differentiate those with the political motivation and those simply with the name in their title. Interesting point you make on the conservatism of organised labor. Perhaps it only creates a different type of conservatism. I will think on that, thanksPretty good post, Alpo. One of your bestTerry, people don't want to choose between who holds all of their data; corporations or the government. They want neitherLess of a prediction, more of a history of our world to dateThis is an issue which will affect everyone over the next five decades, not the last five. You may not have a lifetime of phone calls, texts, Facebook entries, Tweets and thousands of other images, personal details cross referenced with CCTV images, banking transactions, purchases, websites and 3G tracking. These laws won't materially affect you, and you are no doubt smug in your me-allright-Jack attitude. This is one of those issues that is about today, but even more so going forwardPoint taken- my apologiesSome good points which would be made relevant were this an article on being the only member of a religion, race or member of an age bracket in the current cabinet. But as it's about Julie Bishop and her comments on feminism, it's hardly viewing the article through a gender biasThis state of political partisanship didn't begin last year with the Coalition victory and didn't start in '07. There's been a steady decline in public civility surround domestic politics in Australia and it goes up a notch after each and every election. The new opposition and their supporters all but deny the legitimacy of the government and begin a political and social campaign of obstruction and personal attack. Each new opposition builds on the precedents of the other side and add to them. Both sides do it. Neither is any worse than the other.

Why is this happening? Is it because there is so little to argue over? Have both sides of politics become so close that they exaggerate and distort their petty differences? In the absence of meaningful policy differences do only personalities remain? Is it because there is little bi-partisanship left in government, with total victory to the government and nothing left for the opposition, driving a win at all costs mentality? Or is because that politics attracts a mediocrity that is incapable of arguing any better?

Why do the party cheerleaders follow suite? I don't support sporting teams but I suspect the answer may be in that direction. 

This state of political partisanship didn't begin last year with the Coalition victory and didn't start in '07. There's been a steady decline in public civility surround domestic politics in Australia and it goes up a notch after each and every election. The new opposition and their supporters all but deny the legitimacy of the government and begin a political and social campaign of obstruction and personal attack. Each new opposition builds on the precedents of the other side and add to them. Both sides do it. Neither is any worse than the other.

Why is this happening? Is it because there is so little to argue over? Have both sides of politics become so close that they exaggerate and distort their petty differences? In the absence of meaningful policy differences do only personalities remain? Is it because there is little bi-partisanship left in government, with total victory to the government and nothing left for the opposition, driving a win at all costs mentality? Or is because that politics attracts a mediocrity that is incapable of arguing any better?

Why do the party cheerleaders follow suite? I don't support sporting teams but I suspect the answer may be in that direction. 

This state of political partisanship didn't begin last year with the Coalition victory and didn't start in '07. There's been a steady decline in public civility surround domestic politics in Australia and it goes up a notch after each and every election. The new opposition and their supporters all but deny the legitimacy of the government and begin a political and social campaign of obstruction and personal attack. Each new opposition builds on the precedents of the other side and add to them. Both sides do it. Neither is any worse than the other.

Why is this happening? Is it because there is so little to argue over? Have both sides of politics become so close that they exaggerate and distort their petty differences? In the absence of meaningful policy differences do only personalities remain? Is it because there is little bi-partisanship left in government, with total victory to the government and nothing left for the opposition, driving a win at all costs mentality? Or is because that politics attracts a mediocrity that is incapable of arguing any better?

Why do the party cheerleaders follow suite? I don't support sporting teams but I suspect the answer may be in that direction. 

Interesting question. I'd have thought that individuality, personal responsibility with equal opportunity and reward are at the heart of both feminist and liberal values. Feminism doesn't follow a left-right divide, and if it can be compared to liberal thought, it can also be compared to social, left learning thought.Always good for an Australian foreign minister to get a plug. Good for her. Maybe it will be the tonic for Harper's Bazaar, which year to date has only sold 168,000 copies of what is little more than glossy ads and a scandle sheet. In terms of circulation she'd have been better off on the cover of The Big IssueBenny, it looks like you're the one with the problem over the word 'feminism'. The concept takes many forms and expresses itself in every culture. Look at the great work that Islamic feminists are doing, or the feminists in Bangladesh and in India. Feminism means a lot of different things to a lot of different people, but at its heart, the common idea is that men and women are equal. This might sound passe today, but women have had to fight, even die for it, so that we can kick back and vote, have equal pay and so that Jule Bishop can be foreign minister. You're the one with hateThe only think missing from your argument is scriptureRight on. Some mediocre women who've espoused the ideology and publicly called themselves feminists include: Malala, Oprah, Madonna, Naomi Wolf, Virgina Woolf, suffragettes Harriot Weaver and pretty much the whole Pankhurst family, Helen Reddy, Nawal El Saadawi, Elaheh Koulaei and some Aussie chick called GermaineI'm not sure how much of the blame of the Vietnam war can be placed at Whitlam's feet. By today's policies those "Vietnamese left behind" wouldn't even be allowed in...so what's your point?If that's the point then it's a pretty weak one: 'Whitlam was just like Abbott' seems a bit pointlessMaybe we both have cheerleader fatigueThat's true. They did. And it's something that shouldn't be forgotten. And while we're all about remembering things, it might do well to recollect that it was the coalition that merrily dropped bombs on the Vietnamese for a decade, mostly civiliansWhere exactly has anyone argued that Whitlam has become a god, and who has said he is less than a god? If you can show that you can show where critics might have been "severely criticised". But given that the people who booed Abbott weren't from the ABC and given that your argument rests on those assumptions, the rest can be ignoredNext thing you'll find there will be 18yr olds thinking that their right to vote was won at GallipoliIs the 18yr old's error her own fault? The fault of the ALP? The fault of the ABC? Or the fault of a dead politician? Or is it the fault of an education system that existed under both the ALP and LNP? Perhaps it's the fault of frothy coffees and chardonney grapes?The biggest group represented by the ABC are the millions of children that watch its programming. Maybe you're getting paranoid over those cooperative Bananas in Maoist Pyjamas?Do policies have to last a thousand years to meet your criteria of success?Fear not then, as the eulogies look like they'll last a thousand years themselvesIt seems that the only religious references, allusions and metaphors come from the critics, for there aren't any in the articles. And given the frequency of the accusation it's obviously today's talking pointTouche, Charles, although I would suggest you put aside your thesaurus and handbook on schemes and tropes and just stick to making your point...whatever that might be. The fact that someone disagrees with you doesn't mean that their political views are diametrically opposed to yours. A schoolboy error that is very common on this site....but you can take that up with whoever your think my colleagues are and whatever you think the left isI thought that Noel Person's speech was as good as set piece speeches get in today's age of the sound bite, but quoting Monty Python isn't a hallmark of rhetorical excellenceBeing flogged in elections is what happens to those PMs that aren't stabbed in back. Howard got flogged, as I recall. And Keating before him. So the talent is hardly rare.What's changed? Unless, course, we'll be inviting over some Iraqi's after our current mission is accomplishedPerhaps Whitlam critics would prefer that he'd dropped bombs on the Vietnamese like his predecessors?The banks derive much of their income from home loans The banks are the biggest industry donors to political parties. This is the predictable resultThe banks employ outstanding economists as their key advisorsHow people can over complicate an issue. Having been in NYC in recent times I can be pretty confident in saying that men are far more likely to make comments to women passing by than in the UK, Europe, Australia, or Ireland, where my female companions were from. To get that level of comment in Australia you need to go out on a Friday and Saturday night with the youngens. Then it's common place, and not the sort of thing that you'd really like your daughter to be exposed to.

That aside, there is an issue as to whether it is appropriate to yell out commentary to passing women in the street in the first place. If you wouldn't say it on a train or in the queue for an ATM, why yell it at a passing women, with all the sophistication of curb crawling comments out the window.

Trumping those points of discussion is the only real question: are the comments unwelcome. If they are, then they are out of order. If you can't hazard a guess as to what constitutes harassment or not you should have stayed on a different article. Or in the 70sYou may be right, but lack of intellectual horsepower has never been an impediment to anyone of any political stripeMedia spun story. 

Lambie gives "entertaining" sound bites. This is why she is now sought after for comment on just about every topic. Poor Katter but feel a little left out.

This is an non issue. If she votes with PUP, win for Palmer. If she crosses the floor, Palmer claims his members are independent thinkers- another win for Palmer. Lambie does anything, win for the media who get their grab. It's a non story, folksThere have been, and will continue to be plenty of articles about Israel and its relations with its neighbours. I haven't done any coding but I'd suggest that the balance in those that prioritise the security of Israel and those that prioritise the social impacts on Palestinian civilians would be about 50/50. But the articles are just a touchstone for contributors, like you, to debate the issues. Some even make balanced, well considered cases. Be patient. This is not the appropriate topicThere's an anti Hungarian leftist lobby? I'm all ears!It's called an alternative viewpoint. Most of the Drum articles are written by white, middle class folks, with all of the assumptions and prejudices that you'd expect. Clementine Ford is a feminist, bringing a different set of assumptions and prejudices. If you don't want to read articles that challenge you, stick to the mainstream and take you foot off the brake of criticismTouche. I don't think wry means what you think it meansTalking under verbal abuse, not answering questions and speaking without answering qualifies one to be considered a good parliamentary performer, and therefore ministerial potential. Understanding how anything works is not, and is unlikely as most are career politicians. Brandis may buck this trend- I have no ideaAh...the old leftist, Muslim conspiracy chestnut. If only there were more decent Australians to rant from their rocking chairs at the tellieYou can't be serious, Joe? The Muslim Brotherhood's short term could hardly be labled any more corrupt or nepotistic than any other country. The list of government appointments that were given to MB members is very small indeed. As for trying to set up a religious dictatorship, they might have the word "Muslim" in their name but a theology they aint If the CWA was in the middle east their charter would espouse Islamic values. That's how they roll- I wouldn't read too much into it. It has never been common practice to support military coups on either of those claims

The real error was in their dealings with international finance. Morsi chose not to put up the state's assets for sale and chose to look for greater control over Suez. He chose not to get into bed with the IMF and he chose not to embrace the market "reforms" request of him. And it is common practice to support military coups based on those claims. So with a tap on the shoulder the Egyptian military, who's officer corps is a lot more loyal to the US and the gadgets they supply than they are to Egyptians, stepped in. We should at least be honest about the reasons
Likewise Joe. Egypt's internal affairs are it's own. Morsi ran and won an election under their old constitution- the one that was suspended by the military when they gave this the boot. I'm not sure what extra powers he gave himself that Mubarak did not. I'm suggesting nothing. I sip only daintily from the conspiracy cup myself and believe only what I read in the Guardian, Huffington Post and the Daily News Egypt when comes to the IMF. Perhaps they're all in cahoots? Now that would be conspiracy!What utter fantasy, devoid of a single fact or slither of evidence. You'll have to do much better than thatMorsi passed a decree making his edicts above judicial oversight and ordered a re-trial of Mubarak. I don't think people can decide which was worse. Mugabe, The House of Saud and a bunch of Emirs tells me that absolute rule is neither here nor there to western interests, and to pretend that it is lacks depth. The Egyptian military didn't act on their own, and internal politics is the much smaller cousin to international finance and strategic interests. Morsi didn't go because of any local agenda. He went because he turned out not to be someone the west could do business with. A theocracy that safeguards western interests is more welcome than a democracy that doesn't- any argument to the contrary belongs in the tabloidsTo be pedantic (and everyone else seems to be), Whitlam was never voted out of office. He was voted in once, was returned once and was defeated from opposition three timesI thought it strange at first that he didn't mention the other PMs (although he gave a nod to Fraser), but to be fair, JohnM, Pearson was there to eulogise the dead, not laud the living. It's too bad you are insulted, because I doubt they arePerhaps Abbott could lead the ALP and Turnbull the LNP and thus usher in a golden age of bipartisan leadership?I fear not. Not only is most commentary partisan, it's on a base, schoolyard level....but things really heat up after lunch after the texts and the emails have distributed their talking points and the one author, one post blogs really kick inIn 2014 it's considered acceptable for an indigenous Australian to be politically conservative. It is considered acceptable for such a person to deliver a funeral eulogy at a socialist's funeral. It's considered acceptable for an environmental party to endorse the words, and it's considered acceptable for the contemporary iteration of the same party to be politically opposed to the speaker. We tend to come out of the trenches for funeralThe actions of 40 years ago can't change the situation today. You should, in that case, save your criticism for the current government.Terry, if you are saying that Whitlam left indigenous Australians worse off then I'm open to hear your argumentI have absolutely no idea what you're complaining about. There's gap between what you're thinking and what gets typed. Could you be a bit clearer? Who was spat on? Which race? Who was pushing a barrow?

Happy birthday, barnsaxPearson has a station? Which one would that be. It is acceptable, you know, for an indigenous Australian to be politically conservative.It was a funeral eulogy. It wasn't a political science or history lecture. Calm downI don't agree. Police have been spruiking anti drink driving laws for years. The principle is in place alreadyThanks. I thought so. The issue is whether agencies support laws, not what those laws are. As they already are, this time is not newI don't necessarily disagree, barsnax, but police aren't really in the business of publicly supporting popular laws and not supporting divisive ones.Have you ever heard a defence chief say that a government decision to go to war was wrong or that they disagreed? It's their job to agree with those in power. Police chiefs routinely support the laws passed by legislators. Dissent is not on the agenda. At least not in public. Those in uniform don't represent the community. They represent those in powerYank, I don't have any faith in either uniformed agencies or governments. I merely point out this isn't new and this is we've always had. Were the military or police to openly disagree with the policies that they are tasked to execute then we might have something to really worry aboutI thought Brandis was given a fair hearing and he handled himself very well. He was sensible, authoritative and above all, candid. Most of the comments from the floor were of concern, not opposition. In fairness, you'd be hard pressed filling too many rooms with people who support the current measures. Maybe you watch a different ABC?The ADF, ASIO and the AFP work for the Federal government and they do what they're told....or is it the other way around?Of course they did. This isn't new. State police chiefs routinely share the mic whenever police ministers or premiers announce their new get-tough-on-crime schemes. Uniformed agencies are their to execute the policy of their political masters. They've never been neutralThat's certainly the theory that we were all brought up on, but now I wonder. The legislature controls the executive, which acts on its advice and serves at its pleasure. It is a rubber stamp. The judiciary operates via legislative appointment. Neither are subject to any outside scrutiny or public examination. The real powers of the three branches of government have come under legislative control. And our legislatures are under the control of two private political parties who are funded by the same interests. Much reform is needed to not only separate the powers but also to separate economic power from government. But I'm not holding my breathMore political partisanship masquerading as social commentary, made in the USA and coming to an Australia near youI think you're onto something, Terry, in that almost any attempt by a majority to intervene in the affairs of a minority will be open to charges of paternalism, or worse. On this site it is nearly impossible for an author to raise a problem without be told there is a bigger problem that they should be addressing. I too hope that there are ways for those in the majority (even white men) to be able to point out problems in minorities without them being told to look after their own problems first or simply look away.Graham, public pressure might, might have brought about these changes, but in penny packets over time. They hadn't been done before 1972 and no one has had an agenda on social reform since. Someone else may well have pushed through those things, someone else might well have done a lot of things. But they didn't, and he did. Financial and political farce will be forgotten long before that legacyThat's certainly the anecdote that I use to remind people how incompetent and naive his government was. But that won't be his legacy. Whitlam &amp; Co will be remembered for social reform- decades worth in only three years on matters we enjoy as a matter of course and almost assume they've always been around. But even that would have been forgotten were it not for the manner of his dismissal, which will probably remain as a Politics 101 essay for another forty years.Maybe if we ate horse we'd look at this differentlyThere goes my post-Cup bbq idea then...Just a question; do you kill animals as a part of your normal routine of natural acts?A much better comparison would be the number of elite athletes that have heart attacks at Olympic Games and other international events, and how many of them break their legs.Get ready for the Labor Party in Victoria who want to bring back cage fighting. I don't believe Kevin Andrews will be a contestantA thought provoking post!Thank for that, Noah. Are you might be in the business of breeding mozzies just to kill them for your sport ?And here you taking the time out of your busy schedule to read the article and throw in your thruppence. If by our entertainment we ware unnecessarily causing the deaths of animal then this is a human problem, not just a first world oneCat Stevens is a London born British subject and is touring the USA this yearAmerican political parties are are only so in name, with less than a barely vague hint of an ideology linking them. One can stand as a Democrat and then as a Republican with all the intellectual conviction of changing from tomato sauce to ketsup. Some Democrats are ultra conservative, some Republicans are liberal. They are unbidden by the party whips and vote as their campaign donors please. 

For those in their vassal states (that's us), whether the donkey or elephant is in charge makes not a spit of difference. Whoever sits in the big chair come 2017 will be just another American president. But it does make interesting TVI'm not convinced that we're sleep walking into totalitarianism, but we're certainly building the architecture and apparatus for itStealing someone's music? Stealing someone's activity? Tomato, tomatoPerhaps locking up the little guy for dissent will be the yardstick. Perhaps it will be not locking up the big guy for corruption. Metadata is to be used for a raft of measures- but political and corporate crimes won't be high on the list. The emails of Union officials, Obeid &amp; co and half the ranks of the NSW liberals are safe@yank I see the police are now firmly denying that the said sword was made of plastic. Given we know that it's a ceremonial sword which hangs in many people's homes, we might believe that it's not plastic but some other kind of polymer. Or rubberI don't want to hide. I just don't want to be monitoredHaneef could have cleared much quicker....but he was serving a political purpose at the time, and the longer he remained a suspect...Good point, Terry. "Leaked" emails, texts and tweets seem to be either a breach of privacy or the public's right to know depending on the speaker and situation. And most importantly, their politics. 

Every government that announced that they were collecting metadata began first by denying it. Then truth-creep slowly revealed the full extent. I strongly suspect that it's not just metadata, but rather the whole-box-and-dice-data and that this will come out in time. As my days of international espionage are behind me I have no personal skin in this game. 

My concern is that we might be unwittingly creating an apparatus of surveillance across out whole society, from phone calls to CCTV, from internet activity to cameras in every public place. And the only thing that stands between us and a future few of us would want, is a blind obedience and naive trust in a political system and media that has already proved unfit for the job.

Preventing this should be at the heart of social policy for the left and at the heart of the individual liberty of the rightProvided we both have the same edition/publication, I think the one you are talking about is a near-perfect system....unless some does a mutual inventoryThere is strong, bipartisan support, in all states, towards the interests of gamblingI'm not sure that voting against the LAB/LNP is quite the same as destroying half the world! Napthine has just signed off on some stikinkers of deals with construction and casino interests. The alternative is a fire brand, shop steward of yesteryear who would honour them. The voters may well flock to alternatives in droves. But this is just yet another example of the trend that's seeing people so utterly fed up with entrenched commercial and political interests voting for someone, anyone, who isn't LAB/LNPNapthine has steered a ship of fools in a moderately competent, jolly-man kind of way....right up to his secret deals. His best bet is Andrews, who's style might yet see him snatch defeat from victory. Watch for a major swing to minor partiesThey turned their blind eyeHow true. And with the liberal, democratic west propping up dictatorships in the face of a failed Arab spring those that should have been on the same side found themselves opposed. Like you say, it really is a strange worldSpot on again, Zing. The desire for democracy is for domestic consumption only. Foreign affairs is far too pragmatic for valuesThe 2013 picture in question shows McCain posing with the then head of the Free Syrian Army, General Salim Idris and some other Syrian rebels in front of a building flying a shahada-style flag. These flags are common, I have one framed in my living room. They are common that ISIS uses a variant. 

It is alleged that at least one of the rebels in shot is Mohammed Nour, chief spokesperson for the Northern Storm Brigade, responsible for the kidnapping of shi'ite pilgrims in Lebanon. The US organisation VoteVets first made the allegation that some were also ISIS members, an allegation repeated by Rand Paul, principally being that one in the photo was Khalid al-Hamad, the infamous heart-eating rebel@Ann- of course being neutral doesn't make you a supporter of the status quo any more than being unaware of an issue makes you a supporter of the status quo. Beware those that would make enemies of everyone other than their alliesYou're joking, right? Or you're playing with words. Look at every gulf state- a totalitarian dictatorship installed by and supported by the west. No Arab spring there. Ask some dead Bahrainians. Then there was Shah a Shah, King of Kings, heir to the Peacock Throne. These are you dictators. How did the west exploit them? By paying them tuppence for their resources and supplying them with arms to keep them on their thrones, peacock or otherwise.Our media has done a brilliant job of exposing and condemning those who would go and fight against Baghdad, right after having praised those who went there to fight against Damascus. As it's turning out that they are the same people, the excuses and backflips are a sight to beholdThe media source you're on right now, for starters. You've obviously missed the anti-Assad stories over the last few years. Perhaps you were too busy reading the paranoid, conspiracy ones?What's wrong with being anti-Assad? Nothing I'm aware of. What's your point?ABC headlines:

Jan, 2013: Rudd calls on world to arm Syrian rebels

Mar 2013, Britain hints at arms for Syrian rebels

The Drum Tweeted, "Is it time for the West to consider military intervention in Syria? #TheDrum"

On a Drum article on possible military intervention in Syria on 28th and 30th August 2013, the usual contributors expressed their unreserved support and praise of the rebels. 

And there were other headlines of endorsement on the ABC to the tune of : "Obama signed deal to support rebels" and "Obama Says U.S. Will Recognize Syrian Rebels"

This is praise for the rebels


Sea Monster. My apologies. I wasn't clear. I meant any who fight there, regardless of origin and those that support them.Do you remember the British SAS soldiers who were out of uniform in Iraq? They were captured by the Iraqi security forces and had to be "rescued" from a police station by their comrades.....possibly before they were tried and executed. If you need to jog your memory, it was in September 2005 in Basra and widely reported at the time.These folks are certainly an issue to be concerned about, but I think the postulation that they'll all return to and try to destroy Australia is about as unlikely as the communists returning from Spain were plotting to overthrow the state. If someone is of a mind to go to Iraq and join ISIS, are they not already dangerous enough? Are they not already motivated enough to kill innocent Australians? If so, they could save themselves an airfare as Aussies are pretty thin on the ground in Baghdad. Unless, of course, their aims aren't really about Australia, unless they see the front line as being in Iraq or unless they plan on changing the world or die trying. Once their survivors are chased out of Iraq they'll scurry off to the next middle eastern country of opportunity.Are you trying to convince us that there are market places where you can buy Yazidi girls? In this day and age where every single phone has a camera, and there's no one piece of evidence? Do you know where they are? You need to read sources other than the Syrian Observatory of Human Rights. What with all the murdering, beheading, raping, enslaving, crucifictions and flaying of skins its a wonder ISIS has any time left for fightingOffending you is not my aim, Sea Monster. Please don't be offended when I say that I scarce believe a thing said in the media about ISIS, primarily because they are the 'enemy' and are unlikely to be given a hearing. Secondly, so much has been proven false: execution of Iraqi army prisoners (debunked by The Times), ISIS's 5yr plan and world map- proved a fake, ISIS using Bitcoin- hoax, destruction of Jonah's Tomb- didn't happen, Indonesian advertisements for sex workers for ISIS- fabricated, Chaldean beheadings of Christians (turned out to be rival Muslim factions), burying alive- faked story, photos of women in chains for sexual bondage- old photos of shi'ite procession in Lebanon, the four westerner captives killed were all suspected of being spies (spoke Arabic, ex-military etc), the starving Christians-on-the -Mount were found by US SEALS to be in far smaller numbers and in far better condition than reported. You can imagine my surprise. 

ISIS are insanely dangerous and violent ex-Ba?athists, sunni separatists, anti-Shia, pro wahabi rebels. But they the legion of the damned they aint.

The USA is back in Iraq to secure it's resources and political structure in the region, as well taking an opportunity to get rid of Assad. Australia is there because it's cheaper than running our own, full sized defence force, which the alliance provides. 

But that reason would cause public outcry, so some outrages are needed to stifle opposition. And it's worked. No protests. Bipartisan support. 

Once we're all honest, the issues become clearerI think their anti-shia venom is directed at the shia dominated, US backed government in Baghdad rather than shia in general. ISIS seem to have the same level of venom aimed at other sunni groupsI agree. ISIS behaviour, for who has a clue as to their theology, strategy or motivation that doesn't come via intelligence agencies, is deeply offensive to everyone other than ISIS. This is why their they couldn't fill the 'Gabba with their members. Given their location and so-called grievances, and given their alleged global appeal, they are a pathetic failure. It shows how out of step, out of touch and out of their minds they are. Unless, of course, they are just a rebel group selected to be the next enemy de jure to justify further intervention. Then it all makes a little more senseI've not read any reports on the organisational structure of ISIS. Other than the mysterious Baghdadi, there's almost no information as to their composition, strategy or even motivation- excluding western government reports. I see no evidence of any political stripe, so terms like left wing or right wing seem meaningless. I strongly suspect that we're all using the word "fascist" now because it is short hand for baddie. If we could call ISIS paedophiles, I'm sure we'll do that tooAbsence of communism doesn't equate to fascism. Perhaps they lack an economic model? Perhaps they fundamentalist religious types don't sit on the left-right scale? 

Everyone else on this site and pretty much elsewhere uses the term fascism as a baddie word. It's good that you don'tI've never met a Muslim who had heard of the virgins-in-heaven prior to it being a point of ridicule about a decade ago. It's certainly not taught to kids or adults, forms no part of any commentary or description on heaven and hold no place in any of the sunni schools. It's a little bit like saying every Christian believes that the gates of heaven are made of pearl, opened by St Peter in person and rest on fluffy clouds adorned with flying cherubs.A coalition of ex- Ba'athists, sunni separatists, anti-shia, wahabbis-r-us, anti-western and religious fundamentalists might be closer to the mark. The Saudis you mention aren't that interested in Iraqi or Syrian politics. Unlike ISIS- the clue is in their nameI've never really understood your position on this one, so I'll be polite enough to ask:

Are you saying that there has been no impact on the environment due to industrialisaiton? 

Are you saying the climate has not been affected? 

If you are saying that the climate has changed, what do you think the cause is?

Do you you see an increase in industrialisation as being neutral toward the environment? Will it make things worse or somehow better?

You have the floorYou confuse pan-Arab nationalism with political IslamIf you think our civilization started with ancient Greece, you could claim equally that Islamic culture started there too. Check your DNA. Anything Greek there?I hear plenty of Christians talk of serving their lordZep used, reused, rehashed and adapted plenty of old numbers and fashioned them into raw rock. So what?I agree, yank, that people should make noise and express dissatisfaction on this, or any other issue. I don't agree that 17yr olds with guns are trifling. Our own army recruits 17yr olds, who with the power of invicibility and fearlessness that comes with that age, are far more dangerous than 37yr olds with guns.@yank, if the peanuts were actively conspiring to choke you then a case might be made. Otherwise it's an accident. 

There are lots of factors at play here, most of them exaggerated, many of them confected. Some are real, more are imaginary. You've got no argument there. Whilst some nong with a gun in Iraq is little threat, my point is that the age of the nong is irrelevant. If you really think that a 17yro is less dangerous than a 18yro or a 28yro you need your head read. Of all the factors in play here, age is of the least concern. The threat, or more accurately, the lack thereof, is not related to the age of the person. That's a furphy. A red herring. Constantly trying to use it as a debating tool, as a rhetorical device undermines the rest of your argument. 17yro are very dangerous- ask someone who has grown up in the South Side of Baghdad...a case solved by the murderer admitting to the crime, showing the police the murder scene and pleading guiltyIt makes you wonder why no-one seems to be able to get their hands on Eddie Obied's metadata...The Meagher case is often trotted out as a shining example as to why agencies should have access to people's communications. And it makes a compelling case if we assume that the case could have in no way have been solved without it. If you don't make that assumption we're back to asking what the rationale isI agree, Dave. Everyone is so used to playing on "day three" pitches for limited overs matches, which have evolved into having all the deviation of a billiard table. Personally, I'd go back to uncovered pitches and sticky wickets, but in the meantime it's nice to see the odd green top or crumbling pitch. It allows for a broader spectrum of bowling types and makes for a more engaging contest between bat and ball (based on my years of representative beach and backyard cricket)As there's a benefit to both the individual and the nation for tertiary education, the issue is how much each should pay. Arguments of none versus everything are immaterial....but just watch the party political cheerleaders try to make themYank, good pick up. What I was trying to say was that there are in fact very few who think universities should be 100% student paid or 100% state paid. The real debate lies in what the mix is. Absolutes are rarely held as positions but are often seen as accusationsYour argument would be strengthened by a mention of what subject matter you deem worthyHave you considered extending your plan to those who have received any free medical aid in their lives too?Maybe. A co payment that influences demand is the aim here...but whose need of medical treatment is influenced by $7?That's right. Does it get paid for in advance or on demand? Is it a service or a commodity? Is it designed for social benefit or private profit? Honest questions that seem to elude honest debateI don't agree. This is not a child. This a young man, albeit shy of his majority, but man enough to be responsible for his actions. 

He's run away to join what is likely known to be a terrorist organisation at worst, a rebel outfit in a civil war at best. Knowing that this was illegal. Knowing that this would involve killing people he doesn't know. 

His motives are not the issue. That's for sentencing. His actions are the issue and I don't buy the whole naughty boy memeWhat you say is true, Helvi. I would add that the push factors that you list are equaled by the pull factors of adventure, derring do and a sense of manliness. In my greener days, the talk was about running away to Rhodesia to join the Selous Scouts. The rest entered RMC. There is little point in reckoning, understanding, rationalising, excusing or explaining why young men want to go and join a fight, other to say that they are young. They are also old enough to carry the full burden and penalty of what they doChild? Kid? He's old enough to pay the price for this actionsIf the qur'an urges followers to kill, and some do, and the new testament urges followers not to kill, and some do, you'd conclude that the holy writ isn't the most powerful factorAny migrant community will have elements attracted to wars in their states of origin. Remember those training camps in Australia when Yugoslavia began to disintegrate? There are Australians involved in central American and African conflicts but these aren't the terrorists de jure. The current crop of idiots have some absolved by religion, others trying to fight who they see as their imperialistic foes and some that see it as some kind of adventureBecause it's a middle eastern group that hides behind religion. It's hardly going to sound enticing to QuakersKhaleda Zia has been PM of Bangladesh for a couple of years now, with another woman, Sheikh Hasina before her

Roza Otunbayeva, was President of Kyrgystan

Atifete Jahjaga is President of Kosovo

There's been a female PM in Turkey, Minsters in Jordan, Bahrain, Sengal and even Iran

The Indonesian marriage process is a byzantine paper shuffle to frustrate anyone. It is tiresome, intrusive, at times bewildering. But I can assure you it does not involve a virginity test. The Fred Nile's of Islam do exist but on this one you're reading from the wish lists of a minority, not factual realityI don't think Australia is free of homophobia just yetI suppose that they are, in the same way that Australia is a Christian country....something many would debateIt's always a balance between the self interested, greedy and corruptible commons of direct democracy with the self interested, greedy and corruptible interest groups of representative democracy. Both would and do pass laws for endless handouts, to get away with crime and to disrupt the democratic processNot that it would matter, Joe. Having read it or not won't change your voting intention. When was the last time anyone crossed the floor?Most Muslim majority countries separate church and state. What are you on about?

Australia drifts further from Christian values each year, out of religious apathyOther than Honduras, Nicaragua, Israel or Ulster?I'm not too sure about that, Zing. Countries with few social problems rarely breed terrorismIt was spectacularly successful during both the post war reconstruction and the dismantling of the Iron Curtainmike- I agree that feeling excluded is not the source of terrorism. Given that most Muslim terrorists come from Muslim countries, then it's unlikely that the cause is any inherent Islamic lack of exclusiveness either. Political grievances and ambitions is often a culpritI'd have thought the issue versus the US vastly outweighs the issue versus Sunni/shia, which in itself is little more than sectarianism
ISIS are rebels in the Iraqi civil war, with the goal of toppling what they see as a western backed regime in Baghdad. If they wanted to strike at Shiite culture all they need do is attack Iran. Both your geopolitics and theology are wrongI hate to be the one to break it to you, but there's a lot of blue sky between what a holy book says and how it's adherents live their lives. The Papacy is on the record as believing the whole of the bible...except for the bits they ignore, underplay or explain away. Every religion is a pick n mix. Just because the qur'an is the word of god doesn't mean people live their lives accordingly. That's why their are branches, schools and sects of Islam. It's a big tent. Quoting the gory bits of ancient texts might be fun around the campfire but adds nothing to the debate.Have you not read the latest memo? The new word is "integration"The left has a policy to smash western culture? There goes your credibility in one comical phraseThey do. And they share it with all the other partiesISIS isn't interested in Australia. They want to overthrow the Iraqi and Syrian governments. The clue is in the name@GRF, I think it was the USA that changed their name from ISIS to ISIL to IS. Their own name has remained unchanged. 

Anyone can throw up their shingle and declare a Caliphate and many have done so without ever having controlled or claimed Mecca. 

Given the low turnout of ISIS recruits (made all the more amazing given where they are) they will be gone very soon, other than as a bogeyman to be used over the yearsYou're the fourth contributor on these two related stories to suggest that their political opponents want to blame this Canadian tragedy on the Prime Minister. Is this a "talking point"?It's not fear for fear's sake. It's fear for strategic and foreign policy sake.

Being allied with the Americans and assisting them in their adventures will always make Australia some kind of target. You can't go and fight people in other countries and not expect someone, at some time, for whatever reason, to want to fight people here. The threat is inelastic and the costs may be reckoned against the benefits of the alliance. 

Of course the recent hypes, beginning around June (?) and coinciding with the Iraqi ISIS rebels capture of the northern oil fields are engineered to prevent opposition to a new war. And it's worked: minimal protests, marches, rallies, political opposition or media scrutiny. 

But no threat at home, no reason to be abroad. So we peddle fear. We must be cautious not to hunt witches, vilify minorities or discard civil rights in our reasonable desire to feel safeIf we were at war against Burma or Tibet, all the loony Buddhists would be coming out of the woodpile. I think the religion of the nutters is deeply tied to the countries we are at war withReligions are pretty all equally peaceful and violent. It's the people that follow them that make the differenceIt's always a fine line between the second sight and the bleeding obviousA 17yr old is just as dangerous as a 27yr old. This persons age has no impact on his threat or lack thereof. It is immaterial. You are sounding a wee bit like he's 7. The issue is people leaving Australia to fight over there and here is proof that another one has slipped out. That makes the tally bugger all. That makes another one dedicated to overthrowing middle eastern regimes. That doesn't necessarily follow that he or the others are planning to come back and if they do, to kill Australians. But whilst it doesn't hurt to be careful we should be ever cautious that we're not all getting a bit hysterical.Indeed he did and it's the difference between making a threat and being a threatI can be tricky to be certain of the motives of the deadWhat on earth makes you think Australian domestic politics is a left-right issue?The best way to prove you are not a racist is to not make racist comments. Can it be any simpler?If you agree that the words were inappropriate then the only issue that remains is that he got caught. Caught committing those words onto his employers propertyOne is far, far more likely to affect someone than the otherRegardless of the medium, employees often accept the fact that their emails aren't their own as a condition of employment. Anything composed on employer property remains that of the employer.

When the leaked emails are from politicians no-one seems to care....or those deemed security risksThe national interest does seem to mean whatever the speaker (or writer) wants it to mean...because it was written by someone with subject matter knowledge and not by a 'commentator'History has been very kind to Gough and will continue to be for some time to come. He had his short comings which fade next to his achievementsI wonder which country with democracy isn't also a disfunctional, corrupt basked case?They're just strangers in a strange land, doing the things that they've done their whole lives. It's improbable that their Australian born descendants will continue the traditions of the old country. In the meantime, it's their choice. That it distances them from the mainstream is their harmless choiceKev- you can't walk into a bank wearing a face covering. It's been the law for some years- keep upYou don't think someone in a burqa, running down the street with their skirt hitched up wouldn't be obvious? And about as likely as someone in a Humphrey B Bear suite. Normally, normal people debate what to do after some unlikely event has taken place- how about we tackle this if it ever does, because what are we really tackling? People in baggy clothes? People in black? People with facial covering? Or is it just muslims? Given that the only people who seem to be in favour of legislating women's clothes are also anti muslim, I wonder..Neither of major parties are willing or able to differentiate between those that might be violent extremists and those that aren't, and in order to prevent opposition to the obligations of alliance, the government and their media deliberately conflate the two. 

Any risk assessment would place those women in Australia that cover their face for religious reasons as being rather low. This goes some way in explaining why none have been detained, arrested, charged or convicted. The people that conduct such risk assessments have others at the top of their list. 

This is nothing but bad theatre, poor politics and cheap propagandaYou're probably right about the left being in support...for reasons that make little sense. This was an opportunity of the right, of liberalism, libertarians and supporters everywhere of freedom and rights. And the opportunity went begging. The political right dropped a sitterAnyone can have a pistol stuffed down their frillies- why is everyone so fixated on AKs? Anyone can wear a fake beard. I'll bet you can't remember the faces of people you see walking down the street- you are clutching at anything to prop up your preconceived ideasFacial covering legislation was passed in 2011 requiring anyone with facial covering to be compelled, on pain of fines and gaol terms to reveal to authorised people for good cause. 'Nuff saidIt would be more popular if they banned blue tiesPlenty of people have been robbed by men in stockings or helmets. Has anyone ever been robbed by people in burqa? This seems the lamest and most fantastical excuse of all. Better stay at home this halloween in case any of the revelers are really robbersFascinating to think that someone might think that government buildings were the most important parts of Australia or that they would even be a target!What of people who choose to not leave their homes, for whatever reason? They are cutting themselves off from society. Would you have them paraded through the streets so that you might snatch a peek, like Lady Godiva? Or perhaps you and the neighbours could line up and gawk through the shuttersIn Ireland you get bonus marks for subjects done in Gaelic. Rather than specifying the language, bilingualism in general would be of great academic and national benefitYou are correct that there are too few conservative or liberal articlesBeing bilingual is left wing? That has to be the post of the century. But you're secret is safe with me...I reckon the last drought was caused by the ALPISIS is lots of things, but a threat to global security it is not. It's a localised rebellion in Syria and Iraq. The first clue is in the name. It hadn't acted abroad. It also had less members than Hillsong. For an Islamic movement in the middle east its recruitment is pathetic. Muslims have been staying away in droves. But without a past, structure, leadership, funding, arms, HQ or agenda, they suite our needs to a tee. They can be who we want, where we want, do what we want and last as long as Al Q.GRF- I said the name is indicative of the location, not the threat

You know nothing of them that didn't come via the US State Department- the stories about  global caliphate are as fantastically invented as they are impossible

They have a countable global support base. Countable by, at the most, hundreds. More people go to Andre Reieu concerts

The threat to us comes from ourselves, not bunch of wannabe-maybes

Wake up and smell the propagandaOur democracy should only begin with choosing legislative representatives. Unfortunately, that's where it endsI think it ends there because I didn't have a choice of candidate selection, because I only got to choose legislators, that the executive is subsumed by parliament, that all other organs of government, administration and power are appointed. And that's all without mentioning corruption, interest groups and lobbying.Fine ideas. We live in hopeJesus might have lived and there's plentry of anecdotal evidence to suggest he did.

Equally, he might not have. He might be the myth sum of a few people.

Perhaps an inspirational message of inclusion and redemption is enoughI don't understand what you're askingGoof for you for respecting so many people. I've lost count of the religious who've protested against the issueI'd suggest that early Islam was actively trying to coalesce Arabian paganism whilst at the same time trying anchor the new faith to the Judeo Christian empires to their west and strong communities in their midst. Their acknowledgement of Jesus, centuries after, is no evidence.Very true, although no doubt you're aware that we know of many historical figures by less evidence, sometimes by single inscriptions and sometimes by references centuries  later. Something or some people or someone inspired a Judaic movement in the generations after Roman occupation which took hold in the diaspora communities. Jesus shmesus. It's possible it was one man, and as we can't disprove it, I'm happy for believers to have a historical messiah.It's not a bad thing. It's probably a neutral thing. How do you figure it's a good thing?I'd be cautious in using either the bible or the qur'an as primary reference booksWars are worst for civilians. They're not good for our damaged veterans either. Journalists, it would seem, aren't immune either. This is why we should be trying to prevent people going to wars for recreation or ideologyIndeed. Politicians routinely vote for bills they don't understand or haven't read. And the people vote for issues they don't understand based on media spun personalities and five second sound bites.You might need a better word than flawedThat's a lot of tendingWhether social science or chemistry have political biases is one line of argument. Which institutions teach which courses is another. You confuse both and explain neither. Pick oneLeftists have an agenda? The only agenda I've seen that the left has had is privatisation, deregulation and downsizing. What have you seen?If the university's are left wing, they've been educating a conservative voting population.

You could make the same case for the ABC. LNP supporters should count their blessings and not upset the apple cartThe only affect prayer has is on the individual. It could also be achieved through other activities. Everyone enjoy their own versionIt's a good thing that Muslims don't get any special treatment then, isn't it?Yeah. Maybe Helvi could start a global car manufacturing multinational or build some submarinesWasn't the eureka flag banned once on building sites because of it's association with criminal unions? Symbols and slogans are typically neutral. It's what they come to stand for that's important.I don't love houses and I'm not moving. I don't love suburbs and I'm not selling. I don't love states and I'm not relocating. I don't love countries and I'm not leaving. 

Companies can make their own commercial decisions on their stock.People who feel love for intangibles like nation states are in need of help. Not overly fond is not the only alternative to love.If you change the government you only change the faction running the same structures for the same interestsCan't we just see the black box data and be done with it?Perhaps Australia isn't the best country to lecture others on armed interventionsSome good, under reported themes, AnnBut we've never had a fifth column?Perhaps it's the difference between privacy and secrecyOur current definition of terror all but excludes acts of violence by non Muslims. Muslims are generally part of an ethnic minority, so it's not a long bow to call it racist. It's lazy but it's that far from the truth.One million members world wide by their own PR. That's less than Hillsong. Out of 1.6 billion Muslims, they are such fringe players they're not even worth quoting....unless we just want to further depict Muslims as frothing maniacs. Perhaps we could interview Ibrahim Conlon again?I think these terrorists have already fired a couple of shots...but in fairness I doubt that ISIS has "erode civil liberties in Australia" very high on their strategic planWhich countries would these be?How quickly we forget the western media coverage of, the state response to and the opinions posted here about the Occupy movements.As most people don't make any money from maths or science your argument is empty- perhaps you are ranting about your own preferences or is it lack of ability?Everyone needs semblances of everything with weighting going to personal choice. Why make someone kick a ball, paint a picture, toot a tune, recite The Bard or master the periodic table if they have no aptitude....unless to expose people to at least the existence of other realms? I doubt we are dragging the next generation of laureates out of their labs for compulsory finger paintingIt is now. And in a wonderfully creative and artistic wayIt's not working. We've produced a nation of fat adults. Maybe that argument is dated? In Australia, the more sports we have the more obese we becomeDrowning is not a pull factorReligion holds an important place in anthropology, history, philosophy, art and music. It should not be taught in science.Would it be less biased if they were mainly pro LNP?Or, you could just not watch the shows you don't like? I'm not a fan of British murder mysteries but I'm not hysterical about itI don't watch ABC news because it's rubbish but I'm not calling for an end to the entire service. I just watch something else.

I look forward to the haters showing their commitment by quitting The Drum instead of continually plumping up the ratings with their commentsWhilst the topic has also been debated on anti terrorist and pro government fora, the only place for foreign policy debate that matters is parliamentYou may be right, but he wasn't a modern scientist. He was an ancient Greek in a toga doing a lot of speculation.We have a type of democracy. A version of democracy. And it extendeds beyond what we can vote for and into what we can't: preselectipn, cabinet posts, the PM and the GG. It includes the union movement, the judiciary, lo by groups and business influence. Confining the focus on parliament excludes a broader realityTB, your personal bias had really got the better of you on this one. People of all religions have won Nobel prizes for science and hold professorial positions in the finest universities. And people of all religions hold bronze age beliefs about the world and subscribe to rewards in the afterlife.If Islam was evenly spread across ethnic groups in Australia and most were ockers, it's unlikely people would mind or be phobicAnd yet these barbaric practices don't exist in democracies, only dictatorships. When given every opportunity to vote for these fundamentalist parties, muslims reject them time and again and in every country where they vote.

Given we don't have the death penalty, would you describe the US as having a "violent legal system"? The largest muslim population doesn't even have sharia or Islam mentioned in their constitution.

You crude selection of facts don't even fit your argumentEveryone else can tell the difference between "religious zealots" who are agitating and causing trouble, and peaceful people living their own lives. Everyone else can differentiate between people who don't want to fit in and people who display an attachment to their original culture. 

But you make a choice not to and you make your pre-judgement based on religion. As you couldn't tell a male Muslim from a manbag, you have decided to vent what little fury you have left on women who don't even want to break bread with the likes of you. Thankfully the autumn of these attitudes and the relics that still cherish them are passing into winter.Can you name any religion of peace?It's bold face audacity for the ABC to be one the one hand fueling as much fear and hatred of Muslims as it can to both fulfill the needs of its political masters and to try and get viewers to change over from The Bachelor, and then to try and run a couple of soppy articles telling us how the Australian Muslims are put upon.

Had the ABC ever hired a journalist they'd run stories on how ISIS has less members than Hillsong, that they didn't blow up the tomb of Jonah, that the pictures of enslaved women were shiites in a 2013 Lebanese procession, that the Syrian Rights Observatory is a discredited one-man job out of north London, that the Christians-on-the-Mount weren't even there, that the official number of Australians in Iraq is less than ten or that the beheadings in Mosel were rival Muslim cut throats. If the ABC had any credibility they would challenge government statements, they would have questioned rubber swords instead of running live entertainment coverage of the raids and they would find some bona fide Islamic community leaders instead of digging up minority fringe players who are the Muslim equivalent of Fred Nile to steal ratings from A Current Affair. 

Rant overCan one advocate hate of Jews, Judaism or the Holocaust without let?@Zing- I know you are a supporter of the state, which I respect, even if we might disagree sometimes in the margins. I was just curious on your personal differentiation between hate, hate speech etcI think he handled the interview poorly because, in part, he's an idiot within an idiot group. Even by their own PR their global membership is one million. Out of 1.6 billion, that's a fail. But then again, it would seem that if recruitment figures are anything to go by, anyone's Caliphate is a lame product in the Muslim world. Most would seem to be attached to their countryThere is more firepower in that photo than with ISIS, but if the locals need more help against those plastic swords I'm sure they'll get itIraq is begging so hard it's taken months to involve their patrons and months more to agree to ground troops. One of the most casual emergencies in memory. More time wad taken to prepare western public opinionGiven ISIS's failure to attract legions of Arabs to their cause and given the utter flop of their international recruitment drive, they are unlikely to appeal to the Turks. 

One aircraft carrier could vapourise ISIS, if that were the goal. If that's what we were really trying to do.Coogara, allow me some license! My point is only that ISIS can in no way be compared militarily to the forces arrayed against them. Their ideology is a flop and Muslims in the region are staying away in droves. They couldn't fill a ballpark with their numbers. More people go to HillsongIt's a to-scale model of the region. The tanks represent Turkey. The guy is ISISOne is the attorney general. The other one isn'tHow many left wing people own media? Stokes? Packer? Murdoch? Institutional shareholders? 

Owners control editorial line, not employeesFor sure. The same happens with religion. There are shootings, sieges and stand offs involving police, assaults and murders without the person's religion ever being mentioned. Unless they're MuslimYou're absolutely right. I follow the media on this issue very closely indeed and I can say that the media actively suppresses discussion and stories on how Islam is a reasonably boring, uneventful religion practiced by a diverse and unrelated number of small communities in Australia. The media stifles stories about people going to work, paying taxes, following the footy, joining the police and the military, being elected to parliament and packing lunches to send their kids to school. The media omits mention that most of the world's Muslims live in a democracy and the others wish they did too. The media stifles debate over the fact that Muslims aren't a homogenous group and with different nationalities, ethnicities, languages and political views only have a religion in common that is fragmented and in many cases only tenuously related. 

Instead we are force fed a fantasy where every Muslim is a member of some coordinated, global movement, where rubber swords threaten our lives and whose women possess faces we simply must see before we have a breakdown. The commentary on religious belief and practice is never from a Muslim and the only ones we'll interview are the Islamic version of Fred Nile. 

You will no doubt recall that Muslims only became bad people in the media ever since we went to war in the middle east. All wars need justification and if you're going to attack countries in that part of the world for geo-political reasons then religion would be your best excuse. Go back and read the media from the 1980s and 1990s to refute that. But you won't and you can't.

And yes, sometimes your posts don't get through. The people who moderate posts do other things, you know. And with all the concurrent articles, some get missed. It happens to all of us, your views are not being censored by some latte sipping ABC employee. In a burqaI suspect the rubber scimitar was a direct result of the government badgering the AFP/ASIO etc to arrest someone, anyone that they have their eye one, regardless of the lack of evidence to coincide with the middle eastern deployment. Everyone knows there's no follow up story and by the time anyone figures it all out our troops will be in place and it will go by the wayside. Like WMD. Like anthrax. Like the liquid airline bomb plot. The shoe bomber. Underpants bomber. Endless cobblers about ISIS. But it's better the the soapsThe ABC only differs from commercial news in that there are no ads and the journalists read their scripts with less facial expressions. It's called gravitasYou'd know if your media was biased because they'd only cover international events from an American perspective or if the President got more airtime than the PM. You'd guess the media was impartial if they only covered overseas events that were of interest to the alliance. You'd think that they were biased if they never showed contrary or divergent opinions. 

If, on a domestic front, the media uncritically broadcast political announcements, repeated statements without question and omitted any dissent of the status quo then that too might be evidence of bias.Other privately owned and run religious schools have their own dress codes. If you object, dont send your kids or apply for a jobIt is offensive in our culture to purposefully cover your face in public with a ski mask. It is not offensive in our culture to purposefully cover your face in public with a Santa beard. It's all about context and rationale. If you know a woman is wearing a covering for a religious or cultural purpose then there is an explanation.Some women want to wear it, either out of habit, a sense of piety or a range of other reasons. It is incorrect to assume all are forced to do so. It symbolises repression to you, not to themWomen in burqas are hardly invisible. They stand out like no-bodies business. They interact with people of their choosing and if may be interracted with by anyone. Just say helloI know. But don't hate them for wearing itThe difference being Australia doesn't have laws dictating what you can wear, although it seems those that do are posting here todayMark, there is. The law on facial coverings was passed a couple of years ago.I had thought you better informed or at least capable of research:

ACT Assembly passed laws to allow police to force the removal of burqas, helmets, hats and other clothing concealing a person's identity in 2012. Parliament House should still be in the ACT

The Identification Legislation Amendment Act 2011 (NSW) gves gives police, and other designated public officers the power to request that a person remove a face covering for the purpose of identification

WA passed the Criminal Investigation (Identifying People) Amendment Act 2013 (CIIPA) allowing police to require a person to remove a face covering or do any other thing for the purposes of identification

Need I go on?


Why don't you just ask women in burqas what they want and spare us your confected concern for MuslimsIt's nothing to do with shame. It's about having ones body parts visible only in private. We have our taboos, they have theirsI've never claimed it's a majority preference. We allow men to go bare breasted in summer but not women. Where have you been?Left unchecked? ISIS is plumb in the middle east, the home of Islam and it can't recruit enough people to fill a footy stadium. Those not blasted by the yanks will slink home for tea in no time. Global threat my turbanEven better, as we can't find many of them, they won't take up many cellsWhat about normal Muslim preachers and leave the radical ones at homeThe biggest problems facing Australia are home madeSome minority religious groups think handling snakes is a pat of their religion, for others it's being ritually crucified in Latin America or ritually scourged on a martyr's anniversary. Others have confession and others in Amish country, Ultra Orthodox Jewish land and much of the Muslim world think headscarves are holy. And then there are those who cover their face in public. Part religion, part culture, part local, all minority.We hardly even see Muslims joining ISIS. Slap bang in the middle of the sunni Islam world, among people of the same faith, ethnicity and linguistic group and in a place you can drive your car to, and they couldn't even fill a footy stadium. As a PR, marketing and recruitment effort they are a total failure. You'd sack their head of international recruitment too: 1.6 billion potentials, maybe a couple of hundred actuals. Hopeless. 

Muslims are staying away in the droves. Of course those few that are joining are citing religion, but so are the hundreds of millions who aren't. Do the math. They have some tens of thousands of the ignorant laity, but not one single scholar, not one single credentialed cleric from the whole Islamic world has joined them. Not one. ISIS have all the spiritual credibility as an AK47Interestingly enough this "threat" didn't exist before the the US wanted to return to IraqThe other reason for their success is that there aren't many foreign fighters to begin withLowering the burden of proof should compliment the lack of evidence rather nicelyIf the debate was "some Muslims do xyz" or "some Muslims' do abc" then the issues would be able to be isolated and discussed in detail. But the debate is "all Muslims do 123". What we frequently hear are accusations about the beliefs and behaviour of wahhabis-r-us which are then implied and applied across a global religion. The issues you mentioned are debated and discussed in parts of Islam. It is a broad mosqueThere is nowhere a motorcycle helmet needs to be removed where a face covering (burqa, niqab) does not. It's the law, has been for some years and was specifically written for these instances. That's a red herring. 

Currently, visitors to Parliament don't have to show photo ID. They don't have to compare formal identify to their face. So that's a red herring too,

There's never been a security issue because of one of the 300-odd burqa clad women in Australia. So the threat is potential at best, imaginary at worst. This smacks of the "threat" ten years ago of terrorists stuffing explosives into their very bodies through surgical means or pretending to be pregnant in order to blow themselves up on planes. And we all know how many of them happened. 

As for burqas being a sign of repression, no joke. Of course it is. But before we all use that flimsy excuse to further engage in Muslim-bashing, have a think about all of the repressive and sexist elements of our own culture that, because it is so close, we have difficulty seeing. Or more commonly, choose to ignore.

Some interviews with women who actually wear a burqa might add something to this debate. But don't hold your breathYou'd be hard pressed to find a court judgement on unlawful killings or war crimes except for the troops on the lowest rungs on the ladderPretending to hold a position that a crime has only been committed after a conviction in a western court is revealing. The Vietnamese government charged western troops with war crimes and even convicted some in absentia. By your claimed rationale, those accused would be guilty. But you don't follow your own logic and we all know why. 

Likewise, when the west accuses another state of war crimes you claim that they are guilty and must prove their innocence; a position you've held for both Syria and Iran. 

You have so many standards you've got two sets of themHey, I like the guy too, but lets not be so naive to think that in this political climate that this was done without him knowingWho from left says they support them?Because we are a democracy? Because their reasons were different? Because we don't take our legislativecueues from the middle east? Because we aren't Turkey?Surely concealing your face is only an issue when you need to establish your identity? I can check myself into a domestic flight and never have to show anyone photo ID. I could be in a bear suite for all that matters. 

Perhaps if crimes were likely, like walking into a bank, then removal of face coverings would be a good idea. Maybe that's why people have to show their faces as updated in the 2011 legislation. 

I'd love to read the committee minutes on the discussion of what to do if the first women ever did come to Parliament House dressed in a burqa. But do you know what I reckon? The was no meeting. It was a political directive, because this isn't about identity, and it's not about Islam. Most Muslim women don't even wear one. 

It's about maintaining a domestic fear to justify another war. This is why the charges laid over the spectacular raids will be a fizzer. This is why we'll found how just how pathetically few Australians were ever in the middle east. This is just a big PR job, believed only by those who've never left their sofasIt's the PM's job to know of these issue, so saying he didn't and it was all the work work of the Speaker is untrue. He's either lying or incompetent. 

The fabricated issue was timed just before a Parliamentary recess so that is would have some time in the public domain before it was overturned. It has already served its purpose, which is to add some more justifications to the our newest war. Were Labor is power, they'd have done exactly the same thing. 

You are missing something.Dead wrong, Zing. If this was a about security the government would have simply changed the entry requirements to Parliament, requiring everyone to verify their identity with photo ID. On the unlikely event that someone wearing a face covering wanted in, they could have asked them to remove it either for the check or for the duration of their visit. 

But they didn't. They chose an option and timing calculated to make it a major news story at a time when every government statement and media coverage is scratching for reasons to promote domestic terror threats to justify our latest war. 

It is nothing to do with securityIslamophobia and antsemetism operate in the way racism operates. It's leas about the race and more about the ismPeople have been going through metal detectors for years. Don't be so sillyWomen wear bikinison the beaches of Indonesia, Turkey, Maldives off the top of my head. Arabia is a theocratic monarchy known for it's repression. Australia is a secular democracy. No comparisonWith the dutiful regurgitation of the government line on world events I'd imagine the ABC will continue it's role as establishment mouthpiece for some time yetSince the advent of digital technology, media has become studied in way previously reserved for Shakespeare or scripture. Every newspaper article, tv interview and blog has been recorded and has been poured over by thousands of academics who analyse, dissect and code every word. Their students of media studies, numbered in their tens of thousands, do the same. The scientific, verifiable, and courtesy of the internet, available results are there for us all to find out what the media bias it.

Maybe some should look it up before pointing their imaginary bone. Just a thoughtNot so. Islam is divided into lots of different pieces and a minority do see it as a religious dutyOur culture allows you to wear what you like on you headAlmost every Muslim comes frrom a different race to white Australia so it functions in exactly the same way as racismWhy don't you just ask one why they do?Remember the Occupy Movement?How were Occupy protesters treated? Expect the same in HK but expect the hysterical media spin. Funny, I don't recall your outspoken support of the pro democracy protests I. Bahrain or Egypt. Why is that?All these people proudly shunning women in burqas makes me wonder why they are so keen to have them taken offIdentify is less important than current possessions. That's why metal detectors are adequateFemale genital mutilation abounds in east African Christian countries and honour killings in Hindu IndiaWhat if non Muslims started wearing them? Would we hold a different view?The law was changed years ago to include any facial covering. Authorised officers have the power to take people with facial coverings to a police station where, for proper reasons, they must uncover in front of female officer or face fines and possible gaol. 

Why do you so need to go up and talk to these women and see their faces? Is it curiosity or a thing for Muslim women? Being a catcher of public transport, I can assure you that modern Australians don't strike up idle chit chat anymore. You do your thing in your clothes and I do mine. If you don't like the burqa, don't wear one. If you want to see their faces, marry one. If you want to live in country where clothing is dictated by law, moveAre the women in your family forced to cover their breasts in public?That's just it. It offends you delicate views on cultural norms. If someone dresses in away that offends you, look asideI think that there are two separate issues. One is what we allow people to do under the law. I haven't yet come across the argument as to why banning face coverings will benefit anyone. The other is why we want to. There have been no problems. People are required to remove them when appropriate. Most of the writers here are openly anti-Muslim so it's not about being denied the opportunity to talk to these women. To my ear, all I hear is "I just don't like it". There are plenty of fashions and trends that we don't like. We find them offensive, vulgar, crass, tasteless or intimidating. They don't last. Look to see what the next generation wearOf course it was because of their religion. It wasn't because of the football team they supportTo claim that a crime doesn't occur without a mobile phone image is puerile and best left for school kids. Thankfully the courts don't follow your standard of evidenceAll for a couple of hundred women, none of whom have ever been to parliament house. Sounds more like some more justification of our latest warAs always, APM, you are inventing your own point. This isn't about culture. This isn't about religion. This is about covering your face in public. The ACT and NSW passed laws years ago regulating exactly this issue. The legislation is very clear on the where, when, who and the fines and gaol terms for failing to comply. 

This is a beat up to further vilify a minority to justify a warThey already are compelled to remove facial coverings. Women in burqa can't wear one anywhere you can't wear a balaclavaI'd take their views on religious obligations over yoursThere's plenty of religious belief originating outside the Koran. Women who wear it do out of their sense of obligation and modesty, not oursThey're not hiding their identity. They uncover as required. They just don't want to have their face seen by casual observers, as is anyone's prerogative. Why do you want to see theirs so much?in 2011 the ACT government, like a good many state governments, passed laws allowing authorised officers to compel the removal of facial coverings on pain of fines and/or gaol terms.

This is not new. There is no issue. Security is not compromised. If you see people dressed in a way you don't like like, suck it up. If you want to pass laws making everybody dress like you, maybe it's you that should think about leavingGreat point! How about TISM?The question should be: can you name any Islamic terror groups that have achieved their goals?I defer to your expertise, rob, but the laity couldn't tell the difference. On Abbott's, I've learned long ago not to tell other people what to wearSecurity risk? What's wrong with metal detectors and pat downs? Identity doesn't prevent crimes although it might help solve one. There are already functioning laws on facial concealment in every state and territory. 

In recent days I've seen a kid in the supermarket with a spiderman costume on, including facemask, someone in a Humphry B Bear outfit and a guitar playing busker in some kind of rabbit costume. I took it all in my stride. Australia will go onISIS has less members than a footy crowd and they're in the middle east. Muslims, Iraqis, Syrians and locals in general are staying away in droves. Claimed to be in the thousands but only verifiable in the dozens, their international recruitment campaign has been a dud. Caliphate my camel. But if the USA has interests there, then we go along. It's defence on the cheap and strategy lite. Agree or disagree, the merits but this is about our alliance not an Iraqi civil warGee, Peter, you almost had me convinced that you cared about people in the middle. All those posts condemning ISIS and how they are carving a path of annihilation across the region had me beginning to think that your concerns over the dead, dying and threatened Muslim victims were genuine. Apparently not. You're in your comfy chair, you have your fluffy cat and you are now going to nuke the whole lot. So much for serious commentaryThey are the domestic oppositionPrivacy. Data ownership. Beyond reasonable doubt as a burden of proof. Freedom of the press. Right to confront your accusers. Knowing what your government is up to. Right to be charged or released on the same day. Just off the top of my headKeep postingCorrect. Jesus was a prophet of Islam not a Muslim prophet"it is the duty of every Muslim to work to introduce sharia in non-Muslim lands"- where do you get this rot from? There is no such duty in Islam, period.

Sharia means, in practical terms, the laws of the religion. Sharia doesn't play a legal part in the lives of most Muslims- they live in countries with a separation of mosque and state. Most secular laws overlap. For example, it is forbidden, under sharia, to rob, kill, conduct false transaction etc. This is why one can follow sharia in Australia in comfort. Why you keep looking at the extremes of the middle east and then claiming it applies to the rest of Islam can only be explained one way. 

Bethi Din courts have been operating in Australia for participating Jews for some time. They operate in exactly the same way as sharia courts operate in the UK. Voluntary participation, non binding, subject to the rule of law and the regular court system. But if you feel you must conduct your civil matters under the auspices of your deity then you have it as an option. 

And no, they don't behead anyoneFair call. I'd suggest that it is the goal of Islam, not the individual goal of Muslims. Big difference. Why would I want anymore else to be a Muslim? They can do as they wish. True believers are concerned about their day of judgement not their neighbors dietReligion isn't the problem. People are the problem. And people have a proven knack for all the evils in the world, with or without the help of religionIt's a civil, not a holy war in Iraq. You have an overactive imaginationZaffra, just look at the aims aim the Kurds, of ISIS, of shia militia, Iran, Assad's regime, the government in Baghdad, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and every other player in the region. Not one of them are trying to change doctrine. Not one of them are trying to convert others. Not one have a religious leadership (although you could make a case for Iran). Not one are trying to affect a religious change. All of them, without exception, are trying to achieve secular goals, like political influence, power and money. That's their motivation. What they use as justification is different- a non state player can't invoke patriotism, banner waving, anthems or nationalistic sentiment. So they either leverage off their ethnicity or religion. Or both. This is why I see it as a civil war and not a religious warMost Muslims live in countries where there are churches including at least five of the six on your list. Next.mike, all of the inflated and confected reports of crimes against Egyptian Christians vanished once the military dictatorship was back in charge. Te Copts have fallen off the radar. Funny that. 

Like I say, mike, most of the world's muslims live in countries what contain churches, temples and alternative places of worship. ISIS is not a country. Never has been, never will. They are rebels in a civil war and hold a minority view aligned with their equally bigoted Saudi sponsors, who incidentally, do allow Christian worship in their country, within western military bases. 

Is that accommodating or plain old hypocrisy?I'm saying what I said. At least 5/6 of those countries listed have churches and most muslims live in countries with other places of worship. FactTry PlatoThey already have assimilatedA stark contrast to the coverage and comment regarding the democracy movement in Bahrain. 

The protestors in Hong Kong might do well to study the Australian system to see the corruption free, harmonious and transparent nature of muti party democracy.
