Mike, the last decade and a half isn't long enough for a correlation.  Matthew England has published on this matter, and it appears that an interdecadal change in trade wind strength have resulted in what should have been a cooling period - I'll leave you to look into this a little more. 

If England's work is correct, then it appears the models are in fact reasonably accurate in terms of sensitivity of forcing.  The trade wind variation will oscillate between warming and cooling phases every thirty years or so, and won't make a big difference in long-term predictions.

Your summary of Flannery's predictions (that the dams will never fill again) is incorrect.  Look up what he said.  He did warn that some of the dams may run dry within two years if the drought did not break (luckily it did), and predicted that we will probably be in for longer and more protracted droughts in the future (actually he didn't make the predictions, the CSIRO did).

I would also suggest you look at what the Great Barrier Reef has done over the past 30 years, and the reasons for this.  There is no longer room for complacency on the issue of AGW.  Even if there have been some inaccurate predictions, it is beyond reasonable doubt that AGW is a serious problem."...Senator Lambie offers nothing to the Senate in the form of thought, wit or intelligence..."

Sounds as though she'll fit right in perfectly with the current mob.

Personally, I felt the comments were TMI, and I really didn't want to hear them.  But then, I didn't want to hear the sordid details about the son (OK, non-son it turned out) Abbott put up for adoption and the details of how he was conceived, or his views on the sex appeal of candidates, or how much Rudd had drunk at Scores' nightclub.  These blew over; Lambie's comments should as well.  Until the next scandal anyway.

Should we have a bet on who will disgrace themselves next?  It may not be great for the quality of political representation, but I think this parliament might at least be entertaining.Hi Sea Monster

Apologies for being off topic, but I didn't see your last question until after comments had closed, and I feel I might need to clarify a few things.

It's possible I was incorrect when I said that World Scientific didn't engage in a peer-review process, although I typed this after I'd looked at the publishers, the journals in my field (I'd only heard of one in passing and cannot say anything about the quality of it, apart from an underwhelming impact factor), and looking at the "publish with us" section which said nothing about peer review.  I may have missed a peer-review statement elsewhere, although most journals trot out their credentials and like to impress on authors that they will be subject to a review process to ensure only high-quality work gets published.

Having said that, I also looked at the article EVAN had posted, and it was absolute crap.  It kept trying to disprove the greenhouse effect on the basis of themal conductivity of CO2 gas (seriously!) and, in the pages I looked at, avoided any discussion on the spectrophotometric properties of CO2 on which the theory is based.  I stopped reading when they stated citing fictional book authors and filmmakers to back up their claims of a green conspiracy.

Now, peer-review can be faulty and I've seen an article of comparable quality get into the ACS-supported Organic Letters once (though, while I felt it was published by a group of failed 2nd years at least they didn't indulge in conspiracy theories), but it was withdrawn within a matter of months.  I've heard of similar things happening in other journals.  Yet the publishers didn't see fit to withdraw the article EVAN found, some five years after its publication.  I cannot see the RSC or the ACS or APS retaining something like this, which casts doubt in my mind on the robustness of World Scientific's review process.AJC says "apparently 1936 was hotter than 1998."

Not according to the NOAA, NASA or the CRU.

Reference please...@AJC &amp; tonyM - I noticed Taswegian has posted a link to Nature (Climate).  And you say the models have failed?

Also note that this paper refers to Kosaka's, England's, and Schmidt's papers, so include the most up-to-date information on natural variability.  It appears the models have been exonerated (at least, the anthropogenic part).

AJC - Lisa is intellectually superior to you.  
tonyM - "if you ignore ENSO and decide by assumption it is GHG" - great work, I see you're making things up as you go along now.You forgot to mention that for the north pole, the ice sheet has indeed been at record levels - record lows.Cite just one of those peer-reviewed papers to which you refer AJC.  I'm a scientist, and I've never seen any such paper that refutes AGW theory.EVAN..."World Scientific" does not do peer-review.  This does not qualify as a peer-reviewed article.

Examples of reputable publishers are the American Science Societies (ACS, APS, GSA etc), Elsevier, RSC, CSIRO publishing, Angewandte etc.I  think dubious was talking about land ice, not sea ice, tonyM.

Oh, and the regression of the GBR, approximately 50% of which has been attributed to cyclone damage, might suggest that at least this part of the world HAS experienced an increase in extreme weather events.  (If the past 30 years was "normal", the GBR would never have been able to build to its 1980 levels in the first place.)

Nor did dubious mention frogs.  While the extinctions were once thought to be possibly linked to pollution (never heard AGW invoked with this one, but I could be wrong), this hypothesis was rejected as the evidence became available.  As is typical with the vast majority of scientists who accept the AGW hypothesis.  It is AGW denial which is not self-correcting, and therefore not scientific.Really Forrest?  You can point to people who deny the existence of the LIA or MWP?  References, please...I think you need to actually see the paper, and the error bars, and fit it in with all available proxy data.  You've made generalisations about Mann's work which are not accurate.Mann's reconstruction was only one of multiple reconstructions, covered only land-based measurements of one proxy in the northern hemisphere, actually did show a background variation in temperature (a bit lower than some of the others though), and (quite rightly) had considerable error bars.  That Mann failed to find much evidence for these events in his proxies for the MWP or the LIA is not the same as saying that he didn't believe that they existed, or denied their existence.  You're overreaching.

Anyhow, no global assessment has the Earth was warmer in the MWP than today (some regional exceptions to this rule).

Leave interpretion of science to those better qualified than you Forrest.The IPCC didn't say that, and anyhow, it isn't true.  If coral continues to regress at its current rate, in 50 years' time the Great Barrier Reef will not exist.  Look up the causes of that one (there are several contributing factors).If you'd read the England paper, you would also see that he considers the trade wind variation a decadal variation, that they had been high before (ie. during the last hiatus), and that the strength will drop again and result in a sudden temperature rise (mechanism all explained).  So no, the heat gradient (and I presume you mean the rate of heat exchange across this gradient; yet again your scientific credentials fall short of your pretensions) has not been "stable and unchanging."  

Maybe I was a bit premature in my assessment of your integrity in our previous clash De Brere.  Perhaps you hadn't actually read it (and I doubt you would have the scientific literacy to comprehend it if you did), and are simply reiterating the BS on a denialist website in which you have a misplaced faith.  Although having claimed several times that you are a scientist (highly unlikely), then recently claimed you were a salesman for solar panels or some other "green" device or whatever it was, we can no longer place any faith in your integrity.It would help, De Brere, if you could articulate exactly what part of the paper you didn't comprehend.  I personally thought that your assertion that "millions of years of having an effectively stable and unchanging heat gradient between the surface and the deeper layers of the western Pacific Ocean" didn't quite gel with the fact that England was describing an 
 Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation (ie. things have changed over decades, so they've changed within the space of millions of years...are you still following me?), and that if you couldn't understand "increased subduction in the Pacific shallow overturning cells, enhancing heat convergence in the equatorial thermocline" provides a mechanism via which energy can "disappear into the depths", then figure 3 would have spelled it out for you.  But then, I often find acquaintances who haven't studied high school science have trouble keeping up with things that come second nature to me.

But onto the subject of quantum theory (well, you did bring it up), perhaps you can spot the flaw in "Energy Transfer in Near&amp;#8208;Resonant Molecular Collisions due to Long&amp;#8208;Range Forces with Application to Transfer of Vibrational Energy from &amp;#957;3 Mode of CO2 to N2" by Sharma and Brau, J. Chem. Phys. (1969) 50, 924; http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.1671145.  Seeing as you have previously said "[the notion that] GHG absorbed IR energy is passed on to surrounding gasses as heat/kinetic energy flies in the face of quantum theory", it would appear observational data is against you.  So either quantum theory is wrong, or your interpretation is wrong (and based on your track record, the latter is more likely).

Did the phrase "salesman for solar panels or some other "green" device or whatever it was" not convey sufficient uncertainty in what it is that you claimed to do, and convey the notion that it may not have necessarily been solar panels?De Brere, you've read the England paper, and you know perfectly well that the hiatus can be explained by mechanisms which do NOT undermine the AGW hypothesis.  Why do you continue to spread lies and misinformation?Actually, after factoring in trade winds and deep sea temperatures (cf England paper in Nature), models in climate change fit closely to observation.

Oh, and F = ma fails for objects moving at speeds close to the speed of light.  I suppose that makes this approximation "junk" in your opinion (which doesn't count for much really).Exactly how many fast breeder reactors have been built in the past ten years Greig?

We generate more power from the cheaper and more reliable sources of wind and solar than we do from breeder reactors.

At current rates of consumption, nuclear fuel will only last another 80 years.

Please stop trying to convince us you're an engineer.  An engineer would know enough basic physics not to entertain the idea that the sun might be &gt;90% iron for more than fifteen seconds.A little over 100 years of coal at current rates of consumption, if I remember the BP report correctly.  Can I presume, Greig, that you are anticipating a renewable revolution that halves our coal demand?If the past 100 years is anything to go by, the hiatus won't last much longer, and we'll be in trouble.  

Even if we end up with another sunspot minimum, solar radiation won't continue to decline (it will level out), CO2 levels will then drive warming in the absence of an antagonistic influence, and we'll be in trouble (albeit more slowly).

Oh, and look up stats for the GBR.  If you check numbers, rather than your rhetoric, you will see that we are indeed in serious trouble.Also note, Reinhard, from January to August, the Earth's elliptical orbit takes it further away from the sun.  There's a reason John's time period for his "cooling trend" doesn't include whole years, and contains more periods of the Earth moving away from the sun than the Earth moving toward the sun.Sir Robert isn't engaging in ad hominem attacks, he is stating a fact.Hi ejj, CO2 doesn't "convert" energy to heat.  I don't think you fully grasp the mechanisms.

CO2 absorbs and re-emits infrared energy, the wavelengths that correspond to molecular bond vibrations, or heat (something most gases in the atmosphere don't do, for reasons I won't go into here, except to say that it involves dipole moments).  There is more heat energy (as infrared) leaving the Earth than arriving from space, because when a dark surface fails to reflect some of the incident light, the energy is converted into heat.  

The effect of an increase in CO2, on a planet with a net IR heat efflux, is to absorb some of that heat and re-radiate it - but it can re-radiate it in any direction, and about half of it is sent straight back down to Earth.  With some of the heat that the Earth was losing intercepted and sent back to the surface, the overall effect is a slowing down the rate of heat loss from Earth. It doesn't significantly alter the rate at which we gain energy from the sun, and if we presume the amount of energy gained from sunlight remains constant (actually it has been dropping since the late 1990s, hence the hiatus), temperature will increase.  

This is greatly simplified, there are a few other mechanisms at play (intermolecular collisions etc) which affect the quantification of the heat-trapping capacity of CO2, but hopefully will give you an idea.I know you're not interested in learning anything that might show you that AGW is actually real, but try Arrhenius' paper.AJC says "while Ad Hominem and lies about other people might be fun for you, sticking to the truth is a lot more effective."

Maybe, AJC, you should practice what you preach, rather than following your feigned indignation with the usual debunked lies.I'm sure weeds love the current levels of CO2 harry.  However, most useful crop plants require high nutrient levels and CO2 isn't generally the limiting factor in growth or fruit/seed set of these plants.  The CSIRO has some data on this if you care to actually do some research (although this will require an open mind, something I've never seen you demonstrate).

Unfortunately, it would appear the world's coral reefs find current CO2 levels a little too high, so there is little dispute that current CO2 levels are high enough to be considered a "pollutant", and as such Mark James' opinion is more compatible with current scientific knowledge than yours.

With regard to your last two sentences, I couldn't help thinking that I think more or less the same whenever I read your posts.  I mean, trying to argue that a 2000-4000ppm increase in CO2 is a tenfold increase...245/594.  Countries do not consume "gigawatts" (rate of energy consumption over time) of electricity over a given time, but rather, gigawatt hours (units of energy).  John is deliberately conflating these two units as a slate of hand to conceal his lies about Germany's electricity generation.

Renewable energy (including hydroelectric and biomass) actually accounted for approximately 77 TWh (77 000 GWh) in 2013, or approximately 25% of Germany's electricity.  47 TWh came from wind alone, so wind alone actually supplied Germany with approximately 15% of their electricity in 2013.  These figures are not hard to find online.247/596.  "Skeptic" was talking about Australian subsidies.  John's figures, if they are not entirely fabricated, cannot be talking about Australia, because we don't have nuclear power (and hence, nuclear power in Australia cannot receive subsidies of 5.94c/kWh).It's not greenies living in a make-believe world harry.  It's those who don't believe that a 50% reduction in the GBR coral cover in 30 years is cause for alarm.harry, google "Snowy River Scheme".  It appears that Australia actually has hydroelectric storage.Hi Hugo, we have proxies (tree ring thickness, coral growth rates, isotope ratios in glacial water) which help us estimate temperatures of bygone, pre-record years.  However, John is lying (again; it's a compulsive disorder) with his numbers. 

Each of these proxies is regional only and subject to a variety of errors, so only by using a number of different proxies from different parts of the globe can we consider coming close to an estimate of past global temperatures.  The Marcott paper (Science, 2013, Vol 339, Pp 1198-1201, DOI: 10.1126/science.1228026) is probably the most comprehensive to date and has been referenced over 100 times in a little over 12 months since its publication, and it shows that temperatures peaked at slightly warmer than today's temperatures during the Holocene - but at no time in recorded history did global temperatures exceed those of the late 20th/early 21st century.  

It also shows that the rate of temperature change since the industrial revolution far exceeds the 11 000 or so years preceeding it, providing reasonable circumstantial for an anthoropogenic influence (even if we ignore the photophysics of CO2).Congratulations AJC.  You've managed to pack more lies in this post than even "Honest" John manages.

I note, for instance, that when claiming the consensus was refuted by Legates, you didn't mention that it was in Science &amp; Education (not a peer-reviewed publication) and that the "three co-authors" included Christopher Monckton (a non-scientist who embarrasses even many other deniers), and that the one citation it receives was a letter that tears it to shreds."...all of those papers I mentioned were in fact peer-reviewed..."
 
Yes, Anderegg, Zimmermann etc. all published in peer-reviewed papers.  However, Legates' Science and Education article wasn't; most peer-reviewed articles give a date the manuscript was received and the date it was accepted.  Not so for Science &amp; Education.

So essentially, the only non-peer-reviewed article was the one coming from the AGW deniers.  (If you don't understand the meaning of "denial", look it up in the dictionary, or at your own posts as an example).

"...he [Monkton] was dealing with statistical evidence that requires a knowledge of mathematics..."
Exactly, and as the refutation demonstrated, he flaffed it.

"You failed ENTIRELY to deal with all of the papers being refuted, you just used insults instead. How pointlessly rude of you."
Your first sentence was untrue (but you know that), but if you find me rude, I must warn you that I have trouble being polite to lying money-grabbers who sacrifice ethics to promote untruths supported by vested interests.
Of course, with scientific organisations such as the American Societies and the Royal Society dominating the scientific literature, a list of 12 countries will probably include most major scientific bodies around the world (RSC, ACS and a couple of European publishers - Angewandte Chemie for example - all but dominating chemistry publications), a list of organisations from twelve developed countries probably includes most major international scientific bodies.  But I'm sure AJC would like to give credence to the major scientific bodies of Uganda, Zimbabwe and the DRC if they support his claim."Nearly all that observed increase in CO2 is from natural sources."
Stop repeating this lie.  Isotopic analyses have conclusively demonstrated otherwise.

Ditto for everything, without exception, you have ever written.As I have pointed out before, ice core readings demonstrate that CO2 concentrations were relatively stable in the thousands of years preceeding the industrial revolution.  So if nature was producing 20-30 gigatonnes of CO2 per year, and CO2 levels didn't vary much from 280ppm, then nature was ASORBING 20-30 tonnes (your figures) per year.  

If CO2 have risen since the industrial revolution and isotope studies indicate that the source of CO2 is from fossil fuel, then clearly nature is having trouble dealing with the extra 8Gt of CO2 we're emitting.

AJC, even a primary school student could figure this out.  Are you seriously trying to convince everyone that you're really cretinous enough to believe the BS you write?254/608-613.  I counted at least six lies in this.

While it is true that early CO2 measurements were highly variable, this was because poor sampling collection and handling techniques skewed the results.  Callendar did reject a lot of points which were likely to come from spurious sources (eg. close to major cities) and then points which lay two standard deviations away from the line of best fit (ie. "way out there"), but there was nothing fraudulent about the way he did it.  Early measurements showed that cities had higher CO2 levels than country areas, that forests had very low CO2 levels by mid-afternoon which often increased overnight, and that a field would afford higher results if there were stock in it than if it were free of animals.  Then of course if a person inadvertantly wandered upwind of a collection site...well, humans exhale CO2 at about 100 times atmospheric concentrations, so even one milliliter of breath in 100 milliliters of collected sample could skew results significantly.

While there was a lack of confidence in some quarters in Callendar's trendline (though even those who disputed the soundness of his conclusions did not advocate drawing a trendline through the entire data set, it was widely accepted that the entire data set could not be accurate), gases trapped in ice cores later essentially confirmed his findings.

Nor did Callendar apply is selection to before 1880, where the data set was so variable nothing could be selected.

Then, to top it off, John only mentions the "above 550ppm" measurements.  Some of these early measurements were as low as 250ppm, lower than Callendar deduced for the late 1800s, but John won't argue that CO2 levels have risen 30ppm more than is generally believed.  He'll only focus on the ultra-high regions, not because he can reasonably justify why the high values are the "correct" ones, but because they suit his agenda.  He accuses Callendar of biased selections, but demonstrates it so succintly himself.On the few occasions I looked at these websites purporting to show papers contradicting AGW theory, I found, all too often, that the papers were equivocal, and in some cases the papers actually stated the opposite to what the website reviews claimed they stated.Mork never claimed that, and no scientific organisation has claimed that.  However, the rate of change we're experiencing is higher than at any point in the last 800K years, and if it continues unabated, may be severe enough to cause a mass extinction.  As has happened in the past."There's no evidence that humans have influenced any kind of natural CO2 equilibrium to the extent of a catastrophe..."
Only if you ignore the attrition rate of coral in the GBR over the past 30 years.

"Chemically the CO2 is indistinguishable and can have no greater or less effect."
Yes it is.  Isotopes. 

"The natural variation in CO2 is at least six times greater than the entire entirety of yearly CO2 emissions from human sources, therefore any attempt to blame humans for upsetting some kind of equilibrium isn't supportable."
No evidence to presented support your claim, but plenty of ice core readings etc. to dispute it.

More crap as I keep going, but for some of these you tend to rely on half-truths rather than outright lies.  But I suppose the latter is harder to recognise or debunk.@Clownfish - it's worth noting that some of the more significant periods of crown-of-thorns-induced predation happened to occur at the same time as coral bleaching events.  Anyway, cyclones + direct coral loss to bleaching account for at least 50% of this coral loss.  You've also missed the point in that we can tell where the extra CO2 is coming from - a point on which something AJC is persistently trying to misinform, and if you mean "one side" of politics, I'll go along with whoever recognise AGW for the problem that it is and genuinely try to do something about it.  If you think AGW is going to be benign compated to "massive economic imposts" of mitigation, you have no idea what we're in for.

@AJC - I'd mastered both addition and subtraction by the end of year 3.  You don't seem to have mastered subtraction yet.  Oh, and your refutation of the ice core data is pathetic, as is your inability to understand the role of CO2 in feedbacks in previous climate change episodes.

@Charles - "Representative sampling." Very few of the direct measurements in the time you mention can be considered representative of the atmosphere, which changes regionally (higher in forests than cities, higher regionally during the day when photosynthesis is mopping up CO2 than at night...)Orion, I think you might be confusing turnover with sequestration.  There's a lot of CO2 dissolved in the oceans, and one can expect a drop in atmosperic 14-CO2 levels after the nuclear tests simply because the exchange between atmospheric and dissolved CO2.That's not what I said Orion, and you haven't refuted the point I made (that an isotope of carbon may appear to diminish at a higher rate than allowed for by sequestration because of exchange).That statement, dig, is based on historic precedence.AGW is, at its core, a qualitative theory which has not been disputed.  The theory of evolution has had similar problems (many dates substantially revised after radiodating was invented), but the fact that the Earth was billions of years old, and not 100 million years old, wasn't cause to reject all evolution.  And yet, charlatans like de Brere will argue that ongoing difficulties in quantifying AGW feedbacks (even though all agree on a net positive feedback effect) are grounds for rejecting the basic notion.Suggesting McIntyre is a better source than peer-reviewed literature...priceless.

Describing no less than six investigations into the climategate emails "whitewashes", when some of them were initiated by higher organisations because of perceived shortcomings in initial investigations (eg. NSF investigation into Mann due to lack of confidence in transparency of university investigation)...priceless.harry says "Their [the political left] attacks are almost always personal, foul and often resort to violence."

Presumably the harry (lower case first letter) is a different harry to the one who wrote above "The stupidity and hate of the left is utterly incredible."
Right after making an argument based on an unconfirmed assumption of the debater's opinions and unsubstantiated "facts."

Pot, kettle, black.

He probably thinks I'm a "leftie" too.To answer your questions Joe Blow:

1.  The AGW crisis didn't begin 15 years ago, it's been in the making since the industrial revolution.  However, we've been in what should be a natural cooling cycle, and this has been offset by CO2 rises, with the net result being no statistically significant change in temperature over that period.

2.  According to the Geological Society of America, since official temperature records began (circa 1880), about 10% of the net warming has been non-anthropogenic (although it you start from the beginning of the industrial revolution and augment the record with proxies, it will be higher; the early industrial revolution was marked by the Dalton Minimum in sunspot cycles, and most of the 0.3-0.4 degree warming from 1750-1880 was non-anthropogenic, but this still makes GHGs the main driver since the industrial revolution).Joe, stop and think (sounds like it might be a novel concept for you, but please try).  If coming out of the mini-ice-age accounts for no more than 40% of the post-industrial-age warming and GHG emissions accounts for the rest, how is going back into a mini-ice age in the face of growing CO2 emissions going to cause temperatures to regress?Aside from the fact that debt isn't overwhelming compared to GDP, if you have a look at Howard's stint as treasurer, you might re-consider the idea that fiscal irresponsibility is a labor trait.

Oh, and while I won't defend corrupt union official behaviour, could you tell us how much money the CBA donated to each political party?  Just for balance, you know.  You seem to be implying that criminal behaviour in politics is largely limited to unions.  I'm not convinced that's the case.Calling a spade a spade, AJC...If someone (and you're a great example) wilfully misrepresents the science, they are a denier.  It's not a polite label, but it is an accurate one.There'll be CO2 in those plumes as well.  Unless you're trying to argue that if it's invisible, it isn't there...Harry, if the best you can do is debate the semantics about whether or not an invisible substance which was obviously in a photo frame when a picture was taken is "in the picture" or not, you really are grasping at straws.Most of those "thousands of years old" filtering techniques aren't exactly scaleable.  At least, not to the level of filtering out river water before it reaches a dam...I'm just picturinga river diverted through a filter before it reaches a dam.  Mind you, this has been one of your more entertaining contributions harry.  Thanks.  You're always good for a laugh.Really Evan?  "Billions" of people jet off on holidays around the world each year?  I'd like to see evidence of your claim...There's a considerable difference between Glitter and the others you mention.  Whatever allegations have been made or what an individual might suspect, Jackson, Page and Chaplin had, to my knowledge, never been convicted of sexual assault.I think I may have misunderstood your point.  I was under the impression you were looking primarily at the sexual offenses committed (or allegedly committed) by those artists (and where without convictions, Page, Jackson and Chaplin are entitled to the presumption of innocence at the time of writing).

It probably depends on the type and severity of the offense as well.  I understand Page does have convictions for drug possession.  However, our society is reasonably tolerant of those offenses, and there's been a strong push to decriminalise a lot of illicit substances (particularly cannabis and MDMA).  That's possibly because a considerable percentage of the population fall victim to peer pressure and experiment with illicit substances at some point in their lives; such people are not likely to hold artists to higher standards than they themselves upheld.  The fact that peer pressure can encourage such experimentation probably says a lot about society's expectations.

Many might argue that drug addiction is a personal choice or a victimless crime (it's often far more complicated than that, but the perception is that an artist with a drug habit isn't hurting anyone else), and tabloids love "bohemians", whereas in sexual abuse, there is unequivocally a victim who has been badly hurt.  Presuming no miscarriage of justice, this far harder to forgive, even through the passage of time. 

Admittedly, social expectations play a big part even in this interpretation.  There were (and still are) cultures where the legal age of consent is well below 16, where rape is not considered a crime, and/or where a person could be forced into marriage.  I suspect that drug addiction is probably tolerated less in some Eastern cultures than it is in the West.  Male homosexuality carries the death sentence in some Middle Eastern countries, but is not considered a criminal act in most Western countries.  (I'm not making a judgement on this or any topic here, merely stating the case.)  So like many issues, it certainly isn't black and white.

Not being a major listener of pop music or a follower of the tabloids, I'm afraid I might have to pass on the challenge you set in your last sentence.  By and large, I wouldn't have a clue.Oh, really, Evan?  That will change your mind?

Well then, for a 290-390ppm rise in CO2 there's been a 0.8 degree rise (approximately) - well and truly above the background rate of change of temperature for the past 10K years.  See NASA, NOAA, and Marcott et al. for primary data.

Based on the well-established photophysical properties of CO2 (going back to Fourier in 1824 when the first experimental evidence became available), further CO2 rises will lead to further temperature rises.

OK, I sincerely hope we'll hear no more of this "skeptical" rubbish from you...not holding my breath though.Charles says "Week after week we see empirical data debunking the climate alarmism..."
References please.  Only scientific papers considered.Hi Lisa

I (and others) have been at pains to try to explain to harquebus that solar panels are not closed systems, and there is no reason on account of the laws of thermodynamics why they cannot "harvest" more energy than was required to manufacture them.  If this were the case, plants couldn't grow (I somehow don't think that photosynthesis is exempt from the laws of physics).

He seems to have gleamed something out of a university level textbook, but doesn't have the training or intellectual capacity to fully comprehend it, and has dismally failed to listen to those who are better trained than he.Not just women.  Social expectation in some regions need to change (and that involves educating men).

Actually, stabilising childhood mortality rates goes a long way to stabilising population growth.  If there's only a 50% chance of a child surviving to adulthood, couples will have large numbers of children to ensure that someone outlives them.  So it comes down to better health care, better nutrition, clean water, and education in the developing world.Problem with point 2 (and a few others, but there's little point in showing the other non-sequiturs when this one cropped up so early).  "Plants like CO2".  Often in certain concentrations; for many of the crops on which we depend, nitrogen, phosphorus and trace element availability is more likely to place limits on growth than CO2 availability.  This tends to be less so for weeds against which valuable crops compete, so in some circumstances, more CO2 = greater weed proliferation = reduced productivity.

You're also assuming the Earth will heat up, and that otherwise there will be little change in climate.  European vegetable crops may respond well to higher temperatures, but I'm not sure if they will respond well to changes in rainfall.  So despite CO2 level rises, agricultural scientists are very apprehensive about AGW.Those of us who respect the scientific method and don't simply try to dismiss AGW on an anomalous event of dubious statistical significance have noticed the England paper in nature, and realise that there was a reason for the hiatus - and it wasn't that AGW is nonsense. 

We've also figured out that the hiatus won't last indefinitely.

But by all means, keep your head in the sand and continue to dump garbage into these forums.  I realise there's no point in pleading with you to write something with integrity for a change.Jerry says to AJC "I challenge you to Cite a single credible source for that claim. i.e. a peer-reviewed publication."

Just a word of advice Jerry - don't hold your breath waiting.  I've asked AJC the same question (albeit of other statements) several times, and he's yet to support any of his BS assertions.
Indeed, Chad, lies are not welcome.  15 years in a system which is known to have many variables is not a significant enough time period on which to draw conclusions the role CO2 has in long-term warming/cooling/otherwise.  Look at the Marcott paper.Most of your garbage has been thoroughly debunked elsewhere AJC, and I'm surprised you have the nerve to keep up the verbal diarrhea.  However, these two entertained me:

"The only current evidence of "warming" is 2000 metres down in the deep oceans, closer to seismic heat sources."
Apart from the fact that this ignores latent heat of fusion, are you saying that the deep oceans have only just worked out that there is a magma bed many kilometers beneath them?  So the deep ocean warming has nothing to do with the fact that deep oceans are a hell of a lot cooler than the surface, and we're seeing greater ocean turnover (cf England, Nature)...

"can you explain why all of the other planets in the Solar System were warming at the same time as Earth was?" 
I think this would be pretty hard to explain, because it isn't actually true.  There is CIRCUMSTANTIAL evidence to suggest that SOME of the other planets MAY be warming.

P.S.  As for your "most of the CO2 rise is from natural sources"...ahem...read Nature 324 (1986), Pg 237, doi:10.1038/324237a0 - just one of literally hundreds of sources which prove you wrong.Does the word limit allow me to debunk all the crap you've written?

"No, none of what I've said has ever been debunked..." - only if you stick your fingers in your ears.

"Far more rational to recognise that undersea seismic heat sources are going to warm the oceans 2000 metres down than to blame humans for "warming" that's not actually happening in the atmosphere."  Across the whole ocean?!  Maybe you ought to publish your work in Nature if you can so comprehensively debunk Matthew England's work, but don't be too surprised if they suggest some other publication, such as a science fiction circular.

" it's a fact that all of the other planets showed warming. NASA confirms this."  References?  (Rhetorical question)

"You're now resorting to citing a horrifically outdated article from 28 years ago."  Umm...If you think the past 28 years have somehow changed the previous 200 years of isotope ratios in ice cores, back of the class for you.  Do you have any idea how often this article has been cited?  What part of "one of literally hundreds of references" did you not understand?  And why have you not provided ONE to support your assertions?

"Sure humans contribute a lot of CO2, but nature adds many times more. Do the math."  Pretty easy when you add sequestration rates, and look at the CO2 levels in the ice core - we're increasing CO2 levels.

"Going by the ice core data, which revealed that rises in CO2 follow after rises in temperature (about 200-1000 years later), the logical implication is that most of the CO2 rise is following on from the Medieval Warm Period..."
It's what's known as a "positive feedback", and no, the MWP wasn't warm enough to significantly alter atmospheric CO2 levels.  Look at the ice core data.Tell me AJC, do you supply organic fertilisers simply by speaking?

"A cycle that wasn't known of when AGW theorists first began shouting about a coming apocalypse through warming back in the 1980s"
When Arrhenius first proposed changes in GHG emissions as a driver for temp, he was largely ignored, because a lot of scientists at the time had latched onto the sunspot cycle and effect it had on temperature (eg. little ice age) and were reluctant to accept more than one possible driver.  You really are speaking out of your hat (and possibly the digestive system orifice that isn't conventionally used for speaking).

"with 95% of the models being total failures..."
I've asked you before to post such "total failure" models so we can debate the success or otherwise.  Meanwhile, I'm still waiting for you to actually deliver substance to your rhetoric...

"Cosmic rays are interesting to bring up, because ten years ago it wasn't known about the significant influence that cosmic rays have on cloud formation. The idea was dismissed..."
No it wasn't.  The cosmic ray findings gave us better insights into HOW sunspots affected climate.

"It may interest you to know that the "internet" is how most scientists communicate their research data..."
Not the websites you're reading.  I tend to use SciFinder the most (more attuned to my profession than WoS).  Your "information" comes from websites that scientists like myself call "pseudoscientific bullsh*t."I agree with most of what you say, but a small correction is in order; Australia has one of the highest per-capita CO2 emissions in the world, but not the highest.  Several oil-rich nations, Belgium, and the Falkland Islands (if you count that as a separate country) have higher CO2 emissions per capita.

However, I don't see any action by us as "leading the way."  Reducing our CO2 emissions would essentially mean catching up to the EU.So much crap AJC...

"natural emissions of CO2 are between 20 to 40 times more than what humanity produces..."
And what about natural CO2 absorption?  (Hint:  Same as emissions.)  And how well does the biosphere absorb out little bit extra?  Does it cumulate?  (Hint:  CO2 levels have been increasing.)

"One such eruption can easily release more CO2 that humans have been able to release in all of recorded history."
Except "one such eruption" hasn't occurred in human history.  Give sources if you even think about contradicting me.

"There's been more rapid climate change in the past, according to ice core data."
No it hasn't.  If you ever bothered to look at the ice core data, "rapid change" was in the order of one degree per millenia, maintained over several millenia.  (Source:  NOAA)

Hopefully my other comment about your "natural sources being the major source of increasing CO2" goes up, because it has a reference showing your comment for the BS that it is."...such as nearly all of the CO2 rise during the past century was from Natural Sources."

What crap.  Numerous isotope studies demonstrate beyond reasonable doubt that the CO2 increase is attributable to the combustion of fossil fuels.Yes, you left out every single other politician in both state and federal parliaments.  However, this is a good summary of most of the higher-profile, serial offenders.Greig forgot to mention that PV only attracts ten times the public money investment per kWh because of subsidies which are currently being wound back quickly, and his stats are probably already osbolete.  He also forgets to mention that such subsidies are only available for rooftop PV, and not for solar thermal, geothermal, wind, tidal, or any other form of clean energy.

Also note the push for next generation nuclear reactors:  Clearly the solution of a mining lobbyist.  There is the slight problem that these technologies are at best experimental, and far less economical at this point in time than solar and wind, which he also didn't mention.Which developing countries Greig?  The ones I've been to have been looking to wind power.  They don't want to be dependent on fossil fuel imports.Note that Greig is making a two-point comparison between France and Germany (I wonder why he doesn't compare, say Germany to Australia), but fails to acknowledge that German industrial output is much higher per capita than France, and that France's "solution" is nuclear, which depletes another non-renewable resource. 

And no, France isn't rolling out FBRs, so if we go down the French route, we'd only get a few decades from our proven resources.Funny Greig, "France FBRs 2035" comes up blank in a Google search.  But presuming you're not simply making this up as you go along, I see the technology is already here and viable, which is why it's taking France a whole 21 years to roll out the first of their FBRs.  

Do don't breed a flock of flying pigs do you Greig?

FBRs were "about 20 years away" 30 years ago.  I wonder if they'll still be "about 20 years away" in 2035.No danger of that MarkO.  Charles hasn't introduced facts - the best is one half-truth, the rest complete and utter crap.MarkO says "Germanys installed capacity is a high % but in any real sense this comes down to about 7% of actual generation due to intermittency."

Actually, it's about 31% now.  Unless Business Spectator got it wrong.

https://www.businessspectator.com.au/article/2014/7/10/renewable-energy/bye-bye-brown-coal-germanys-new-renewables-mark

Needless to say, there's more garbage in his post than just this.For God's sake harquebus, do some research before sounding this nonsense off again.  

And don't quote the second law of thermodynamics at me.  You have no idea what it actually means.  You need to actually study physics and apply problems, and think about them, not just read laws out of a book.You're holding up the car industry as an example of well-spent subsidies?  Now I understand you've been joking all this time, and quietly accept the reality of AGW.

My apologies for all the brusque assessments of your scientific credentials.  I'm afraid your level of tongue-in-cheek sarcasm was far too subtle for me, and I thought you were actually being serious.I saw that article too.  It's humiliating.  The rest of the world has indeed noticed.Half-truths and garbage as usual Amber.

"temperatures have not increased as predicted by the IPCC..."
Yes, they have (albeit lower end of IPCC's predictions).

"...extreme weather events are no more common.."
Funny, the IPCC was predicting the confidence levels that observed changes were due to anthropogenic GHG emissions.

"...the antarctic ice covers a larger area."
Only Antarctic sea ice.  Land ice is thinning, high altitude ice is thinning, Arctic ice levels are bungy jumping without a rope, and permafrost is melting.  Antarctic sea ice is the only major ice source one not conforming to the more simplistic qualitative expectation - which is why deniers like you mention it and it alone.

"Unfortunately we are denied the science showing climate sensitivity..."
Given you obviously have a computer, a couple of google searches would set you straight on them - but then you'd have to change your pre-conceived ideas if you actually looked for the data, so I know you won't do that.

"Yes I have been out walking today and the climate in Perth is much the same as forty years ago despite the increase in carbon dioxide levels."
You probably wouldn't have known about CO2 concentration changes either if someone didn't tell you about it, so your observational skills are of no consequence.About 160 years' worth of uranium at the current rate of consumption (from memory).  Your suggestion would curtail that considerably.  

No, nuclear is not the future.  Not unless someone gets thorium off the ground anyway.

Fusion would be good, but there's only one fusion reactor that is ever likely to be viable.  Luckily,we can harvest its power with the use of photovoltaic cells.Germany is now getting just shy of 30% of their energy from renewables - far more than Greig's mythical "&gt;20% causes instability."  Even better, they manage to do so in an area half the size of NSW.

In part, this is because the baseload supply is a myth.  Our demand fluctuates a lot, which is why coal needs to be backed up by something else more responsive (gas, hydro, etc).  Yes, the intermittency of renewables can add another dimension and requires greater capacitance than coal alone, but to argue that this is solely a renewables problem, or that the problem is insurmountable, is fossil fuel lobbyist garbage.Funny you should mention new technologies ardy, because BlueGen - a CSIRO spin-off company manufacturing methane fuel cells (read energy efficiency, with the possibility of turning biogas into electricity very efficiently) - has recently had to leave for Germany owing to no incentives to aid commercial development in Australia.  Fossil fuels running low, people starting to get very nervous about energy security, we had this technology in our hands, and we let it go.  So the argument seems to be for MORE money into research to mitigate AGW, not less."...from natural gas derived nitrous fertiliser..."
I have already told you before:  Do yourself a favour and look up the Haber cycle, and stop making a fool of yourself.

"So the best, and most humane, thing to do is to encourage the modernisation of third world economies...and the best way to modernise third world economies is with cheap reliable electricity base load, and that means coal..."
Straight out of the fossil fuel industry's propaganda book.  If you bothered to spend any time at all looking at websites supported by the ICRC or World Vision or any other such organisation dedicated to eliminating world poverty, you'd realise this is garbage.The Nobel Prize was awarded to Haber in 1918, despite criticism over his role in the development of chemical warfare.  This is first-year chemistry stuff, GRF; I hold a PhD in the discipline.  Though I will admit I'd forgotten that most hydrogen is currently generated from cracking methane gas (not the case in Haber's time, when most hydrogen gas consumed was produced as a by-product of the manufacture of sodium hydroxide and other AR grade products from sea water, and with rising gas prices, electrolysis and catalysed photolysis is generating more interest).

Oh, and most 3rd world economies don't need "modernisation."  They need stable politics.  Anyone who thinks that building a couple of coal-fired power plants in the Congo will cause rebels to put up their arms and end the civil war that has cost millions of lives and stifled the delivery of aid is delusional.GRF, I don't think there's much you can tell me about chemistry.  I admit, I was incorrect in the common sourcing of hydrogen gas today (it would be against my principle as a scientist not to acknowledge this much), but as I pointed out, the here and now is likely to be an anomaly.  The main fertilisers (ammonium nitrate and sulfate) do not contain carbon, and as such, it should be easy to replace the hydrogen with other sources, as was the case until not too long ago:  With gas availability and prices, the economic viability of such a model is likely to fail soon enough anyway.

That said, nitrogen fixation is an energetically expensive process, and we haven't developed a good catalyst for it. This might necessitate a fuel source, or else, good support from renewable sources...

Incidentally, I did work in a research group a couple of years ago where one of the projects (not mine) was the development of catalysts for the photolysis of water.

You're incorrect (again) on the rising living standards and falling birth rates. The correlation is between infant mortality and birth rates.  This can be corrected with a low carbon footprints.  This, before "cheap, reliable baseload electricity," is what the third world needs.  Oh, and not having multinationals buy products from corrupt despots (I'm thinking conflict minerals amongst other things here), or try to topple governments that try to improve the quality of life at the expense of the multinational's profits (I'm thinking the various banana republics here, again, amongst others)."We had 0.8 degC of warming over the 20th century, and we barely noticed it and the IPCC confirms we are not seeing any significant changes in weather events."

Right on the first point, wrong on the last two.  The GBRMPA seem to have noticed the warming, as have pretty much all marine park authorities in the tropical world.  The white lemuroid possums seem to have noticed it too (but might have some difficulty voicing an opinion now).

Nor has the IPCC said that we're not seeing any significant changes in weather events.  What they're saying is that there are varying degrees of confidence (generally low to medium) that observed changes in weather events are attributable to AGW.474/1012.  The quote from Jens Zinke relates to past climate change, and has little relevance to the rate of coral attrition we're currently seeing globally.

1013.  Lough and Barnes...Published papers on rate of coral growth in the temperature range of 23-29 degrees celcius, and again have published nothing to suggest that the GBR has, in any time since the last ice age, lost half its biomass in 30 years.  Nor would one be able to extrapolate the graph; there will no doubt be a temperature optimum.  Extrapolate their graph, and one could argue that corals will grow fastest in boiling water - a notion which is clearly ridiculous.

1014.  As you said in your quote, the white possum hasn't been seen - it's just assumed because some brown lemuroids survived, the white morph did as well.  Most ecologists would be a bit wary saying that they survived if only three individuals can be accounted for - not a viable gene pool.Read DD's post again PtL.  You're misrepresenting what he said.WTF???

"Can you please show me the publications which state the first rule of the scientific method is that one must be intimately acquainted with the issue at hand."

There won't be one.  However, as a chemist, I tend not to weigh in too much on the finer details of string theory, ecology, or psychology papers.  

Similarly, what Lisa is saying is that in order the opinions of those who disagree with AGW to carry weight, it would help if they knew what they were talking about.  There are plenty of people in the bible belt in the US who disagree with evolution, but most of them don't know the first thing about biology.  Disagreements over evolution should come from within the relevant scientific communities.

"In short, AGW is not a confirmed hypothesis..."
Neither's relativity, when a push becomes a shove.
 
"Lab-based, closed system research suggests it should be, but the data are yet to confirm this."
Yes it does.  It doesn't prove it, but like I said, we haven't proven relativity either.  However, the evidence in favour of a general warming over the 20th century induced by CO2 is strong.
No, quantum physics doesn't just apply to subatomic particles. And yes, it does play a role in describing how individual CO2 molecules (and by extension, collective samples) are able to absorb and emit photons of infrared energy of particular wavelengths.Please stop repeating that "97% of models have failed the test" rubbish.  It's getting very thin.

If you knew anything about science, you'd realise that models are simply estimates, and have an inherent amount of uncertainty (not least, have all variables been accounted for).  The probability that a model would replicate something with absolute accuracy is very slim.

Given you've also been championing that silly "open access" paper in which the predicted CO2 sensitivity was about a third of the observed transient CO2 sensitivity (observed being at the lower end of the IPCC predictions, but within the range of what they expect, and that's before we start looking at transient vs equilibrium), a paper which a paper that had been withdrawn some three years earlier and had unbalanced processes that a good high school student ought to be able to pick up, your hypocrisy ("the IPCC models have failed, you should look at this one instead") is rather transparent."...the guy who champions the likes of Cook and Lewandowsky as his heroes but denigrates genuine scientists."
Lewandowsky is a psychologist, and I've never read his work - and cannot (and have not) commented on its quality.  I'm not sure what Cook does, but again, I've never read his scientific work.  So your first argument is a lie, and you know it.  Nor have I ever denigrated genuine scientists (at least, not when working in that capacity).

"So how about making good and refer us to all those papers that you claim appear in the top publications."
Well, these days, one would question anything not in a peer reviewed journal - which your open access journal was not.  And rather than bleat on about me "denigrating genuine scientists," how about addressing the fact that blown a gaping hole in your so-called paper by a reputable scientist?  Seriously, is that all you can come up with for a rebuttal?   

Oh, and the hypothesis:  That gas molecules with dipole moments effectively retard the loss of heat from Earth which, assuming constant solar influx, will lead to a general warming.  I've said this before, so stop claiming that I haven't advanced a hypothesis.  

If you want me to quantify - well, I'm an organic chemist, but I suspect, based on emprical evidence and choosing timeframes in which other known cyclical variables will approximately cancel out (so the assumption that the only net driver of climate change over the given timeframe is the change in atmospheric composition, is probably a safe assumption), that the sensitivity to a doubling of CO2 (associated with other GHG increases) will be somewhere between 1.5 and 3 degrees (ie. lower half of the IPCC projections), and that this is going to have a detrimental effect on life on Earth (again, emprical evidence indicative that we're starting to see the first of these effects).

You see tonyM, I'm a scientist and base my opinions on evidence.  Unlike you, I don't latch onto whatever little meme suits my world view and push it for all it's worth, even when I know it fails to stand up to scrutiny.  The idea that anthropogenic GHG emissions are detrimental gives me no comfort; I wish it were not so.  But the problem won't go away if I go into denial and start spreading lies on this forum like you.473/1010.  "There have been many, many tests and experiments carried out all over the world that testify to that exact point [that CO2 increases boost food production]."

Higher CO2 levels can boost carbon fixation, but not nutrient uptake.  This results in more plentiful crops of lower nutritional value, and in many cases, favours the growth of weeds (which often have low nitrogen and phosphorus requirements compared to food plants), resulting in poorer yields owing to greater competition.  

There are many, many experiments carried out all over the world which demonstrate these points exactly, and I have pointed John at least twice in the direction of CSIRO information on this - information which he persistently ignores because it doesn't fit with his world view that anthropogenic CO2 emissions need to be controlled (no doubt a conflict of interest, seeing has he has previously admitted to working for a mining company).

Oh, and when we start altering climate (rainfall levels, timing of rainfall, temperatures etc), and suddenly find established agricultural practices are no longer suited to the region, all bets are of, except one - that it's going to have an overall adverse impact on food production.TA is the 4th best PM we've had so far in the 21st century (although that's not saying much about the three who were improvements on him).Cate Blanchett's father died when she was young, so they probably weren't at all well off when she entered university.  She made her money in acting AFTER her education, and I daresay now pays more tax than you or me - and extrapolating from things she has said, seems to have no problem with her taxes helping the next generation.  Your personal attack was truly pathetic, and speaks volumes about you.That's why people look at GISS data sets Dazza...As you know perfectly well, "fail" is a sweeping term when talking about multi-variate models, and inaccurate quantification does not render the theory obsolete.  But by "98% fail", are you including that open-access journal which gave a sensitivity far below observed temperature changes?  You know, the one whose authors didn't seem to think that latent heat of condensation was a real number, and who didn't notice that one of their references had been withdrawn three years earlier?

"Name one alarmist prediction which has eventuated?"
Coral reef attrition.
Extinctions (luckily at this point restricted to populations, not whole species).
There's two.Just a little word of caution in interpreting John's post, nothowardsYs.  

Everything I know about quality control wouldn't fit in one of these posts, and professional analytical chemists working in a QA laboratory could tell you much more.  Essentially, most chemical analyses run before 1900 (and in some cases, as late as the 1970s) need to be taken with a grain of salt.  Some fields may well still be working this out.  If the measurement was not done correctly, or the sampling not done correctly, it can skew the results.  

In the case of CO2 measurements, atmospheric levels are low, and sources of contamination (human breath, hurricane lights or candles etc.) could easily skew the result.  Even something as simple as taking an air sample in a city, or whether or not there are animals grazing in the nearby field, can throw these results.  Time of day in a forest can make considerable changes to CO2 levels.  That's why remote places, far removed from major CO2 sources or sinks, tend to be popular sampling venues today.  

It's worth pointing out that CO2 measurements as low as 250ppm were sometimes obtained, and that most systematic errors are likely to be "positive" errors.  John is simply selecting the upper outliers in this timeframe and then trying to accuse those who made an honest attempt of interpreting the data of what he's doing.It seems as if my last reply has gone missing.  I'll try again.

Essentially, it was to the effect that John is (again) misrepresenting the argument - I was attacking the sampling methods, not the actual nuts-and-bolts of the tests used.

Anyone who wishes to look at the direct measurements for themselves can find a paper written by Stig Fonselius and co-workers (1956) in Tellus B.  It's easy enough to find online.  The graph on page 177 clearly shows a greater than 3% variation, and clearly shows that John's numbers are flagrantly cherry-picked.  See the summary in the text below this graph.  It leaves John without a leg to stand on.465/1000-1002. "That is categorically and unequivocally a lie" (an accusation thrice repeated).

That's an impressive effort, John.  Over one thousand demonstrable lies and half-truths in just over a year, averaging more than two per post.  You should ask your employers in the coal industry for a raise.

I'm just waiting for you to invoke Jaworowski's name again, so I can chalk up another 22 lies to your posts.  (I have already sent you the relevant info, you know that his non-submission to the US Senate hearing contains 22 lies, some of which involve misquotes of papers now no longer behind paywalls.)
466/1003.  "Yes, this report...ratchets up the hysteria over the previous one so that the noise level will convince the waverers and drown out the questioners."
It does no such thing. 

1004.  "Taken overall this report admits that previous reports have been misleading, that climate modelling has been imprecise and untrustworthy and that the most extreme of the threats have not been justified."
Again, torus excretia.

"In 2007, the IPPC said it was "likely" to be above 2 degrees Celsius and "very likely" to be above 1.5 degrees, with no upper limit."
Cut and pasted from their website:  "Equilibrium climate sensitivity is likely to be in the range 2?C to 4.5?C with a most likely value of about 3?C, based upon multiple observational and modelling constraints."

1005.  "The last AR report stated that the most probable value would be 3 degrees Celsius or above."
Cut and pasted from the Summary for Policymakers (IPCC AR5): "Equilibrium climate sensitivity is likely in the range 1.5?C to 4.5?C..."  

1006.  "This [TCR] again is lower than when last estimated in 2007 ("very likely" warming of 1 to 3 degrees Celsius, based on models, or 1 to 4 degrees, based on observational studies)."
Again, John's not quoting the IPCC AR4 report properly.  Again, cut and pasted:  "The transient climate response is better constrained than the equilibrium climate sensitivity. It is very likely larger than 1?C and very unlikely greater than 3?C."  This is not saying that 3 degrees if "very likely."

1007. "Most experts believe that warming of less than 2 degrees Celsius from preindustrial levels will result in no net economic and ecological damage."
Incorrect.  The 2 degrees was a politically expedient compromise.  Most marine experts are saying that a rise of 0.8 degrees from pre-industrial levels (ie. what we've seen) is a major contributor to the global coral attrition that has been observed.  See the GBRMPA website.

1008. "Therefore, the new report is effectively saying (based on the middle of the range of the IPCC's emissions scenarios) that there is a better than 50-50 chance that by 2083, the benefits of climate change will outweigh the harm."
This depends on actual emissions, and not too many people are touting benefits of AGW anyway."So far the earth is handling it [AGW] with ease; doesn't bat an eyelid."
Except for the world's coral reefs (they're in poor shape), and the white lemuroid possums.Well, you're right about a simple mind, de Brere... 

For a start, the Antarctic isn't cooling.  It's not warming as quickly as the Arctic.  This does not imply cooling is taking place.  You seem to be very confused.

OK, the notion that AGW, in trapping heat, will result in enhanced polar warming is simplistic, and it assumes that if the rate of heat loss is lost, then the ability of the world to re-distribute heat from hot to cold areas will be enhanced.  (Basis of statistical thermodyamics.)  It can do so radiatively (that's re-emission of IR, not cancer-causing radiation), but the atmosphere is thin compared to the surface of the Earth, and this redistribution is aided by convection (that's the flow of fluids - in this case, sea currents and air.  Water works much better than air too.)

For the Arctic, that works.  Ocean currents swing from tropical areas to the Arctic.  For the Antarctic, the circumpolar ocean and wind currents limit the amount of convection are not conducive to such heat exchange, and partially "isolate" the Antarctic from the warmer temperate areas and slow down the rate at which heat can be transferred to the Antarctic.  This is why the Antarctic is so much colder than the Arctic (well, one reason), and why the Antarctic has been less responsive to AGW.

There's also the fact that, for various reasons that would take a while to explain, the Antarctic has been more susceptible to ozone depletion than the Arctic.  Ozone is also a greenhouse gas (no, oxygen isn't, it relates to formal charges on trivalent atoms - another long story).  So while CO2 and methane have increased, human activities relating to ozone have been lowering another greenhouse gas in the Antarctic.  (CFC emissions have stopped, but it will take a while to completely deplete them from the atmosphere.)

I hope you get it now.  I really cannot explain this in simpler terms.@ Gary - Depends. Are you referring to the inherent building design or the current occupants?Try clicking on the Physical Science Basis FG.  If it doesn't have John's quote referring to the so-called hiatus, the others probably won't either. "full report" of the physical science basis (the one that's 375MB).  

I just checked John's quote online as well.  Are you sure you didn't put in a typo, FG?  I got four results, although "similar results" were omitted.  I didn't open any of them and am taking Theos' word that all of them were posted by John, but but they certainly were all ABC "The Drum" webpages and none of them were from the IPCC.Smart move, Theos.460/967.  I just check the Nature Geoscience paper in question.  John's alleged quote appears nowhere in it.

968.  By cutting and pasting John's quote into Google, I come across four websites, all of them on a website maintained by someone called Roger Pielke Sr., and not the US sub-committee on Energy and Air Quality.

969.  John calls Vahrenholt a "green activist," but fails to mention that he was in fact a career politician who entered business after he left politics.  He has been CEO of several companies (fossil fuel and wind), the most recent being one which marketed fossil-fuel-based energy sources.  It was around this time he wrote the book in question."I like reading what the dim-witted folk are being fed..."

So, you like The Australian, harry?  I'm not surprised.463/975.  Wood's experiment. 

If one looks at this experiment, it essentially involved the temperature measured in two boxes placed in the sun - one covered with a slab of sodium chloride, and the other with a piece of glass.
While sodium chloride is technically IR-transparent, as anyone who does infrared spectroscopy knows, the old-style spectrophotometers usually used KBr, not NaCl, to prepare samples for IR analysis.  NaCl is too hygroscopic (absorbs water, IR absorber) for general use.  Furthermore, KBr for spectroscopy still typically needs to be kept in the oven and/or in a dessicator with a strong drying agent to prevent hydration.  In short, Wood's experiment is too prone to error.

976.  Spurious CO2 readings

John doesn't mention that there were readings as low as 250ppm too, or that the averages for these periods were around the 300ppm mark (a bit higher for the 1940s).  It's funny how only the upper-end readings are accurate in his imaginary little world. 

977.  Knorr's study

Carefully constructed weasel words to misrepresent the study.  Knorr was essentially looking at how much of the anthropogenic CO2 emitted at any time remained in the atmosphere, vs how much gets sequestered - and he found that since the mid-1800s, about 40% of emissions have remained in the atmosphere (and this level has been relatively constant).  While sequestration rates are certainly important in the mix, this does not fundamentally alter AGW theory.  In fact, Knorr reports his emissions as Gigatonnes of carbon per year rather than as an atmospheric reading of CO2, but he uses data sets which are difficult to reconcile with John's previous claim of CO2 levels as high as 550ppm in the recent past.
Sigh...I guess such simple things really do challenge your intellect de Brere.  (Your words, not mine!)

I was only giving you the starting point.  It did require you to try to think, and see if you could link a few things together.  

OK, next hint...Look up "Antarctic Circumpolar Current" (it's all related) and see if you can understand it.  If you do, try to work out what effect it will have on the rate of heat exchange between the Antarctic and tropical areas, and try to figure out what effect warming the entire system (aka. AGW) will have.

Please try...it really isn't that hard!I'll second that!Two places for FG, both in Australia...

1.  Great Barrier Reef.  30 years ago, the ideal was perfect for the greatest reef system on Earth.
Now, half the reef is gone.  The water temperature has gone up, inducing bleaching events and favouring crown-of-thorns proliferation (though temperatures are not the only thing favouring that), and a higher than normal frequency of cyclones have been damaging the reef much faster than it can regenerate.

2.  Carbine Mountains.  30 years ago - Cool enough to support lemuroid possums.
Now - local lemuroid possum population critically endangered, possibly too small a gene pool to be viable, unique white morph probably gone - and all because of elevated temperatures.Congratulations.  You've just demonstrated Malcolm's point perfectly.Not to mention that they only include the "negative feedback" parts of processes which are essentially reversible.   I was tickled pink when I saw them counting surface evaporation as a negative feedback, but strangely didn't seem to think that heat was released when the water condensed as clouds again.  A good high school physics student could have seen what's wrong with this.

There's also the fact that observed temperatures over large time periods (ie. large enough that PDOs average out) generally fall within the lower end of the peer-reviewed models accepted by the IPCC (Ie. close to 1.5 degrees for a doubling of CO2).  Such direct observations are limited to examining dynamic climate systems and not equilibrium temperatures for any given CO2 concentration, and thermal inertia probably means such a comparison probably understates the sensitivity somewhat.  Funny how tonyM likes "real data" when claiming IPCC models have failed (which they haven't), but seems to like to back a model over real data when it suits his agenda.Letting pass that you garbled what I actually said, and that most physicists would cringe slightly at this comment...

Essentially, the paper you've asked me to write was published back in 1896 (though it examined photophysical properties and pre-dated quantum theory, and the contribution that made to understanding bond vibrational modes, the application of group theory to physical chemistry etc).  If it weren't for the spectrophotometric properties of CO2, CO2 lasers wouldn't work.  

I personally would like to strive to making new discoveries, not re-invent the wheel because someone can't be bothered to pull their head out of the sand and examine the mountains of available data with an open mind.Sorry Alpo, that comment was for De Brere.  Either I had the wrong window open, or the moderators misplaced it.Two comments missing...hopefully third time lucky...

Anyway, de Brere, you've posed a false dichotomy at the end.  Having looked into this matter, the disparity between Arctic and Antarctic warming can be explained in geographical terms, and doesn't challenge the theory.  No, it doesn't challenge my intellect, but if it challenges yours...well, you said it, not me.

I'll make things easier for you.  Look up "roaring forties," "furious fifties," and "shrieking sixties."  See where that leads to, and we'll see if you have the intellect to join the dots and deal with this challenge.  Good luck, and happy reading.

(P.S.  I'm not sure why you mentioned my usual understanding of quantum theory in that context.  It sounds as though you are implying it is more limited than yours.  Given that bold assertion about energy transfers you made which indicates ignorance of Stokes shifts amongst other things, you'd be unwise to challenge me on this matter.)Note the dismissal of the position statement without having read it, or the references therein, simply because it challenges de Brere's world view.  Enough said.No, WS, Ann is correct.  Where life expectancy, and even more so childhood mortality rates, are high, people have large families to ensure they have descendants.  This, more than anything else, drives population growth - a trend I have seen in several developing and recently developed countries.

If you examine Egypt's fertility rate over time, it is inversely proportional to the life expectancy.

Next time you travel, perhaps you should open your eyes.In that case, WS, you've completely missed the point.  If you want to deal with the population explosion and the effect it has on nature, you need to get communicable diseases such as TB, which can strike people down in their prime, under control.  

If you're worried about the population explosion, then the WHO call for help on TB is still a part of the solution.It's not so much the side effects as the fact that the vaccine (or rather, vaccines, there are several mutant strains about) aren't particularly effective.  Furthermore, if you've had the vaccine, you will show an antibody response with the skin test, and can mask real TB.

What we need is a better vaccine.441-2/830-2

Starting with John's previous post, "There are no demonstrated health costs stemming from fossil fuel use" - this is an odd one from John, who has previously repeated the fossil fuel lobby's line that the number of deaths caused by unvented cooking fires around the world each year could be prevented by the provision of cheap (ie. in his imagination, coal-fired) power.

The issues surrounding this are a bit more complicated than that, but essentially, the deaths are usually caused either by particulate inhalation or carbon monoxide poisoning.  It is worth noting that in some instances, these cooking fires are fuelled by coal.

As Japan and Britain found out in the 1950s, inefficient combustion of fossil fuels leads to the same problems. China has substantial urban air quality problems and subsequent health problems.  But it seems, in John's imaginary little world, carbon monoxide from fossil fuels is harmless; it's only biofuels CO that is dangerous.

Now onto the new post, "none of those claims [amongst them, coastal storms and cyclones] is true."
According to several authorities including the GBRMPA, the Great Barrier Reef has lost approximately half its coral mass in 30 years, and nearly half that loss was attributed directly to a high frequency of violent cyclones.  Clearly, the cyclone pattern over the past 30 years cannot be typical of the hundreds of years preceeding it - if so, the Great Barrier Reef would not have been as impressive as it was in the 1980s.  (I do not dispute that violent cyclones have occurred before this time, but their occurrence was sufficiently rare and spaced in timing for the reef to recover.  This is not happening now.)  That this cyclonic activity is attributable to AGW is perhaps debateable though most people studying climate feel that unusually warm coral seas are certainly contributing to it.  John does not provide an adequate refutation of this point.443/834-5.

"How many Golden Eagles have been killed by crashing into the MLC Centre in Sydney?"
Exactly the same number that have been killed by wind turbines in Australia - none.  The golden eagle's habitat does not include Australia, so John's point is irrelevant.

Then he goes on to provide a statistic from the American Bird Conservancy group (a legitimate group, it appears, in a break from tradition from John's usual information).  When one visits their website, one will also find the number of birds killed by other collisions in the USA:  communication towers (7 million), glass and buildings (300 million to one billion), and power lines ("millions," though this is poorly quantified).  This is to say nothing of cats (1.4-3.7 billion). They do not advocate the banning of wind turbines, but rather, better regulation, and examine the threats from both fossil fuel and renewable energy, with fossil fuels getting the worse write up, and the threat of global warming.

One cannot mount a serious argument against wind farms due to bird kills based on the American Bird Conservancy statistics.  Banning mobile phones (less communication towers), glass windows and cats would be more appropriate if one wanted to protect bird numbers.449/835.  According to TIME magazine, based on a report by Germany's energy trade association, 28.5% of Germany's energy was produced by renewable sources in the first half of 2014.  This is not a peak, or capacity; it is an output over six months.Rubbish Greig.  Warburton is on record for expressing "skepticism" about AGW.  It's not that he feels the RET is a poor way of addressing the problem - he is effectively in denial about the problem.  

As are you.  You claim that you accept AGW, but quibble about the impact in a manner that demonstrates you haven't the faintest idea about conservation biology (and have obstinately refused to address your ignorance), and when you find yourself painted into a corner, you are very prone to digging out trivialist memes which, on occasions, have bordered on denial of the very existence of AGW.

I would welcome a debate on the efficacy of this plan, provided people arguing against it did not try to argue against the necessity of limiting CO2 emissions and simply look for excuses for inaction.  The debate should be about how we act to mitigate CO2 emissions and reduce our dependence on non-renewable fuel sources, not whether to act or not.  Unfortunately, such debates get quickly highjacked by the deniers and trivialists.Well, there's another one for you Dazza.  A criticism of the incumbent, and you're "incapable or unwilling to think rationally" and, implicitly, a member of FG's mythical Labor Fan Club (despite previous posts of yours indicating that you were not necessarily that warm to the previous ALP regime).

These tinfoil hatters are rather entertaining, aren't they?The senile constantly make mistakes too harry.  Have you visited the Great Barrier Reef lately?  You'd better be quick...

Oh, and northwards Ys, John would be an excellent mentor if you want a training course in dishonesty.  Just follow his posts for a month or so, and double check his claims.Once again harry, you negate what might have been a legitimate criticism with over-the-top claims. Whilst most of our troops had already been pulled out by McMahon, Whitlam withdrew the Australian Army Training Team Vietnam (which despite its name was certainly involved in combat; four of their members would not have been eligible for the VC had they not performed acts of gallantry "in the face of the enemy"), and there was also a platoon guarding the Australian embassy in Saigon (withdrawn 1973).

Also noted is a very selective quote from The Conversation, which overlooks the fact that very few people in that time went to university, that the article essentially argued for a reduction in university fees in Australia, and that the "percentage educated" (I presume they mean at tertiary level) is 38%, so placements now go all the way down to the 50the percentile, it would seem that there are some worthy students who are opting out of tertiary studies - quite possibly because of financial restraints.  By all means, argue against the over-supply of degrees and the demand of tertiary qualifications for courses which once did not require tertiary qualifications (such as many accounting positions and nursing) if you think the pendulum's swung too far the other way, but you're getting a bit carried away here and getting your wires crossed here.Very selective in what we see, aren't we harry?

"...pink batts being put into houses that already have insulation..."
I suppose there may have been a few cock-ups in the roll-out of this scheme if people ordered insulation and didn't check their rooftops first, but I'd be a little surprised if it was other than very rare.

"...school halls, gyms and canteens that aren't fit for purpose..."
If I recall, 3% of the schools registered complaints.  A bit hyperbolic, your statement, isn't it?

"$900 to every tax payer even if they don't live in Australia so they can buy foreign TVs..."
I was under the impression many people with mortgages put it into reducing personal debt.  But if this is a waste of money, then rather than taxing people and then giving them money, or alternatively NOT taxing them, are you arguing that taxes should increase?  Maybe we should bring back the carbon tax.  Or are you advocating we stop importing foreign TVs?Oh, this is priceless!

Is this the same John who, on other threads, has argued vehemently that because international aid agencies callously refuse to build coal-fired power plants in developing countries, people can't afford to run their (non-existent) electric ovens, and instead kill themselves burning firewood indoors?

...Now trying to argue that there is no correlation between ambient particulate matter and daily deaths (when invoked in relation to coal-fired power plants emissions)?Hi Sharnyl, this road tax on diesel was, some years ago, also applied to diesel used in rail (though I understand some rail networks were fighting the legislation, so this may not apply anymore).  So even if it hadn't been rolled into general revenue, the application of tax breaks and subsidies was still a little uneven in application in such a way that the mining industry got preferential treatment (relative to other industries).

Given the renewable energy industry is relatively new, I wonder if tonyM feels that the short term subsidy to "get an industry started" (his own words) would still be applicable.  Or if not, how long the subsidy should have been applied for.  

However, given some of his rather creative interpretations of thermodynamics and his remarkable ability to look at a data set which supports the notion that CO2 is having an impact on global temperatures and pick the data points which in isolation appear to contradict this hypothesis, I suspect his objection to renewable energy subsidies might have more to do with his views on renewable energy rather than his views on subsidies.My thoughts exactly.  He was a little too honest, and not a good enough spin doctor, to be a successful politician - which reflects badly on both the general quality of our elected representatives, and the intelligence of the people who put them there.433/820.   "In 2015, due to a slow-down in business activity and sales, coal imports will fall by 1-2% over 2013 figures."
According to the Huffington Post, it has dropped by 5.3% already.  The Guardian puts the reduction in coal burned (not coal imported, and China mines a lot of their own) at 1-2%.

821.  "China is building new coal-fired power generating plants at a rate of about one per month."
An oft-quoted figure, never substantiated (or compared to growth in other energy sectors).  Nor is the next statement (#822) substantiated.Read it all again harry, a little more carefully this time. I was debunking John's claims about a 1-2% drop in Chinese coal imports.  A 1-2% reduction in coal use in China will probably translate to a 10-20% reduction in coal imports, if one presumes that they are more likely to cut imports than local production if their coal consumption drops. The sources I put up indicate that the amount of coal burned in China has dropped by 1-2%, and we've already seen a 5% drop in Chinese imports because of the drop in local demand.  (This is a developing situation, not a steady state, which is why the numbers don't yet align.)Presuming those three coal-fired power plants use about $17 million tonnes of coal (extrapolated from Kogan Creek coal use for MWh produced there, one of Australia's most modern plants), and presuming the coal-fired power plants pay $80/tonne (international price US $70/tonne, or about 80AUD), it looks as though we're paying $1.3 to 1.4 billion dollars to feed those coal-fired power plants in one year.

Interest $35 billion at 2.5 % (RBA rates, although some banks do offer more) comes to $0.875 billion.

These figures are of course subject to change with interest rate and coal prices, and assume black coal is used rather than brown.  They don't include cost of water (coal-fired only) or ongoing maintenance costs (a factor for each, I am unsure which of the two is higher), and also depends on the lifespan of each investment.  However, it appears wind is becoming competitive with coal over the long-term.Hmm.  Strange my other post hasn't gone up yet.  I'll try again.  

Essentially, I pointed out that harry has only added reasons why my relative cost of wind (to coal) could be underestimates.  There has been recent talk of a possible interest rate drop despite the current low levels, so his statement that "the risk is all on the upside" probably isn't true.  Nor does he seem to entertain the idea that the cost of coal might increase (not saying it will definitively, it might decrease in the light of recent Chinese decisions, but it is at a 5-year low).  So essentially, he only presents uncertainties which will disfavour coal in the long run.

Not exactly a balanced critique.

Oh, and I'm sure that many wind turbines won't all be in the same area, and the intermittency problem is unlikely to work against all simultaneously. Average output may not vary much at all if they are well dispersed.Oh, I nearly forgot - at this point, some anti-renewable-energy type will probably suddenly "remember" that wind turbines only operate at 20% capacity on average, and then try to divide the output by five.  Given these figures started with a 41GWh output (an output, not a capacity), the discordance between capacity and average output should already be accounted for in these numbers.  Anyone who tries this trick is being dishonest.I don't think we should be looking at climate change as a left/right issue.  It's an environmental issue and future planning issue, and should be above political ideologies (although the left and right may differ in how they believe it is best tackled).  True, there has been a greater degree of denial on the conservative side of politics (but then, when multinational mining companies stand to lose money, guess which side of politics they're going to try to bribe first), there's no reason an intelligent and principled conservative such as Dr Hewson cannot take a position in favour of the RET.

Actually, people get too tribal over left/right ideologies, and not enough time is spent examining the competence and integrity of our elected representatives - something which is far more important.@ FG - The political activists are the ones in the pay of the fossil fuel companies.

@ Reinhard, you make a good point, and I personally felt there was a stronger focus on Shorten's potential cowardice than Abbott's dirty actions.  I think he's still a Liberal party member, and may still be inclined to slant things subtly in favour of one party.  

Mind you, this might be a bit suspicious; perhaps the focus is on Shorten because the ball is now in Shorten's court.  I don't think he is wrong to question whether or not Shorten has the guts to stand up to it - not after some of his recent performances in parliament.  So even if there is a slightly biased viewpoint, he raises good points, and I don't see the current coalition finding much solace in this article either.

All in all, I like reading Dr Hewson's articles.  I don't always agree with his expressed opinions, but he's thought-provoking, and distinguishes between opinion and fact very well.  A few pieces written from right and left perspectives are quite welcome, provided they don't become overly political or deliberately biased, and Dr Hewson (sorry, Prof Hewson, old habit there) is probably the best conservative commentator here.Actually, the White Australia policy was introduced by Edmund Barton (Protectionist party, which along with the Free Trade Party was forerunner to the first Liberal party and the historic divide between the ALP and the Liberals/Nationals/UAP/whatever they called themselves at the time).  It had bipartisan support, as did its dismantling though the 1960s and 1970s.  Whitlam's perceived role in its dismantling is overstated given Holt's role is forgotten, but your revision of history is not accurate either.Details about the sexual harassment claims were leaked to the media, and whilst they were certainly puerile and offensive comments, I struggled to see the relevance to a harassment claim.  Nor did we see all the text messages, simply heard what he had written (and not what Ashby had written before or in response).  I feel that this was done to destroy Slipper.

Like many things, we can't rush to conclusions without knowing the context in which these emails were written and cannot automatically assume that they are a reflection of his views.  However, it was at the very least an extraordinarily stupid act to write them from a work-supplied email address.  Whilst universities don't particularly care if university internet access is used for personal reasons, if those "personal reasons" include anything illegal (eg. downloading pirated movies) or even anything indecent (eg. downloading pornography, even material which is not illegal, or vulgar racial taunts), the proverbial brown and smelly can hit the fan.  (Had Spurr's private hotmail or gmail account have been hacked, he could rightly claim an invasion of privacy, but this case is going to put privacy laws to the test...)Absolute garbage, from beginning to end.

Isotope levels (most tellingly, dropping 13-C levels in atmospheric and fixed CO2 with time) show us that the extra CO2 is coming from fossil carbon.

The NOAA is just one of many sources with the relevant data.  Do some research before shooting your mouth off.So, a meteor is a threat because it caused one mass extinction, according to Bulldust, but sudden changes to CO2 concentration, which have caused at least three mass extinctions from memory (including the biggest int the Earth's history, the P-T extinction), isn't a threat.

Strange logic.  Appropriate pseudonym though.Trouble is, if we do that, we'll do untold damage in the process.I'm probably wasting my time, but can you point to a study showing the merits and otherwise of the various models?

Nah, don't bother.  I'm sure you'll just shovel in more mendacity, as your last post included (had closed before I read it).

You accused me of suggesting a warming trend could be extrapolated from a +PDO cycle, which, as you know full well, is a lie.  I suggested that any extrapolated warming trend at least needed roughly equal periods of positive and negative PDOs (something you failed to do in your carefully selected timeframe) and needed to be quantified, not simply stating "warming" and "cooling" (and as I pointed out, though only about 25 years of the last 75 showed a warming trendline, the overall effect was warming - despite that the over-representation of -PDOs should have shown a slight cooling - you sure are an expert at twisting the facts).

Your statement about Einstein not publishing in peer review is a misrepresentation - though the peer-review process as it stands did not become mainstream until the 2nd half of the 20th century owing to the greater volume and diversification of science, the editors of journals before that time were typically experts in the field and at least passed over it to check to see if it was BS.  Einstein did react quite aggressively to a knock-back by a peer review shortly after going to the US, but that was partly because he was unaccustomed to the practice and considered it a personal insult.  Paradoxically, though he never tried to re-publish in the same journal, he did by chance have a conversation with the reviewer and realised there was a mistake in his proof, and what he did eventually publish in a non-reviewed periodical was a manuscript which was revised based on that critique.  These days, journals which haven't adopted higher standards of review have been relegated to publishing crap - such as the one you put up.  (Apparently, according to the author, though evaporation of water leads to a negative feedback - latent heat and all that - the subsequent re-condensation of clouds doesn't need to be accounted for.  I guess the latent heat of condensation all magically disappears when the trivialists want it to.)

You were right about one thing though.  I have zip, zilch, zero papers published in "Open Access" journals - all my papers are published in peer-reviewed journals."How come he is not even more amused by the confusion of correlation with causation when it comes to attributing observed climate changes with the rise in anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions?"

Maybe Jericho understands more thermodynamics than you (or at least, listens to those who do).That's correct, they're not in the OECD.Strange, when I do a search for "energy security and poverty ICRC [International Committee of the Red Cross/Red Crescent]," or type the word "coal" in association with the charity, nothing supporting your assertion comes up.  

But maybe the ICRC has just missed something.  Surely World Vision, Medicins Sans Frontiers, or Oxfam mention something about it...?

Err...no.  In fact, the Oxfam article "Food, Fossil Fuels and Filthy Finance" suggests that they are rather antagonistic to the idea of fossil fuels.

It seems that Peabody Energy, which is better known as a profitable mining company rather than a charity dedicated to alleviating poverty, is the only major organisation touting this view.

So, who do we believe when looking for the best solution to global poverty? Not-for-profit organisations that dedicated to the task, or a mining company with no particular philanthropic credentials touting a solution which would (coincidentally, I'm sure) boost sales?

Well, I think I've established who Greig works for...I doubt that there will OUB (or, there won't be many).  Whitlam certainly stirred passions, with a considerable number of people rating him as either the best or the worst PM in living memory, but I don't think too many Australians can argue that they came to real harm because of his policies - unlike Thatcher, against whom many people (Scots and Welsh in particular) have a strong grievance. 

Mind you, I'm not saying the celebrations of her death were good - irrespective of what one thinks of someone else, even if one rightly has a grievance, it was macabre and distasteful at the very least. I don't adhere strongly to the "never speak ill of the dead" policy, but we should at least be circumspect, and openly celebrating a death (and claiming individuals aren't fit to live) can lead to a very slippery slope ideologically.  

As you said, he made politics interesting, and did so in a way which, though the political discourse was brutal, it didn't become personal or bitter (and that was despite some of the issues he dealt with, such as conscription and his dismissal, being potentially very divisive).  Right or wrong, I feel he put what he felt were the nation's interests first all the time, and I feel the same can be said of some of his opponents at the time as well. It was certainly a better discourse than the self-interest that seems to dominate motivations of politicians on both sides of the house today.I'm a generation Yer struggling to break into the property market, and not a single generalisation you have made applies to me, with the possible exception of the part (and that depends on a qualitative description of "travel incessantly").  The last party I was at was a friend's engagement party before Easter, I rarely drink either coffee or alcohol, studied science, have never had an iPhone, and I'm afraid you'll have to explain to me what instagram is.

I'm looking at your generalisation and thinking, wow, what a narrow-minded, stuck-up fool you are.Clete, please point to the statement that global warming was unquestionable, and explain how it left no room for short-term deviations from the CO2 vs temperature graph for natural variation (which would be an extraordinary statement, as the link between sunspot cycles and temporary climate trends had been established long before anyone realised CO2 variations could do the same).Strange, when I look at the models and look at reality, I find some discordance, but not enough to reject the models outright, or to reject the hypothesis that unmitigated CO2 emissions will cause significant and dangerous warming over the coming decades. 

But perhaps that's because I look at the full NASA/NOAA/CRU data sets and compare the rates to proxy reconstructions, and not just a period in which the ENSO has acted to temporarily mitigate (partially mitigate) the effects of rising greenhouse gas levels.

I'll tell you what tonyM, you're slicing that data set thinner and thinner to come up with your specious misrepresentations.  

Also noted that you refer to the last "paper" showing a rise of 0.43 degrees for a doubling of CO2, but you don't actually tell us what that paper is.  I went looking, and according to one of the denialist websites, it was the "Open Journal of Atmospheric and Climate Change"...Ah yes, these new "Open Access" journals, the last refuge for a would-be pseudoscientist who needs to by-pass the peer-review process.The temperature is going up because CO2 levels are going up.

The reverse can be partially true - a warming event can cause the oceans to expel CO2 (which induces more warming, which induces more CO2 expulsion...you get the idea), but that hasn't been happening since the industrial revolution.  The CO2 concentrations of the oceans have been increasing, because there's so much more of it being pumped into the air from the combustion of fossil fuels.Maybe not.  The GBR is in dire straits at the moment, and we may well lose it within his lifetime (though he will be well and truly out of politics by then).It's only half the size it was thirty years ago, FG.  I'd hate for those maps to be rendered obsolete one day.

Wake up and smell the thorns."If the big 4 emitters say no then nothing happens. Its a waste of our time and energy."

Actually, the "big four" emitters have actually been doing something about it.  Well, more than Australia anyway.  

It's time we stop saying "we won't do anything for the environment until everybody else does" and actually join them in doing what we're claiming they're not doing.Early 19th century snow was probably caused by the Dalton minimum (sunspot cycle, not anthropogenic).

Late 20th century snow in London is probably the result of the slowing gulf stream (which is itself is a consequence of several factors of AGW)."On the basis that life on earth would die without CO2, I say it [release of CO2 from fossil fuels] is a good thing."

And it might be, if it were occurring at less than one thousandth of the rate at which it is occurring.  However, we're releasing it too quickly for the current environment to cope. This has happened several times in the past, and usually in conjunction with mass extinction events (which cannot seriously be argued as "good").Truth be told, I don't know if anyone cross-checks the scientific claims,although this can be hard for journalists without scientific qualifications to do (and even if they have qualifications, I'm not sure if news outlets subscribe to journals).  However, the ABC's coverage of AGW is usually pretty good.  A few things slip through, for example, some speculative claims which are poorly supported and the odd piece by Carter which fails to stand up to scientific scrutiny, but if you judge the sum-total of their publications on the matter rather than individual pieces, you'll build up reasonable picture of the science behind AGW.I just went looking for the story in The Australian, and for the original. 

According to The Australian, the misleading story was posted on Facebook by a group called Australians for Palestine, and makes a vague reference to the Falastin News - which, when I checked (thinking it might have been a Palestinian news outlet), also turned out to be a Facebook page.  

When you were talking about journalism, I was rather expecting The Australian to have had an expose on Fairfax or the ABC or SBS or some other professional news outlet in which journalists are required to apply their skills and expected to do so with integrity, not a bloody Facebook page where anyone can post pretty much anything with near impunity.  To describe the posters of this article as journalists, even in inverted commas, gave the false impression that this came from a recognised news outlet and/or was written up by professional journalists (I have no idea who wrote it, but on the off chance that it was a journalist, they didn't do so in their professional capacity), and as such was deceitful.No, I haven't missed your point.  You've provided no evidence that Lane Saintly has failed to adhere to those principles, or indeed, any of the critics of The Australian within the journalistic profession.  All you've done is pointed out that The Australian can successfully critique a Facebook page (presuming that what they said is correct, I haven't gone looking for the details), and "more reliable than Facebook" is an extremely low bar for journalistic standards."Social media" - not a professional news outlet.  Surely you can tell the difference.

I have a FB account, but that doesn't make me a journalist.It is known for a fact that a large region of the North Sea near what is now Britain was above sea level about 8000 years ago, and was slowly inundated (perhaps not so slowly at different times) as the glaciers of the ice age receded.  Dredging of this area has shown strong evidence of human settlement, and possibly what was quite a sophisticated society for the time.  The area is called "Doggerland."  It is suspected that the displacement of these people gave impetus to what became the legend of Atlantis.  Whilst not necessarily (and probably not) a city as described in the legends, the legend of Atlantis and the inundation of a large area in which people lived probably has a factual basis - one of which you are clearly ignorant.  

The strange thing is, whilst you don't actually have to believe in literal interpretations, when you study such legends (and religion) with an open mind rather than simply denouncing them with terms like "weak-minded" and "deluded," you might actually learn things that are interesting and useful.So Mitor, when the legend of Atlantis describes a land in the Atlantic with a massive fields of a diameter of over one thousand stadia, it was made up (and pure coincidence that Doggerland happened to fit this description reasonably well)?  When they talk about the immeasurable wealth, that was made up as well (and pure coincidence that the temperate climate of Doggerland made it a far more habitable region than the rest of glacier-carved Europe at the time, and therefore a more propserous society than most other European societies)?  The Egyptians were simply making things up when they talked about this Atlantic land being consumed by the sea, and the submersion of Doggerland in the Atlantic by rising sea levels was pure coincidence?  Are we to assume that because oral traditions have distorted some detail with the passage of time, that they are purely fictional and have no basis?  I take it you don't believe in the First World War then - after all, there's a lot of distortions (generally related to propaganda) in that, so Australians killed in Gallipoli and France must be made-up nonsense as far as you're concerned...

Oh, and MD, while I, too, find things more interesting once there has been verification, I suspect there's still a relevant take-home message today about a land inundated by rising sea levels caused by global warming.  Sometimes, the confirmation is only partial at any given time, and legend might tell us where to keep looking, and for what.Actually, a meta-analysis has been published recently which makes for interesting reading.  It hasn't answered the question of the veracity of out-of-body experiences, but they did note memories extending more than...I think it was 30sec...after cardiac arrest, a time by which contemporary neurology maintains that the brain is usually shutting down.

What it means is open to interpretation; we're not sure which of our scientific preconceptions has been challenged by this data.  Time will tell..."Shirtfront" diplomacy...I have no time for Putin, but this will probably go down as one of the greatest diplomatic blunders ever made by an Australian prime minister.And how many of those people turned back have subsequently been killed by the regimes they were fleeing?  (Oops, we can't talk about that, it's an on-water operational matter.)

Oh, and according to the World Health Organisation, there are an estimate 4.3 million people who died in 2012 because of indoor fires (various fuel sources which include coal, a more specific break-down was not given), versus 3.7 million from outdoor air pollution (again, a variety of sources).  So even before I start addressing the reasons why people often choose to have poorly vented indoor fireplaces in the developing world (yes, they sometimes do choose this over other cooking methods even if chimneys or electric stoves are available, and there are reasons for this), the notion that more people die PER ANNUM than have EVER died as a consequence of coal is complete and utter Torus Excretia (which you can dry out and use as a fuel for your indoor fireplace, if you so want).  

Of course, it's you writing this, so that the statement is Torus Excretia goes without saying.Who wins might depend on whether one hosts a boxing or wrestling contest.  I understand Abbott used to do boxing and Putin used to do judo.

I personally wouldn't care who wins.  Either Australia solves Russia's biggest problem, or Russia solves Australia's biggest problem.  It would be a good outcome either way.Really, Albo, try to think before you engage the keyboard.

The government doesn't just give the universities a lump of money; they receive it though various forms from the government, depending on how many HECS students they're teaching, ARC/NHMRC grants (salaries for postdocs), individual grants etc.

The universities also have private incomes (full fee paying students, rent of facilities, patents, donations from philanthropists and alumni etc).  There are no rules laid down by parliament as to how they should best invest that money, but like all things, there are advantages and risks to any portfolio investment.  They are certainly not beholden to the decision of any federal minister in this regard. What if Pyne made an idiotic investment choice? If Philip Morris was a stable investment for returns, should they ditch all ethics and invest in this company?.

Oh, and as for your "dubious portfolios" - the ANU hasn't divested in all mining companies, only some, and they've retained BHP shares.

I don't know all the ins and outs of their decision to divest in some companies, but that's simply none of my business, or yours, or the business of anyone in government.The Tibetans might disagree with your last statement.

At least in a democracy, you do have the ability to choose a candidate other than a labor or a coalition member (provided any stand in your electorate, but there's usually at least one minor party member or independent).  OK, they never get elected, but whose fault is that?  Why is it that the masses going to the polls always choose one of two donkeys who can list "ALP" or "Lib/Nat/LNP" (depending on electorate or state) as their affiliation?  Nobody's forcing them to do so.

In a democracy, the people (as a collective) get the government they deserve.  If the results are unpalateable, it's a reflection on the IQ of the average voter, not the process per se.You'll also find that China is, or will soon be stopping, the importation of coal with high sulfur and ash contents.  Such coals tend to burn inefficiently and produce more aerosol pollutants, which in the short-term are worse than CO2, especially where urban air quality and acid rain are concerned.

Basically, your assessment of China's coal importation policy is overly simplistic.  We're seeing elements of both financial and environmental interests in their policies.Australian companies got pretty uptight about the low-sulfur coal exports too.  Whilst some of our reserves are high-quality, you cannot apply the generalisation to all our coal exports.Every school teacher and nurse quitting their job to seek higher-paid vocations...

Yes, I see how that'll be good for the country.Wrong again Coochey.  It is not actually against the law to attempt to enter Australia without documents.  FactCheck has already tested this claim.

I see you're still flogging that dead horse about "fleeing directly from persecution."  If a refugee hasn't been offered asylum somewhere else, they are regarded as fleeing "directly from persecution," even if they do so via another country which hasn't formally accepted them and granted them asylum (such as Indonesia).

Ultimately, it's up to the UNHCR to decide who is and is not a genuine refugee, not up to bloggers who think that latent heat of fusion is related to nuclear fusion.Yet another generalisation tarring all asylum seekers with the same brush by John Coochey.

While it is certainly possible that some asylum seekers with spurious claims destroy documents to make it harder to disprove their claims, those fleeing persecution generally don't want the authorities in their home countries to be able to identify them either.  There are several cases of prominent Jews who fled Nazi-controlled Europe under false names, and in some cases, certain oppressed ethnic minorities have been denied the right to be issued with passports etc. of their home country.

Again, I reiterate, it is up to the UNHCR to analyse and make decisions on the legitimacy of a claim on a case-by-case basis.  Bloggers who don't know the difference between latent heat of fusion and nuclear fusion probably shouldn't be trying to formulate policy."So why do they destroy the documents only in the latter part of their journey when they are no longer subject to scrutiny by the oppressor?"

Do you know for a fact that this is what they do in each and every case (no exceptions at all)?  Or is it that in your imaginary little world, we can turn back all asylum seekers without paperwork because it is known that some of them destroy them belatedly to launch spurious asylum claims, and bugger the ones who may have had a legitimate reason to do so? 

That was why I said it has to be assessed on a case by case basis.  This may come as a surprise to you, but one size doesn't fit all.
Just out of curiosity, John, did Clay's tactic involve "shirt-fronting" his opponent?Probably none.  Domesticated animals are so far removed from their wild cousins, they end up classified as different species.  Domestication of wolves hasn't protected natural wolves, it's simply led to a new animal (Canis domesticus) which does not behave like a wolf or adequately fulfill the same ecological niche.

Some of those animals may also have had very special environmental or dietary requirements which were not conducive to domestication.  There's a reason orange-bellied parrots are not popular aviary birds.

Before sounding off about animal rights activists not knowing what they're talking about, perhaps you should study the topic a little more so that you actually know what you're talking about next time.John, if you're going to criticise someone else's facts, you should actually try to get yours right.

1.  So John Howard left a $93b surplus, but Swann only inherited a $20b surplus?
2.  Yes, it did.  Universities, schools and public hospitals (strictly speaking state managed, but for which the funding of which had largely been taken over by the Federal government during Howard's term of office) were desperately under-funded, amongst other organisations.
5. Our debt was modest compared to our GDP, and some of it was incurred dealing with the structural deficit (in the case of the NBN, the ALP's policy makes more economic sense than the coalition policy).  I'm not saying we shouldn't be trying to return to surplus pretty soon, but I have little confidence in the coalition doing so any time soon after Hockey's first budget.
7.  Nobody was talking about this in Australia; why mention it?After the recent hatchet job done at the CSIRO, I'd wager the few qualified statisticians left there are probably already overworked."Defence seems to cope with endless cuts" - Actually, they're screaming about it.  

"So what do they contribute?  Nothing, just another mob of over entitled bozos"
Strange thing to say about the organisation that gave us AAS, synthetic pyrethroids, and successfully screened for and introduced myxomatosis, amongst other things.  Are you really so astoundingly ignorant as to not know about the CSIRO's achievements, or the costs and benefits of research? 
Fair enough, if businesses do the same.  I'm not impressed when share dividends are lower because of political donations to political parties, or when businesses engage in political corruption (see link below).

http://www.abc.net.au/7.30/content/2014/s4031512.htmI just looked at world bank figures.  They only had numbers for Australia's R&amp;D spending for 2010.  Your assertion that we spend a greater percentage of our GDP than Norway is correct, looking at this figure, but this ignores the fact that 2010 was a bad year for research spending globally (except in Australia), and that a number of cuts to research spending have been made in Australia since, whilst many other countries have slowly increased theirs since.  (It didn't have number beyond 2012, and the numbers for 2014, when they're in, will certainly not be good.)Hi Alpo, I have to say I'm with mike on this one.  To argue that we shouldn't stop ISIL because the Iraq invasion was illegal and an idiotic policy is, to me, a bit like supporting the appeasement policies in Europe in the 1930s because the Versailles treaty was unfair on the German people and fuelled the fascist movement.  A group like ISIL gaining territory in the oil-rich Middle East is going to spell trouble not just for the region, but for the rest of the world.  That Bush created this mess doesn't mean it doesn't exist, or that it doesn't require foreign intervention - and given we're there at the request of the Iraqi government and several ethnic groups facing ethnic cleansing, the legality in this intervention is not questionable.

I must also (reluctantly) endorse Australia's actions in this regard, for although the middle east isn't really our region and we shouldn't be getting involved in it at this point of time, the fact is that after we followed Bush into Iraq in 2003, we already have responsibility for what's going on.  (I do not find that the least bit palatable.  I've never forgiven Howard for dragging us into that one, and my animosity toward him has increased after recent events, believe me.)

Having said that, I'm under no illusions that destroying ISIS and mopping up the mess will be easy.  I hope the UN has a plan for restricting ISIL's continued advance and the growth of yet another extremist movement.  This might mean carving up Iraq along ethnic lines so as to give each region which has typically not sympathized with Sunni extremism more local control (a mess created in the aftermath of the first world war).  Troops on the ground might be a mistake; the objective should be to support ISIL's enemies in their fight, rather than be seen to be taking command of Iraq.  Policy makers need to come from the UN, as individual country's leaders are too susceptible to listening to vested interests rather than intelligent policy (for example, oil companies will be pressuring the US to do what' in their interests, and that has historically been one of the major causes for western-world-fuelled strife in the middle east)."He [Abbott] should have thought more and talked less until he had a better grasp of what it all meant."

That applies to almost everything he says.So, you live in the real world Terry?  Then you should be able to tell me how many terrorist attacks have been carried out in Australia in the last 30 years, how many people were killed in them, and how many of them were carried out by the "particular group" to which you allude.

For comparative reasons, if you could put up, say, the number of murders committed by non-terrorists in the same time period, that might help put things in perspective.Godwin's rule.  You lose.

Anyhow, how to you go to bashing multiculturalism and then draw parallels between the "leftist" support of multiculturalism and the European turning of a blind eye to the build-up of power of what was arguably the most racially intolerant society of the 20th century?

I see that tinfoil hat is working perfectly.Firstly dig, what you have described as socialism is in fact communism (extreme socialism).

Secondly, apart from fascism and communism (and even this is arguable), there are no goalposts for left vs right.  There are even some far-right lunatics who consider Obama to be socialist, and all he's really done that could be construed as "socialist" is improve the USA's previously pathetic public health system.  It still isn't good.

Thirdly, if you look at what Obama has done to public health, this essentially works to the benefit of the financially disadvantaged - which, according to his critics who are calling him a socialist, amounts to "helping the weak," so to speak.Read my post again carefully Greig. I said "realise," not "accept" - though I do wish more people had the brains and foresight to realise that this is something they have to accept.  (As it is, I was talking about those who accept the reality of AGW anyway and the need to do something, the ones you claimed were deluded in thinking renewables would mean free energy forever.)Garbage as usual Greig.

"...people want to believe that a government can take action on climate change, and they (the voters) don't have to pay anything."
Most people realise there will be a higher price to pay (initially) for renewable energy.  It's just that the price of inaction is going to be much, much greater in the long term.Greig asks "Lord Kelvin, where is your scientific evidence for impending "dead oceans"?"

He must be a troll.  Only someone living under a rock could have possibly missed what's been going on in the GBR these past 30 years.

Oh, and archaeological precedent suggests it is certainly possible.  (Permian-Triassic extinction:  Up to 98% of marine life is close enough to a "dead ocean" for my money.)More garbage from Greig!  Is there any end to it?

"We are relying on conjecture - it MAY be bad, as opposed to it WILL be bad."
Almost a certainty.  Ask any evolutionary biologist what environmental change means.

"Yet we KNOW global problems like poverty, overpopulation and health are real and impending and very bad problems that need fixing now. And so cheap energy is needed. Now."
What they need, more so than cheap energy, is stable government providing free health and education.  Oh, and no wars.  The best thing you can do is avoid companies which are exploiting 3rd world labour and resources.  If you think that building a heap of coal-fired power plants in the Congo is going to solve the civil war, think again.  Really, try to come up with some intelligent solutions for a change, rather than repeating the standard fossil fuel lobby propaganda.

"We don't know yet if the oceans will become acidic..."
A couple of basic formulas, taught in undergraduate chemistry.  Yes, we do (unless we actually curtail CO2 emissions drastically).  Soft drinks work on the same principle.

" They claim the barrier reef is dying from acid oceans, there is no such evidence." 
No, most of the evidence points to unusual warming and high frequency of violent storms at this point.  Ocean acidification is not (YET) considered a major driver to reef attrition.

"They claim a parallel with the PT extinction, there is no such link with paleoclimate data (at least not in scientific circles)."
Oh, really?  You're an expert in palaeontology and can dispute all those papers which conclude that a massive warming event all but wiped out life on Earth?  Please, do tell...Coal and nuclear also require idle standby gas.  It has something to do with "peak demand," something Greig doesn't seem to understand.I was wondering the same thing greenspider.  While I don't deny renewables are more expensive at this stage (if one looks solely at current balance sheets and ignores peak resources, consequences of AGW etc), Greig can be very creative when he generates facts and figures.

If past history is anything to go by, I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for a reply if I were you.Really, Charles?  I was under the impression that the thermometer was invented after the medieval warm period and that reliable direct measurements came sometime after that.  

Strange, whenever I see the proxy reconstructions, none of them suggest that the periods you talk about were warmer than the present day globally (though I acknowledge, and have seen paper support, some isolated geographical exceptions). 

You should have added the holocene.  Then you'd have at least gotten one out of four right - if I ignore the descriptor "much."Amber says "There are thousands of scientists who dispute man made global warming..."

Most probably.  Estimates are that 97-98% of scientists accept AGW, and the ACS alone has over 100K members.  Still the minority.

But ingenuous said that the problem was finding a REPUTABLE scientist.  Most of those who dispute AGW either haven't looked at it carefully enough, or are frauds.

Oh, and the climate sensitivity is believed to be approximately 3 degrees for a doubling of CO2, not less than one (refer to earlier post).No Amber, there is not a lot of debate in the scientific literature.  There are a handful of highly dubious papers (and when I say this, I'm being very generous in assuming Energy &amp; Environment is a scientific paper) against a mountain of evidence which supports varying aspects of the notion of AGW.Garbage Amber.  Bob Carter is a geologist and has shown nothing of the sort.  His "arguments" (one of them appeared on The Drum a couple of years ago) are full of holes which, unfortunately, most layman wouldn't immediately see, are are written as specious propaganda pieces to try to sway the public into believing something Carter himself surely cannot believe.

Oh, and read Matthew England's paper.That, and 2010 was the hottest year on record (2005 before that), so the "no warming for 17/19/whatever years" falls down, even if one wants to abandon all statistical analysis.So Peter, because dodgy Chinese manufacturers aren't managing their waste properly, we should abandon all wind turbines?

Should we stop using natural gas because of the environmental havoc caused by frakking?

Remember the Oc Tedi mine?  Should we stop all mining?

There was a pharmaceutical company in South America some years ago making contraceptive pills and dumping the waste in the local river, with disastrous consequences.  Should we abandon the contraceptive pill?

Should we stop using oil because of the major oil spills of the past few years?Try Australia Peter.  A quick google search ought to set you straight.

I think the US was prospecting too, with promising results."How come it doesn't agree with the 28 million Hadley Radiosonde weather balloon records ? Not to mention the 3000 ocean buoy measurements and 30 years of satellite records."

Umm, Billy...It does, actually.So tonyM, three years is a statistically significant trend in your imaginary little world?  Thank you for demonstrating your profound ignorance.

Not that Alpo's statement is particularly robust, but it's certainly better than yours, and it at least holds up to scrutiny better when one starts examining the data set as a whole.Not sure if your numbers are reliable, but Exxon-Mobil alone makes about $40b per year out of an industry which essentially wants AGW to be fictional.  This data can readily be found on company financial statements.

As you said, follow the money...Alternatively, they could invade and colonise Australia.  Mind you, that wouldn't solve the AGW problem - just the population disparity problem which idiots like Peter use as an excuse for inaction on our part.Your qualifier is meaningless, because your statement is not statistically sound anyway.The time periods tonyM talks about also correspond to negative phases of the Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation cycle.  If it weren't for CO2, temperatures would be approximately the same now as they were in the late 1960s.

tonyM is a classic example of a denier looking at limited data sets and ignoring other well-known variables in order to"prove" his point to the public.  It is in fact mendacious.
