A DD would be nice to have in theory and the arguments put forward in the article are compelling.  But, the problem is that the Government has well and truly cocked up the politics so that they are in a no win situation.    What they should have done is stick to what they promised (including the cuts) at the last election and used the parliamentary chaos to present themselves as a truly "adult" governments setting a cohesive direction for Australia's future.    In this environment a DD would have been a no brainer and it would likely have set them up for a Howardesk term.   However, what has happened is that they've fallen into the trap of believing their own rhetoric and assuming that the public is gullable and would believe all of the propaganda put forward.    At the end of the day they all look like children squabbling over whose turn it is to bat, while at the same time telling everyone that they are really being very adult about everything.

The only possible plus for the government is the less than inspiring performance of the leeder of the opposition.   Even yesterday during the debate in the house his presentation left much to be desired and was far eclipsed by Albo and his PUP wagging the tail comment. Albo's presentation was clearly enthusiastic and engaging.   Being able to do backroom deals is one thing but getting the public on your side is another matter altogether and both Mr Abbott and Mr Shorten have a lot of work to do to make themselves appear to be true leadership material and worthy of the title of Prime Minister and the pay packet that goes with it.I have to admit I love the "Team Australia" concept.   It sort of reminds me of that old Twelth Man quip... "We're a team and we're going to do it my way..."   Mr Abbott does like his captain's calls.

It's interesting how attitudes change over time.   I remember years ago the possible introduction of an "Australia Card" led to a generalised outcry.   Nowadays people seem to be very free and easy with their personal data.    

My biggest concern at present with this whole situation is that it looks like the nuts and bolts haven't been thought out.   If they had come hout and clearly articulated what they wanted to do I think I would be more comfortable than I am now.

I think this is more of a case of don't mention the budget!

I suppose it comes down to how you define "race".   As a person of English descent who has on occasion been referred to a Pommy whose parents were not married I would tend to dispute the assertion that a white person is not able to be racially abused in a primarily Anglo Saxon country.   I am disturbed that the attitude of some commenters seem to imply that racism is something directed against people who are not "white".
V, I agree with your sentiment.

Sadly we live in a world in which difference is automatically questioned and for some it is a source for fear and ridicule.   And for others it is this "fear" that they use to generate hatred.  Racism is simply a single manifestation of this.   What gets me is that for some it's seen as abhorrant for a person to make what many would regard as an innocuous "racial" comment while at the same time they are quite comfortable with mainstream media outlets denigrating a whole subset of the population as welfare rorters simply because of their disability or employment status.   There is a great deal of inconsistency in the world and I don't claim to understand it.
I think it's a bit rough to generalise in such a way as to say that receivers of welfare only have themselves to blame because of things like alcohol and tobacco consumption.

I suspect that many pensioners, like quite a few of the much lauded working mums and dads, have problems because their expectations outstrip their income.    That comes down to a matter of budgeting and accepting that life is about choices and that sometimes you can't have everything you want.  Having said this, however, some people do end up in a very difficult situation because of events out of their control.   I know a pensioner who now has a very tight budget because of out of pocket medical expenses.   Again these expenses arose as a result of a choice to use the private hospital system.   But it wasn't much of a choice as waiting on the public system probably could well have led to a worse outcome given that the problem involved was cancer and time delays have a significant effect on outcome.

I think the article is a bit of a beat up to the extent that the differential between wage and price inflation will take a very long time to have a real effect on the lives of pensioners.   However, as can be seen by the differential between Newstart and the Age Pension, ober the longer term linking the benefit to price inflation will leave the beneficiaries considerably worse off in comparison to the general population and the purchasing power that they have.

You make a valid point Graham.   I don't think the lending market has ever been particularly rational.   Unfortunately, the demise of the local bank manager who was able to make decisions independent of "head office" hasn't improved the situation.   In my time I've seen lending practices swing from being overly prescriptive to outright permissive.

I still wonder, however, about peoples' expectations.   I remember reading an article on the ABC about the effect on certain families in different situations and I couldn't help but shake my head in wonder at some of the things that were seen as necessities.   Perhaps it's got more to do with how one views the world and what one sees as being important.  One person's must is another's luxury.I've been cogitating about this issue and I was wondering if there's a statistician out there who could argue against this:

As I understand it the CPI works in a way similar to an investment market index where the weightings of each component are adjusted so that when items enter and leave the index the value of the index is the same immediately before and after the change,   If this is so, then isn't there an implied assumption that people will have the ability  to change their spending habits insuch a way to meet the components of the index, i.e. they have available discretionary spending power?   If, however, the person being looked at doesn't have the ability to change their spending habits then surely there will be a disconnect between the CPI index changes and the real cost inflation encountered by the person who doesn't have any wriggle room in their budget.

Now, if an entrant into the index is a result of technological change (for example invention of the mobile phone) then isn't it more than likely that entrant will exhibit deflationary tendancies and therefore lead to a situation whereby the inflation in the cost of living for lower income groups is understated if the CPI is used?

I was wondering about this issue in relation to the Newstart Allowance.   It strikes me that years ago one could actually buy more with the dole than you can now.    This shouldn't be the case because the CPI is supposed to be representative of the cost of living and as such the real spending power of the benefit should have been maintained.   Is this the case or do Newstart receipients just have higher expectations of what they should be entitled to?The problem with "chained CPI" is that it assumes that there are appropriate substitute goods and services.   That is, the consumer is able to "trade down".   Unfortunately this isn't always the case.Your Comment about mail clerks just gave me an insight into the real reason for the policy.   The Audit commission wanted the government to  sell Australia Post.   Unfortunately Australia Posts letter volumes have dropped so that it no longer looks like an attractive investment.   Eric Abetz is a genius... Force job seekers to send in all those applications, boost the profits of Australia Post and then flog it off to those poor mum and dad investors!What happens if you're driving up a hill and you take your foot off the accelerator?   Don't you end up going backwards?Brian, I think you're over stating Mr Shortan's effectiveness.   I for one have been less than inspired by his presentation and debating points... Oh for a PJ Keating moment...

Mr Palmer and his package of Senators are causing more problems for the Government than the Opposition at present.   Now there's something to be frightened about.I think that Mr Abbott is now in a no win situation.   If he tries to hold the line he's fighting a battle against a widely held view that the budget is unfair.   If he "resets" the budget then he'll be seen as being weak and indecisive.

I think the main problem that Mr Abbott has is that he broke an implied contract with the Australian electorate.   He went to the election with certain policies, that included cuts in spending, and stated clearly that he was going to lead a no surprises government.   Fool as I am I took him at his word.

Unfortunately for Mr Abbott the principal that he seems to live by that it is easier to ask for forgiveness than for permission doesn't necessarily hold in the main.   Another fact that the modern politician doesn't seem to understand is that fiscal policy follows a law of unequal returns.   If you cut taxes everyone will say thanks and quickly forget about it.   On the other hand, however, if you cut spending or raise taxes those affected will not forget or forgive.

In my view the main problem that the Government have at the moment is one of communication.   It's time they stopped blaming the opposition and started talking to the people they work for, ALL Australians.Kerrie, perhaps the name of this new party could be "the Democrats".   It looks like histry is repeating itself and all that's needed is another Don Chipp... Maybe Malcolm Turnbull will come to the fore...

Welcome to the Twilight Zone.I think you'll find the antipathy between the French and the English goes back way before the Napoleonic wars.   with regard to WWII Long Charlie didn't exactly help the relationship with the british so in many ways the antipathy was perhaps increased by certain events during that war.

I think the one thing we forget in this country is that Europe has been in one form of war or another for centuries and as such WWI is probably not as much of a vig deal there as it is here.   And it's amazing how many years have to pass before the collective memory of a past event fades.  For example, it's quite possible for people alive today to know someone who knew someone who fought at Trafalgar, which was over 200 years ago.
@AE

I don't think it's as simple as you make out.   It's true that when you have a crash the people who have taken stupid risks suffer.   But in addition to them other innocent people suffer as consumption dries up and employers cut costs reducint employment and leading to further reductions in consumption.   One of the reasons that economists worry about bubbles is not the crash itself but the flow on effects of any correction to the wider economy.    Look at what happened during the GFC and the Great Depression... a market correction  is not something to be taken too lightly.I'm rather disappointed by the approach suggested by Mr Forest.   In my view it shows a complete lack of judgement and calls into question all of the recommendations in his report.

It bugs me that someone, who got where he is through as much by good luck as hard work, could in anyway think that he understands the needs of all Australians on welfare.    The idea of a Welfare Card is a joke in that it would be just too easy to rort... All that would happen is people will buy the foods and other necessities and sell them to their neighbour at a discount for cash...  that's all that will happen if it becomes mainstream.

We keep getting told that we should take responsibility for ourselves but at each step of the way they want to take away the ability to be responsible.   At the end of the day if you keep treating people like children they will start to act like children caring little for anytning and taking responsibility for nothing.Hub, 

Interesting statistics.    The question I have though is do we know why these people voted for the Greens?   Was it because of an overwhelming belief in the Greens' policies or a level of disolusionment with the main parties and seeking to have a third party with a balance of power position in the Senate?  I suspect the latter comes into play quite a lot.

The problem that the Greens have at the present is that they've dealt themselves out of the game and now have to resort to stunts like the one in this article that have no hope of getting up.   I would prefer that Senator Milne spend more time trying to get negotiated improvements to things that might actually get through the parliament and make a real difference to people's lives.

At some stage Senator Milne and her team are going to have to make a decision about whether they are members of a protest movement or people who are representing a constituency that want someone to keep the bastards in both major parties honest.

I really do wonder how many Greens voters are former Democrat voters who have nowhere else to turn...In general I'd agree that leading is a learning sort of thing but for the apparent inability of the PM to learn from his mistakes.   A quick read of "Battlelines" highlights that while he recognises his faults he continues to make the same errors.

I agree with the comment about dumping the present mob in favour of their partners/wives.   I've noticed that on both sides of the chamber the wives seem to be so much more capable than the ministers themselves.Easy solution.   Pay the participants in the WFTD scheme the $50 per week extra that ACOSS keep going on about.   Such an arrangement would make the process really seem like they're getting something extra for the effort but less than minimum wage retaining the incentive to find a non government source of income... Put a bit of carrot on that stick.There was a brilliant episode of the West Wing (yes I'm a political geek) that looked at this issue with the "ten word slogan".    It seems that our attention span has reduced in the interveining decade as we can only cope with three word slogans now.   The response in the program was along the lines of "give me the next ten words and I'll drop out of the race now... life is so much more complex than ten word slogans..."

So, my question to the politicians is what are the next three words... explain to me how you intend to make things better and address the problems that confront us as a notion.   I'm open minded and willing to listen but it seems to me that you don't want to talk to me.   All you want to do is talk at me and assume that I cant think for myself.    

Australian politics is becoming more and more Orwellian in its nature...   "four legs good..."Who would buy it?On the surface I can accept that removing the compulsion to vote will lead to a more politically engaged electorate.   But there is an offset in that I suspect that it would enable more extremist views to come to the fore and allow people with greater ability to gather people to particular causes to vote at the cost of moderate views.    I wouldn't want to have an environment like the US where the TEA Party manage to have such an influence.   I like the idea that the majority of Australians seem to be centrist in their views and I regard it as somewhat of an insurance policy to have compulsory voting to avoid a hard right or hard left government getting into power.

I know it sounds ridiculous but I think you'd get a more engaged electorate if the politicians simply started talking to the electorate in an open and honest way.    In my view the road to ruin is paved with partisan politics.
For a while I've thought that Simon and Garfunkel's "The Boxer" would be a good election theme song for Mr Abbott.   Given what you've said perhaps Barry Maguire's "Eve of Destruction" would be better!The thing that struck me about the idea of first home buyers being able to use super was that the people this policy would be aimed at wouldn't necessarily have enough super savings to actually be of any use.   The people who would benefit are the rich who are able to put more into super anyway thus defeating the purpose of the policy.

I think the policy is also poor from a savings point of view in that it detracts from the stated aim of super as a mechanism to save fro retirement.    If the RBA is to be believed the likely future returns from property is such that one is likely to be better off renting than buying nowadays.   I don't know whether this is true, but the effect of compound interest on savings can't be under rated and to get a decent retirement benefit one needs to hold the super for as long as possible.   Withdrawing benefits early defeats the object of the exercise in this regard even if any "loans" are paid back with interest, which is likely to be fairly low relative to what a fund could get from other investments.Does this mean that the next policy move will be to introduce a youth program... "the Abbott Yuth" so that the young engage more with the needs of society?Kerrie, it surprises me that more hasn't been said about the impending boom of old age pensioners.   I think the biggest joke of all is the intended increase in the pension age to 70.   There are two things that are interesting with this.   The first is that the boom will occur as a result of the baby boomers entering retirement but thay will be excluded because of the lead ing time.   The second is the assumption that mortality rates will continue to improve at the same rate.   I think this assumption is flawed from an actuarial view as life tables assume that future generations will have the same life experience s their forebares.   Given the increasing rates of over weight people and consequent health implications, I question the underlying assumptions... I digress...  but you raise an interesting point.It bothers me that facts seem to be of secondary importance in todays 24 hour media spin cycle.   What I would like to know is what factors actually make up those who make up the bulk of the unemployed in this country.    I suspect that there is more structural unemployment resulting from skills mis-match within the economy than anyone would be willing to admit.   In addition I wounder about the extent of discrimination present in the hiring practices of employers, be it from age, sex or disability.   If these are the primary drivers of long term unemployment in the economy then I can't see any value in programs such as work for the dole simply because they don't address the underlying barriers to employment.

The cynic in me can't help but think that this is an attempt at forcing a wedge with the opposition - if they say anything against it I can see the outcry by the government that the opposition support dole bludgers.What happens though if one of the AFP officers is killed?   It's true that as much as possible needs to be done to respect the dead but not at the risk of creating more grief for the living.

I'm sorry, but I feel that the decisions that are now being made are driven less by morality and compassion than politics.I agree that the PM's initial action with regard to the MH17 issue was impressive.   Interestingly enough, however, I think he was the natural type of personality for dealing with such a situation.   He had to deal with a bully and act in a strong no nonsense way.   The best person to deal with a bully is a bully who doesn't think too much about the long term outcomes.    

In my view "leadership" goes beyond standing out front of the crowd and beating one's chest in a way that most of our leaders seem to do.   For me a strong leader is someone who thinks things through, is decisive AND is able to communicate his/her ideas in a clear concise manner.   The current mode of communication is very much along the lines of "we're doing what we are doing because it's in the national interest and the other mob stuffed it up..."

If Abbott and Hockey could actually start explaining their policies in a positive non confrontational manner I think they'd be surprised at how well they'd do.   Unfortunately I don't think they have it in them.
Spod1, youmake and interesting point, but I wonder how you define "social capital" and, more importantly, what do you do to increase it?   I think one of the fundamental problems with the human race is that we are inherently selfish and most times we look at an issue we see it from our own perspective and how it will affect us personally.

I think it's right and proper for a government to provide necessary infrastructure and a safety net but it also has a responsibility to aime to generate prosperity.   The failings of most governments seems to be that they focus on the short term of an electoral cycle and what the media is saying today rather than what is in a nation's long term interests.   The current budget is a point in case.   The level of "reform" that they want to push through needs a hell of a lot more consideration than seems to have been given. 

I suspect the government thought that what they set out in the budget would be an easy sell because they think that everyone who matters is "one of us".,  It forgot that most people aren't like them and even some of the PLUS crowd have some sense of what is right and wrong.

I disagree with the author's premise about Mr Hockey's performance.    A good sales persons can sell anything if they use the right approach.   Just look at how good scammers and property spruikers are.   So selling a dud budget, while hard, isn't impossible.And the funny thing is that the "unwinding" of the benefits enjoyed by the baby boomers will not actually effect them.   A point in case is the increase to the age for entitlement to the aged pension.Firtst timer, you're right, there does seem to be a certain degree of double standard involved with the whole politician allowance saga.   Personally I wouldn't mind the size of some of the allowances if they were actually used to pay for accommodation at hotels and the like.   The point is that an allowance paid to a hotel boosts employment and adds to economic growth.   Paying off a house with an allowance does nothing for the economy.   Surely the Treasurer should be doing his bit to boost employment and getting Australia on the path to prosperity!I think the biggy in this article is the concessions on superannuation.   When the super system was set up it was clearly aimed at boosting Australia's retirement savings, and at the time there were various concessions put in place with limits on contributions and maximum benefits.   In the intervening years every government has tinkered with the system with the silliest move being made during the mining boom to remove tax on benefits and getting rid of the Reasonable Benefit Limit.   This was an out and out gift to the rich because people with "reasonable" retirement savings didn't actually get anything out of it.   An additional benefit from the non taxation of super also meant that the tax free threasholds for other income came into play, so you could have the ridiculous situation where a multimillionaire could actually get the LITO!

I tend to agree with other comments made above that advocate a widening and increase to the GST with a commensurate level of targeted compensation to low income earners.   Taxation of consumption seems to make more sense than reliance on income taxes which hinder productivity and innovation.We need those planes to defend us against the Scottish Nationalists...I think that anyone with half a brain could accept that the government is going to do all it can to take political advantage of the current security situation.   I for one don't blame them.   As an aside though, I do have concerns about the competence of the decision making process given failings in other areas by some very high profile ministers.

Given that whether we like it or not we have to accept the game playing that is going on, I think some focus needs to be put on the opposition.   Clearly, Mr Shorten has to step up to the plate and show some gravitas.   It's no good playing the "small target" game in an environment where the PM can strut the stage showing how strong he is... sort of like a father figure.   Mr Shorten needs to show that he is capable and able to step up when required.   At present all I hear is regurgitated slogans which I don't think he even believes given the way in which they are delivered in a "I've memorized this and I've got to shove it into the sentence some where" manner.

Personally I think Albo would have been a better choice for opposition leader.   I hope the parliamentary Labor Party doesn't come to regret rejecting the view of the majority of the wider party membership.   Until recently I thought that the LNP was going to be a one term government.   Now I'm not so sure...I think the biggest problem with the statement is that while it might be partially factually correct it assumes that drivers of cars will be the only ones affected by a change in the price of fuel.   Poor people who don't own a car also have to buy food and other goods that get transported by road.   Any increase in costs will inevitably be passed onto the consumer.   So, Mr Hockey in using a throw away line more or less said "I don't really understand the policy and how it will affect the wider community."So, the ALP has to start thinking about the good of the party and the nation and the elders need to have a quiet word with Mr Shorten and ask him to step down.   A change in leadership, managed properly, could actually be a big plus for the Party...  As long as any leadership change isn't seen as a coup I don't think there would be much fuss about it... It's not like they're overthrowing a duly elected PM and historically Opposition leaders are a dime a dozen.

Unfortunately I get the feeling that the ALP thinks that they will be in Opposition for more than one term and the acceptance of Mr Shorten's performance is probably indicative of this.I really do love the way that the banks are used as the first port of call for revenue raising.    I wonder if people would be so quick to call for such action if they understood the inherent risks in the business model and the way in which banks are irrevocably entwined in the economy.   In the grand scheme of things the banks operate on a very tight margin and the supposed "super profits" are generated through enormous gearing.   In this case the adage about the risk return payoff comes into play.   If you're going to ask people to take really big risks you have to be willing to pay them a premium for this.

If you want an indication of the risks involved look at the number of non bank lenders that disappeared during the GFC.

Finally, I think it's important to note that all those home buyers and businesses need some source of capital to be able to do what they want.   If you put too many brakes on the system all that will happen is that lending will dry up and only A grade (or rich people) will be able to borrow money.

Alpo, it's nice to see that you have such confidence in the impending implosion of the LNP and the undoubted success of the ALP in the next "Drover's Dog" election.

Unfortunately, I don't have the same level of confidence in the Australian electorate.   In the main I don't think that the Average Aussie pays much attention to the political process and as such they rely on "grabs" from the news.   So pictures of the PM strutting the world stage looking like a herow resonates.   As an indication of how little attention some people pay to issues listen to ABC's PM program from last night where they asked some punters about Joe Hockey's comments.   Before they were asked about it most of them didn't know he'd said what he did.   

In this environment there needs to be an opposition leader who can cut through the crap and imprint himself/herself on the wider community's psyche.   During the Beaconsfield events years ago Mr Shorten did this.   In the intervening years he lost his mojo and he needs to get it back. 

It's clear that the ALP wont change leaders and as such they have to do the best with what they've got.    Given this they really do have to sit down and think about what they stand for and who they regard as their core constituency.   One of the reasons I like Albo is that he resonates with what I would call the "base" of the Labor movement AND demonstrates a core competency that can resonate with those who take and interest in politics generally.   The leader needs to resonate with both sectors of the community to get anywhere.   At present Mr Shorten just hasn't got it and at present it looks as if he doesn't get that he hasn't got it either.

I leave you with this thought.   I live in a community in which the majority of people would be unlikely to have the literacy and numeracy skills to participate in this website.  I don't think that my community isn't that different from the "average" Australian community and it's these people that the politicians have to get to vote for them..John, the question is does Mr Shorten have the good of the Party and the nation at the heart of his ideals or is he driven by the need to grasp power?   I will always have respect for Alexander Downer for the way he left the leadership of the Liberal Party just before John Howard got in.   I think his sacrifice was generally will regarded and seems to hold him in good stead all these ears later.   Perhaps Mr Shorten should keep this in mind.Nell, I think Mr Hokey's coments on the fuel excise says more about his lack of understanding of his portfolio.   Anyone with a modicum of common sense would know that a fuel price rise will filter through the economy, even to those that don't drive.  How does he think that certain goods and service make it across this great land of ours?   Oh, it's magic my carrots just appear on the shelf... no fuel used here.

Mr Hockey's comments simply highlight the fact that he is not qualified to be Treasurer and should be fired.   Mr Abbott would do well to return to Australia and focus on some non poll driven issues rather than flying all the way to England just so that he can make a phone call to the UK PM.The issue with regard to referrals to specialists is a big one.   If you have a confirmed condition that is long term in nature you still have to go to a GP to get a referral.   I have a ridiculous situation where I need a referral from a GP to see an ophthalmologist who has to waste time writing a report back to the GP who doesn't read it, or undertake a "follow up" visit (which is an implicit requirement of a "referral" system), or in fact know anything about my condition.   `So, I think there's a lot of low hanging savings around beyond simply sending a "price signal".The thing that gets me is that the media seem intent of going beyond the facts to deliberately sensationalise the reporting.   And it goes beyond the reporting of the death of a film star.   Simply look at the way news of beheadings and plane crashes are covered.   Is there any need for the gruesome pictures?

I believe that it is important to provide the facts.   Anything over and above that is simply crass commercialism and beneath contempt.I must admit I don't see mujch point in comparing ourselves with the Americans.   I'm happy for them to stuff up their economy by themselves and would prefer a little more focus on Australia and the effect that policy decisions have on us.   In this country the unemployment number is flawed and I don't think there is any point in discussing it unless you also look at the under employment rate and the hidden unemployment caused by people re-entering "education" in the vain hope of getting yet another qualification to help them get a job.

As an aside I think it's also worth noting that Australia has started "offshoring" employment to the US, because that country apparently is "cheaper" to operate in.   Now there's something to think about!I don't think there is any right or wrong answer to the ethical problems raised in this article.   As a person who is losing their sight as a result of a genetic condition I can't honestly say whether the world would have been a better place if my mother had a termination instead of me.   Although we like to think it's not the case, we live in a very discriminatory world when it comes to disability.   For me relationships don't happen because I'm not given a chance because it is assumed I will be a burden.   I am more or less unemployable because employers make assumptions about my potential productivity.   And I am vilified by the government because I am seen as being a drain on the economy.

One of the problems with disability is that sometimes you can be in a no win situation.   Society tells you that to be a productive member you should try to better yourself.   So you do your best by working hard and wasting time on an education but at the end of the day assumptions made by society about who you are and what you're capable of can drag you down.   If I have any regret about my disability it's that I didn't chase women when I could still see!

I think society has to take a good hard look at itself and think about what is important.   `Every time you read advice about what you should do when preparing for a job interview reflect on how this sums up how society values conformity and think how this attitude affects those who through no fault of their own just happen to be a little different.You highlight an important point about society.    Too many people make assumptions about what someone with a disability is capable of and what they can contribute.

Unfortunately we seem to live in a world that judges on what appears to be rather than what is actually there.I really don't know what to think about this whole issue.   As an individual I know that many organisations retain data about me for commercial advantage.   But, in the main I have some control to the extent that I have a choice of whether to join a loyalty program, or have a mobile phone, or use a particular AP.

It concerns me that we seem to be moving to an environment where compulsion is becoming more the norm.   For example if you want to lodge a tax return online this year you have to have an mygove account.   Previoursly electronic lodgement was separate and isolated from other sources and you didn't need any sort of "account"..   Now everything is linked together... a hacker's wet dream...   It amazes me that the concept of compartmentalisation has been set aside in the chase of "easy access".

My biggest concern relates to the safe guards that are to be put in place.   An unintended consequence of requiring telcos to make massive investments n data storage may well be that they will want to use the data themselves for commercial advantage - something that wasn't commercially viable might now become a snap.   My digital footprint is relatively small but I still get phone calls from scammers who now a reasonable amount about me.   So the more data that is around the more vulnerable we are to people with nefarious intent.

I think this whole issue goes way beyond the "big brother" debate that is currently being raised in the media.
...And if all else fails go on an overseas junket to draw the media's attention away from domestic issues...
This is one area of policy that concerns me most about the deindustialisation of the Australian economy.   It surprises me that our policy makers don't focus more attention on the security implications of a diminishing manufacturing sector, and especially the outsourcing of many "lower level" skills to "cheaper" labour providing countries.

Unfortunately, the implications of trade sanctions demonstrate the importance of countries being able to produce goods and services that are critical to the ongoing welfare of the nation.   I'm sure many would argue that the country could easily bring production back online if needed, but this ignores the fact that exiting certain industries leads to a deskilling that can never be recouped.

We constantly hear the politicians talking about the knowledge nation and the need for higher education to keep the economy ticking over.   I just wish they'd spend some time thinking about the long term implications of putting the country in the position of having to rely on countries like China and India to provide so many of our goods and services.

I don't think selling Tasmania would help.   Imagine the effect of forced migration of Tasmanian refugees to the mainland and the policies that would ensue!

There are two things I would do:

(a) lower the GST trhreshold for things purchased from overseas suppliers - at present we are giving offshore retailers and producers a free kick against our domestic suppliers.
(b) There needs to be some form of tax incentive to employ domestic labour in inovation and value add industries rather than giving the perverse incentive to offshore it.   One option would be to give a "loaded" deduction on wages in these industries (for example a 110% deduction on wage costs up to a certain limit).   Such a move would encourage employment and provide at least some form of equalisation with the competition.

I'm sure the above could be easily ripped to shreds by both sides of politics but that's my five cents worth.

In reality I think the biggest problem in this country at present in relation to regulation is the never ending change.   The thing that the pollies don't understand is that each time there is a change you have to work out  how it affects you.   So sometimes it's just easier and cheaper to just keep filling in that form as you always did rather than having to work out if you still neeed to lodge it or not!Can someone please explain to me why, in this egalitarian world we are supposed to be living in, the "women and children" card always gets played.   Men get hurt as well and many of them are "innocent" too!I just listened to the full interview and I can accept that there was a little bit of humour intended.   But, I don't think the claim of nervousness can be upheld as the process went on for some time AND she was given an out by the interviewer, i.e. she could have said no without losing face.

I'm a bit disappointedwith the slant that the author has teken with this issue as it appears to show a certain double standard between what is appropriate for men and women.   I always thought that equality meant that everyone was treated the same irrespective of race, religion, sex or disability.

Finally, as a Tasmanian, I thin the worst aspect of this is that Senator Lambie carrying on this way detracts from the serious matters she says she stands for, like Tasmania's future and veteran's rights.   Please, Senator Lambie, show a bit of maturity and remember that your actions reflects on all of us whom you claim to represent.I must admit my biggest worry about Mr Abbott is that he doesn't seem to think things through before jumping.   As I recall he noted in his book that he used to get Prime Ministerial bollockings from John Howard for going off half cocked.   In a junior minister this wouldn't necessarily bother me.   But for a Prime Minister, who can tie his party to a particular position, this habit scares me.   

I may be wrong but I thought governing a country needed someone who was calm, considered and thought through the consequences of proposed policies before attempting to put them in place.   While I personally think that the Senate is in a hopeless position I am sad to say I think that the current situation is much better than it would be if the government had open passage through both houses.  The apparent willingness to agree to anything that the PUP put up last week on the CT repeal is a point in case.   It seemed to be more about getting a political win than putting in place a well thought out policy to ensure that savings were passed on to customers.   At least the current senate means that some scrutiny of bills will take place rather than being shoved through as they seem to be in the lower house.

Mr Abbott would do well to have a few less yes men around him.   That's one of the advantages of a strong APS which has been lost since the pollies got to appoint and remove department heads.

A realist would say that the issue of the states will never be solved and in my view I don't think the politicians really want to solve it because it would remove the chance to make use of the blame game.
Interesting points raised.   The problem is how do you address it.   Clearly you can't simply cut out negative gearing in one hit as that would cause the collapse that you were aiming to avoid.   If the aim were to encourage more housing supply one policy could be to limit negative gearing to new dwellings, but this is only feasible if governments get with the program and start releasing more land for development.

I'm a bit concerned with the statement that shareholders would need to cough up.   I hope this comment relates to the value of their investment rather than being forced to put up more cash.   If not then it would give rise to all sorts of problems with regard to the concept of limited liability as set out in the Corporations Act.I agree.   I amazed that the timely reporting of political donations didn't form part of the list.This is all well and good but it ignores the gorilla in the room which is the enforcement of any such regulations.   If you look at all of the "disasters" that have occurred over recent years it seems to be generally alledgded that they come down to inappropriate actions of the "advisors" concerned and were questionable under the rules that existed at the time.   Regulation is only any good  if appropriate monitoring and enforcement action is undertaken.    

If there is no monitoring or enforcement programs in place then any regulatory changes are only really going to effect the "honest" advisors that would genuinely be trying to do the right thing anyway.   So, my question is what funding or action is the government planning to put in place to weed out the rogue advisors? As I understand it, the ASIC simply doesn't have the funding or staff to do the job.   

I suspect that all that will happen is a great deal of paper generation by the advisors that clients wont read.   An interesting thing that I've noticed is that people don't necessarily read everything they sign...   Many times I have been given something to sign by someone at, say a bank, and got very funny looks when I've enquired as to what I'm signing and have actually checked it over.
Unfortunately I don't think corruption will ever be stamped out, whether it be explicit or implicit.   Politics is the art of doing favours and making deals to get what you want.   And at the end of the day each deal is one step further down the slippery slope.   As the old saying goes "powered corrupts".

I think the sad thing is that there is no real value in the "oaths" that politicians "swear" when they take office.   In many respects these relly on an old ideal of honour and chivalry where "a man's word was his bond"... although I admit that this is somewhat of an outdated romantic notion... but it would be nice if Minister's took responsibility for the actions of their departments like they used to in times past.   Prhaps this is one reason why our political leaders now garner the same level of respect that the local second hand car dealer gets.That's the point that struck me.   How could Clive Palmer be giving instructions to the Clerk of the Senate.   Surely he has no authority to give such instructions?   I seem to recall that there are severe penalties for trying to direct a Public Servant when not authorised to do so.   I wonder what the legal implications of this is.   
I'm afraid that Mr Shorten will need a heck of a lot more free kicks to make up for his lacklustre performance.   My problem with him is that he doesn't inspire.  Where's the man know for his ability to advocate on behalf of workers?   I listened to the interview on insiders yesterday and I was disappointed with the performance.  He had a great opportunity to set out a way forward, look like a leader and indirectly stick it to the Liberal Party.   Instead he went back to the slogans about the unfair budget... zzzzzz.What gets me about this issue is the inept way that the government handled the politics of this.   They could have simply put the bill up and let it be rejected and have a wonderful tool to belt the PUP and Labor party over the head with while at the same time keeping the money flowing in.   What they've managed to  do is make themselves look a bit stupid, cut off a source of income and retained the expenditure that should have gone at the time of "axing the tax".   

I can't see how the "win" of passing the repeal bill will be a plus for the government or the nation's budgetry position. Everyone would have been better off if the Government had met the Opposition halfway and made both the PUP and Greens irrelevant.   The thing poor old Tony hasn't yet worked out is that he'll never win against someone like Clive Palmer because Clive has nothing to lose.I think luck has a great deal to do with it.   Being in the right place at the right time and taking advantage of the opportunity that comes along.

I think the concept of meritocracy is an ideal that doesn't exist when you take into account that factors such as height, attractiveness and personality can play a hiuge part in actually getting the opportunity to show what you can do.   You can be the best at something and a really hardworker but it's no good if you don't have the chance to show it.
I disagree with the premis that the previous parliament was in chaos.   For something that apparently wasn't working too well it managed to pass a heck of a lot of legislation.   Is this a case of someone attempting to rewrite history to get a good headline?
I think one of the problems is that they we are suffereing from football overload.   Once upon a time football was just on the weekend.   Nowadays it feels like it's on every bloody day and there's nothing special about it or something that you look forward to at the end of the week.

I'm sure it's great for the die hard fans.   But they won't even give Tassie a team where it seems to be more of a religion... so it seems that the code doesn't really seem to care about the fans... talk about shooting yourself in the foot!As an individual I'm all for free choice.   But, as a person with a disability I hae a great deal of concern with regard to the safe guards that would be put in place if voluntary euthanasia were allowed.   My concerns stem more from the attitudes of the people around the person concerned and whether direct or ndirect pressure is applied.   

from what I can tell the arguments usually state that adequate safe guards would be put in place but I recall that the NAZIs had safe guards requiring two doctors signing off on euthanizing a disabled person. 
Ann, sadly there are people that use this kind of logic.    Others use the argument that disabled people don't add value to society as they are a drag on it.   And the attitudes become all pervasive when the political leaders score debating points by vilifying sections of the community to bolster their street, or economic "cred"... It can be a very slippery slope.I respect and appreciate your point of view, The Concerned Citizen.    My worry is not the decision or the acti itself but ensuring that any decision made is free and unaffected by any third party.   I suspect it would be very hard to frame safe guards that avoid third party influence coming into play.   And as a PWD I would prefer any requirement to err on the safe side rather than making it too easy.  

On the surface I could agree with what you say, but, part of their job will be to make some hard decisions that may be in the national interest but not necessarily popular.   The fact of the matter is you can't cut taxes and not cut expenditure and have a sustainable fiscal balance.

I just wish all of them, Labor, Liberal, National, Greens, "Independent" and PUP would all just grow up and negotiate a solution.   If you listen to the debates in parliament it's all about playing the "man" and not the issue.   They're paid a minimum of $200K a year to actually achieve results not to stuff around.You make an interesting point.   As I understand it, one can only claim a deduction for interest if the intention of the investment is to eventually generate "taxable income", i.e. at some stage you must be able to show that the property will become positively geared.   This raises thes the question of enforcement of the rules.

A simple solution to the whole issue is to only allow a deduction up to the income earned from the property and not allowing offsetting against other income.

One of the points that seems to be ignored by most proponents is that the landlord subsidises the tenant to a great extent - if rents reflected the actual costs then rentals would go through the roof.   I think the article oversimplifies the issue and for me the greatest concern with this whole issue is people being overstretched and what will happen to them when interest rates eventually start to increase.I don't think that you can overlook the argument that negative gearing has a benefit of providing a private rental stock.   Without this private rental market there would be a huge demand on the public purse to provide affordable accommodation for lower income earners.   Of course this would be a State problem if negative gearing were to be unwound.@Lehan

As a blind man I would just like to say that the more information you have the better off your decision will be.   So, if you give me information about the road ahead and then leave me to use my senses to navigate the path alone then surely the outcome will be better than either option alone?   I think the point of the story was that what we see is but a part of the whole.   

Sadly most people seem to focus on what appears than what is.I honestly don't know what the right approach to take with regards to this situation.   This is one area of policy where I wouldn't want to have any power because it strikes me that there are no right ways of solving the issue.

I strongly believe that the principles of due process should be followed.   To coin an old phrase "Justice must not only be done but it must be SEEN to be done."

I starting to have deep concerns about the nature of modern democracy where decisions seem to be made more and more by the executive with less consultation to parliamentary oversight.   The budget was a point in case where even the bovernment's own backbenchers weren't consulted about the more contentious issues... an these backbenchers are more or less required to vote for them... it just doesn't feel democratic to me.I'm not sure longer terms would help given the tendancy for fairly low turn over in governments anyway.

I reckon that what is needed is a "Trade Practices Act" for politician's with criminal sanctions for breaches.   I'm sure it would focus the minds if they knew they were going into the clink for misspelling and making unachievable promises... sadly that sort of utopian ideal will never exist!I think if there was an enquiry it would be valuable to encompass the whole financial services sector, including superannuation.   Over the years the Super sector has gained enormous power such that the pollies seem unwilling to do anything that might upset them.   

In financial planning, it comes to something when you have to have an explicit "client's best interest" requirement as common sense and strict morals implies that should underpin the advisory relationship. 

With super I wonder how many trustees really understand the concept of "a trust" and that their duty is to act at all times in the members' best interests.   One has to question whether this requirement is met given the sort of lobbying that takes place and the somewhat excessive fees that are levied by the sector as a whole.   It makes one wonder whether the super sector is more of a gravy train for the people who run the sector as opposed to the poor sods that invest in it.Interesting idea.   Unfortunately, if you took the onus on fund raising out of the hands of the pollies all that would happen is another blame gaime... "we're spending sensibly, you're just not raising the money in an effective manner".    If you want an example of what would happen just look at the Federal/States arguments that happen every year at budget time.Certainly gives one pause for thought.   In general I think we in this country live in cloug cuckoo land.

Perhaps it's over simplifying the situation to infer that Australia is outsourcing it's future to the US.   Surely we can't ignore China and the EU.   china is in an interesting place economically wit apparent over investment in certain parts of the economy.   And the EU is still a basket case with the ECU creating more problems than it solves.   Funnily enough the EU tried a fixed currency arrangement in the early 1990's (the ERM) that failed and at the end of the day it wouldn't surprise me if the ECU is abandoned at some stage.   

I thought the most telling comment was in relation to the deflationary effects of quantitive easing.   I suspect the jury is still out on that one and I'm still wary of anyone who says that inflation is dead as it's something that can turn around an bite you on the bum very quickly.

It's true to say the signs aren't looking good and it's about time that the pollies stopped playing games and pulled their finger out and actually tried to get this country in some form of sustainable footing.You've got a valid point, but don't discount the effect of unconscious bias.   Employers have a habit of employing people who are like them and disabled people require them to think beyond this.   Unfortunately, people make assumptions about what someone with a disability can and can't do and it's very hard to push against these assumptions.

Many of the posts on this topic highlight the problem of these assumptions.   If you can do more than they expect your rorting the system and if you can't do what they expect then you're helpless and not worth giving a chance... a no win situation!
The thing that many people don't realise about the new impairment tables is that they are highly subjective and as such can be used quite effectively as a barrier mechanism.   The old tables were objective in that numbers were put on specific disabilities and were therefore fairer.   the problem with the current tables is that it is to the applicant's detriment to actually try and adapt to their disability because such adaptation counts against them.   It's quite a conundrum if you have a genuine disability and really want to get ahead.The thing that disappoints me about governments generally is that they seem to be unable to show leadership on an issue like this.   One of the simplest and most cost effective things they could do would be to simply communicate in a positive way.   Unfortunately vilification seems to be the primary communication technique... and people are surprised that attitudes relating to supposed rorting become prevelant.I've noticed that the media have gotten hold of the term "forced to work".   The problem with this term is that it assumes that people with disabilities don't want to work.   I think this assumption is invalid.   The problem is that it is very hard to actually get an employer to consider a disabled person as an appropriate fit for their business.  Be it on productivity grounds, OH and S, or other reasons.   So, welfare reforms for the disabled are more aimed at shifting people onto lower payments not getting them into the workforce.   If true reform were intended there would be more effort into encouraging employers to take on a PWD.

I'm not usually sensitive to phraseology but in this case I think the term "forced to work" is just plain misleading and entrenches the "bludger" mentality within our society.
At the risk of being seen as being a crackpot, I think that the problems with regard to youth (and long term unemployment) is more of a systemic one created by over simplistic policies put in place by both political parties and the unwillingness of employers to invest in training their own employees.   With regard to government policies there has been a trend over the last couple of decades to force people to stay in school longer.   The idea being to increase the skill levels of these people, but the reality was more about keeping the unemployment numbers artificially low.   When I left school you could train to be an electrician from age 16.   Nowadays there is an expectation that you've finished year 12 to do what was essentially the same job.    On the surface this doesn't seem to be much of an issue, but I'm reminded of the old saying that it's better not to have done something than to have done it poorly.   If you're not academically minded then the extra "learning" could be more of a detriment to getting a job because employers focus on results rather than potential.  In addition higher initial educational levels lead to higher wage demands which act as a barrier to employment.

The second issue wrt employers not training is understandable given the mobility of the workforce nowadays but I think it's rather short sighted.

One of the hardest things with employment is getting your foot through the door.   I think governments would be better served taking a leadership role rather than vilifying every marginalised group they can  find.    Sadly I think the attitudees are more a function of the lack of life experience of policy makers than anything else.   And vilification of sectors of the community, like the disabled, also tend to increase barriers to employment rather than reduce it.I don't think it's a matter of blaming the young or anything like that.   I'm way out of date on this but when I did my apprenticeship you were indentured for four years and as such you had a guaranteed job and training for that period.   The offset was a lower training wage.

I think it depends on how you look at it.   I think it would be valuable for the apprentice to compare their situation to someone at university... they're not getting paid to train.    The apprentice also needs to look at the prospects that go with their final qualification.   In other words accept a little short term pain for long term gain.   

It's not that long ago that apprentices used to have to pay a master tradesman to learn a trade and the indentureship was something like seven years.  Sadly, I don't think people look at the big picture and at what they gain from the opportunity they are given.I have to admit I find the Climate Change debate to be quite amusing.   

I think the biggest problem with the whole issue is its complexity.   As I understand it, the mathematics underlying climate modelling is more complicated than General Relativity and that a majority of the World's super computers are dedicated to weather forecasting.  Given this I find it highly unlikely that any of our "leaders" would have a solid understanding of what is actually going on.  And, to argue that nothing is happening if you have a higher order differential mathematical model at play is silly because by the time you actually see something happening and bother doing anything it will be too late.

Because of this complexity all we end up with is politics over ruling what should be an intelligent discourse on the future of humanity.   But that seems to be par for the course with anything that's really important.
Unfortunately it's getting to the stage where one has to go on sites like fb to get the information one is after.   The ABC is a good example of this.   Nowadays if you listen to your "local ABC" you're constantly reminded to use twitter of facebook to "continue the conversation..."   So if you want to be involved you have to get on to these platforms... or you just don't get the chance to put in your ten cents worth.I agree that the Greens have an opportunity to become very important withing the Australian political landscape if they could be a bit more pragmatic.   The problem seems to be, however, that they hold onto idealisms that they are unable to communicate while at the same time show a great deal of inconsistency in their actions.   I still shake my head in wonder when the first thing that the new leader did after taking over from BB was to go on a fossil fuel burning tour to promote the Greens credentials.   What I want is a decent balance of power party to keep the bastards honest.   History shows that having a balance of power party in the Senate saves the Government from the worst of its excesses and comes up with better legislation.   The worst thing to happen to the Howard Govt was gaining legistlative power through both houses.   Imagine what life would be like if Abbott had that sort of power.   Unfortunately I'm not convinced that either the Greens or PUP  have the ability to do what is needed.@John S

I admit that my wording is a bit poor... Perhaps I should have focused more on the "do as I say not as I do mentality".  An idealism is only worth anything if one is willing to back it up with one's own actions.There are two problems with this argument:
 i) Guilt has not been determined by a court of law and last I heard we still held to the quaint notion of innocent until proven guilty; and
ii) You end up with the ridiculous situation whereby, even if the party was concerned was guilty, they end up spending more time locked up than they would have been if they didn't have any impairment.
I suppose I come at this issue from more of an oblique angle.   To my way of thinking a lot of the childish behaviour in the House comes down to the actions of the Speaker.   When the Government benches know that they can get away with murder and when the Opposition benches know that no matter what they do they're going to get kicked out then it's not really an environment conducive to civil debate.

The other factor I think that lowers the tone is the inability of the mass media to investigate and push topics.   The media cycle nowadays is such that they want the sound bite and a bit of waffle to go with it.   The don't want to, and can't afford to, really push an issue.   Sadly it is us, the consumer of the content that is to blame for this.   

As an example of how crap the media has become, on budget night I had to read the budget papers to work out exactly what was intended.   None of the media outlets could give a clear and concise description of the issues, even though they had hours `to look at the papers during the afternoon.I can accept the proposition that we're not in a crisis but it can't be denied that there aren't significant problems on the horizon.   The first and most important is the structural deficit within the economy.   I don't think that anyone disputes that there is a problem but how to solve it is another matter altogether.   The second issue that concerns me is that we, as a nation, don't actually make anything anymore.   If you look at the power houses world wide, like Germany and China (an even the US) they all have strong manufacturing sectors.   We are continually told that Australia will become the knowledge nation servicing the world through innovation.   I think this is a bit of a fool's dream as the Chinese and Indians, with their enormous human capital will swamp us through their own intellectual ann educational development.I think there is a flaw in your thesis to the extent that Mr Howard and his ilk made permanent cuts to a revenue source based on a known temporary increase in revenue from another source.   This is the same as the Labor Party's mining super profits tax (by definition temporary and irregular) that was linked to permanent and stable expenditure.   Both parties are equally responsible for some very silly, yet popularist, policies.  

The dad should be criticized if he didn't put away some money for a rainy day!I suggest you have a read about Puerto Rico.I'm intrigued about the idea of Australia offering up planes to fly off US Carriers.   I have a question about this though.   My understanding that to be a carrier pilot one has to be the "best of the best" and as such it's not an easy job to fly on and off a carrier platform.   Since Australia doesn't have a fleet air arm and hasn't for many years do we actually have the capacity to make such an offer?

I'm afraid I've become very cynical about this whole issue.   Certain events are happening in eastern Europe at present with a man who seems to be exhibiting an uncanny similiarity to Adolf Hitler but nobody in the west seems to be overly worried.  It seems as though Tony's hairy chest isn't quite hairy enough to take on the Ruskis. 

I can see why the Government is playing the security card.   It makes them look competent and appear like strong leaders.   Sadly, Mr Shorten at present just doesn't seem to be able to put forward a "Tough Guy" persona which is what is needed in this sort of situation.   In many ways I find this fact rather amusing as it's the sort of thing I would expect an old union boss to be able to do in his sleep!I think the rhetoric with regard to Mr Putin was fairly light when compared with that for the middle east situation.   After the initial flurry of angry outbursts Mr Abbott seems to have become rather quiet when it comes to the situation in the Ukraine.

At the end of the day I have greater concerns with the geo-political situation in relation to Russia and the Ukraine than I do with the Middle East conflict.   Put bluntly the ME problem is nothing new and it has gone on for centuries and is likely to continue that way no matter what we do.   Mr Putin, on the other hand has the potential to cause all sorts of problems for the western world and nobody seems to be overly concerned about it.  Unfortunately our leaders seem to think that Russia is going to play by the Marquis of Queensberry Rules.   They made the same mistake with Adolf Hitler.   I can understand the difficulties they face, it's hard to do anything when you know that the other side has Nukes too.

As for Mr Shorten.   I haven't a clue what he stands for other than becoming Prime Minister.@Barsmax

Because I'm feeling somewhat contrarian today I'd like to disagree with you that the banks are to blame for everything.  I think it's important to keep in mind that while the banks' profit in absolute terms are enormous, in reality they operate on very tight margins.

I think there are two reasons for the "tightening" in budgets:

(i) People in general seem to have greater expectations about what they expect, or deserve, to have by way of goods, services and other belongings.
(iii) Since the compulsory super came into bogue there has been a great deal of pressure exerted on businesses to provide a strong return on investors' funds.   This has been done by upping prices and cutting costs, even to the extent of offshoring labour.

So, in many ways we, ourselves, as consumers and as  the providers of capital via our superannuation funds are to blame for all our woes!

I'm sure someone out there will tell me that this is all a crock though.
The latest statistics on superannuation in Australia shows that our super savings are now more than the annual GDP.   This means we are talking about over a trillion dollars in savings.

So, where has it all gone?   In reality it seems to go round in circles with funds selling to each other different assets at ever ncreasing prices.   At present some commentators are saying that our banks are the priciest in the world.   With all that money floating around it's hardly surprising!

There has been some talk about trying to get super funds to invest more in infrastructure.   So don't think that our super savings haven't gone unnoticed by the powers that be.

I dread to think what would happen if the pollies got hold of our super savings.   One of the reasons they had to set up a future fund was that they didn't set aside anything to pay for the public sector superannuation liabilities - they spent it all.   So, imagine the spending frenzy that would ensue if they were allowed to "borrow" from our super to solve the alleged budget crisis and the real crisis that would arise when they had to work out how to pay the money back!
I think Clive would be better off using the old tried and tested Sir Johism: "Don't you worry about that..." whenever he gets asked a question he doesn't like rather than saying something that needs an apology later on.

At the end of the day I would be surprised if anyone believes a "political apology".   It's sort of like the "I'm saying sorry to you because my Dad told me to..."   Ah, memories of childhood...I think the tendancy of governments to demand a profit from all government enterprises is an indicator of the disconnect between our politician's and the "public service" that they are meant to provide.   One factor that gets overlooked in the arguments about post offices is that they are staffed by people that are generally regarded as being highly trustworthy.    As a blind person this means I can go there and know that when I ask for something to be done it will be done correctly and honestly.

Perhaps the government should look at expanding the role of the post office into providing other government services rather than seeking to flog off the profitable sections to the public and leaving the unprofitable parts to the whim of closure by future governments.@AE
For the record I didn't say I trusted the government.   I said I trusted Australia Post.   One factor you overlook with private enterprise is that they are purely profit focused.   The APS isn't meant to be profit driven and there are arguably more security and reliability checks placed on employees.   That's why the post office is able to do certain identity confirmations (for passports) and witnessing of Cth government declarations etc.

I think the funniest thing about the whole issue is that the Government, who seems to enjoy the "Team Australia" mantra aren't able to embrace the concept of teamwork themselves.   With all of the conflicting messages it looks as though the Captain has lost control and the cohesion of the "Team" has gone..   As with many things with our politicians it seems to be a case of do as I say not as I do.I agree with the principles outlined in the article.   Unfortunately I don't think anything will come of it because Mr Abbott would have to step back from his war rhetoric on the budget.   It seems as though the government likes to rely on threats rather than adopting a team Australia approach.

I find the media's coverage of the budget rather interesting as well.   On the weekend Mr Pine raised the argument about university students paying half  of the costs of their education.   It's interesting that in the proposed deregulated market it is anticipated that some course fees will rise  significantly.   Does this mean that the government will be paying one half of the new increased fee?  I find it hard to believe this would be the case.   Yet nobody in the media seems to have asked the question.
I think the main problem with the parties is the centralisation of power in an ever decreasing circle of individuals.   As I understand it, both parties now have a situation where the "leader" selects the people who will make up the front bench.   this means that there is limited likelihood that a minister will disagree with their prime minister for fear of being sacked.

I think the old system that the labor party had where the party room selected the fron bench and the PM allocated portfolios was better.   Under that system there was more scope to stand up to the PM without fear of losing their job.   The pay scales of ministers nowadays is such that the old hip pocket nerve will always take presidend over what may be morally right.   To demonstrate the point consider now how many ministers resign as a result of a stuff up in their ministry... I can't remember any recent ones.I think the sad thing about the demise of the press barons and tightening financial constraints on organisations like the ABC will be the loss of fair dinkum investigative journalism.   This is the type of journalism that goes beyond the daily spin cycle and tries to find out what actually happened.   

An example of investigative journalism at work is the Australian's look at Mr Palmer.   Whether or not there was an agenda behind the investigation this wouldn't have happened without a significant investment of resources.  I fear that revelations like the Watergate Conspiracy would be unlikely to come to light in the emerging news environment.   This is the primary reason I will lament the demise of the press baron.

The problem with press barons isn't their willingness to weild the power they have, whether real or imagined.   The problems arise when media ownership is vested in a very small group of like minded individuals whose main motive is profit and power.It'll be interesting to see what happens this time since the USA is now a net exporter of oil.   So, strictly speaking it doesn't need Iraq's oil.This article raises a different concern in my mind to those expressed in the comments.  

Over recent years there seems to have been a greater centeralisation of power in the office of the Prime Minister.   Dureing the Rudd years there was a great deal of concern about the activities of the "gang of four".   Now nobody seems to question the ability of Mr Abbott to act as El Supremo overriding ministers.    

My understanding is that Australia is a parliamentary democracy with the party holding a majority in the House of Representatives forming government.   That government, duly formed has ministers and a cabinet process in which decisions are made.    Surely, therefore allowing a PM to run roughshod over everyone is in essense unconstitutional. 

If the Prime Minister has the Authority to go to war without cabinet approval can I please have a direct vote in who is to become PM, or should I say President?

At present my MP seems to have no say in the direction taken by the government.   And he is a member of the Coalition.
The problem is that Mr Abbott and his team aren't really explaining what their plans are and what they're trying to do.   They're talking to us like children.   Today I heard Mr Abbott talking about being a firememan.   It wouldn't surprise me if Thomas the Tank Engine gets dragged out soon.

I follow the news pretty closely and listen to a lot of the interviews of the major players in both parties.   The one thing I've noticed is that they just don't like to answer the questions posed or really explain the issues.   At present it's all about slogan's and one up man ship.  Personally I think the'd do a lot better if they simply did a bit of plain talking... not quite as "plain" as Mr Hockey though...I think the genetic history of the donor is a big one.   Just to give you an example, I have a degenerative eye disease which leads to blindness and cannot be treated.   If I had children all of my sons would be fine but all of my daughters would carry the defect.   They wouldn't be affected by the defect but there would be a 50% chance that any child that they had would be affected.  There are a number of "X-linked" conditions that can act like this and unfortunately you can't check for all conditions.   So, I think having an idea of the genetiv history of a donor might be useful.

Some might say in relation to the above that someone in my position wouldn't ve allowed to donate.   It is important to note, however, that some conditions don't t show up until later in life and a donor may not know at the time of the donation that they have a particular genetic defect.

Like many topics in this area I don't think there are any hard and fast rules and no right or wrong answers.I think this is fascinating.   Tassy is the way it is because there isn't much in the way of useful public transport.   If you want to go any distance you have to have a car or know someone who owns one.

The thing that struck me about the article is that our love affair with the car isn't able to flow through to a viable car industry.    The joke of the "Building the roads of the 21st Century" is that most of the benefit will flow through to foreign manufactureers.   If we don't have a manufacturing industry in Australia and since the minin industry seems happy to build its own infrastructure what will all these roads actually do?   Enable people to travel faster to the shops to buy a product made somewhere else?   As I understand it technological change is leading to greater decentralisation in business with more people using technology to be productive.   So it seems as though a massive investment in roads is, like, so old world.
Dave, I agree with the sentiment that prison is probably more scary for a "nerd" than a "hooligan".   But, I think it's important to keep in mind what drives these people.   With politicians the driving force is power and money.   So, if you want to punish them you have to hit them where it really hurts.    

If you really want to scare pollies into "honesty":

1 on finding of corruption take away ALL of their assets and perks;
2 ban them from holding any position of authority in the same way that bankruptcy does; and
3 Only allow them an allowance from all sorces equivelant to the Dole.   Any payments or benefits in kind (including accommodation by family and associates) that exceeds the allowance limit is to be remitted to the State in cash.

It's all about risk and reward.   I suspect  for many prison would be regarded as an occupational risk knowing that at the end of the day when they get out they'll still be able to live quite comfortably.

And I admit there would be some sort of perverse justice in forcing a bent polly to live on what they believe is reasonable for an unemployed person to survive on.
Ms Bishop isn't immune from the three word slogan.   I heard her on the radio talking about the "Economic Diplomacy Initiative".   I admit it's not as sexy as some of Mr Abbott's slogan's but I'm sure with a bit of practice she'll make the grade.I think you make a very good point John S.   My experience with "feminism" has been more along the lines of women demanding benefits over males.   I was interested to find out for instance that when I graduated from university the "woman" who won a "award" for achievement didn't have results that were the best in the graduating group.   The male who did have the "best" results didn't get any recognition at all.   

I sometimes wonder whether the feminist movement hasn't shot itself in the foot.  I'm very much of the belief in equality of opportunity and recognition of achievement based on merit and not on the attributes of the person.   We constantly hear screams of outrage when a man is selected for a position ahead of a woman.   However, there never seems to be such loud screaming when women only organizations such as "clubs for women only" are opened.    It's the inconsistency that bugs me.

as a final point I would like to pose the question if I hold a door open for a woman, like I would for a man, should I be abused as being a sexist for simply trying to be polite?Stella raises some very good points.   I continue to be in two minds over the idea of medically assisted suicide.   On one hand I can accept, and agree with the principal of a rational person being able to decide to die at a time of their choosing in as painless a way as possible.   On the other side the possibility of inadequate safeguards worry me.   Whose to say that a Doctor's personal prejudices wouldn't influence the decisions of the person considering suicide?   I've come across people who can't fathom the idea of blindness and would consider it a living hell.  I wouldn't want them deciding my future based on their ideas of my usefulness to society and my perceived quality of life.

One of the concerns that I have with Stella's position, like those who are ardently in favour of assisted suicide, is the absoluteness of the position.   Like many things I don't think that there is a clear black an white answer.   For some a living hell might simply be a day in the life of another.   I too have thought of the circumstances that would make me not wish to continue living.   For some they would consider my threshold as being trivial.   So I can see both sides of the argument.

With regard to Stella's underlying position I tend to think that the answer lies in the way society values people with disability.   We are continually referred to as being "the most vulnerable" within our society by both sides of politics.   This doesn't help with public perception and the value placed on PWD and the contribution that we can make to society. At some stage the leadership of our nation will have to stand up and articulate how an inclusive society can value those who are usually marginalized.   To date the politicians have used tactics of overbearing paternalism or demonization when referring to PWD.  Until these sorts of attitudes change I would be vary wary of any environment whereby assisted suicide is made easy.Terry, I think it's dangerous to make any wide sweeping comments about the medical profession.   As with any profession there will be "goodies" and "baddies" present.   I wouldn't discount what Leafy Greens says, I know of one situation where a woman who had cancer wound up her affairs and entered into a nursing home to die.   From what I've been told it wasn't a "good death".  Apparently the nurses weren't always around (not because of being busy) and in certain cases patients were treated more as "cases" than as people who were dying.

The medical profession has a very difficult job and I suspect the hardest part of it is balancing the empathy required while maintaining a professional objectivity.  Sometimes I think the "distance" created by the professionals protecting themselves emotionally comes across as a "don't care" attitude.   I'm not convinced that the education system deals enough wiith this aspect of the profession.   It sometimes strikes me as telling when the vet that sees my dog shows more empathy than the nurse who treats a patient who is dying (whether as a result of their own lifestyle over indulgences or not).I don't dispute the argument that fees imposed by the super industry in this country are excessive.   I have a little trouble with the emphasis on the industry return being near the average.   Given it's size and the fact that they are the primary participants in the local market I would expect there to be as many winners as losers and thus over the industry it should all average out.

My biggest concern with this article is the emphasis placed on the absolute returns.  Quoting figures like 7% and 10% are meaningless as it is the "real" return that is the most important.   A return of 10% with inflation running at 5% is the same as a return of 7% with inflation of 2%.   As inflation and risk free rates reduce we expect absolute returns to be smaller.   Alan needs to keep in mind that high returns usually come with a high risk premium and I wonder if pushing people toward investments driven by return alone is wise.   After all the SIS Act places emphasis on other factors to be considered such as liquidity, fiversity of investments and their ability to meet cash flow requirements.

I'm very disappointed with the angle taken my Mr Kohler in this article.I can't see any benefit to the sex industry in adopting the Sweedish model.   In essence it still criminalises the transaction and drives it underground into an environment where the underworld rules.   Surely it's better to have an industry that is regulated and transparent rather than "prohibited" and hidden.   No matter what laws are in place sex work will continue.   History tells us this. I wonder about the "moral" arguments put forward for its banning.   I know that the usual argument is that the women are being exploited but I wonder what the participants in the industry say about this as most industries "exploit" their workers to some extent.

I hope that a degree of rationality continues in relation to this whole issue.   Violence and exploitation aren't the only issues of importance.   Safe sex practices and minimisation of STIs is just as important.   If the criminals take over I can gaurentee that the safety of the workers and their clients from STIs will be the last thing on their minds.
I don't think the "addiction" angle can be ignored.   In general I'm what one would call a fairly healthy eater.  On occasions I do indulge and buy a packet of lollies which get eaten very quickly.   This one packet seems to create a "craving" whereby next time I'm in the shops I'm more likely to buy another packet on impulse.   If I haven't had any sweets for a while I don't even get the urge to go down the lollie isle.   So I reckon the sugar hit does something to one's system.   My parents had the same trouble when they got into the habit of buying "fizzy drinks".

I suspect the amount of processed foods with all of the added sugars and the like cause most of the problems.   I've found that if one eats fresh fruit, meat, veggies, etc one's appetite seems to sort everything out.   Processed foods seem to stuff this self regulation up.   I may be wrong but I've had others who've told me that when they eat fresh their bodies "tell" them what they need.

I think the sad thing about the weight debate is that people are very judgemental about others habits.I'm not quite sure what the author is trying to say.  I assume that he is saying investigations should go beyond the union movement into other areas of alleged corrupt behaviour.   If this is the case then I agree.

With the unions I wonder why no one has ever pushed for them to be incorporated and bring them under the Corporations Act.   Then at least there would be a legal structure for their operation and a regulator and enforcement processes.   Most of the problems seem to arise as a result of a lack of accountability.   It seems that the unions are not accountable to the membership in the way companies are (theoretically) accountable to their shareholders.

At the end of the day everything is politics.  Whether we like it or not that's life.It seems that Barry has forgotten the dirty politics and scandals that came to light during the recent NZ election.   I'm not sure that NZ has any moral superiority over us.   Perhaps their Opposition parties stink as much as ours and people just didn't trust them enough to give them a go.Very interesting and well argued.

Unfortunately I don't think that any of the issues surrounding the unborn child is without controversy.   I tend to think that if there is a situation where criminal penalty can be imposed on a third party for injury to an unborn child then the mother should also be subject to the same standards just for consistency sake.   In this regard I refer to the recent debate about the unborn child that was killed in a car crash.

The comments relating to termination according to sex struck me.   One of the problems with laws that create restrictions in this area is that some genetic conditions pass on according to sex.   For example all my girls would carry a gene defect that passes on blindness, all my boys would be free from this defect.  So, it could be argued that termination according to sex might be of benefit in this situation. So, I don't think this issue is as clear cut as some might think.   

I accept as a male I have little right to stick my oar in this river.  I will be interested to read the general views put forward, however, as I feel the author makes a valid argument.
I agree that the male should take responsibility.   In any event the general rules in relation to "safe sex" should be followed implying use of a condom.   But a question arises when the discussion is actually had and the female states that she is on "the Pill" but is lying.   I know of one situation where this happened and the man ended up having to pay child support without access.

I'm not saying I agree with Ann but she makes a valid point.   I tend to think it's very unfair if a situation arises where the male is denied access to the child and is treated as a sperm donor and piggy bank.Ah, my reticence in relation to sticking my oar in only relates to telling women what to do with their bodies.   Once the decision has been made, and the child is born, I think males have as much right to speak out as women.I'm intrigued.   Because I'm a really boring person I listened to the debate of the bill when it was in Committee in the Senate.   As I recall the AG used the same arguments in the Senate.   This raises a question: If someone is prosecuted under an Act does the Court take the literal meaning of the Clauses in the Act, or does it take into account the intent of the Parliament by looking at the explanatory notes and Hansard?   I'd be interested to know if anyone knows the answer to this.

I marvel at the way the humble algorithm is being used nowadays.   Yes, they can be good.  But they have their faults.

Have you ever tried to argue with an algorithm?   Even if you're 100% sure you're right about something an algorithm will tell you that you're wrong and wont enter into discussion or debate.

Algorithms have no emotion.  You can spend fifteen minutes talking to a computer on the phone trying to get something sorted out and if it can't deal with the issue it will just hang up on you telling you to call during business hours.

And algorithms are used to make all those annoying robo-calls.  The phone rings and you get to it just before the answering machine kicks in and you find yourself either on hold or being hung up on.   And robo-polls are even worse because you can't tell them to bugger off.   Even if you hang up on them they continue to chatter away leaving the phone line engagedso you can't use it.

So, algorithms can be used for good.   But sometimes they can just be down right annoying.   Give me a human ahead of a computer any day.   And if you're a polly don't robo-call me because that will clinch your position as last on the ballot paper.@the yank

Personally I don't see what the big deal was about the dismissal.   At the end of the day we had an election and an unpopular government wasn't re-elected.   Surely the fact that the people got to decide was the best thing.   If Whitlam's government had been seen to be competent, and if Fraser had been seen as simply playing power games, I would have thought the people would have voted accordingly.

The worst thing we can do is take power out of the hands of the people.   The government's recent move on fuel excise shows the sort of thing that can happen when the people and parliament are bypassed.   

Keep those checks and balances in place!I see no harm in having another election.   Invariably governments become unpopular because they've failed to stick to their manifesto, have been seen to be incompetent or have instigated policies that have not been taken to the electorate.   All of these reasons are valid for retesting a government's mandate.

At the end of the day I'd prefer too many elections than being denied the right to have my say.   If a government has the ability to pass its legislation that's good and the time limits in the Constitution give us an ability to accept them or reject them.  If the government can't pass it's legislative agenda then it has the ability to call a double dissolution election and let the people decide.   A government who doesn't call a DD invariably knows that it wouldn't get its policy up anyway so there's an inbuilt democratic protection there.   

All in all it's a pretty good system and no government would call more elections than absolutely necessary because they know that people would get jack of them for doing it.I am amazed by the way that commentators (and some pollies) seem so eager to remove the checks and balances within our system of Government.  One of the most important advantages of our federal system with a Senate and a lower house is that Governments are held to account.  They can't simply use their numbers to ram through legislation unless they hold both houses.   An outcome that is rare and is benefical because some governments need saving from themselves.

With the dismissal powers and blocking of supply what's the worst that can happen?  We have an election.   I thought that was what a democracy is about.   Queensland shows what happens when you do something silly like lose the upper house.

Fixed terms sound nice in theory but again it diminishes the voice of the people.   Surely we're better off having more elections than hung parliaments staggering on for years leading to uncertainty and economic concern.

One of the weaknesses of people is their never ending desire to change things.   In my view our system is the best in the world.   The US is held up as a symbol of what should be.   A closer look at that system shows how distructive partisan politics with fixed terms can be.   Coherent budgets don't get passed they get cobbled together in an environment where boondoddles are the norm.

So, if it ain't broke don't try and fix it.
I understand the historical context of the position of the Governor General and it's relationship to the Crown and the Conventions.   I don't see how the argument can extend to the GG becoming a dictator.

With regard to the arguments over my side and your side I don't follow because I don't have a "side".   It seems the your argument relies on an assumption that the same group will always have a balance of power in the Senate and that this group is aligned with a particular side of politics.  In that case I agree that there is a potential for the outcomes you state.  But surely the electorate would get wise to this and would treat the supposed independents as being aligned with the side causing the problems.

A further point of relevance is that the issue you raise only really come to the fore when the government tries to implement policies that are at odds with its electoral mandate.   If mandated policies are blocked then a DD would solve any problems.

Given that we get to vote for both houses I would have thought that over the long term the wishes of the majority would prevail.   I don't see that the Greens or PUP will survive the test of time and that a more centrist mob will come back iinto play.   And at the end of the day I'm wary of any move that reduces the power of the electorate to have the final say on issues.
I am left wondering what the point of this little rant was.   Perhaps it was just another chance to stick the boot into the male of the species.   One thing I find interesting is that lately there seem to be more women doing stupid things and being involved in assults.   So perhaps the female of the species isn't as "advanced" as the author likes to think.

The other thing that struck me is the comments about the high wire walker.   I am perplexed why anyone would be amazed by the feats of the high wire walker.   If they use a balancing pole physics tells us that it's a pretty straightforward thing to do.  

Taking risks is a part of our existence.   If we hadn't taken risks over the millennia we would never have evolved beyond the creatures that inhabited the caves.   Branson is simply taking advantage of this evolutionary trait.  And it should be noted that advances in this area will benefit the species as a whole as it gets us closer to being able to leave this little rock.   Given our inability to take action to save the planet we might need to find somewhere else to live one day..."P.S. First Ipsos-Fairfax poll (to replace Nielsen from now on) 2PP: 51% ALP.... the Long March to Canberra is unstoppable..."

I notice that you've conveniently ignored the margin of error of 3%.   It seems that the unstoppable is teetering on the edge of an abyss.I found this to be very interesting.   I think one of the problems males find nowadays is that they don't know where they stand and what is acceptable.  the problem seems to be one person's complement is another's harassment.

Personally I've never been comfortable with the "wolf wistle" and comments that derive from that mindset.   But it seems that now it seems that you could be walking on shaky ground just saying hello if you don't use the right tone.

There used to be a time where as a man you knew where you stood.   If you "liked" a girl you were expected to make the first move.   Now it's not so clear cut and genuinely sensitive blokes are left wondering what the "right" thing to do is.

I can understand why some men do things the way they do.   Once upon a time I was told: "If you want to get some go to the nearest pub and ask every woman in there.  Play the odds.  All you need is one to say yes and your there."   I never did it but the logic holds and I bet there's men around that follow that philosophy.   Sad I know but I'm sure there's some evolutionary biology at work there."do you honestly believe that it is appropriate to "make the first move" in a relationship with a strange woman who is walking down the street, obviously avoiding eye contact?"

Ann, my personal view is no to your question.   As a blind person though I wouldn't know whether someone is beautiful or  avoiding eye contact. in fact I wouldn't necessarily know if someone is there at all so it's rather a moot point.

I've noticed you like to go on the attack whenever you read a comment you interprete negatively.   My thrust was that men nowadays don't know what to do.   And relying on body language is fraught with danger as I suspect most men would attest to.
"Are they unaware that  reticence makes men more desirable? "

I've tried the reticence angle... a life long trial you might say.   Take it from me it don't work.

You only get rejected if you try.  It's true that you don't get rejected if you show reticence because you don't even get noticed...  or even  considered worthy of rejection.
"I will just focus on the GST. A broad base consumption tax is a typical brainchild of Neoliberal ideology"

Correct me if I'm wrong Alpo, but wasn't it the ALP that first considered bringing in a GST in Australia in the 1980's?   Those Neo Libaral swine!What gets me is the inconsistency in scrutiny of the various bills.   Apparently the debate on the direct action legislation went on well into last night with the Opposition bemoaning the "rubber stamp" mentality of the Government.   Where was the same concern over the security bills?

We live in a very strange world when really important stuff is "rubber stamped" and trivial issues are picked over like vultures feasting on a carcass.

At the end of the day I believe that the Government should be able to put in place legislation that actions its manifesto.   However, this does not discount the need for proper oversight and debate.   Any problems with legislation should be identified and fixed during the legislative phase not some weeks after when the media finally get round to thinking how what has been passed will affect the ordinary person.

I think we're dreaming if we ever expect our pollies to act like grown ups.   For that to happen they have to have some sense of what living in the real world is like.   I suspect that climate change will hae to affect Hell before this happens.What I find hard to fathom is how the then Labor government thought that opening up the universities to a demand driven system would be better for the nation.   It seems to me that there are two unavoidable consequences:

i) An increase in enrolment numbers would lead to lower quality students and therefore lower standards, especially if the same proportion of students were passed as before.
ii) Given that there's a clear lowering of demand for STEM subjects in high schools and universities the demand driven system encourages universities to move resources away from these areas to the more profitable popular subjects.   Since these areas are actually of importance to the nation this is somewhat of a concern.

With regard to point (ii), if I understand it correctly a deregulated system would make the problem of STEM enrolment worse as degrees in this field would become more expensive.  Given that it's not that easy to get a "well paid" job in this area why would any young person expose themselves to enormous costs, gruelling subjects and low prospects when they could do a micky mouse business degree, do really well and be super employable?

I wonder if anyone did a cost benefit analysis on the demand driven system.   I'm not convinced that spending a fortune to have a great deal of second rate graduates floating around is necessarily good for the country.   Education is one thing.   Quality of education is something else altogether.Hi Connie41

I fear you have misinterpreted my point.   In no way do I equate "quality" with wealth.   My statement is simply a recognition of a fact that if prior to the change the highest achieving students (say ranked by TER or other "academic measure") were admitted to the courses then after increasing the intake the "ability" of the new students by definition must be lower.   Following from this, if the same proportion of students pass the course then it becomes evident that the course pass scores must be either lowered or the course must be simplified to account for the lower "quality" of student.  I think it unlikely that universities would actively accept a substantial increase in the "failure" rate as this would make their courses unattractive and less profitable.   So, I think it's reasonable to expect some slippage in standards as numbers increase.

The points raised about the private/public school devide seems reasonable to me.  My experience is that someone who achieves at a public school has generally done it off their own back and have become self reliant - traits which carry over to university study positively.   Private school kids seem to get their marks boosted by parents/teachers being more engaged and standing over the students.   This doesn't help them with uni when no one is there to "push" them.I must admit I'm perplexed by the approach adopted by the Greens.   It's as though they've become so used to saying no and looking for the unachievable ideal that they forgotten how to say "yes", or "let's do a deal".   And they wonder why they lack credibility when it comes to the really serious issues.   Amazing.

As for the Opposition, I can see why they're opposing it as it'll be a great thing to beat the Government over the head with.   Unfortunately I think they're forgetting about the long term and what they'll do if they ever get back into government.

Funnily enough, the Opposition seem quite happy to pass nasty things through the Senate as long as it doesn't get much play in the media.   So, while they talk of idealisms and of protecting the vulnerable this only seems to apply when there's some good media in the offing.

I think I'm becoming very cynical in my old age...I can understand the points being made here but I disagree that such a situation is acceptable.

At the end of the day the politicians are paid to be law makers.   In fact they are paid very well to do this and have support staff to assist them.   As a result of this I have no empathy for them at all.   If you are unable to do the job you are being paid to do then you shouldn't be doing it.   And if you haven't had time to read the bills or understand them then you should as a minimum be abstaining from voting.

The biggest fear I have about the current situation is that no one is reading the bills as drafted because they are assuming that someone else will catch any problems.   Unfortunately if everyone things someone else will do the job then no one will do it.   And we can't rely on the minor parties because of the way they've carried on in the past any "reasonable" objections put up by them are seen as grandstanding.   

The media is not without fault here either.   They are supposed to be the gaurdians of our democracy but seem more intent on getting scoops by cosying up to power.

It's sad to think that in such a short time we've forgotten the sacrifices that past generations have made to enable us to live in such a stable and safe democracy.   Apathy by our representatives who are more interested in spending their time being re-elected to continue on the gravy train is no excuse.I had to laugh at Paula's final paragraph which implies that anyone who disagrees with her is a fool.   A marvellous way to shut down a discussion!

If I understand the arguments put forward there seems to be little point to having an elected government.   This is because Paula seems to endorse the old wittism "I am their leader, I must follow where they want to go..."   My error seems to be in thinking that the aim of our politician's is to govern the country in a way that is in the best interests of the collective whole.  sometimes this should involve meking "unpopular" decisions as in the old maxim that you must take the medicine even though it taste awful because it's good for you.

I agree that it's important to understand the politics behind a chosen course.   My criticism with journalists, however, is that the focus on the politics alone doesn't enable one to understand the actions proposed or implemented.   To give a simple example, the recent passing of thesecurity bills led to a lot of coverage of the "politics" but not the detail of what was actually being passed (like sect 35P).   The "analysis" focussed on the "me tooism" of the Opposition and the "strength" of the Government overlooking the important thing which was how the laws would affect Joe Bloggs.

So, while the politics of the situation might be important to consider I think anyone who focusses on the politics alone without consideration for the ultimate effect of any actions taken or proposed is also blinkered and ignorant.

A quote of Robert Kennedy's comes to mind: "There are those who look at the way things are and ask why.  I dream of things that never were and ask why not."   The article's implied message that we shouldn't look an how things "should" be is a sad indictment of the modern political environment.   With this approach I fear we may never have got ourselves out of the caves... UG.Bill, I did a bit of double checking and it seems that all three of the Kennedy brothers used it, JFK, RFK and EMK.   Apparently it's a paraphrasing of a line from a play by George Bernard Shaw.

Many people think that JFK was a great speech maker.   RFK was as good, if not better.   I think our leaders would do well to read some of his speeches and in particular the ones following Martin Luther King's assassination.   They say times change.   I think they repeat and it's just a pity that we don't learn the lessons of our past.  His message was of healing.  Nowadays the message is of fear.Personally I don't see what the proposed register of advisors will do other than add to consumer costs.   As I understand it, most of the problems that have arisen recently have been in relation to "authorised representatives" of large well known institutions.   These institutions, as holders of the relevant licences, were responsible for ensuring compliance by their representatives.   So, the failure would appear to be at the licencee level and the "register" doesn't solve this.

I agree enhanced education may be of benefit but I somewhat wary of advocacy by any organisation that could benefit from increased professional membership or enrolment in courses run by them. 

I think that one factor that has been overlooked in this whole debate is the lack of ethical training by the advisors.   Technical knowledge is one thing but from what I've read most of the problems in the industry seem to come down to failures by advisors (and licencees) to meet certain ethical standards.   I don't know whether things have changed but my recollection is that ethics doesn't get much of a look in with most investment advisory courses. Until problems in this area are dealt with everything else will be nothing more than window dressing.Two things immediately come to mind:

((i) The never ending fear mongering will eventually lead to a "cry wolf" situation where the public will simply stop listening and lose all faith in the leadership. 
(ii) Creation of an environment of fear will inevitably lead to greater social disruption where differences will more likely lead to "pre-emptive" defensive attacks.

Both of these factors make me wonder about the cognitive abilities of the political leadership.   The first eventually leads to a situation where real and true threats are ignored by the public because of a perception of grandstanding by the pollies.   The second leads to a situation where "innocents" are vilified for simply being different.   It's a disturbing trend but a brief look into history shows that it's nothing new.   This highlights the discrepancy between needing an educated populous to increase prosperity and the implicit desire of pollies to keep the education standards low enough so that they can tap into the irrational mindset of the "mob".I must admit that I didn't really like the character of the man from the way he carried on during the Para Olympics and the Olympics.   In many ways it was also disturbing to hear of the way that the defence used his disability to bolster their case.   But I'm not as critical as Stella as I would expect any defence lawyer to use all avenues available to represent their client.  In fact  I suspect that a failure to explore that defence may well have left them open to a charge of professional misconduct.

What disturbs me about this piece is that Stella has once again used a serious topic to attempt to push an agenda.   As a male I feel that Stella has something against my sex putting us all in the same barrel as Pistorius.   I thought feminism was about promoting the cause of women.   It seems that Stella sees it as a means of belittling men, and especially white hetrosexual ones.   All this approach does is put the people offside who would benefit most from hearing the message that Stella wants us all to listen to.

As a final observation I think it is important to keep in mind that each case is different and should be considered on its merits.   In some cases a disability may well be a mitigating factor in a crime.   To apply a broad brush as Stella tends to do ignores the nuances of different situations and if followed in general could lead to miscarriages of "justice".   I think Stella could do well to think about the implications of the messages she wishes to convey before putting pen to paper.I don't think the current state of politics is anything new.   We're just passing through another phase of a very long cycle.

Sadly I fear that one of the disadvantages of living in a fairly "stable" age is that we forget the effect that true economic and geopolitical upheaval can have on ordinary people.   In this country it has been nearly a quarter of a century since the last recession.   So, perhaps we have become complacent and are suffering the effects of this.

When Whitlam was in parlament I suspect there would have been a general understanding of the  need to look forward and for the parliamentarians to leave the place better off than when they entered it.   After all during that time there would have been people who had lived through two world wars and the great depression.   Set along side these events the petty squabbles of today would seem as naught to these great people.

Perhaps it's time the pollies of today took the time to open there eyes and get a sense of history and put the current environment in some sort of context.  Unfortunately I don't think that this will happen because the main driver nowadays is the capture of power.   What to do with this power after they get it seems to be a secondary consideration.  So they are left focussing on how to retain power and increase it rather than use it.

I've come across a few articles like this written by war correspondents and it always strikes me the courage that underlies their decision to go into a war zone armed with a camera (or a pen) and not a gun.   To be willing to be a part of this band of reporters, and her willingness to speak out on the effects on her emotionally says a lot about Sophie.   Often we see the "output" of the reports but not the effect that this has on the reporter.

Having said the above it concerns me that the writer seemed willing to enter into a conlicted region with a somewhat simplistic romantic notion of the life of a foreign correspondent.   Perhaps this says much for the quality of the education system in not informing journalism students of the psychological damage that exposure to certain events can have.   As a minimum I would have expected any newly minted foreign correspondent to spend some time with a psychologist in preparation to understand the effects of trauma on a journalist and how to minimise the damage.  There is more strength in asking for help than pretending that problems don't exist. 

This just highlights that the pollies are spending more time playing politics than actually doing what they're paid to do.   It's simply pathetic when they can't even explain the laws they've "nodded" through the parliament.

And the journalists aren't doing much better as they didn't pick up on these issues until long after it had all gone through.

Say bye bye to democracy.Interesting.

Although there are so many more people in the world I think it's a more lonely place.   We are becoming more isolated and true "communities" are dying.

I suppose it depends on your perspective about what you feel is important when determining whether things are looking up or down.I agree that critical analysis is important in determining the validity of any facts presented and the motives of the person providing them.   It is the next step in the process that concerns me.   There seems to be an increasing tendency of journalists to go beyond the critical analysis of the facts to the imposition of their opinions on the audience.   In my mind there's a big difference between using critical analysis to test the validity of an option and using it as the basis for supporting an opinion.

The role of the journalist should be to provide the facts in an objective way and leave it to the consumer to form any opinions.   Once a journalist steps over the line of expressing an opinion they cease to be credible and any future work will be seen through the lens of a perceived bias.

As a consumer I would expect one of the objectives of a journalist should be to leave me with no idea about what their personal view is on a story.   For me the journalist is the person who filters out all the crap and summarises the facts so I can come up with my own view about the topic being considered.
I agree we all have our biases and preconceived notions.   we need to keep in mind though that journalists puport to be professionals.   This means that they should be able to set aside any views of their own when reporting on a story.   

the idea of setting one's own views and interests aside in preference to the "customer" is not unusual.   Trustees and financial advisers are expected to do it and are heavily criticised by the press when they fail in their duty.   Likewise auditors, lawyers, actuaries and many other professions have the same degree of professional responsibility placed upon them.   I can't see any problem in holding journalists to the same ethical and professional standards.

One factor that tends to get overlooked in the debates is the importance of the press in our democracy.   We often hear about the "free press".   As an individual I don't have access to the PM, Opposition leader or anyone else of influence to find out what's going on.   I have to rely on journalists to do this and as such I have to rely on their ability, honesty and integrity in reporting the facts in order to form an opinion of what is happening.

While I think it must be a great buzz to have "access" I sometimes think that our journalists forget the role that they are supposed to play in our democracy.  I often get the feeling that some "leading" reporters prefer to set the agenda rather than report on it. 
Herman, I agree with what you're saying.  The example you use though still falls within the bounds of objectivity by reporting the facts and the context in which they lay.   The problems start when the reporter takes a shortcut and doesn't tell us about the links and just says that so and so is a liar.   With your example the provision of the links and context would be enough for me to form an opinion of the situation without requiring the journalist to state their personal views or feelings.
I can accept what you say about "journalism" extending to "opinion pieces" and editorials.   Perhaps one of the problems today is that most reporters want to write this type of article rather than being traditional reporters.

I disagree about investigative reports.   Funnily enough I reckon there are two classes of reporters that I rate above all others and these are the investigative reporters and the foreign correspondents.   In general these two "classes" of journalists seem to exhibit the best aspects of the profession.   I tend to rate the political reporters at the other end of the spectrum and suspect that after a while they exhibit the character of the dross they have to deal with on a day to day basis.

I know my idealisms aren't achievable in the real world.   But it's nice to dream and I would at least expect the universities to teach to the ideal and let life experience knock it out of them when they start working.  

A journalist of strong character and ability should be able to hang on to most of the ideals associated with ethical behaviour in what is generally regarded as being a untrusted profession.The points raised in this article are clearly unworkable.   It talks sense and moderation.   Clearly not something that is consistent with the current political environment.

From a practical point of view I fear that Mr Abbott has burned his bridges when it comes to dealing with Mr Putin.   The "shirt fronting" comment just made him look like a goose and a thug.   I wouldn't mind so much but Mr Abbott is supposed to be representing ALL Australians.   At present Mr Abbott comes across like the guy in the movie who talks big and then when push comes to shove he relies on someone else to do the fighting for him.   If it wasn't so serious it would be funny.I think the age of the parents at birth shouldn't be dismissed.   The father of a contemporary of mine was 56 when he was born.   During his formative years his father wasn't physically able to "play" with him like many of his peers parents.   In his teens he was effectively the "man" of the house as he had to do much of the "work" on the farm he grew up on because his father was no longer able to do it.   He told me once he was a bit peeved about that.

So, I think the argument about having a storage life limit isn't without merit.In all honesty I really don't care.   If the rich want the worry involved with having money I pity them.

It's interesting that one argument put forward about the benefit of having a rich class is that they provide jobs for the lesser beings.   I find this fascinating because evidence seems to suggest that more and more wealthy people are investing more of their assets overseas and offshoring labour.   So, while it may be true that the wealth is creating work the question is where is it being created?  Not here at home that's for sure!@V

One of the things that you overlook is that a weakness of mixing all intelligence levels together is that you can end up with a disruptive environment.   I went to a small country school and we were all mixed in together and the pace was too slow for the brighter kids and too fast for the slower ones.   If a smart child isn't challenged it is more likely that they will end up in a "dead end job" because they've only known how to cruise and when they are finally challenged they don't know how to handle it.

I wary of the one model fits all approach and it bugs me that a bright person might be held back because of an inflexible system.V, I can accept your argument up to a point.   Yes, everyone has different skill sets.   Your argument, however, doesn't negate my general thrust that people with similar abilities (if you like) should be grouped together within the learning environment.   While a pure mathematical wiz and an innumerate artist might get along great in the play ground they would be disruptive if placed in the same class and neither would get the "best" educational outcome.

At the end of the day education is an academic environment and as such I don't see any benefit in disadvantaging academically gifted students by setting course work set at a level designed to meet the needs of students whose primary intelect is in other areas.  And looking at the other side of the coin there's no benefit in forcing a child who is not academically gifted to do work beyond their ability as such an approach would be demoralising.V, I think where we differ is in what we see as being the role of the school in the education of a child.   I can agree with most of what you say in relation to values and social education.   In my view this should take place outside of the school environment and should primarily be the responsibility of the parent.

Your idelism works when society adjusts to a model which values what the individual can add to the whole in an overall sense.   Today's world is mercenary in its outlook and children need to be prepared to survive in that world.

While idealisms are nice we have to have systems that deal with the real world.   I am very wary of "experimentation" when it comes to education simply because any failures stay with that generation for life.   This is one reason where I think politicians should be banned from getting involved in setting the teaching program.   Limit their role to determining the budget and outlining the objectives or desired outcomes.   Leave the rest to professionals who work at the coal face.V, it's interesting to read your take on the idealistic model for "education".   In many respects I think our experiences cloud our perspective.   If I understand it correctly you went to a form of selective school and it appears that the "selective process" was inadequate.   I went to a public school and longed to go somewhere where there were kids like me.

I found the school yard to be a reflection of the "real world".   There were three "classes" of student: the bright ones who couldn't be bothered playing politics, the "dumb" kids who knew they were dumb and didn't care and the ones in between who thought they were better than everyone else.   The last group made up the majority and if you weren't like them you suffered.   In many ways the school yard is no different to a chook shed where everyone has to work out their place in the pecking order.  I didn't enjoy school and I wouldn't wish my experiences on anyone. It took me until my mid twenties before I had enough self confidence to realise that I wasn't as dumb as I thought.   On reflection I think this is strange because I got a first class honours degree in maths after leaving school in year 10.

I disagree with your hypothesis that humans are naturally cooperative.   Left to our own devices we are not a very nice species.  If you want proof of this look at the number of wars around and the way in which the "selection" process takes place in employment and the dating game. 

I suppose I take an overly simplistic view of this whole topic.   In my view the first step should be to define exactly what skill set the country wants its school leavers to have.   I'm not sure I've heard any real discussion on this.   The debate seems to devolve down to the details of the subjects themselves.

My personal experience has been that I've forgotten a lot of the "crap" that was taught at school.   In essence I think much of the course structure was simply to enable the students to reinforce the use of the basics which have stayed with me.  So to my way of thinking arguing about the content is nothing more than a storm in a tea cup.   

As far as I can see the education system is failing our young people with regard to the basic skill in literacy and numeracy.

It concerns me that stakeholders in this debate are unable to reach some sort of consensus.   They seem to forget that each delay and prevarication affects another generation of students.   Deficiencies in education stay with a person for the rest of their life.
Alpo, as ever I continue to learn things from your comments.   I would remind you of one thing though; a true friend tells their friend when they need a good kick up the butt.   It's clear to me, and many others, that the ALP is failing to take note of the warning signs.   The way the polls are going we will soon be entering the "margin of error" environment.   At that time the "Game On" will become "Game Over" for the ALP.

I agree with Ted that as a friend of the ALP, if you have any influence, you should give 'em what for.
I find it interesting that many commenters on this site lambast the Libs and keep saying that they've got no hope at the next election.   The polls, however, seems to indicate that such certainty of outcome is flawed.

I will admit to having no love for the current mob.   But, I've also been very disappointed with Mr Shorten.   His communication of ideas and philosophy has been so bad that I simply don't know what he stands for.   And I know people who just stop listening when he starts talking because "he's so boring".

At some point the ALP is going to have to come up with some policies and start telling us what they believe in.   The last term in office seemed like a comedy staggering from disaster to disaster. They made Basil Fawlty look like a competent manager of a high class hotel.   Until they can demonstrate that they hae the competence to manage Australia I very much doubt that Mr Shorten will get the keys to the Lodge.

I wouldn't write off the better the devil you know factor when it comes to Mr Abbott and the next election.   (It might be easier of course if he loses Joe though.)When I read things like this I laugh to myself.   I developed a number of skills at school and "learnt" a wide variety of things.   What has stayed with me?  My numeracy skills, an ability to read with comprehension and write (though not spell).   I've forgotten most of the rest.

I suspect my experience isn't that unusual.   So as far as I'm concerned as long as they cover the basics of reading, writing, arithmentic, social cohesion and a little bit of critical thinking then I really don't mind.   I sometimes think the "experts" try to over complicate things.

Let the teachers teach and the parents parent and where ever possible leave government out of it.I can accept the second and third points but disagree with the first.   As someone who lives in Tassie my observation of multi member electorates is that you don't have an individual who is really there to represent you in parliament.   It's too easy to blame others within the same seat for problems that have arisen.

I like a structure where it is clear who is representing us in parliament.   That person's responsibility should be to his/her electorate alone, hence the need to decouple the representative from Party directives.

Given the way our country is being run nowadays I would prefer the right to vote directly for the PM as well as the local member.   My local member doesn't seem to have any say in the way the government is run and as such neither do I.   That is where the problem with democracy  lies today.   The parties are not democratically run within the parliamentary structure and thus belies the principles of our parliamentary democracy.I think abolishing the second house in our system would be a disaster for democracy.    I'm happy that there is a second House to reign in the excesses of a government.   

there is an argument that under proportional representative system an unpopular government would get kicked out quickly.   This statement ignores the fact a government can do a hell of a lot of damage to a country in three years.   At least with the current system it is possible to block legislation and force the government to call a DD and return the choice to the people.Phil, you make a valid point.   It could be argued, however, that when changing a survey the statisticians should have run the old survey in parallel with the new survey to identify any discrepancies.   At the end of the day comparisons are made longitudinally which means there needs to be consistency in the data from month to month for the published numbers to be of any use.

Any shortcuts in the process of switching over could reasonably be put down to resourcing factors.I find it funny that both sides of politics say that "front line services" wont be affected by cuts.    It leads me to wonder what a front line service is.   Surely call centres and help lines are front line.

We get told to use the website to interact with the agency.   This ignores the fact that for some trying to negotiate websites isn't that easy.I agree with the premis here.   In my viewe the biggest problem is the way inn which "cuts" are made.

Generally the focus always seems to be put on the head count.   I would agree with this principle if the idea was to cut inefficiency retaining quality over quantity.   It seems likely, however, that those capable of obtaining private sector work more easily will leave first.   Thus I suspect that quality leaves first.

The second point is that the size of the public sector workforce is dependant on the amount of work they are required to do.   In other words, the  more a government legislates the more people will be required to action it.

Personally, I think the worst thing to befall the APS has been the tightening of the links between the pollies and the mandarins.   Good government relies on frank and fearless advice.   After all the pollies are by definition amateurs in any ministerial portfolio they may hold so no-one could expect them to understand the nuances of each aspect of their remit.   It is said that a strong leader requires strong advisers who will stand up to him/her.   An independent APS not worried about their tenure is the only way to achieve this.
It also ignores the effect of technological advancement on efficiency and thus lower staffing requirements.   

I'm not sure, however, that any flaws in reasoning negate the validity of the conclusions stated.Alpo, I was once a union member.   That was in the days where you had to be to work in certain industries.   With the RC into the unions I am left asking myself who do the unions actually represent, themselves or the membership?

There was an interesting interview of Mr Howard yesterday on RN.   During the interview he indicated that their used to be a 40, 40, 20 rule in politics, that is 40% of voters used to be wedded to each party with 20% swingers.   He reckons the rule is now about 30, 30, 40.   So, I'd class your 20% as simple rusted on unionists nothing more, nothing less.@Paul01

I wholeheartedly agree in the theoretical value of unionism and the need to protect workers' rights and conditions.   Historically though the problem has been that the labour movement has always pushed further than necessary and in many respects "negotiated" their members out of a job. 

The question nowadays is where do the union leaders come from?   Do they have a "working class" upbringing, or are they like the Libs and disconnected from the "real workers"?   I don't know, but I do know that I'd be very wary of trying to take them on internally.   Sometimes it's better to whinge from the sidelines than end up like Jimmy Hoffa.Sadly I fear that if MrShorten resigned in an attempt to renew the Party all that would happen would be a whole load of cheering and a sigh of relief that an under-performing leader has gone.

In my view the only way for the ALP to be reformed is if all sitting ALP members resigned from the Party en mass and formed a new party.   That wont happen though because it would take co-operation, guts and leadership.   At the end of the day both major parties suffer from short termism.   They seem unable to think beyond the current election cycle towards the long term best interests of the nation and their own parties.

Gone are the days of the testicular fortitude shown by Whitlam, Hawke and Chipp.   And I don't think they will ever return.@AustraliaFirst

I agree that the "reforms" you raised were forward looking and progressive.  But, they were arrived at with little thought as to how they should be implemented and funded over the longer term.   

In the case of the NBN, education reform, NDIS  and hospital funding my view is that the ALP were purely looking to the next election with a view to distracting people from the internal woes of the Party.  I have my doubts as to the level of consideration in relation to the legacy issues involved in the policies themselves. 

I think the current woes in the Australian political system stem from the loss in the early 90's by Dr Hewson.   His honesty and openess in policy development came back to bite the Liberal Party.   As a result it's seen as death to be honest nowadays.   So, we, the electorate are to blame.The NDIS was subject to a productivity commission review in which recommentdations were made.   In an attempt to short circuit the process the Gillard Government tried to rush its implementation so that it was available as a spruikable policy at the upcoming election.

The education reforms were again subject to a review by Gonski and again hasty implementation before the  upcoming election.

The NBN was on the "agenda" for years before Rudd came on the scene.  I can remember talk about fivre to the node policies in 2000 or there about.   Again the planning on the NBN was short circuited to make it a policy that could be used to win an election.   Another implementation disaster.

I admit I don't recall a great deal about the health funding policy.

My point is that planning was overlooked in favour of speed of implementation.   More focus was put on the marketing of the ideas than the planning for the funding and objectives to be achieved.  That is, short term benefits were chased at the expense of long term outcomes.

Why do you think the LNP has had such an easy time pouring scorn on the ALP?   If the planning had been spot on the ALP, as opposition, could have "dumped" on the Government big timeI disagree, Peter.   There is an implied assumption in your comment that the ALP shouldn't even be thinking about getting back into government at the next election.

Surely if the ALP believes that the current government is bad for the country they should be doing all in their power to develop an appropriate policy platform and putting forward the Opposition leader as a viable alternative PM.   If Mr Shorten cannot be seen as a viable PM then he shouldn't be there.  After all victory heals all wounds and begats unity (usually).Interestingly I've found my comments that are more critical of the LNP side of things seem to get through the moderators more easily than the ones critical of the ALP and its approach.   I was hoping it was just my computer playing up.   Now I'm starting to wonder...

I agree.   There appears to be little difference in the chasing of sensational story and attempts to weild power by the media moguls.

I think one thing that has changed is the emerging 24 hour news cycle.   The pressure that comes with this is that stories don't seem to be researched and followed up as carefully.   I don't think the ABC has been immune to this either.

One of the problems with poorly thought out and researched articles is that they tap into the mob mentality.   I don't know who originally said it but it's true to say that individuals are smart, mobs are irrational.   In my view the media has a responsibility and duty of care to the public to ensure that their stories are accurate.   In the case of a public broadcaster the responsibility extends to the requirement that the story coverage is objective and balanced.   It should be left to the consumer to form his or her conclusions on the issues being reported upon.It just goes t show how much people rely on what they "see" when forming an opinion about someone.

Ever since I've lost my sight I've found that I've judged people pretty much the same.   No longer am I intimidated by that overwhelmingly beautifuly woman.   No longer do I cross the road when some boofy bloke covered in tats comes walking down the road.   And I fear that the Foreigh Minister's trademark "death stare" wouldn't have any effect on me during a negotiation.

Fear is just a state of mind.   And my solution to the world's problem with prejudice is...Just to give some perspective from a person who is blind.   The one thing I've really noticed since I've lost my sight is that communication has become more difficult.   Whether we like it or not the majority of communication is non-verbal.   Body language plays a very big role in working out what is behind the words being spoken.   Ask yourself how often you've asked someone how they are and they've answered "Okay" where it's clear that they are not.

While I disagree with the thrust of Peter's comment I think he has a point regarding "reading peoples faces" to the extent that it can be very frustrating trying to workout what is going on when one has to rely on words alone."Fortunately the health professionals know that the risk of spread in the first world in unlikely due to high health and cleanliness standards."

It's attitudes stemming from comments like this that worry me.   We seem to think we're immune from pathogenic infections because of our "first world" medical and hygene standards.   We forget that failures in procedures, complacency and simple human error can lead to unintended consequences.   Look at what happened in Texas as a result of a "computer glitch".

Although we are half way around the world the ease of travel is such that we need to be vigilant.   I hope that assumptions aren't being made that our "isolation" will ensure our safety and that appropriate quarantine and control processes are in place to protect us.
I agree with the general principles outlined.   Any reforms that increase the input of "grass root" members would be a plus.

In the main I think the biggest problem that both parties have is the perceived disconnect between the representatives and the people they claim to represent.   With the ALP the situation is worse because of the influence of the union movement.   The reports coming out of the Royal Commission, with the apparent prevalence of "slush funds" used by union "leaders" makes one wonder what unions are for now.   Are they truly advocating for the membership or for themselves?   If the ALP is to be seen as widely relevant it has to open itself up and once again show that it truly reflects the values of those in the community it claims to represent.

Sadly, I fear that the cloak of hypocrisy will cover the actions of the major parties where the "reforms" imposed by the leadership on the populous will never translate into measures that modernize the party structures that got them into power.

How can we expect the politician's that we vote for to adhere to the principles of a robust democracy when the structures that got them there are anything but democratic?I think the disappointing thing about the "bludger" mentality is that those who scream loudest seem to be the least likely to offer a person with a disability a job.   I've also noticed that when disability is discussed generalisations seem to be made.   For example, reading some comments one could be led to believe that most people on the DSP are there as a result of drug or alcohol abuse or some other activity which was within their control.

It's certainly a good idea to encourage PWD to get into the workforce.   Consideration, however, needs to be given into changing employer attitudes so that someone with a disability at least has a chance of getting that job they apply for.   Nothing is worse than forcing someone to fail time and time again facing rejection based on prejudice.   When certain media outlets go on a witch hunt for DSP bludgers the first question that comes into my mind is how many PWD does the relevant media outlet employ?  It's all very well and good to criticise it's another matter altogether to be part of the solution.

There are some businesses around Australia that have made a very positive contribution to the employment of PWD.   These businesses should be applauded.   There is a long way to go, however, before ingrained attitudes and prejudices about the value of PWD are overcome generally.I can think of two possible arguments:

a) allowing an individual to travel may enable them to gain some form of training and even if their passport is cancelled there is no guarantee that they wouldn't find their way back.  So it's better to keep them here untrained and not fully "converted".

b) In many respect whether we like it or not any action taken by someone from our country overseas reflects on us as a nation.   I suspect therefore keeping them here where you can keep an eye on them could do less harm to Australia reputation wise and limit unknown "enemies" being crated through the actions of these people.

I may be way off base though and the reasons may be completely different.   This is one area where we have to defer to the experts. 
"We have all seen the super fund advertising..."

For the record those of us who are blind haven't "seen" the advertising so please don't assume.

As to club loyalty I think consideration needs to be given to the other side of the equation.   How loyal are the clubs to their players?    In an era of money rules poor performance is treated ruthlessly and players are dropped without emotion.   Given this I would support a player maximising his earnings potential while he can.   After all they have to survive for a pretty long time after their playing days are over and everyone can't be a legend of the game."
Personally I don't see a problem.   The Government could simply introduce a "security levy" like the "flood levy" or the "gun buy back levy".   The Opposition would have a hard time arguing against it because they "support" the military action.   In addition, if the Opposition opposed a levy they would be expected to suggest "cuts".   I think anything other than a general levy would be difficult.  Imagine the headlines: "Disability Pensioners to face cut to pay for war."

I would have thought the majority of Australians would support a levy.   After all there seems to be general support for the military action and it would be a bit hypocritical to reject the measures set down to pay for it.   The Government would also be on pretty safe ground as any arguments about broken promises wouldn'g hold as this issue wasn't known at the time of the election.

The biggest problem the Government has is with its communications strategy... From the budget to the justification for military action I think the strategy has been woeful and calls for a cleanout of the communications staff.    I'm intrigued for example that the Government didn't use an analogy like cancer to justify the military action.   "IS is a cult and like a cancer.   You have to hit it at the source before it spreads and infects the world..."  Take religion out of it and just don't mention Islam.

Of course any action on revenue raising would need to be moved on pretty quickly while there is broad support for the action.   And this is where my argument falls down.   The inevitable delay will lead to opposition because the euphoria of ighting a just cause eventually dies down as time passes.I think the difficulty for the Opposition is that it would have to actually make suggestions on the approach to adopt to pay for the action.   To date it has pretty much avoided this in relation to balancing the budget as it has used the argument that it is the Government's responsibility to pay for its promises.   And if push has come to shove they've raised the PPL as a savings measure relying on the Government's internal inconsistencies in its policies.

With the current situation it comes down to accepting any government initiative (and hoping the voting public will blame the Government) or proposing either a cut or a tax themselves which will put them in the spotlight.  If I were in the Opposition I know what choice I'd make.I'm sorry but I think this is bollocks.

The one thing that really annoys me is that criticism of a woman is seen as being sexist whereas criticism of a man is seen as being part of the normal cut and thrust of politics.   You can't have it both ways.

I think it's about time the feminist army got some perspective.   Equality means having the right to be treated equally.   this means not jumping to the assumption that any comment or criticism is sexually based.

Frankly I couldn't give a stuff what gender our pollies are.   It's the policies and their ability to do the job that's the most important thing.  

For me I find it rather hypocritical how people come out and say how wonderful it was the such and such was the first woman do to something or how wonderful that it was that Mr Obama was the first black man to become President.   This sort of commentary is as sexist and racist as those that would belittle someone based on their attributes rather than on their abilities."The question that should be on people's minds is how is the LNP's efforts to take money out of the economy actually going to help."

I think the question is how can the LNP (or ALP) afford not to balance the budget.   At present I think we're in a perfect storm situation.   The budget isn't in balance and it doesn't look like it will be for some time because of the squabbleing between vested interests.   On the economic front we are losing our manufacturing sector and over reliance is being placed on selling raw materials.

In addition to the above I'm starting to wonder whether the traditional macro economic tools that are used to stimulate the economy will be as beneficial as the theory says.   After all these tools were developed in an era when economies were far more "closed" than they are now.   Sadly, one of the biggest problems with free and open trade is that when our trading partners have problems so do we.   This is something that gets ignored during they "hype" of signing "freee trade" agreements.    I'm sure that some time in the future the pendulum will swing back toward the protectionism side of the equation again.

In many respects I think the best thing that can happen for Europe is if the ECU is scrapped.    Europe demonstrates the problem of attempting to tie too many disparate economies together.   I suspect that some economic researcher will one day develop a hypothesis and model on the ideal size for an integrated economy.   My bet is that it will be a heck of a lot smaller than the EU.

I think I might be feeling a bit negative today... We'll all be ruined.. Just call me Henrahan...
"What has the budget deficit got to do with the decline in our manufacturing?"

Absolutely nothing.   My point is we don't have just one problem, an unbalanced budget, we have many problems.   And nobody in power seems to be overly concerned with finding solutions.

Although it could be argued that a strong value add sector domestically should lead to a greater level of revenue for the government through taxes and thus a lower deficit in the budget.  But I admit it's a long bow to draw.@Sea Monster

As I understand it you're right.  The aim of QE was to increase the money supply by buying up long dated bonds.   In its purest form Keynesian theory states the what you need is a low interest rate environment with increased aggregate demand through government spending.

There is a question as to the effectiveness of QE in that it may have lead to asset inflation (like the DJA increasing) but has it led to greater investment in productive assets?   In the US there probably has been a flow on effect.  This is because they still have a fairly large industrial sector. 

In my view an economy has to have a "productive" or "value add" sector for any wealth effect from lower interest rates to be of value.   If we, in Australia for example spend all of this new found wealth on goods made overseas who are we benefitting in the long run?I am yet to be convinced that the current Cabinet would, or could, roll the PM if push came to shove.   An environment where you can have "captain's calls" is never a good one for a robust democracy.

In many respects I'm pleased to hear that there was the ability to have such a high level of debate within the Hawke ministry.   It gives me a level of comfort to imagine that such a thing might be possible even in today's "kiss and tell" mentality of our modern pollies.

As far as I'm concerned I think it would benefit the PM if he was seen to be rolled over some issue that his wider party disagreed with, like the PPL.    This would demonstrate that we do still live in a democracy governed by many and not just one.   The PM needs to understand that he is the leader of the government, not "El Supremo".  If it's true I find the alleged attempt of the PM to direct the Speaker on matters outside of his authority concerning.I think any "captain's call" is an affront to democracy independent of the bona fides of the call itself.   Ms Gillard bypassed the democratic processes (as they exist) within the ALP to anoint Ms Peris.   Personally I don't think that was good for democracy.   Did Ms Peris get the "nod" based on her ability?  Were there others more capable to potentially represent the NT?  We don't know because the "decision" wasn't discussed or debated.   Once the captain's call wasmade everyone was politically welded to the decision.   At the time the ALP couldn't afford to roll the PM.   This is the same as Mr Abbott's call with regard to the PPL.

In my view, if a certain course of action is merited then the "captain" of the team should be able to argue their position.   If Ms Gillard thought that Ms Peris was an appropriate candidate then she could have used her position to argue the point publicly and within the ALP.   In my view the road to ruin is paved by leaders making what are considered to be "good" captain's calls.   Acceptance of these calls simply makes it easier to make "bad" calls in the future.   A strong democracy requires debate, discussion, scrutiny and questioning.

For the record I feel that Senator Peris is doing a good job.  But this doesn't negate my belief that she should have gone through the democratic processes of the party.

(Oh, and I realise that none of the major party machines are really democratic so all of this is rather moot.   My concerns generally relate to the executive and the processes surrounding that.   After all we, the people, did actually elect them.)
The one mistake we make here in the west is that we look at the situation through the eyes of a functioning democracy.   I have no doubt that the elite within the Chinese political machine will come up with a solution.   After all it's all about perception.

Here's a scenario.   Evidence of corruption by the HK CEO just "happens" to surface.   He is arrested.   A new CEO is drafted and he issues some form of release to say that the place is a disaster because of the last guys mismanagement and the he needs time to put things back in order.  In fact he goes so far as to promise to have a "close look" at "reforms".   After things settle down they then hold an "election" being careful to "discredit" anyone they don't like through the media, and if someone who is not ideal gets in they will be corrupted.   After all everyone has their price.

Conclusion:  Everyone is happy.   The protester think they've got what they want.   The Party has kept control and retains what they wanted.   Admittedly, the former CEO probably isn't happy but by this time he's probably been shot so it's not really an issue anymore.

We really should stop looking at these issues through the eyes of a liberal democracy.   Totalitarian regimes have so much more flexibility to corrupt and deceive the populous.    The only thing that saves any democracy from this sort of situation is a "free press" and "freedom of speech".   Something to keep in mind.The one thing that comes to mind when I read articles like this is to what extent do the "traditional" macro economic levers like monetary policy still work.   I understand the theory that cutting interest rates encourages borrowing stimulating activity and asset prices.   In theory the flow on "wealth" effect should increase consumption.   But the question arises in my mind that with the technology advances like the internet does this increased consumption filter through to the local economy or does it stimulate our "trading partners".   If the internet has done one thing it has been that it has cut out the "middle man" in the consumption equation.   Now we can buy direct from the manufacturer or cheaper offshore retailer.   The effect?   Less domestic activity through increased labour force demands and limited increase in demand from local manufacturers than historically would have been the case.

I'm intrigued that this sort of thing doesn't seem to be discussed in economic circles and can only conclude that my hypothesis is misguided.

I tend to be wary of comparisons with the US because in their system owning a house is very much seen as a right and the financing system is structured in such a way that a borrower can in effect "walk away" if it all gets too hard without too many negative consequences.   In this environment I would expect controls to be put in place.  But it has the negative that lending on housing is invariably more risky.
Hi Terry, 

May I humbly submit that both Mr Green and you are incorrect with regard to the role of the Opposition.   As I understand it, the Opposition's duty is to hold the Government to account.   This does not mean outright opposition or acceptance of a government's position but investigation and scrutiny of the executive and its legislation.

Unfortunately modern oppositions aren't allowed to fulfil their democratic function because the media immediately cries "NO" or "ME TOO" with every statement that the Opposition Leader or its spokes-people utter.   A sad indication of the current state of our society's engagement with its leadership and political class.I disagree to the extent that I think that we as a nation tend to vote governments out rather than in.   Or put another way we tend to vote against an idea rather than for it.

The other point is that we are limited to the extent of the choice we have.   There is an argument that we have the right to stand ourselves but this ignores the barriers that are in place such as cost and getting your name out there.   The media is noted for not giving air time to many candidates because "they are unlikely to garnish enough votes to win..."   So focus is placed on the major parties and in essence leading to a duopoly.   As an example of the way the system is stacked against members of the non political class just look at how the major parties have reacted to micro parties playing the system.   If they can the major parties will shut them out.

So, while we may get what we vote for I don't think we should accept the blame.   At the end of the day the tactics used are aime at beating the other guy not winning an election based on enhancing the lot of the average punter.

Certainly a valid point.   Unfortunately, the removal of compulsion from voting doesn't necessarily lead to better outcomes.   You can end up with parties pandering to the whims of the political elite or those who are able to "get out the vote".   The US is an example of a voluntary voting system and I would argue that the level of political apathy and overly simplistic political messaging is worse as a result.

The biggest advantage of our current system of compulsory voting is that we are protected to some extent from the rise of extremist parties.    Thankfully the majority aren't likely to vote for a far left or far right party given the generally centrist views of mainstream Australia.In many respects I feel for the difficult position that Mr Stevens is in.   The poor bugger is really stuck between a rock and a hard place.   As I understand it, he can only take action in relation to the banks.   What about all of the non bank lenders?   In addition he also has to deal with APRA and the ASIC as the RBA no longer has prudential control over the banks.   Given the RBA's responsibility under the Banking Act I would have thought that the Govenor might want a little more power to influence things.    Sadly if reliance is placed on our politician's to actually do something, like reduce negative gearing, I fear that Hell will freeze over first.It's an interesting idea regarding population control, Keith.   Unfortunately, Australia, like many developed countries has a birth rate that is less than the replacement rate.   In other words if we closed the borders our population would reduce over the long term.   So birth control is not the solution.

At present our biggest problem is that there is an imbalance between the younger and aging population.   In effect we are now paying the price of the post war baby boom.   To meet your target of what's known as a "stationary" population we have to get over the "hump" of the baby boom population.   Economically that is easier said than done for without population growth there would need to be significant tax increases or cuts in services.   Given the way the populus react to a minor budgetry rebalancing I dread to think what would happen when the reality of population control hit... So it come down to a choice between the Logan's Run approach or the grow or die mentality.    Like climate change this is an issue that the pollies will always be happy to leave to the next mob.i Kanga,

The important figure to look at is the "fertility rate" which is about 1.9, i.e. at present each woman on average is having less than two children.   This means that each male/female pairing is not being replaced on a intergenerational basis. The disparity in the figures comes  from the increase in longevity.  At some point the number of deaths will increase substantially as the baby boomers reach the usual age at which people drop off the twig.   If you look 20 to 30 years into the future at current fertility rates you will see a significant switch in the figures where the number of deaths will be well above the number of births.   Have a look at the demographic outlook for Japan as an example of the effect of low fertility and an aging population.

Demography isn't a simple case of looking at a "snap shot" of the births and deaths .   You have to look at the long term influences.   at present we are entering a period which is affected by the post war baby boom, i.e. events from 60+ years ago.

So, I accept your numbers but don't agree with your conclusion.I think this is typical of the general mindset with regard to solving economic and environmental problems in this country.   The figures are telling.   Half of the respondents want somebody else to pay for the problem to be fixed rather than contributing directly through some form of trading scheme.   After all this is what "incentives" are - a government hand out.

I disagree with the thrust of the argument.   All the government need to do is go to the next election scraming that the ALP will bring back the carbon tax and it'll work.   

What is really needed is a true bipartisan approach to solve this problem and take it out of the electoral cycle.   If it really is as critical as we keep getting told isn't it time someone showed a little leadership?

In my view the Greens should hang their heads in shame for stuffing around with the original CRPS as this issue could have been done and dusted years ago if it weren't for their "activism" in the Senate.Alpo, I note that in QLD the polls have swung back to the LNP.   Given the somewhat authoritarian approach adopted during the first few years of the QLD LNP government and the consequent backlash in the polls, does this mean that the electorate has once again fallen asleep as a result of the soothing lullaby of some minor back flips?

What's to stop the federal party doing the same?JoeBloggs,  just out of interest I think it's worth noting that there is a concept known as "institutionalisation".   There are people who on getting out of prison deliberately commit another crime just to get back in again because they don't like the "freedom" of the outside world.   So the concept of wanting to live under a dictatorial regime is not as weird as it may sound.   

For some the fear of the unknown can be great.   And don't forget that different cultures have varying views about how society should be structured.   Who are we to judge?I'm intrigued as to why the Chinese didn't follow the typical western colonial master's approach to democracy.   Give the populous the perception of voting for someone and when they're in corrupt them to the extent that the central power is able to get what it wants.   After all there is a wide gap between what the people believe they're getting and the actual situation.

At the end of the day attempting to rule with an iron glove is eventually doomed to failure.   This is especially the case when you have a burgeoning middle class.   When you have a group of people who are no longer worried about surviving to the next day they will start to set their sights higher and want ridiculous things like freedom and democracy.Interesting hypothesis.   I think the argument about a government using the law against an Opposition is flawed though because of the word "and" in the definition.   But I'm not a lawyer so would be happy to be corrected.

The points highlight the importance of careful drafting and proper scrutiny.   With these things the situation with regard to the current or next government's use of the laws don't really worry me.   It's the potential for some unknown future far right or far left government to have the ability to use laws left on the books well after the reason for their introduction has passed that scares me.
