Why are you wondering about that?So a more nuanced approach may be appropriate?This issue is certainly one that the ABC insists on rehashing, reheating and serving back up to the population.

A bit of extra pepper today, some smoked paprika tomorrow does not alter the fact that we are having this dish served up two or three times a week.Oh yes I am pretty sure I understand the agenda.It is time we had more transparency and demand the Government reveal what Govt funded and non Govt funded organisations are encouraging asylum seekers to self harm.

Asylum advocate groups have operated under a veil of secrecy for too long. They need to show more transparency and a bit more compassion.

I am disgusted by their manipulation of these poor souls for their own political ends. They are human beings and need to be treated as such not as political pawns of uncaring advocate groups.

The numbers are important so we feel the loss of 298 more than the loss of one.

Humans are tribalistic so we feel the loss of our own citizens more than that of a foreigner. We can see the ripples spreading in our own community but we cannot see the ripples in  the foreign land.

It would be normal for the family of Reza Berati to be grieving more about his loss than the airline passengers. 

There was something like 80 children on the airline. Once again most normal humans should not have to have it explained to them why we feel the loss of children more than adults.

I hope I have made these concepts less complex for Jonathan Green and one day he can produce an article of some merit.The politicians on the left are clever enough to fear that criticising the PM over his handling of the airline disaster will almost certainly make them look mean and uncaring.

The supporters of those left wing politicians hold no such fears.

The smoking rate is still a bit high to consider prohibition type measures. However when smoking rates drop below 10% it becomes a very real option.The coalition has made a mistake by not adhering to their election mantra.

Stop the boats, scrap the taxes and begin the repair work required on the budget. That is all that is required and is more than enough for this first term.

Knighthoods, 18C, removal of presumption of innocence should not have been tackled at this stage. Furthermore when these issues are tackled they have to be justified and take the people with them.

Howard wrote the book on how to introduce controversial legislation with the GST. Workchoices, carbon tax, mining tax all   ignored the rule book. (PPL is adhering to the rule book but is simply a good idea at the wrong time).

If these distractions result in the ALP getting hold of treasury after the next election before the budget is repaired then our long term financial position will be under severe threat.Surely one can be a supporter of free speech and also support the sacking of an individual for being abusive to readers (Customers) ?

Freedom of speech does not convey freedom from consequences. The consequence for Carlton is that he was sacked by his employer because his comments have reflected badly on his employer. He has not been charged under the law.



Kerrie. It is a feature of every generation that they stop paying tax (on the most part) when they stop working.If there is a reshuffle I hope Christian Porter gets a junior ministry at the very least.

I wont be sorry if the PPL is dropped altogether and hope those looking forward to it can forgive Abbott.

The irony is that the ALP need the coalition to fix the budget. It is just like the repeal of the Carbon tax - the ALP badly wanted it repealed but could not be seen voting for its repeal.

The ALP badly need the budget fixed but can't be seen voting for the repair measures.

There is no doubt that the ALP are rat cunning and running a negative policy free campaign putting a wrecking ball through the economy.Of course there was no longer a crisis in July this year because the coalition are back in charge and determined to get the budget back in surplus.

Last year we did have a crisis because the ALP was in charge.  At the very least when the ALP was in Govt we were on a pathway to a crisis and we had a Govt that was incapable or unwilling to make the changes that are required to avoid a crisis.

The ALP needs the budget fixed because one day , sure as eggs, they will be back in power. Do you fancy the ALP taking over with a structural deficit of $50 odd billion a year and a debt of $500 or $600 billion or would you prefer them to have the sort of situation they inherited in 2007?

Someone has consumed poison and is at home slowly dying. The whole family is swanning around without a clue how to help the poor soul. That is a crisis.

Send the patient to hospital where competent people take charge - crisis averted. 

The only problem is that the loony left are out on the driveway letting down the tyres on the ambulance.OMG Face book will have to shut down!!

Who says you can't operate a business for 5 years without making a profit?If there is common ownership between the loss making and profit making business then you certainly can.Only a tax payer can avail themselves of negative gearing.I think it is misleading to say that the big 4 Australian banks were at risk of insolvency during the GFC.

Even before the Govt guarantee, money was flooding into our big banks from overseas. Yes they had to pay a bit more for wholesale funds but those funds never looked like drying up.   Our big banks looked like a safe haven compared to the rest of the world.

It was a different story for smaller banks who had heavier reliance on wholesale funds and did have difficulty accessing those funds.

In particular for two Queensland regional banks who were far from being too big to fail but were certainly too Queensland to fail, the guarantee was welcome.

Had any of the smaller banks gone under then the usual 100 plus year tradition of the big banks stepping up to take them over would have kept our banking system safe. 

Economic cycles are very similar to what we see in the natural world. If the Govt  disrupts or distorts those cycles then in the fullness of time most people would forego the short term benefit of say stimulus to avoid the longer term pain that it creates.I think it is not so much a question of how bad the debt problem is now but how bad it will be if we do nothing about it.In recent times the threshold to describe something as a crisis has increased.

Unfortunately not being able to buy a house in some Sydney suburbs as a first year apprentice does not meet the threshold of being a crisis.A negatively geared share portfolio is better than a negatively geared housing investment.

How much of the property market is occupied by investors 20% ?30%? Well 100% of the share market is occupied by investors and no one complains that they are driving up prices.

It is not the negative gearing that is driving up house prices it is the low interest rates.

We have has negative gearing for decades without people getting down on it for distorting house prices. What has changed? Well I wonder if interest rates not seen since Grandpa was a newly wed has anything to do with it.

High wages, dual household incomes, de regulated banks, uber low interest rates. Getting rid of negative gearing wont change real estate prices to any great extent while these things are still happening. It will however create a shortage of rentals.

What will red cross and salvation army do if they can't find private rentals to house asylum seekers?It is a welcome change to hear that pollsters are asking the question "Do you support gay marriage" rather than the previous polls of "Do you think it is inevitable that there will be gay marriage."

I am a person who is coming around to the idea of gay marriage. In the past I have trusted my instincts which screamed "No way that has to be bad for society"

However if I ignore my instincts and try to come up with logical objections I can't.! I've got nothing.

Also there is a high degree of inevitability about it, so if it comes you might as well embrace the idea. When gay marriage does come in then that should be the end of the debate. All those against it should disengage from the debate knowing that you fought the good fight and lost. 

In other words be a good loser and do not try to undermine the success of gay marriage by advocating against it once it is in. Move on. Do not continue debating the subject.

So I guess I am in the 72% but not yet the 48%.
It is a bit like the debt ceiling that the ALP introduced for itself in 2007. We didn't even have a debt ceiling prior to 2007 let alone need one. The coalition are back in power and as a result even the Greens recognise we no longer need a debt ceiling.

When the ALP is back in power it would be a good thing for them to outsource their ideas generation. The ideas that they came up with for themselves last time were no use and actually damaging to the business sector.

When ever the Coalition is in power the ideas units can be stood down. 

We have lots of clever people in this country but we never seem to be able to get a worthwhile class war up and going.

"Some day this war is gonna end..." Kilgore.Obsessions can become unhealthy. Take some annual leave JG and chill out at home. Hire the PR company that the chief coach of athletics uses to keep up the Abbott criticism while you are away.No civilisation can stay on top for ever. Being on top and comfortable allows the soft element t expand.

It is as cyclical as nature itself.The Kiwis seemed more upset over the under arm delivery than the French bombing of the Rainbow Warrior in Auckland harbour.

The bombing of the ship was a Govt backed plan by a country that has thousands of Kiwi sons buried in their soil who died defending France.

Maybe it was under reported here in Australia but the outrage over the bombing seemed less than it should have been.

My wandering expat days are well and truly over however I still have friends "up in the islands". Not being able to vote was never a consideration because I lost touch with the Australian political scene the longer I was away. 

However there are concessions to not voting. You can adopt the expat sanctimony and tell your friends from back home how bad they have it and how good your life is.Up until now the dividend payments to the investor has been very low with most profits used to expand mining activities. I wonder why the foreign investor is now pushing for higher dividends from Australia rather than reinvesting in Australian mines?

Why is the foreign investor pushing for their shares to be bought back?The ALP will regain power at some point in the future.Global investors want to see increased dividends from Australian mines rather than plough the profits back into mining expansion within Australia.

Global investors want to exit Australian mining bu buyback schemes.

The author of this article seems surprised by these things. However he is not alone because the left have never been able to come to terms with the risk mentality of the global investor. 

Any fool can increase the tax rate for mining once the billions have been spent on establishing the project and it is stupid to close it down. The challenge was to ensure that the Australian people extracted the most revenue from minerals without ambushing the miners and causing their investment levels to fall.The confusion came about because W Swann always sprouted that the minerals were owned by all Australians. Swann was wrong on lots of things including that point.

State ownership of the minerals is enshrined in the constitution. Further more the constitution allows only the states to directly tax the minerals (Charge royalties or other equiv).

The Federal Govt can of course tax the profits of the mining companies. Hence the mining tax was to be a profit based tax above and beyond the corporate tax rate that other Australian companies pay.

W Swann never discussed his plan with state treasury officials who are experts on royalties and act on behalf of the owners of the minerals ie the individual states where the minerals are located.Dick smith had the temerity to suggest we should limit our population growth or perhaps attempt to have neutral population growth.

The message was lost in the howls of racist accusations leveled by the faux elite of the "educated to rule" left.I have great belief that the budget mess can be fixed because when I read all the comments on this site I see a great consensus about how tax should be reformed.

Virtually every person agrees that other people should have their tax increased and the money spent on people who happen to look a lot like they do.

Surely with this amount of consensus we can fix this problem.It is difficult Nacnud because if we hear more from Albanese and we like what we hear it can undermine Shorten. 

After the last 6 years the last thing the ALP needs is fresh speculation about the leader.Any change of leadership now within the ALP would be seen as more shenanigans. Then you have those who actually don't think much of Albanese and would prefer Shorten so the net gain is not as much as you think if any at all.

The ALP have to stick with Shorten but someone needs to fix his way of conducting himself. He has been raised by speaking to union rallies and meetings. You stand up in front of the unionists and tell them how wonderful they are and how bad their conditions are and you get a big cheer. Then you tell them how greedy the employers are and how the worker is not getting their share and you get a big cheer. The tone of the class warfare combatant.

That way of speaking is perfect for a union delegate at a union meeting but is inappropriate for the general population.

Hockey also needs to be educated. Poor people who pay no tax and receive welfare have the biggest chips on their shoulders about not getting a fair share. That will always be the case. Get used to it Joe you will not get anywhere trying to explain that to people. It is simply human nature.

The countries that we provide the most aid to hate us in direct proportion to how much aid they get. Those who hate the Govt the most are those who get helped the most. Always has been always will be. The Treasurer will not alter that by trying to educate the poor he can only rectify it by having an economy that will employ the poor and get them off welfare.The dividend for foreign or domestic investors will be the same.

The float of the Commonwealth bank was hugely popular with Australian so called "Mum and dad" investors and Australian super funds. Without spending the time to look it up I would suggest that  CBA shares are overwhelming held by Australians.

I worked in Australian Banks from the late 70's to the late 90's. During that time I saw wages go from lousy to quite reasonable although the staff do have higher expectations put on them. Wages have continued to improve however the expectations have plateaued at a high level.

The wages and conditions at the CBA were better for staff prior to privatisation when compared to the private banks. especially when comparing the expectations put on the staff. That gap has continuously narrowed since privatisation.The foreigner is exempt from paying Australian withholding tax on franked dividends.

When I was an expat roaming around the world most foreign derived income that I had paid foreign tax on was not further subject to Australian tax when I repatriated it. Who wants to be taxed twice?

So if a foreign entity receives a franked Australian dividend which is exempt from Australian withholding tax and is able to repatriate it to a foreign country without additional tax liability then the dividends are the same.

I think it would be rare for a country to levy a tax on income that had in effect already been taxed once in Australia. Even rarer would be the institutional investor paying two lots of tax.

There are about 40 or 50 countries that have tax treaties with Australia where double taxation would not usually apply.No. Non residents can claim against franking credits because it makes them exempt from paying withholding tax on the dividends.

If a non resident receives Australian dividends that have no franking credits then they must pay withhoding tax.Even Ken Henry acknowledged that his original MRRT was flawed.

In any case the owners of the minerals charge royalties on minerals.Self employment provides the greatest job security for those over 50.Perhaps I should have said self employment and the public service.Unless the major share of gains from technological progress are not distributed to those who pay for and implement the new technology there will be no one willing to do such changes.There are lots of new retail sales jobs in the US that come about from running a budget deficit and a trade deficit with China that enables huge amounts of stock to be put into shops.I assume you were asking the same question during the last Govt when the unemployment rate was slowly climbing?When I went to school the national anthem was "God save the Queen" 

When it was changed to "advance Australia fair' I didn't know the words. It was only through gold medal presentations at the Commonwealth games that I finally learnt the lyrics (first verse anyway) to our new fangled national anthem.

I hope it is one of those games where you can see that other nations are getting annoyed at the sound of Advance Australia fair.

For those who don't like the games there are so many other channels these days now that we have digital TV. It will be a good opportunity to research which appliance you are going to buy for your winter soups. Perhaps you can come back to us after the games with a recommendation.

I would appreciate that because I will be busy for the next few weeks.Given our big four banks are very sound and do not need to be bailed out can't we just keep the existing board?I am sorry but I don't get the logic. There has not been a major Australian bank to fail but you want to change the board because it might happen one day.

Then if it does happen it will be your new board that was running the bank at the time. You can then say we should never have put this new board in place. The last guys never had their bank fail.

I have a brilliant GP who has never made a mistake with me for the 30 years that I have known him. I have great faith in him.

I guess there is a chance that he will stuff up in the future so I should get a new GP.A good article. The comments on this website are usually pretty good and most are well thought out.

For some reason when the topic is about banks the quality of comments becomes third rate and not worthy of a considered response.

I think those who have the capacity of making a worthy contribution about banks look at the comments and refuse to contribute.It would be a waste of their time, along the lines of trying to explain physics to monkeys. Why bother?The average time span from discovery to extraction of minerals in Australian mines is 10 - 15 years.

That is a minimum 10 year pipeline with discovery on the left and extraction on the right. The author looks at the right hand side of the pipe and sees no mining projects cancelled. (As if it would be perfectly reasonable to spend billions on a mine and cancel it because of a profit tax).

If you want to assess the impact of the mining tax you have to look at the left hand side of the pipeline.

There you will find exploration down, Acquisition of Australia mines down, Number of IPO (share floats) at record low levels, Australian IPO funds raised are 30% Australian projects to 70% overseas which is a record low for investment in Australia.

The only thing worse than a mining tax that damages our reputation because of the way it was introduced is a mining tax that damages our reputation and raises little or no money.The use of the term "ambush" sums up how the miners felt about the way the MRRT was announced in the budget papers.

A desperate treasurer who had been swanning around the parliament mumbling something about a return to surplus tried this and tried that but could not model a projected surplus.

As budget night loomed closer and with nothing better to do he spotted the dust covered Henry tax review late one night and thought he might flick through it for the first time. It might be a distraction from this bloody budget surplus thing.

What is this MRRT thing? Put it in the budget and recalculate. OMG the heart is pumping at the sight of black numbers in the last year of the forward estimates. Hit the speed dial (why do my calls go to message bank when I phone Kevin?) "Kevin, Wayne here, I have just got the budget back in surplus in the last year of the forward estimates, ring me back if you want to know how I did it. "

Should he discuss it with the miners first? Should he discuss it with the states who own the minerals first? Should he work out a fair mechanism between a mining tax /royalties/ and GST share with the states?

Yes but it is nearly budget night so that will have to wait until after the ambush - sorry announcement. OK save and print.

The political priority of announcing a forecast return to surplus took precedence over the economic priority of maximising tax revenue from the mining sector in a way that would not put the miners and states offside.

Because it was an ambush the MRRT turned toxic and the opportunity for implementing a new tax regime for mining was lost.

Those who salivate at the opportunity of for tax from mining should be furious at the ALP for squandering the opportunity.

I tend to agree. Perhaps the approach should be along the lines of how to end the distortionary impact of NG rather than how to get end NG.

NG is fine as long as the CG tax is commensurate. Maybe CG needs to be beefed up to dampen the enthusiasm of the well considered investor.

The glaring omission from the article is what role ultra low interest rates are playing in the bidding up of real estate prices. We have had NG for decades without it causing  real estate distortion but perhaps NG during a period of ultra low interest rates is the culprit.

For the ill considered investor the only reason to buy dutch bulbs is because they have been going up in price . The only reason to buy Poseidon shares was because they were going up in price.

The ill considered investor is buying Australian real estate because it is going up in price. NG plays a role but low interest rates play a bigger role in fanning  the enthusiasm of investor.

Another observation is that Mr Murray makes very careful and considered comments. When he refers to "certain tax settings" that comment also captures the CGT free status of owner occupied homes and even stamp duty concessions. 

He did not specifically mention NG. He is concerned about the level of owner occupied and investor housing debt not just investor debt. Once again the biggest contributor to the rise in owner occupied housing debt is low interest rates.

Finally Murray has been an outspoken critic of the stimulus and ongoing budget deficits created by the ALP. About a year ago he issued a warning that we are on a trajectory to join the PIGS if the budget is not rectified.

When he issued that warning the leftoids that inhabit this website dismissed Murray and  his warning, essentially claiming he did not know what he was talking about and was a politicised puppet of the LNP.

Today the same leftoids are prepared to embrace his warning.


Howard was in Govt for 11 years not seven.What is funny is that what he actually said was he would do anything EXCEPT sell his arse. In other words there were in fact limits on what he was prepared to do to wein office.

It was in fact the ALP that proved they had no limits on what they were prepared to do to retain Govt and effectively did sell their arse by introducing the carbon tax in the first place.

54% of the surveyed population believe the Govt is taking the right approach or should be even harder.

54%. Democracy.It is hard to be noticed if it is too crowded on the moral high ground.What a shame the ALP saw fit to dismantle the Pacific solution.Sorry to appear pedantic however wood was the predominant building material of Japanese cities at that time so they were reduced to ashes rather than rubble.

People like to focus on the atomic bombs however using incendiary bombs on a wooden city such as Tokyo was more destructive but not as spectacular.
Given what Japan did to China in the late 30's I don't think that Japan will be shedding allies in a hurry.

In fact they have been quietly funding the build up of Indian military capacity as a counter to China.What , the GFC is still unfolding?  That can't be right because W Swann "saved" us from the GFC. He "steered" us through the GFC.

You mean there is more to come and the short term kicking the can down the road might make things worse in the long run? Only those crazy neocons say things like that.

The most dangerous aspect of W Swann is that he locked into the hearts of his groupies the idea that all you have to do to address a downturn is to go into massive deficit to stimulate the economy. That is now the collective wisdom of the left. No other options are to be entertained. To acknowledge an alternative is to acknowledge that the ALP might have got it wrong during the GFC. Our long term perception of what was achieved in the 6 years between 2007 and 2013 entirely hinges on our perception of how the GFC was handled. 

When the GFC unfolds further then we will simply do what "worked" in the past and increase the budget deficit and squander the money . Right?

Also the middle of a GFC is apparently the ideal time to re regulate the labour market and introduce a carbon tax. 

So apart from another debt fueled spending spree we simply have to  remove the last of the Hawke/Keating IR reforms and increase the carbon tax because they were good for us as well. Apparently.

So there you have it Alan the left endorsed way to handle future downturns that will save us again. If it worked before it will work again.There is no cost to consumers. Consumers AKA voters got over compensated. They are fine.

The impact on business, the people who employ the consumer, is what we should be discussing.

It is like reducing the dole payment and proudly claiming it has had no impact on working Australians.

Many businesses were not able to pass on the impact of the CT and it was carried by lower operating margins. CPI is only measured at the retail point which is why the CPI impact of the CT was much less than treasury originally forecast. Most of the inflation of the CT was contained upstream of where the CPI is measured. Instead of the CT resulting in higher retail prices it resulted in lower business profitability for those who could not pass costs on to consumers.

For that same reason when the CT is repealed there is minimal reduction in CPI forecast. The repeal of the CT will result in a small relief for the business sector.

Households don't care if the cost of electricity is going up because of the CT or because of the expenditure on poles etc. Solar panels have become viable because our electricity costs are high. The article points out that the biggest impact on the price of electricity has been pole and network expenditure.

Therefore it stands to reason that the biggest factor in shifting householders to RE has been higher electricity costs which have mainly been caused by poles etc. 

The repeal of the CT will not repeal the poles expenditure so electricty will still cost enough to make it worthwhile for householders to install solar panels on their houses.

Globally there was more coal burnt in 2013 than any other year in the history of mankind.It is all very well to talk about his art in terms of his paintings but for me he is more famous for his performing arts and his unique songs.

Songs such as "Jake the peg" and  "two little boys" are deeply embedded within the psyche. 

No doubt these songs will not be played on the radio again so I will have to youtube it to see how I feel about them now that the performer is taintedAll our problems started with the ascension of K Rudd Brisbane.

At the time of  causing the demise of serious policition K Beazley Perth, Rudd represented the swap of a poltician for a celebrity as leader of the ALP.

Damn if the celebrity didn't win the 2007 election!

Then, being a celebrity, he held a big chunk of the nation in in hands.  With the exception of the extreme right journalists most of our political journos are bent to the left. 

All these journalists were dazzled by the celebrity PM and afforded him the most generous and extended honeymoon from scrutiny in the history of Australia. No journalist even hinted at the dysfunction, chaos, psychopathy,narcissism etc that we subsequently had to learn from within the ALP.

The extended honeymoon fed into the narcissism and gave the celebrity the belief that he could spin his way out of any situation.

When the house of cards fell, the poor journalists realised they had been duped and scorned the once loved celebrity thus creating a situation ripe for confrontational politics. Chuck in a very effective opposition leader and a subsequent hung HoR and a carbon tax brought in under unfortunate circumstances and you end up with our present situation.

Fear not this too will pass. The ALP has been removed with their celebrity and a politician is leading the party. The boats have been stopped and when the carbon and mining taxes are removed and a CREDIBLE pathway to surplus is chartered the reset button will have been hit.

One day soon we will return to the serenity of the Howard years when the bulk of the population could be politically disengaged and content that the nation was in safe hands.Your position is a bit confusing RobP.

The charge for a tonne of extracted minerals is what we call royalties. Under the constitution only the states that own the minerals can charge royalties.

The MRRT was a tax on profits above the normal company tax rate that every other company pays.

One wonders why the states bother recruiting and paying for expert treasury officials to pitch royalties at a rate that maximises revenue without scaring off the miners when all they have to do is ask the contributors to the drum how much royalties should be.Once again it comes down to the way the original MRRT was introduced under the leadership of K Rudd albeit W Swann was treasurer.

As budget night approached swann tweaked here fiddled there but could not model a return to surplus.  Out of desperation he flicked through the dust gathering Henry tax review and spotted the MRRT. You can imagine the pulse rate and anticipation as he plugged the theoretical tax into the models and pressed the button to recalculate. 

Oh the joy when some time off in the forward estimates there was a surplus. Save and print the document and announce it on budget night.

Did the miners feel ambushed when they heard the announcement on budget night? Did he discuss his plan with state traesury officials or the premier given that the minerals are owned by the states?

All Australians should support the concept of maximising income to the nation from minerals. Achieving this is a complex matter due to the state's ownership of the minerals giving them sole power to directly tax the minerals (royalties) and how royalties influence GST distribution. There also needs to be recognition that mining generates the need for huge funding of infrastructure that has been traditionally been funded by the states. Creaming money off mining without making an adequate contribution to the upfront infrastructure to support mining is not fair.

As a nation we should be able to chart a path through this complex matter by consultation with federal treasury, the states and the miners. Contrast that with the way the MRRT was introduced.

Scrap the mining tax and start the process again so we actually get something set up properly.  Alternatively just scrap the tax and hope that we can re attract high levels of mining investment into Australia. Because there is only one thing worse than a mining tax that damages our reputation and that is a mining tax that damages our reputation and raises little or no money.

exploation is down, share market floats (IPO) are at record low levels, 70% of IPO are for non Australian ventures which is a record high. Typically it is 10 - 15 years from discovery to extraction so we are a long way from feeling the damage done by the MRRT but it will come if the matter is not resolved to the miner's satisfaction.

Well then RobP we are in pretty much agreement however the matter has become politicised so it is unlikely to be tackled in this term of Government.

Perhaps rather than a special higher tax rate for miners we might see a reduction in depreciation allowances or fuel rebates which will have the same effect without giving the impression of introducing a new tax. Once again heavy consultation with the miners so they don't take flight.

In the meantime we actually do pretty well out of the miners. The line that they "don't pay their share" was just another piece of politics. 

RobP. The effect of the MRRT was to put the Australian Govt at the head of the que for collecting money and at the back of the que (as uninterested bystanders) when it came to contributing to support infastructure.The sheer genius of the Howard/Costello Govt.

If you believe the article there was no mining boom yet Costello and Howard managed to cut our taxes, pay off the Keating debt and record 10 budget surpluses. Chuck in a future fund to boot. All without a mining boom!

Now after 6 years of the inept ALP it looks like the tax cuts have to go so we can once again pay off the ALP debt.Congested traffic generates more greenhouse gas than uncongested traffic.The boats will not be an issue at the next election. Shorten only has to confirm and promise that "There will be no return to onshore processing under a Government that I lead" and the people will believe him. Wont they?There will be no deficits under a Govt that I lead.The ALP bled and died in the trenches for the Carbon Tax. To assist in the repeal of the tax would make a mockery of the introduction of the tax in the first place.

Make no mistake the ALP want the tax gone but they do not want to be associated with its repeal. They are praying that the new senate repeals the tax and they can rail against the decision up until the next election whilst privately being relieved to see the end of the tax.

Then I agree with you that two issues will be non issues at the next election.  Unfortunately for the ALP one of thgose non issues will not be the debt.

There is a general awakening to the fact that the debt is a problem. The issue will dog the ALP for not a couple of elections but for a couple of generations.

Over the years to come the hatred will be directed to the party that caused the problem not the party trying to fix the problem.How do you define "manageable" ?I suspect that the Hollowmen and the new series Utopia are more like a reality TV show than a fiction.

This article is the best argument for reform of the University sector that I have heard so far.

As long as our debt, sorry racism, remains low by international standards and is manageable then we do not have a problem that needs to be addressed.Share buy backs are popular at the moment because interest rates are so low.  It makes good sense for a company to borrow cheap money and buy back shares where the interest payment is going to be less than the dividend payment.

Say you have a $10 share that is paying a dividend of 70c per annum. Why not borrow $10 which will cost 50c interest per year and buy back the share and cease dividend payments?At the present companies hate dividend re investment and would actually prefer to do the opposite and buy back your shares.

That is because interest rates are so low that they can raise a cheap loan and use the money to buy back your shares.

The interest on the loan is far less than the dividends they have to pay on your shares.

Back in the say 90's when interest rates were high it was better to encourage you to dividend reinvest and use the money to retire high interest debt.It is a pity that Mr Kohler did not specify how much dividend yields have increased by since 2007 rather than simply stating that they had gone up.

Also some analysis on why dividend yields are on the increase. For instance have dollar dividends been maintained from smaller profits thus creating higher percentage yields?

At the moment interest rates are very low and it is fashionable to borrow money at low rates to fund a buy back scheme. The logic being that the interest is cheaper by a long way than dividends. Has that contributed?

Or are there other reasons such as the mining tax. Once passive foreign BHP shareholders are now very happy for BHP to buy back their shares and/or to pay higher dividends. No longer passive long term investors in Australia they want their money back or to milk as many dividends in the short term at the expense of long term reinvestment in Australia.In 2008 assistant treasurer Chris Bowen stood up in parliament to assure the nation that debt would not get out of control under the ALP.

To reassure the public that debt would not get out of control, Mr Bowen announced that there would be a debt ceiling of $75 billion.

It would be impossible for the public debt of Australia to exceed the ceiling of $75 billion.It amazes me how we even survived in tact after 11 years of what appeared to be general prosperity under the Howard Govt.

It looked and felt like we were doing OK during those long 11 years but it must have been the wealthy taking the poor off the streets and eating them. That's what they do you know.Then treasurer W Swann guaranteed a budget surplus in 2013/14 after five consequetive deficits. Failure would not be an option.

Months later he admitted his failure and declared that a sixth deficit of $18 billion would be recorded for 2013/14

Months later again he effectively acknowledged that he had lost control of the budget because the deficit would now be $30 billion for 2013/14.

Tax receipts short of forecasts, unemployment rising quicker than forecasts, massive spending commitments on NBN, Gonski, NDIS to kick in outside the forward estimates. Treasury whose forecasts had proven unreliable for 6 years.

Then opposition figures J Hockey and A Robb declared that we faced an emergency because the treasurer had lost control of the budget.

Guess what lefties we did have an emergency because the budget was out of control. Now that we have a competent treasurer we no longer have an emergency. 

The coalition are trying to fix the problem where the last Govt was trying to deny the problem. The emergency stemmed from the denial and loss of control over the budget.

If you consider the environment that existed when the budget was described as an emergency then it was not disingenuous to describe it as an emergency.

I agree that renewables will be more and more prevelent in the future as fossil fuels become more expensive due to depletion.Pointing to other countries that have a lower debt to justify how easy ours is to "manage" is the language of the denialist.

I don't know how you define "manage" but in my book it involves generating enough revenue to at the very least cover your interest bill. You would certainly be managing your debt if you are covering interest and chipping away at the principal from recurrent income.

We are currently borrowing to meet the interest and rather than paying off debt from recurrent income we are borrowing to meet the shortfall of recurrent expenditure compared to tax receipts.

You will have to pardon me if that does not meet my definition of "manage".

Have you ever wondered why if our debt is easy to manage then why don't we manage it?

The denialists are like the coke addict who claim they can easily manage their habit because they consume less than others. OK if it is easy to manage why don't you go ahead and manage it.
I appreciate your passion however I feel my persuasive writing capabilities are inadequate to change your mind on the couple of things that I disagree with so I will sign off for the night with my good luck for the future.He didn't say the stimulus did nothing. He pointed out that the stimulus caused interest rates to rise.Oct 2009  +.25%
Nov 2009  + .25%
Dec 2009 +.25%

A short break then:

March 2010 + .25%
April 2010 + .25%
May 2010 +.25%

I got that from the RBA site and it concurs with what was in the article.

Within months of the cheques going out interest rates had to be lifted  6 times. As plans for school halls were being arranged interest rates rose 6 times.

Rising interest rates played a major role in the strength of the AUD and we know what that meant.I am not twisting the facts I am stating the facts. You can't twist dates. Those are the dates that the RBA raised the cash rates.

That is also the period that the major components of the second stimulus package was being rolled out. 

The thrust of the article is that the RBA was applying the brakes with interest rates rises whilst the stimulus package had the foot on the accelerator.

You are correct that the mining boom mark 2 was compounded by the stimulus. At the precise time the mining boom took off and required tradesmen there were thousands tied up building school halls etc.

This skills shortage drove up average male wages after Rudd had linked the aged pension to average male wages driving a big hole in the budget. I don't blame Rudd for that because I think the previous method of linking the pension to CPI was bad for pensioners.

However it is simply a fact that these things were a consequence of the stimulus package.

To me holding onto a myth about the stimulus for political gain is not as important as learning from what actually happened, mistakes and all,  so we can refine our future responses to economic downturns.
We know Australia would have gone into recession because Wayne told me. If the stimulus was a complete waste Wayne would have said so in his book.

It is just that thing about The RBA putting on the brakes with interest rate rises while Wayne had his foot to the floor with stimulus that I can't explain.

I know! The RBA got it wrong. That makes Wayne even more heroic because he battled the GFC with an incompetent RBA on his back. Quick write a new chapter Wayne.Perhaps I missed the massive bailouts of Australian banks which happened in the USA and Europe. Credit seized up in the USA and Europe but not in Australia.

Once again your only evidence that Australia was going to go into recession is that Wayne said so.Rome was burning but there were no fires in Australia.

The salient point is that Fiscal stimulus is the next step after interest rates hit zero. We never got to zero and in fact the RBA was putting up interest rates and applying the brakes while the stimulus was being rolled out.

Swann saw a fire in Rome and turned on the sprinklers and emptied every fire extinguisher we had in Australia. He even borrowed fire extinguishers that we have to pay back someday.We have to learn from our mistakes so we can refine our response on the next occasion the economy slides. 

To perpetuate a myth for political gain at the expense of having a better response to future downturns is not good for any for us.Have a think about it MB. How does taking such an unprecedented action of handing out $900 help the long term confidence of the consumer?

You don't think that the consumer thought "Wow things must be really bad if they are handing out money with instructions to spend it quickly" 

The effect of the $900 fizzed out very quickly and left the consumer worried sick about the future. Consumer spending has never recovered.Yes $42 billion was the answer but by the time they had figured that out they had forgotten the question.

So long and thanks for the fish.When K Rudd went to the G20 he presented himself as a student of the great depression and warned that dangers lay ahead.

He forgot to tell them that he was a student of the political dangers of the depression. The only one term Govt in Australia was a result of the depression. 

That the stimulus did not save Australia and in the end is holding our economy back now and will into the future is something I have posted about for years.

However over time I have come to accept that the political imperative to be seen to do something is probably something any new Govt would have succumbed to. Perhaps an established treasurer such as Costello with a strong record would have resisted stimulus because he was held in high esteem.

However a fresh treasurer in a fresh Govt had no such esteem established so they were unable to resist the politics of the stimulus. The alternative was to follow the same path as the one term depression Govt. The hilarious irony is that K Rudd never even got a chance to lose the next election.

When you are a bad Govt the one thing you have to be good at is revising history and fighting to establish your myths. The myth of the ALP management through the GFC will be fought for generations to come because without that myth what is there to show for 2007 - 2013? An overdue Apology to the Aboriginals and a signature on Kyoto.

I have no doubt that the ALP supporters who inhabit this site will fight tooth and nail to shape the history of the GFC but please be aware of the danger associated with your actions.

If the myth prevails then every future Govt will be under pressure to replicate the actions taken by the ALP. Even more so for a future ALP Govt dealing with a future downturn because to do otherwise is a tacit admission that the ALP got it wrong during the GFC.

Swann fired off every bit of ammunition that we had at an enemy that was out of range and not advancing on us. What will we do if the enemy does advance and come within range. More stimulus and debt?

We can't afford to repay the debt and we can't afford not repaying the debt.
Your post does not address the issue of the RBA increasing interest rates to slow the economy at the same time the stimulus package was being rolled out to speed up the economy.All those who are critical of the stimulus remember that it achieved its intended goal of helping the ALP to win the 2010 election.

Your logic is wrong JW. Repairing the budget means taking money away from someone. You can argue who the someone should be but whoever it is will not be happy and that means political pain for the party trying to repair the budget.

The easy path is to say that our debt is small and a surplus is bad for the economy and the prudent action is to have further deficits to help the economy. You don't have to take money off anyone and have a better chance of re electionI see the debt but where is the infrastructure that can be sold to repay it. Second hand pink bats and bicycle paths? Subdivide schools and privatise the halls?What is in it for the ALP is a repaired budget.

If the ALP win Govt with no prospect of a return to surplus, the big spending years of NBN Gonski and NDIS to come plus the cost of their carefully crafted bundle of policies they will be forced to pay for it by borrowing more and more money.

You can only justify an unsustainable economic position with "Our debt is low compared to other countries" for so long.I agree that both parties want a strong economy and to tackle the debt. However it is not that simple. There are politics at play.

When W Swan tried and tried to get the budget back in surplus and failed even though "failure is not an option" what did he do but seek out a new political narrative. When the ALP realised that it was not going to deliver a budget surplus it changed the narrative to "Now is not the time for a surplus. We could get the budget back into surplus but now we choose to remain in deficit. Now is not the time for Austerity so we will follow the prudent economic path of maintaining budget deficits."

It was pure politics but the ALP fanatics bought it and more dangerously keep sprouting it.

So both parties no doubt do want the budget repaired and brought back to surplus so we can start chipping away at the debt coal face but the fanatics within the ALP do not even accept that there is a problem to be addressed. 

To the fanatics there is no problem as long as long as our debt remains low relative to their countries. They know this to be an absolute truth because Wayne told them. To the fanatics who hold onto the ALP political narrative any change that the LNP want to make is Euro austerity and must be resisted. Wayne also warned them about Euro austerity.

Both parties have their fanatics but it is the ALP fanatics that are preventing agreement on whether or not we even have a problem to be fixed. How can the budget be fixed if there is not even common ground on the need for it to be fixed?Their financial mess would be cleaned up while they are in opposition thus giving them a better financial position when they next form Govt.

PUP will never have to take the reins and the responsibility for the finances but labor will one day.In the Hawke/Keating era the top tax bracket was reduced from 60c to 47c. Under Howard/costello it was reduced from 47c to 45c.

When Keating left office the debt to GDP was higher than it is now. As the debt was paid off with a run of 10 budget surpluses it does not seem unreasonable to reduce the tax for those who did the heavy lifting in paying off the debt.  Their tax was used to pay off the debt so when it is repaid they thought they might like to get a tax reduction.

The ALP never spoke out about tax cuts and voted for them. Rudd even campaigned on being a economic conservative basically saying he would run the economy like the LNP had but would soften border protection, bring in a price on carbon and spologise to the aboriginals.

When Rudd came to power they even enacted the last of the Howard/Costello tax cuts. Still nbody in the ALP spoke out about tax cuts being bad.

Rudd linked the aged pension to average male wages instead of inflation. The best of the mining boom was while Rudd and Gillard were in power and there was a rapid rise in average male wages. Great for pensioners but that had more impact on the budget defecit.

$12 billion a year interest on a debt that can't be repaid is a structural deficit.

A blowout in costs from the open borders policy is not structural because it will be fixed in the end under the LNP but it has contributed to the deficits.

Announcing new permanent expenditure such a school kids bonus and super concessions to a volatile new mining tax that fails to raise the revenue to pay for the expenditure is a structural deficit.

Rudd and Gillard supported the Howard tax cuts right up to the point when they realised that they were incapable of returning the budget to surplus. At that time it became a political excuse that some have chosen to believe and embrace.I have some sympathy for the wedged politician who feels they must match their opposition in supporting policy such as a tax cuts however Rudd was not wedged. He fully supported the tax cuts. 

Rudd specifically campaigned in 2007 that he would run the economy as a conservative, tax cuts and all. To reiterate, the Howard era tax cuts were only painted as problematic when the ALP realised that they could not return the budget to surplus.

It is difficult to comment on tax loop holes unless we know which ones you are talking about that were introduced in the Howard years. I would note however that the incentive to find loopholes is far greater when the top tax bracket is 60c in the dollar rather than 45 c in the dollar.

You realise of course that the wealthy who pay a lot more in tax than they consume in services do not feel they are the cause of the structural deficit??I realise you have finished this thread with me but I thought it might be helpful to clarify the exact tax position of the two workers you mentioned.

The worker on $500 per week pays $25 per week tax and no medicare levy.

The worker on $5000 per week pays $1,740 per week tax and a medicare levy.

The $5000 a week worker is better off but many of them will feel that they are paying their share and resent people saying that there is a budget structural deficit because of them.Given that the Greens would not even vote for the increase on the fuel excise why would you bother?Why is the gender of the journalist relevant?I am relieved that it is a resources issue that resulted in poor journalism rather than a gender issue from Mr Hunt.Many in team Australia claim they hate Brussel sprouts. However in my experience most of those haters have only ever experienced under cooked or over cooked sprouts.

Most of the haters would actually enjoy their sprouts if only they had been cooked correctly.

Big Joe has delivered a Brussel sprout budget. If he can get the cooking time right we can all come together and make it rain.When Hewson was an actual politician and proposed tax reform which included the GST he was hated by the left.Dissolving state Governments looks attractive for those in the capitol. However our here in mining district 13 we like our state Government and would prefer to see the Commonwealth govt drastically shrunk.Yes we have a council.As I posted yesterday tax reform should be simple because we have great consensus for it. There is consensus that other people's taxes should be increased and the money spent on the demographic that we fit into.

So that is the easy bit. The hard bit is convincing the 40% of the population who believe we don't need tax reform because budget deficits are good for the economy and the level of debt is manageable as long as it is lower than other countries.

Our present debt may or may not be a crisis at the present but we are certainly on the pathway to a crisis. The entire legacy of the 2007- 2013 years depends on history being revised and reinforced that our present debt is not a crisis and the budget deficits that make up a large portion of that debt saved us.

It is difficult to support tax reform while trying to shore up that mythical legacy.

Westpac is about 200 years old. In about 1994 they had a large loss but every other one of those 200 odd years has recorded a profit.

About 60% of each year's profit is distributed to the shareholders and the remaining 40% is retained within the business.

Show me a 200 year old 7 eleven that has retained 40% of their profits within the business to fund growth and I will show you a very big business with a very well paid CEO. There would probably only be a handful of people in Australia capable of running that giant 7 eleven and achieve the type of success that Gail Kelly has had at Westpac.

Ultimately the shareholders are the ones who pay the salary of the CEO and they appear happy with the current arrangements.

If you look at this article in isolation you could be forgiven for thinking that there is a sexism element to it.

However if you go back over the articles written by Ian Verender this year you will find a theme concerning the Australian banks. He hates them and he hates the people who run them.

His unhealthy obsession with Australian banks has blinded him so much that he could not recognise that he had left himself open to being labelled sexist.

If the CEO of Westpac had been a male and achieved the same results as Gail Kelly he would still not be able to issue an accolade he would still be claiming it was all luck.She did a great job and can leave with her held held high.

Based on the occasion that she was on Q &amp; A,  I would say that she was able to focus on the problem at hand by getting to the kernel of the issue and not deviating from the kernel. She must have driven her children mad when they were argumentative teenagers by defeating them with dispassionate logic on every occasion.

A great user of facts and evidence and worked hard for those paying her salary. As such not suitable for politics unfortunately.There is only so much room on the highest moral ground. The last thing that left wing advocates want is to have to play sardines  so  middle Australians can experience that lofty view.Stephen Bradbury had lost touch with the peleton.Nuclear could be the alternative to coal.

It may come down to the lesser evil:

. Financial calamity in the present and inability to feed the billions by premature withdrawal of fossil fuels.
. Distant enviromental calmity that produces similar results to above if science does not come up with mitigation.
. Storing nuclear waste.

I am at one with Bob Hawke on this one.

Globally more coal was burnt in 2013 than any other year in human history.

2014 will set a new record.

When we shake off the GFC the amount of coal burnt will dramatically increase beyond present record levels.How can you say nothing much has changes in 25 years.

The term greehouse effect was refined to global warming and further refined to climate change.Yes I get it. If the temperature stops increasing you drop the term global warming and introduce the term climate change.Very cool.Green may well be the new black but the cessation of coal use without a suitable replacement will be the new dark (ages).No matter how good the trade deal is the ALP will be negative and the left wing economic commentators that inhabit this web site will regurgitate that negativity for their political masters.That is a hollow promise Alpo because the benefits of a FTA with China will unfold over a timeframe much longer than 6 months.

I release you of your promise to repeat whatever negativity Bill and Penny come up with.The regular East Germans were on foot carrying bags of bananas that they had bought with their 100 welcome marks.I loved the genre of fiction that centered around the cold war tension between the west and USSR.

I visited Berlin in 1986 (25 years after the wall went up) and fulfilled the ambition to go through check point Charlie. "You are now leaving the US sector"

I think it is just that women on the left have a lot more spare time to help with the sisterhood advancement.I always suspected that the real misogynists were from the left.Julia Gillard made a bad miscalculation when she introduced the carbon tax.

She should have been more Bishop like and stared down Bob Browne.

Did Bob Browne know what would happen after he convinced Gillard to back the CT?If you ever look at the articles that debate the role of the ALP stimulus in "saving us from the GFC" the left wing journalists dismiss the role of mining.

"Wayne saved us not mining" is the common theme. "Mining is a small part of GDP and hardly employs anyone" they say.

Now, according to this left wing journalist we are a one trick economy based on mining.

The deposit guarantee was not necessary. The banks that were in trouble were not too big to fail they were too Queensland to fail.

Some small Queensland banks were in trouble in Australia because money was pouring into the large and safe banks from the smaller banks.

Of course a Queensland PM and Queensland treasurer had to do something so they guaranteed deposits and it saved a couple of Queensland banks. 

No Australian has lost deposit money in Australian banks for over 100 years. When the smaller ones get into trouble the big ones absorb them and the system stabalises.

Our big banks could have easily taken over the Queensland banks like they have in the past and like they will again in the future but the Government did not want that to happen for political reasons.

It worked for St Geroge and Bankwest during the GFC when these non Queensland banks were seamlessly taken over by the big banks.

The wholesale guarantee was not because the Australian big banks were weak. Pretty much every Government around the world had taken steps to guarantee their domestic banks. This left the Australian banks on an unlevel playing field and the Government was left with little choice but to follow suit. 

Ian Verender calls this guarantee a bail out which would raise gales of laughter in Europe where bank bailouts have cost the tax payer billions of dollars of lost money gone into banks.

In Australia the banks will be paying over $5 billion to the Government for the wholesale guarantee fee. No Government money has been wasted on our banks. The banks have paid the taxpayer.

It is reckless and wrong to claim that Australian banks were bailed out.I have mentioned the deposit guarantee and the wholesale guarantee as separate issues.

The deposit guarantee as unnecessary because other banks would have taken over small banks that failed. Australian money was flooding into our big banks from the smaller banks.

The wholesale guarantee was about providing a level international playing field for our banks to obtain wholesale funding from overseas.

The flood of money coming into our big banks from the smaller banks actually made our big banks less reliant on the international wholesale market.

However with a deposit guarantee in place that flood would stop so they had to introduce a wholesale guarantee as well.

Because of their deposit guarantee the Govt was forced to offer a wholesale guarantee and charged the big banks for it.

It was all about saving the smaller banks but the big banks are being portrayed as the villains. 



It was certainly getting tougher and more expensive to raise money but the markets were not completely shut. The big banks would have survived without the guarantee but the banks would have had to pay more for the wholesale funding.

The RBA interest cuts were not being fully passed on as it was let alone even higher wholesale funding.

The cost of wholesale funds guaranteed by the Govt plus the fee to the Government turned out to be cheaper than unguaranteed funding without a fee.

No wonder the banks got stuck in and took advantage of the cheap money. They took advantage of the cheap money when it was available for the 6 months that the wholesale guarantee was in place but that does not mean that they needed the guarantee in place.

I am generally a "let the market sort it" type of person and the market would have sorted our banks out but it would have been messy and higher interest rates would have been recessionary. 

I think the guarantees were probably the best thing that Rudd did in response to the GFC. Certainly we lost no banks, interest rates did not go up because of a shortage of funding and the Govt will have received over $5 billion in fees by the time the guranteed debt reaches maturity.My wife and I visited NZ just after they won the America's cup for the first time.

On our first evening in Aukland we strolled out looking for a nice place to eat. We instinctively headed down hill towards the water front assuming there would be plenty of restaurants to choose from.

Nothing. We wandered around and eventually found a Chinese.

I remember saying to my wife "As it gets closer to the hosting of the America's cup this whole water front will be revitalised and transformed along the same lines that Fremantle had experienced when it hosted the cup in about 1988.

The whole time I was in Aukland people just got on with their business and I did not witness any women being harassed.Hawke was inspired by Curtin and we got good Government.
Howard was inspired by Menzies and we got good Government.
Rudd and Gillard and the bulk of the current lot were inspired by Whitlam and we got bad Government.

The next generation of ALP who are inspired by the Hawke era will be a good Government.

We had to get through the original turmoil of the Whitlam era and once we get through the generation that draws inspiration from the Whitlam era we will be OK.We did have a recession in 1961 and unemployment got over 3%. 

Are you suggesting that the ALP would have avoided the recession in 1961 had they been in power?

The ALP alternative Govt in 1961 was controlled by the unions who were controlled by the communists. 

Australians put up with the 3% unemployment to avoid the communists.

Apart from that, trying to compare the availability of credit between the regulated and post regulated eras is a waste of time.

What would you or the ALP have done to keep a lid on credit growth after the 1991 recession?"Dunham has built her brand on quirkiness, hipster irony, and an infamy for "oversharing."
I agree Dave. It is bad enough for Pakistani cricket that they are unable to play there for safety reasons and also they are over represented in match fixing scandals.

If they get beaten all the time as cricket will suffer in Pakistan.

Ok Australia lost but rather than focus on the negative we could view it as a fillip for Pakistan.

I hope our boys can steel themselves for a better performance in the next test and develop some hardness against adversity.

Not every team we play will implode in the first test of a series. Not every test can be won by chucking the ball to Mitch.We need to learn to value and nurture those who would operate a business.

Old news pockets. Conroy is well gone. Hopefully Turnbull can implement the sensible improvements.It is a while ago now but my recollection is that the excise indexation was suspended to soften the impact of GST being levied on excise.

At the time the tax on a tax argument with respect to fuel was creating resistance to the acceptance of the GST.

I think the case for suspending the excise was not without merit however it may well have had the duality of also being politically beneficial to the party that introduced the GST.

Labor have wedged themselves because they never removed the suspension during their 6 years in Govt yet complained about a lack of revenue.

I am not convinced that all the anger will be directed at the ALP if cheques eventually get posted to the fuel companies.

Conservatives like me will see it as a failure of the Govt if extra excise that I pay ends up being returned rather than where it is needed which is in trying to staunch the budget deficit.

Perhaps. However there is only one party offering to defuse the time bomb.Would you like to see Australian's driving electric cars recharged from solar panels on their roofs?

Solar recharged electric cars have less carbon footprint than public transport.

Australians love their cars and will embrace electric cars free to run on solar over public transport.

Australians will not embrace those electric cars if the roads are not up for it.

Get with the plan by supporting a price point on fuel with the money spent on roads to accomodate electric cars.

Even the greens dominated Fremantle council recognises the potential and allows free re charging.If we can get these guys early in a fraternity like the Kanga cricket program we will solve the terrorism problem.

Too much soccer and not enough cricket.

Today's failed soccer player is tomorrow's terrorist.

Today's failed cricketer is tomorrows unarmed couch potato.From what I hear about those codes and maps there is a familiarity with our island state.Obviously women get a better deal in Muslim lands and suffer oppression here in Australia.

What I don't understand is why Muslim women are getting on boats just so they can face Australian oppression and at the same time hardly any of our youngest and brightest women are throwing off the shackles and leaving Australia for freedom and equality within Muslim states.Those of us from outlying mining district 13 will not agree to more power to the corrupt centre.A proposal to increase the GST would not have the support of Barnett without a proper review of the carve up to make it fair for WA.

I assume all states would have to agree with an increase in GST??The ALP had a good plan to deal with their debt. They planned for the coalition to deal with it.In terms of net debt the transaction is neutral. Treasury borrows the money and gives it to the RBA which is fully Govt owned.

In term of interest on the treasury you you need to know what the RBA is earning from the $8.8 billion. 

Koukoulas is acting like a cub reporter and making a mountain out of a molehill with the RBA shore up.In terms of endurance and persistence you can not beat the left wing revisionists.

After 40 years of consensus about the economic performance of Whitlam the revisionism has started.

It is too tiring for me to engage on this one. If you want it that bad I can't stop you. Give Mr Whitlam a posthumous economics award.In the short period of 14 months that the final work choices operated full-time employment grew by more than 350,000 or close to 5 per cent. Unemployment fell from 4.9 per cent to 4.3 per cent while the rate of workforce participation rose 0.7 percentage points.

Wages increased 5 per cent over the period, contradicting the predictions of union leaders that employers would drive down wages. And GDP grew more than 5 per cent.

Work choices was not bad for workers but it certainly would have been bad for union officials. In order for union officials to keep their own jobs and perks they needed to convince workers that they were worse off. 

They ran a fear campaign and it worked very well. 

I don't blame the unions - they were fighting for their lives. I don't blame the people who were duped by the fear campaign at the time but at some point with the passage of time we can take a non political look at workchoices.You have run a fear campaign against PPL and won from my perspective. I am convinced . Let us hope that the policy is dropped.

I suppose that because I don't agree with PPL that means I have to disagree with work choices because there must be some correlation there?If Gough had not gone to China in 1971 they would be buying their iron ore from another country in 2014?

Or is it that if Gough had not visited China in 1971 they would never have embarked on modernising their economy?

He was good that Gough.

The lower the interest rates are the more you can afford to borrow.

The more you can afford to borrow the higher you contribute to bidding up the price of housing.

Wayne Swan damaged business confidence which cause the RBA to set emergency low interest rates.

The left come up with negative gearing, Chinese and all other excuses to divert our attention from the culprit within their ranks.Because the comments are so over the top racist I actually find that the most plausible explanation is the one that the professor gave.

Right from the start the extreme racism did not ring true for a professor from the university sector.

You must remember that the emails were not written with the general public in mind. The emails were meant for one specific recipient  who was apparently familiar with his satirical style.

Unless further evidence arises, I for one am prepared to give the professor the benefit of the doubt and believe his explanation.If the private emails were intended as satire and they have been leaked by a third party then I feel very sorry for the professor.

This incident has no doubt placed an huge amount of pressure on him and his family.

It will be a dark day for Australia if the leak has been done to destroy his credibility with respect to the curriculum review.

If we can't get him on the racism he is guilty of the misuse of the word 'whimsical"We may need that nice lady from the dictionary who redefined "mysogyny" for us to adjudicate on this one because I think his use of whimsical is OK within this context.

However I think you could get him to plead guilty to misuse of whimsy to get the racism charge dropped.This type of clothing is dangerous.

It is always the uncovered shoulders that get the most sun burnt. 
I do not agree that the article is well researched.

Apart from stating the obvious that the present Government's system is harsh and the last Government's system was flawed it offers no practical and viable alternative.

"It is not beyond human capability to develop a truly cooperative system of regional refugee protection - a system that would reduce the number of displaced people getting on boats and risking their lives at sea, and also offer them practical assistance and hope for the future."

That is not a solution it is a motherhood statement.

Australia is to lead a regional group of countries that is going to make things so good that people will not want to leave home to come here.

I for one think it is beyond Australia's capability to unite the world and eliminate poverty and conflict.Paul. I know many Australians who can match their US counterparts in using innovation to establish manufacturing businesses and all are having great economic success.

I hear about it when they fly back to Australia for a holiday.

I don't just think that the value of the USD, depreciating or appreciating, is the main factor in keeping the USD as its reserve currency status.

The main thing that preserves the status quo is that oil is traded in USD. You could research China/Russia oil deal to see if there is a medium term threat to the USD losing its oil currency status.

The trouble is none of us on the Drum are privy to the information required to answer the question posed by Mr Berg.

This is compounded by the nature of Australian politics where the opposition agrees with the Government on matters such as war irrespective of the merits of going to war.

That only leaves the Greens to make the case for opposing the war. They tend to lack credibility because they would still oppose a justified war irrespective of merits.

So the average citizen is in the dark about the case for our Australian involvement. We can guess and claim it is a diversion from the budget but it is still a guess.

We still have a budget problem and the $500 million a year will not help matters but if it will make us more secure then it might be money well spent. Once again that is just a guess. 

We were prepared to spend 40 odd billion in stimulus to secure greater tax receipts. To spend 1/80 th of that per annum to secure our lives and prevent the associated economic fallout does not seem so reckless to me.

However let us  put that half a billion a year in perspective. We currently pay about one billion a month for interest on our national debt. So the annual cost of the war represents the equivalent of 2 weeks interest on our present debt.

There are plenty on the drum still parroting the obsolete line that "Our debt is small and easily managed". 

So if our debt is easily managed one wonders how the equivalent of an extra two weeks of interest a year is going to make it substantially more difficult to manage.On face value I agree with everything you have said.

However the timing of what he said was poor.

You and I can say we find the burqa confronting but we are not the PM.

Everything Abbott said was reasonable and sensible but he must know that it would set off the left wing haters and give heart to the right wing haters.Many people are happy for the burqa to be worn in Australia because so few people wear it. We also guess that most of those women who wear the burqa are kept pretty much at home except for shopping etc.

We are happy to tolerate the burqa because we encounter few people of significance who wear the burqa.

However how would those people feel if it was more common? How would you feel if your child's teacher wore a burqa? Would you be happy with a GP who wore it. What if the HR manager interviewed you for a job and you could not see their face?

Would you be happy to speak to a financial adviser or apply for a loan where you could not see the person's face?



Bishop has done a great job so far and is deserving of her high approval rating.

Forget about gender or geographic issues, if you want to be PM you have to be across issues relating to the economy.

Unfortunately when Bishop was the shadow treasurer she did a poor job. Perhaps she was unprepared for that role or got caught on the hop but she would definitely have to become good on economic issues if she was to have a serious tilt at being PM.

Tony Abbott should worry the day we see Julie Bishop reading economic literature. I am certain that if Bishop wants to have a crack at being PM she will prepare properly by turning a weakness into a strength. I doubt that Bishop would make the same mistake twice and not be prepared on economic matters.

I don't buy into this sexism thing. It is not about gender it is about what skills you have and your performance. J Bishop is performing very well. Gender is nor relevant.

J Gillard performed poorly. Gender was not an issue.Clinton based his electoral strategy on "It's the economy, stupid."For many individual politicians the issue of party leadership is about self preservation.

If a female Western Australian is the leader most likely to win the election and keep back benchers in  Govenment rather than oppostion then the party will choose said female from WA.Kevin Rudd was your boss??When I was much younger and the bars were much rougher it was not unusual to encounter a patron who was intent on having an altercation.

One might think "If this big guy has a go at me I am going to save myself with my bar stool"

When that dreaded time comes one has about one second to react. Can you imagine the sinking feeling when one discovers that this bar is so rough that they have bolted the bar stools to the ground?
The article points out that the US market has been going up quite steeply despite fundamentals saying it should not.

The article further points out that the Australian market has not been rising steeply but would get caught up in any stock market crash.

I used to get a great laugh from the pundits before the GFC saying that because China was so big the other economies around the world had de coupled from the US economy.We hold no fear of stock market crashes because we have the secret powers to over come financial shock. Borrow billions and billions and stimulate the economy.

It worked before so it will work again.

However only the left side of politics where all wisdom and compassion is held can be bold enough to enact our secret powers.

Do not listen to the neo cons who will whine about small details like "There is no money left" or "We have not repaid the last stimulus yet" . Those neo cons are such downers.
The only Government policy that has caused private debt to increase is the de regulation of the banks which was done by Keating. ( I am supportive of that de regulation)

Go back to those graphs and you will see a virtual straight line increase in private debt that started before Howard got into power.

The 3 big drivers of private debt have been:

De regulation of banks - more access to finance.
Demographics - increase in household income and borrowing capacity as two income family became the norm.
reduced interest rates. Lower rates mean you can borrow more and still afford the repayment.It is such a shame that the Rudd ALP Government unwound the Pacific solution after wining the 2007 election. Such a shame.When did a good advertising program get renamed a social science program?That insignificant former WA treasurer poses a great threat to Hockey. He might be insignificant while he is a back bencher but as arguably the most talented person the parliament has had for decades he will not be a back bencher for ever.

Anyone who can put the country before their political party will be delighted with Christiam Porter as treasurrer of this nation. 

Not just treasurers feel threatened by his presence. Anyone with aspirations to lead the party would rather not have him around.

If the coalition win the next election and C Porter does not have at least a junior ministry then it will not be due to lack of talent it will be because the existing ministers feel threatened by him.

Perhaps not so insignificant.I can still remember being a teenager when the concept of being 50 or 60 years old was completely abstract. 

The risk of health complication at an abstract age can not compete with the coolness associated with doing something a little bit reckless and dangerous like smoking.

My 16 year old son lives entirely in the present so do many of his peers. Planning beyond the next hour would be great one day!

Furthermore the brain has to be hugely re wired to accommodate puberty and adult hood. In order to facilitate  the re wiring significant chunks of the brain are shut down. Risk assessment and capacity to guage  consequences are limited until the re wiring is completed. In men this can be up to the age of 25.

Apart from joining the army where the peer pressure to smoke is pervasive not many people over say 22 take up smoking.

There are many reasons why smoking is bad. Health and cost to the smoker alone are good reasons not to smoke.

However it is incorrect to believe that the budget will be improved by the phasing out of smoking. Smokers die early and once dead do not consume health services or aged care services.

People should give up smoking for their health and Governments should budget for increases in costs of health and aged care commensurate with people living longer. There will be increased costs not savings,.

Firstly those repairs of $40,000 to make the property ready for lease are not tax deductable. (You can use it later on as part of the purchase price to reduce CGT a little bit).

Secondly if you have not rented the property then none of the $60,000 interest can be claimed.

If you have rented it then the rent you received substantially reduces the tax deduction available.

So forget the $40,000 repairs it is not a tax deduction. The only tax deduction is what you lose on the investment. 

If you rent it out for say $1,000 per week then your rental income is $52,000 for the year.

Your expenses are the $60,000 interest plus another $10,000 in rates etc. You have lost $18,000 on the property for the year.

That $18,000 loss saves you about $8,400 a year in tax.

Given that you paid $50,000 ?? in stamp duty and related costs when you buy and sell the property you tax saving is less than what you have paid in state Govt taxes and selling costs.Surveys done on this issue show that about 70% of Australians agree with you Keith. 

70% support. Democracy. Join those dots.The ALP politicised this issue by opposing the Pacific solution when in opposition. They further made it a key point of difference in the 2007 election.

It has been an election issue ever since. 

If 70% of the population supported capital punishment and one party politicised the issue we would be talking about it.

I doubt that a clear majority support capital punishment and no major party is talking about changing the status quo so it does not get discussed.

It was once the law that only men could vote, Homosexuality was a crime, Only whites could live in Australia and Aboriginals were not recognised as people under the law.

It took a bit more than tinkering to fix those injustices that had become outdated.

We change laws all the time. There is ample precedent.As a nation we must critically look at how many lawyers we produce each year.

If we have an over supply of lawyers then we find that it is one of those fields where work can be created to take up the slack.

Too many lawyers? Increase litigation. Sue this person sue that body, that will take up the slack of excess lawyers. That is exactly why the USA became a litigious - excess lawyers.

If we produce too many lawyers in the asylum seeker related field and the boats stop do you think these lawyers will sit around on the dole or do you think they will be creative in generating their own cash flow streams?You have missed the point of my post. It is the over supply of lawyers that I don't like.

Do you dispense the same advice to leave the country to those who don't like the present asylum seeker policies? 

You feel the need to defend lawyers because they give me freedom however I am not free to claim that too many lawyers are damaging?It is such a shame that Rudd unwound the Pacific solution in 2008.Fair enough. I should have posted " it is a disgrace that Rudd unwound the Pacific solution in 2008 after making it a key point of difference at the 2007 election."

We pretty much have bi partisan support on this issue. The coalition and the ALP are pretty close on this issue. What we don't have is the support of the Greens or the ABC.If communist party officials have property interests in HK then it will be in their personal interest to placate the protesters.

Sydney, despite already looking like it might be a bubble forming, can expect further Chinese money coming their way if this matter is not settled.
