Polls might change, but Tony Abbott won't. That's the one certainty in all this. For better or worse, he is the Coalition leader and only a leadership coup will remove him. I can't see Malcolm Turnbull suddenly growing a pair and taking over the helm. So we're stuck with Tone.

The alternative? Pfft! What alternative! Bill Shortenough might be an erudite sort of bloke, but we don't hear much from him. Does the ALP have any policies to offer, or revamped policies that might have worked in the past? Then let's hear about them!

The Independents? Per-lease, don't make me laugh. With a couple of exceptions, filling Canberra with Clive Palmer clones doesn't exactly make me overjoyed.

So we're stuck. Either we have an election and Tone stays in, or he loses and some other wild mixture of exotic policies gets let loose upon us by a fragmentary alignment of ALP, Greens and independents.

I can hardly wait.A NOTAM ("Notice To Airman") is the sort of document issued on a frequent basis to advise of anything unusual or potentially dangerous in a given area. It is an advisory notice only, much in the same way a motorist would see a sign saying "Roadwork ahead". It doesn't mean "Avoid the area at all costs", it means "Take care" and obviously many airlines did just that when they overflew east Ukraine before and subsequent to the misshap with MH17.

On the basis of known information at that time, the only entities with capacity to shoot down an airliner from 33,000 feet were the Russian military and its Ukrainian counterpart. It was not generally known that the pro-separatists had overrun some military installations and acquired the BUK weapon system. Whether they had also acquired the knowledge to operate it successfully is moot. Prior to acquiring the BUK, the separatists could only target aircraft up to about 30,000 feet. The ceiling for the AN26 shot down some days earlier is 25,000 feet.

The exclusion zone expired at 32,000 feet and MH17 apparently diverted slightly north of its planned course to avoid storms. There is no suggestion at this time that it deliberately flouted any recommendation to do otherwise. It has also been reported that the flight was instructed to descend to 33,000 feet from its previous height by ATC. Those instructions are usually not queried. If this scenario is true, Malaysian Airlines would appear to be almost blameless in all this.

Now we hear that a Ukrainian jet fighter was "seen" in the vicinity of MH17 at about the time it was shot down. While this information has come from Russia, there is no reason to discount it out of hand.

The investigation will therefore seek to confirm (a) that MH17 was shot down by a missile and (b) the type of missile used - surface to air, or air to air. This will narrow down the list of possible culprits and take a deal of heat out of the debate about "who dunnit?"Anyone got a laptop? FlightRadar24 or Planefinder would easily have identified the aircraft as civilian, together with its port of departure, port of arrival, airspeed, markings and callsign.

Oh but then you'll say there was no internet coverage in south-eastern Ukraine?
"One is identification...."

That's a very nasty bullet wound in your foot Pedro. Perhaps you may like to read some of the earlier comments?There was roughly a 40 minute gap between the two flights. Too far apart to have ripped off a missile, then pleaded "Oops - wrong one!"Whether Russian separatists fired a missile at MH17, or whether someone else did, is a bit moot when you have 298 corpses and bits of a jet aircraft scattered over a 9 mile area. International outrage is well justified. Whether the lawyers can get any justice for those affected is another matter.

One thing bugs me - commercial aircraft cannot just fly where they like. They are governed by air traffic control and told to fly at designated altitudes (or flight levels) to maintain separation between aircraft. They also use recognised waypoints to maintain lateral separation.

While MH17 was flying at 33,000 feet (FL33), it was above the exclusion zone and theoretically, should be safe. Also, the flight level is correct for an aircraft heading eastwards. (Those flying westward generally fly at an even number flight level, i.e. 32, 34, 36,000 feet and so on).

So who at ATC directed MH17 to fly at that altitude and course, having full knowledge that the aircraft would be overflying a war zone?Whatever any country in the middle east decides to do, whether in peace gestures or the noise of war, it will be the wrong decision. There are simply too many players with too many agendas - and that's just the "locals". Don't even start to consider the motives and foreign policies of the USA, Russia and China - amongst others.

From what we learn in the media, IS (formerly ISIS/ISIL) is a stand-alone entity. It has shown itself as the strongest of the "rebel" groups in the area, but it has no formal state backers. It has picked the bones of the FSA, Jabhat al-Nusra and others. Without at least one state backing it, IS is doomed in the short or long term. It simply doesn't have the capacity to fend off a sustained attack by any organised army.

Whilst the Saudis have at least been sympathetic to the rebels in Syria, the KSA has not overtly backed them. Rather, the rebels were funded by wealthy individuals or fund-raising entities. Qatar may be a different story. Certainly, the "Sunni side" has had the advantage of western aid in training, weapons and other materiel. As IS, Sunnis can no longer expect this to continue.

Iran possibly sees itself as a major player in all this, but has been watching quietly to see how IS acts and to assess its strengths and weaknesses. Iran, as the major Shia stakeholder, can obviously affect any outcome, but how and to what end? Negotiations with the KSA are unlikely, as Iran would no doubt view that country as ripe for revolution and overthrow of the dynasty when the aging king dies in the not too distant future.

Israel has a vested interest in maintaining the status quo, as it diverts attention from their activities against Hamas and also has the added benefit, in that a divided enemy will not attack them.

No matter how well intentioned we may be in the "west", there will be no winners in the middle east until the oil  and gas runs out, or religion ceases to be a way of life.

Ah, a note of cynicism there perhaps?

You are correct, though. Sooner or later, the oil and gas will run out and then the USA, Russia, India and China will have to look elsewhere and will lose interest in the sheikhdoms and their internecine, Macchiavellian dealings. Unless someone finds out how to make a car run on sand ....

In the meantime, the petty squabbling will continue. It's in the blood, the culture, the history. We can't walk in there and suggest everyone suddenly have a rational debate! They would simply laugh at us - and look at our efforts so far if you don't believe me. The word "hyperbole" was invented for the Middle East!

The more I think on it, the more I'm inclined to leave all of them to their own devices, surrounded by a big electric fence and no way in or out. Let's see if they live together then!Did I read somewhere - anywhere - that Bill Shorten made a statement expressing sorrow at the loss of MH17 and those on board, plus express the Opposition's support of the government in finding the guilty parties?

Nup. Didn't think so. It's like Bill's been struck dumb these last few weeks. He is still leader of the Opposition, isn't he??"... does the government really need this information to keep us safe."

We both know the answer to that one - a resounding "NO!"

Much in the same way that we get searched and/or scanned every time we fly somewhere, or enter a government building. The security firms must love terrorists! Since all this extra security came in, how many foiled bombing attempts have there been? Or successful ones? But we still have the security there, having us take off our shoes, or our belts.

It really has become an industry in its own right.
We are one of the "Five Eyes". hat more could you wish for in an "intelligence" sense??
It's not just conservative politics. Both the left and right love this sort of power, because it effectively gives them control. Control of your life.

If you were alive during the 1960's and heard some of Doug Anthony's rants against communism, you might start to understand what we're up against. Whether you want to call it communism, or some other "ism" it doesn't matter.

The government has got you by the dangly bits." privacy is a right"

Only because the government legislated for it. Trouble is, the government has all the information and you can't access it. Why? "Privacy".
So no need for a Census every four years then?
"Overall, it's starting to sound pretty scary to me."

Couldn't agree more. What makes it worse is that the "personal touch" is being lost in the process - the interview face to face to ask some fairly pointed questions, observations about a person of interest's living conditions, chatting with neighbours - all good old fashioned police work. We are becoming too reliant on technology. If you ask directions of someone these days, they're more likely to whip out their hand held GPS rather than have a knowledge of how to get somewhere.Since the late 1980's, Australia has enacted a number of privacy laws and of course, some were in force before then - Centrelink's Social Security Act, which kept information on welfare recipients private. That information can now be accessed, but only on the strength of a court order.

I was one of many who objected to the privacy acts of the 1980's. The objection was largely based on the fact that government could access our information, but there was no quid pro quo. I could foresee that the unintended(?) result of the legislation would be that criminals would become "protected" and natural justice would be denied to the ordinary citizen. (If you can't find someone that owes you money, how can you sue them?)

What subsequently resulted was that the proposers of the various privacy bills were themselves charged with criminal offences, which only deepened my suspicions as to their motives behind the legislation. Was the legislation repealed in light of this blatant self-interest? Of course not!

Now we have the situation where governments can access every bit of our online lives and even share that information with countries like Israel. I would have thought that there would have been a public outcry in Australia in light of the Snowden revelations, but not so. (In fact the reporting on the whole saga was pretty weak). 

Thus far, this blanket surveillance has failed to prevent any major terrorist attack and is just an excuse for government to gain more control over our every thought, movement or spoken word. 

This is not democracy. This is totalitarianism."They tried peace, investment, co-operation and commerce."

They sure did. The "west" also assured Gorbachev that NATO had no designs on moving in next door to Russia - and then promptly did so. Ukraine is another nail in the coffin as far as Russia is concerned, especially after Nuland was "outed" with her "F*ck the EU" remark, the payment of $US5 billion over a period of time to "protesters" and a visit to Kiev by CIA chief John O. Brennan at the height of the recent "troubles". Now tell us America has no designs on Ukraine?
It could come down to two power blocs - the USA/EU and Russia/China, all brought about by the US policy of encircling China, thereby driving China into Russia's back yard.

Retaliation, if and when it comes, will be swift and vengeful. Great time to visit Australia folks!"yep the f35 is a turkey, however it is the most advanced turkey on the planet using cutting edge technology which the chinese and russians will not come near for decades to come."

"Most advanced"? Peter, you cannot for one minute be serious!

The F35 is a straight-out lemon with a capital "L". We should cancel the contract as the goods are being misrepresented!

It's slower than other, cheaper fighter/bombers, lacks range and its "cutting edge technology" would look fantastic in the gunsight of a Sukhoi SU-27. 

Mate, we are being ripped off big-time!
Talk about protecting our (sea) trade routes is all very well, provided you're talking about blockading the country, which is almost impossible. No country has sufficient submarines to "cover" the entire Australian coastline. Apart from that, food, munitions and other materiel could be flown in a lot faster.

There are two things about Australia which absolutely must be considered in formulating any defence policy. Firstly, the sheer size of the place, as explained above together with the distance between our major centres. Secondly is our relative importance in world affairs. We rate ourselves far too highly considering who our neighbours and current trading partners are and our past attitudes towards them.

Invasion of Australia is also unlikely. Firstly, who are our enemies? At present, we don't have any, although our relationships with some countries could be vastly improved. Secondly, any invader would by necessity have extremely exposed supply lines and this is to Australia's advantage, not the other way around.

Australia is unlikely, in my opinion, to suffer a nuclear attack. EMP or neutron bomb perhaps, if one wanted to keep the infrastructure, but then the invader has to populate the place. Again, too hard. Straight out nukes would kill off everything and everyone and the place would be contaminated and therefore useless, for centuries.

If one accepts that any threat can only come from the north of Australia (apologies to any penguins planning an attack), we could adequately defend ourselves until the ammo runs out. Which might give us a couple of days..."Germany didn't like the fact that they were humiliated at the treaty of Versailles. The correct approach was grind their teeth and live with it."

Sorry Zing, but I don't agree. Perhaps the best approach would have been a fairer treaty that didn't rub Germany's nose in it and give them a pseudo "grievance" for starting WW2.
The Chinese are well-known for planning long term....

Now, if you were the current Chinese government and you had noted the USA's recent efforts at encircling you, would you not be tempted to find an ally to watch your back? Particularly if that ally is not an island or overseas, but just next door? No shipping required, goods can be carried by road or air.

Russia will respond to sanctions from the US/EU in some shape or form. At present, Putin is watching, waiting and evaluating his options. He may invade east Ukraine, he probably won't.

In the meantime, the BRICS bank is now up and running. The US see this as a direct trading threat and will do whatever they can to ensure its failure. Russia, as part of the BRICS group, will retaliate and so it goes on...

What we are witnessing is the start of a union between Russia and China, against the USA/EU. Suddenly I'm glad to be living in Australia.It's true. My late dad used to go on about it as well.

Also little known (but relevant to the commencement of WW2) are the conversations being held between the German, Polish and British governments, in the days immediately preceding the outbreak of war.

Britain, being tied to a treaty with Poland, was anxious for that country not to upset Germany too much, for obvious reasons. The Polish prime minister of the time, Beck, assured Britain that Poland and Germany were nicely on the way to working out their border issues and there was nothing to worry about.

Beck, as it turned out, was playing Britain against Germany to try and save Poland, but only succeeded in delaying the inevitable. Hitler was reportedly furious when he discovered Beck's antics, which may partly explain the ferocity of the German blitzkrieg on Poland and the resultant loss of 30% of the Polish population. Then the Russians invaded from the east just to cap things off.And don't forget that little gem about the pro-separatists planting landmines along the approach road to the MH17 crash site - Oh hang on. That information came from the Ukrainian government. What could the Ukrainian government possibly have to hide? Why would they hold up an independent investigation team by shelling the area the team would be visiting? Why all the delays in getting permission for access?Substitute the SU-25 for the highly thought of - and capable - SU-27 and then you have a real case, with the SU-27's ceiling being around 62,000 feet and a top speed of around Mach 2.3.

We know that Ukraine has/had SU-27's because the USA purchased two SU-27's from Ukraine in 1999. They were used to evaluate the SU-27 against America's F-15 Eagle (the SU-27 won). They did a new comparison testing in 2004."The "jewish lobby" if it exists, is nowhere near as large as the hordes of anti-Israeli lobbyists around the world."

You may be right in your comparison of the number of pro or anti Israeli lobbyists. I'm happy to take you at your word on that.

What isn't correct is your dismissal of the pro-Jewish lobby. It's out there Zing, it does exist. It's painfully proactive in the USA for example (see AIPAC), then there's all those "Friends of Israel" organisations all around the world, XYZ country-Israel Trade Groups, you name it. They all lobby and they all exert pressure. They're not alone is this, of course. Other countries or organisations get up to the same mischief; that is, to subvert a country's government and have it bend its policies to suit your own ends. And let's be honest, that's what lobbying is - subversion.

The Jewish lobby in the US is particularly effective - you only have to look at how the US votes in the UN to gauge how effective it is in relation to any question re Israel. It is political suicide in the US for any office bearer to come out against Israel or its citizens.

Look at the US-Israel situation. Why on earth would a country like America continually commit more than $US3 billion a year to a country stuck in the middle east? There seems to be no great love for Israel amongst the general populace in the USA, but the US government acts otherwise. How could that possibly occur? Blackmail perhaps, or just very effective lobbying by a very well organised group of people?"From what I hear Hamas started the problem with killing 3 boys."

Wrong.

It started in 1948 with the supplanting of a number of Jewish on Palestinian soil, without the consent of the then occupants.

As far as the three unfortunate Israeli boys are concerned, there is no evidence that Hamas killed them (it usually owns up to any of its activities) but there is some evidence to show that Netanyahu knew the boys were dead, before he let the IDF loose on Gazan civilians. 
"... there is some unemployed people who aren't trying or not trying hard enough to find jobs..."

And even if the jobs were available, you wouldn't hire some of them. Lack of care in presentation, illiteracy (more common than you would think - when a person can't spell the name of the suburb they live in - they're illiterate), lack of suitability, the list goes on. A number of them are simply complying with job-seeker requirements, thereby wasting their time and a potential employer's.

Some people are simply unemployable. Sometimes it's their fault, sometimes not. What the government has NOT done is find an acceptable, fair way to differentiate between the two.Reinhard - I can understand your dislike of Abbott and the Coalition, but are you seriously advocating Australia joins the sanctions regime against Russia? What good could that possibly do Australia? Fair enough, Putin may not be the nicest person in the world, but sanctions wouldn't be against him, they would be against all Russians.

I'm sure our trade dealings with Israel haven't been interrupted while Gaza gets blasted back to the Stone Age.

Sanctions against Russia won't solve anyone's problems.It's said that we get the governments we deserve and this has to be equally true of the media. Much of the news we get, for example, is not deeply researched or checked - it's just reprinted from a media release issued by the government or some other entity with a barrow to push.

Take one of today's (31 July) lead stories in which Julie Bishop expresses her disappointment at Russia, as that country may be behind the alleged laying of landmines along the approach road to the MH17 crash site. The ABC headline says: "Russia 'undermining' operation".

To start with, the headline is factually wrong. If the information is correct (which is highly doubtful for reasons I shall explain) then it would be either pro-separatists or the Ukrainian army laying landmines. The Russians - as an army - are not in Ukraine and they would be unlikely (or flat out stupid enough) to have their proxies lay landmines along a road about to be used by international investigations teams. Russia is already being blamed for MH17 - why make things worse?

Philip Williams of the ABC then gives his brief view on things, saying that any information coming out of Ukraine at present should be taken with a pinch of salt. So who is right?

Since the downing of MH17, the US has been pushing the line that the Russians or pro-separatists were to blame, despite the fact that there was no direct evidence for it. There is still no direct evidence and now the US has gone quiet, instead pushing for sanctions against Russia. If Russia or the pro-separatists are to blame, why hasn't anyone said so? They have had sufficient time to examine black boxes etc and make an initial finding.

Some questions now need to be asked by the media - What is the initial finding of investigators? Why is Ukrainian president Poroshenko still permitting his army to fire at and over the crash site, having previously authorised a 40km exclusion zone to permit investigators entry? What motive would the Ukrainians have for spreading the landmines story?

The only party guilty of obfuscation here is the Ukrainian government. Why?You may dislike Abbott and the current government, but this should be above party politics. Australia lost 38 of its own in the MH17 disaster.

As a result of the "downing" of MH17, Abbott had to do something when it was confirmed that a number of Australians had been on board. He acted on the limited information available and made a decision. Not perhaps the ideal decision, but a decision nonetheless. He will have to live with the consequences of that and not you.

I have followed this story from the outset, not just on ABC, but the New York Times, Russia Today, BBC, PressTV, Guardian and others, just trying to understand every facet of what's involved. I still don't know a lot and the process has taken me the best part of a couple of days.

A leader's job is to lead. Abbott is doing that, with limited knowledge of this particular situation. Whether he makes a total cock-up of it or not, history will be the judge. 

And no, I didn't vote for him either.Australia's position in all this is invidious.

Certainly, with regard to the MH17 crash site, we have a right and duty to our deceased citizens/residents to be there and help uncover the mystery of what happened and why and if possible, to identify the murderer(s) so that they can be brought to justice.

At the same time, the crash site is in the middle of a war zone, driven by two sides showing no compassion for those caught in between. The pro-separatists are being pushed further back towards the Russian borders and the Ukrainian army is not letting up in their zeal to rid the area of their enemies.

Despite the UN ruling and even Poroshenko's edict that fighting cease in a 40km radius of the crash site, the fighting continues. 

Australia is merely a pawn in all this at present. On the one side, we have Russia/Putin assisting the pro-separatists as they don't want NATO or the EU on their doorstep. On the other side, we have the US, EU and US-backed Ukrainian government, with the US calling for even more sanctions against Russia.

This aspect of "western alliance" has more to do with US hegemony and the recently formed BRICS bank and US foreign policy regarding gas and oil, Russia and China. No small coincidence that Joe Biden's son, Hunter, was recently appointed to the board of Burisma, a gas exploration/exporting company with rights to export gas from Ukraine. Gas exports that at present, are conducted by Russia.

By all means let our people do their job at the MH17 crash site. They should then leave as soon as possible. Australia has no business there otherwise and should not be seen as a lackey of US interests in that area.

"Finally, we should have a rehabilitation program for Australian foreign fighters returning from conflict zones like Syria and Iraq."

Rehabilitation programme? Better yet, a repatriation programme - take their passports, issue them with a one-way travel document and send them back to the war zone they came from. With that, inform them that if they again try to enter Australia, not only they, but also their family will be deported.

I realise that this is "communal guilt" but a threat to family is the only thing some of these people understand. I'm certain they would have no difficulty with the concept, if it was reversed.Stamp duty and payroll (State) tax?

Weren't they supposed to be gone three years after the introduction of the GST?
Nope. We're still being slugged in South Australia and if Custard isn't a Croweater, then elsewhere also.

When can we expect refunds?
Edward - we all know why there were little or no retirement savings and why compulsory superannuation was introduced - because the government of the day allowed the ATO to deem that interest earned in a savings account was taxable income. So anyone that saved was being taxed twice - once from their wage and again from money saved.

Answer? Close the savings account at the bank. And they did. In droves. No-one likes double taxation - as with superannuation entry/exits.
"So far, the prospects under this Government for a more equitable tax system do not look propitious."

Masterpiece of understatement, Mike, but to be fair, I don't believe that tax reform under any government has much of a chance. It's simply too hard and likely to encounter a lot of resistance from the public service - especially if you simplify the tax system so we need less public servants as a result.

The tax system doesn't need "reform" so much as simplification. Each of us should be able to do our own tax returns, rather than shove them off to the accountant because it's all got too hard.To a large degree I can sympathise with Stephen's viewpoint. A group of people, albeit from different organisations, but working towards a common goal in the middle of a war zone, should be looking out for each other and keeping lines of communication open. It's just common bloody sense. Why does Australian officialdom have this: "We know what's best for you laddie!" attitude?

In many ways, trying to deal with the Australian public service, or government generally, is like pulling teeth. The process has to be made as hard as possible, as complicated as possible and as expensive as possible. Now in the situations that Stephen was recounting, that ethic could get someone killed.

DFAT's warning about travel to Ukraine may be 100% accurate and up to date, but we're not talking tourism here. We're talking about a war correspondent trying to do his job and report FACTS to his audience.

In this piece, Stephen refers to himself and others of his craft as "journalists". Others may see them as "reporters" who just re-hash media releases. I have respect for war correspondents because of the obvious dangers inherent in the work and many have died over the years as a result.

Against that, one would have to admit that in general, reporters (or journalists) are not held in high regard by the community and are equated to life forms similar to politicians and car salesmen. We only have to look to the British press for excellent examples of why this attitude exists. Perhaps that attitude may have influenced thinking at the time.

Dr Rosewarne tells us that she's a "details" person and then tells us she doesn't want the details out there? Is that self-regulation or some sort of censorship wish for the rest of us?

The sad passing of Mr Williams is a newsworthy event, simply because he was a well-known person throughout the world, who exhibited a marvellous talent. It is bound to be commented on. Imagine someone, say a friend, telling you of Mr Williams' passing and you had previously been unaware of it. The conversation might go something like this:

Friend:     "Did you hear Robin Williams is dead?"
Me:          "No - what happened?" (A perfectly natural response)
Friend:     "He suicided."
Me:          "What? How?" (Another natural response)
Friend:     "It's said he hanged himself."
Me:          "Oh sh*t. That's sad news."

Agreed, we don't need to know how long the rope or bedsheet was, whether he left a note or its contents. That's private stuff and relevant to a coroner. But the quest for knowledge has been fulfilled. Something happened and we now know what it was and what caused it. That's all we need to know.

There are, of course, many other publications and/or websites which churn out this sort of gratuitous garbage and seek them out if you must. It's your time you're wasting, not mine.CBL - you may well be right about the oil in Syria, but the proxy action by the US/NATO against that country was more to do with getting at Syria due to its alliance with Iran. (Iran - if it falls - will be the last card in the pack of countries targeted by the US in recent years). Bear in mind that Iran/Syria are/were backing Hezbollah/Hamas respectively with Russia being the eastern equivalent of the US' "silent partnership" with Israel.

Then Russia/China's encirclement will be complete.the yank -

"...and that there doesn't seem to be a plan as such to deal with the economy."

I'll let you in on a little secret my American friend - there is no "plan". This is government by knee-jerk reaction to situations outside its control or spheres of influence. The rest of us are just being allowed to bog along as best we can.Another weekly episode of "Greg's Graphs", in which Mr Jericho amply demonstrates that you can do anything with figures. Starting from the end of the article - Participation Rate: This has been reducing (as shown in the graphs) from about 2007 onwards. One could reasonably explain the drop in participation by baby boomers retiring. It has little to do with available jobs or percentage unemployed.

How does the USA calculate the number or percentage unemployed? What length of time must someone be off work to qualify as unemployed? How many hours a week must they work to be classed as "employed"?

Does the USA fudge the unemployment figures in the same way our government does? (You work 2 hours a week - you're "employed". You're on what used to be the NEIS Scheme - you're employed and so on).

Judging by the numbers of youths and others that seem to be just hanging around shopping malls, etc, my uneducated guess is that our unemployment rate is more like 10-12%. (It was around 14% when Keating was PM).

Has anyone done a proper comparative study?
" In Victoria they admit to 7% unemployment in under 30's group. I'd reckon more like 15%."

You're headed in the right direction, but traditionally, "youth" unemployment has been around the 25-30% mark, depending on the country under review. If one accepts that "youth" unemployment is roughly double the average, then we're running at about 24-28%.

Don't tell the government though. They might have to look like doing something about it.
"While there's some support for the idea that metadata is a useful intelligence tool, more voters take the view that security is being used as a figleaf for the invasion of privacy.."

From the various comments sections in the media, you didn't need to do a survey to work that one out!The only way that has worked so far is with FBI entrapment schemes, where there was NO evidence beforehand that a "suspect" was planning any sort of terrorist act. They were being "fitted up" instead by the people supposed to be protecting them!

(But hey - the FBI got a result!).

To put it all in perspective, just think "9/11". They had all the metadata in the world, foreknowledge and still couldn't stop the terrorists."..why the urgency in uncovering what our so-called leaders ought to already know - or is the truth; that they and you are afraid of admitting, more along the lines of "we're actually so flaming paranoid that we'd much rather keep tabs on the people we are supposed to trust and they in turn trust us... so we'll invent this whole scenario where we get in first on the lack of trust front, and then make out like we ought to be trusted when our very words and actions show we don't deserve the trust of the people any more"."

And remember Steve, this is all on the back of one of the most secretive governments in the world. I don't mean the Abbot or Coalition government, I'm referring to all Australian governments, state or federal, current or past. The interest in their retaining information borders on the obsessive. You used the word "paranoid" and you're not wide of the mark at all. Our governments are NOT open with us, they seek to control us. Ask any journalist or investigator. Freedom of Information is really a misnomer, there is freedom to ask for information, but no guarantee it will be provided and even then, there will likely be some heavy redacting. It boils down to this - the public is simply not trustworthy in the eyes of government.

Now why do you think that might be?So we have Holdsworthy. What were the other 11?No.

The main grounds for divorce in Australia are (1) Been married for 2 years and (2) Twelve months separated from spouse. Ours is a "no fault" system and so going to any other lengths is purely a waste of time and money. And inadmissible in court.

Your question may be more suited to property settlement matters, but in the majority of cases, one spouse would know (or have suspicions) of what the other side has or may have. In that situation, a subpoena may be warranted but only if you know who to subpoena.When Mr Brandis waxes eloquent (Ha!) about western countries taking up data retention, he is, of course, referring to the United States and Great Britain. As part of the Five Eyes arrangement, virtually all of our data is being shared in any case.

When in doubt as to whether obtaining data by one country in the Five Eyes is illegal, simply ask another one of the Eyes to tap the information at their end and then pass it on. Not illegal, but not in the spirit of the laws of the countries concerned.

This is the beauty of the Five Eyes arrangement - it covers both hemispheres and much of the English speaking world. Plus in their quest to get more and more information, the USA is ramping up its capabilities and not reducing them.

Pity that they don't seem to have caught any terrorists before a terrorist act was committed though. So much for "foreknowledge"."They have stoked and fed conflict in many places, and supplied terror weapons at rock bottom prices."

The Americans or the Russians, or both? (And we both know the correct answer, don't we Ravensclaw?)

One side is as bad as the other. Trouble is, neither will "man up" and admit it.Peter, you are certainly right. The propaganda war is on in earnest.

The sanctions against Russia, however, started after the self-determination vote in Crimea. The fact that a number of ethnic Russians or Russian-speaking people voted to go back to being part of Russia was simply too much for Obama and NATO. MH17 just added to the mix.

Russia, after being invaded by the Germans in WW2 and then marginalised during the Cold War, naturally has a healthy suspicion of the west and when the Cold War ended, Reagan and Gorbachev sat down and amongst other things, agreed that no NATO country would share its border with Russia. A buffer was required.

Ukraine joining the EU and becoming a part of NATO, places it firmly on Russia's doorstep, contrary to the existing agreement.

Putin's no saint, but he's in Russia and we're Australians. WTF does Crimea have to do with us? Why are we sanctioning Russia? (I mean, the bureaucratic  exercise alone will cost more than the lost trade.)

It's as obvious as all heck. Would our government try developing an Australian foreign policy for a change? 

Joe - in broad terms I'm in agreement with you (and I stand corrected on Ukraine being part of NATO - my error). I'm not going to argue the stats on the Crimea poll - most impartial observers would have to agree that they're "bent" but I still believe that the result is what most people in the area concerned would have wanted.

"Russia has invaded Ukraine..." is misleading. It infers that regular Russian troops marched in and took over. Admittedly, there are Russian nationals involved and Putin is undoubtedly supporting them. It's another war by proxy, in the same vein as Syria.

Perhaps this latest little game of brinkmanship might not have occurred if the US had kept out of Ukraine's affairs, e.g. Nuland and the funding of the right wing in Ukraine politics. It could also be asked what the head of the CIA, John O. Brennan, was doing in Ukraine when the riots began and a predominantly extreme right-wing parliament came into being. Admittedly, the US is the majority shareholder in NATO, but couldn't European countries have handled any potential troubles?

Whatever else we may think of him, Putin appears to be remarkably calm at present (despite sanctions retaliations) and doesn't seem to want any escalation. In fact, it seems that the "west" is the one doing all the pushing.

David - you're somewhat fortunate that you don't live in Adelaide. Here the quality of driving and cycling is somewhat lower down on the scale than in Sydney, possibly because things like roundabouts (rather than traffic lights) or merging lanes are relatively recent innovations here. Not to mention the well-intentioned but loony efforts of the Lord Mayor for the Adelaide City Council in his passion to "reduce obesity" in wrecking our travelling times, in his drive (pardon the pun) to rid the city of motor vehicles and the people that use them.

I'm on the road in my car most days and I encounter cyclists all the time. They are just "there". Like any other factor, they have to be taken into account when driving. If you can't see a cyclist, then either your mirrors aren't set up properly, you're not paying attention or the cyclist has magical powers of invisibility.

The point I should be making is that with most of our infrastructure, the powers that be haven't thought it through. If you were planning a "road" system, would you place bicycles, cars, trucks and buses/trams in the same space? If you only had limited space available, which of the four categories would you consider the most at risk and incompatible with the others? It's the cyclist every time. The cyclist has to be removed from the roads, not because of any lack of entitlement, it's simply a risk factor/safety decision. In Adelaide city area and elsewhere, we have dedicated bicycle lanes - right next to car/truck/bus lanes! The only thing separating the two is the white line on the roadway.

Until councils wake up to the fact that this is the 21st century and not the 19th and until state or federal governments provide adequate funding for bicycle tracks away from roads, the problem isn't going to go away. 

Well, Craig of Bathurst,

Parliament and the public servants needed to facilitate our legal system and the running of our country, are employed by us, the taxpayers. They even admit to being our "representatives". By virtue of this, even our own spooks are our employees, acting on our behalf. So who owns the material? You can't steal what you already own. So Snowden could certainly be accused of "unauthorised use", but nothing more sinister.

Now, when that "unauthorised use" shows up the shortcomings and illegal activities of those privy to the information concerned, where a country's constitution has been abrogated and those supposedly in charge can be accused of huge breaches of trust or worse, do you go to them and complain? No. You gather your evidence and go public, before the shredders can be activated.

Snowden has been called a traitor, but he didn't betray his country - he betrayed the criminals running certain facets of it. But does the law come down hard on perjurers like James Clapper? Has anyone in the NSA been sacked? 

Fortunately though, your point of view will probably prevail, as we are generally too apathetic to stop our own government acting unlawfully and sharing individuals' personal and private information with countries having no good reason to see it or even know of it in the first place."Democratic governments have the mandate to keep secrets, as provided by legislation and law."

So, two questions - (1) Is our government democratic and (2) Does it have a mandate to share all our personal information with the governments of New Zealand, Canada, UK, USA and Israel? 

I would have said: "Democratic governments have a mandate and a duty to protect their own citizens, first and foremost." That does not include spying on them, simply "because we can."

No it wasn't legal, not in any way, shape or form. Try Googling "NSA".Ben - unlike yourself(?) I'm not a lawyer, so here's my offering, given the time constraints available for research. Bear in mind this answer only applies to Australia and other "Five Eyes" countries in particular, whereas the NSA was acting in breach of its own Constitution....

NSA are forbidden to hoover up telecommunications data on their own citizens in the USA. They then went through a back door via GCHQ in England and intercepted data at the source - outside the US, where their laws don't apply. Via the Five Eyes arrangements, data on various citizens of each member country is thereby available to each member (and Israel, providing the information isn't about an American citizen. How the Americans enforce that is beyond me). So the NSA obtained their data illegally and Australia amongst others, is complicit. If I get time I'll search some of the Telecommunications Acts, but I think you may agree that any information obtained illegally is tainted in law.Terry - where have you been and what have you been reading for the last 12 or so months? Have you heard of the US Constitution? Have you heard of NSA boss James Clapper, who perjured himself before a Senate enquiry? (No, Clapper wasn't charged, by the way. I doubt if he will be, even though he had a 24 hour opportunity to come clean, but didn't).

Snowden didn't betray his country - his country (or at least a significant portion of its intelligence community) betrayed Snowden and millions of other Americans. But that's OK is it?

At least in the USA they got a bit hot under the collar and it looks like some of the illegal activities of spy agencies will be curtailed, or at least subject to some sort of review. Don't think it will happen here though."...against government interference when it comes to intelligence gathering."

Peter, you're conflating government interference with intelligence gathering, with the government making bad laws relating to whistleblowers and the dissemination of secret or sensitive information.

I don't think that any reasonable person (left, right or straight up skywards) would object to intelligence agencies being under judicial review, however.

"... if they weren't so busy all the time tlking up the importance of Government and how it should take over more and more areas of life with more and more regulation, then governments mightn't actually need to spy on p[eople so much." But they are spying on us Peter. Everywhere. Did you give them a mandate? I didn't.
Hi Michael - I'm in agreement with you, but would like to add that if some people are "upset" by Thorpie being gay, it's probably due to his denying it in the past. Yes, I understand there would have been reasons for this, but he could just have easily said something like: "My sexual orientation is none of your damn business!" and then quizzed the interviewer on their own sexuality.

The previous denials and now the coming out are the only "news" here. Perhaps the headline should read: "So Thorpie IS gay after all!"As a former (primary school) soccer player I can sympathise with your argument, tongue in cheek or not. It's always amused me that you get two chances of getting a score on the board when you aim at something considerably larger than oversized barn doors. However, one rule change I would like to see is this: Player kicks ball at goal, hits post (any post, there's four of the bloody things) - if the ball deflects and crosses the boundary line, team gets 1 or 6 points, depending on the post the ball hit and to where the ball carried. If the ball bounces back onto the field of play, it has not crossed the boundary line and therefore no score should ensue. It should be "Play On"! immediately.

Could make for some interesting shots at goal and more importantly, encourage players to kick more accurately.
In Adelaide, we don't have the problem of reduced attendances at games, rather, the opposite.

Since the revamped Adelaide Oval started hosting AFL games this year, crowds have been at capacity or close to it. This has been brought about by having a state of the art facility, with ease of access from the city. The price gouging for food and drinks at the venue doesn't seem to worry the punters too much - they accept it as "part of going to the footy."

The only real dampener here has been the Adelaide City Council, who, as per usual, will do anything they can to keep cars (and hence people who spend money) out of the city, by imposing a 2 hour "Events" parking limit around the Adelaide Oval and surrounding streets of North Adelaide. This limit was never in place previously and one can only wonder in disbelief at the efforts some people will go to in order to discourage tourism, trade and peoples' enjoyment.TBH - we, like the author, have almost become inured to what happens every day in Israel, the occupied territories and Palestine. What she was trying to get across is the current mood of the place, not how it got to where it is. There is obviously blame on both sides and neither appears to want to back down, the Palestinians because they want their land back and the Israelis because they're virtually under siege, surrounded by aggressive neighbours.

The impasse will probably remain until America tells Israel: "No more money, arms or shared intelligence until you negotiate with the Palestinians and reach a working solution." Somehow, I don't think has a snowball's chance in hell of getting off the ground in the US, due to AIPAC and other Jewish lobby groups. On the Palestinian side, I can't think of any single state or organisation, including Hamas or Hezbollah, that can tell the Palestinians the same thing. Perhaps if the other Arab states got together, they may have some combined influence, but that happening is extremely unlikely, given religious differences and the preoccupation with Syria and Iraq.

Sooner or later, one or both sides in this seemingly endless struggle is going to have to say, in genuine good faith: "I've had enough. Let's sit down and talk."

I'm still waiting optimistically.Oh Lordy - I agree with you, it's a multi-nation problem, but first the two main protagonists have to reach agreement. The solution (whatever that may be and I readily admit I don't have the answer) can then be sold to the wider Arab world. How each Arab country might then react is anyone's guess.

Being involved in middle-eastern politics must be like playing Russian Roulette, with 5 chambers loaded instead of one. If the other side doesn't get you, your "friends" will.

I'm sorry, but many offerings on this thread make me feel somewhat uncomfortable.

On the one hand, I accept that it is best to have things out in the open, where they can be thoughtfully discussed or ridiculed as appropriate. It is the essence of free speech and democracy. (Pity our politicians don't listen, but that's another story). But where do we draw the line? Should there be a "Festival Of Dangerous Ideas", or should someone be made to come up with a more "suitable" name? What is open to discussion and what is not? Are there limits on what can or can't be said? It seems that the prevailing view is "I may not agree with you but will defend your right....blah blah blah". All subject to the laws of slander, of course.

The parallel I see here - and this is the "uncomfortable" bit - is of 1930's Germany. That lovely, effusive man from the SS has asked all the local Jewish people to assemble in the town hall for a talk, in which he will outline his grand plans for all of them, including a holiday courtesy of the state!

Freedom of speech be damned. Some ideas are so dangerous (or stupid) that they should be stamped on and hard. Think about it. Does someone else's right to spout extremist nonsense trump your right to live in peace? You don't attend the town hall, or the Sydney Opera House, but does that lessen the danger of what's going on inside? We've banned holocaust denial - why not ban this?

And you won't see or hear a lot of Muslims protesting about a particular subject or activity, if that subject or activity has been sanctioned by the higher-ups. Those in charge make the rules and interpret Islam and the Quran to suit themselves. By virtue of the power in the Quran, Muslims are thereby rendered helpless. "Resistance is useless!"Chris - where's your perspective?

Shorten's not in front in the polls - Abbott's behind!Where is socialism Alpo? 

South Australia, that's where. Highest unemployment, most incompetent state government (notice I didn't say corrupt), factories and businesses closing....but hey, the state government says everything's OK, so......The shareholders must force the board's hand on this one. Joyce has amply demonstrated that he is not up to the task and he should be replaced as a matter of urgency. Who cares if Joyce himself says he isn't going to step down - it's not up to him!

The situation is only made worse by the (incorrect) assumption by many people that Qantas is Australia's airline, operated by the government. As such it would represent all of us and reflect our country's ability to run a successful business."...most australians dont give a damn about skin colour or ethnicity..."

Damn right Peter and well said.

What Australians (and others) don't like is being told who we can like and not like and how healthy banter between "consenting adults" can be taken totally out of context and called racist by someone who isn't even in on the joke.If I read the article correctly, the offending shop owner was Chinese, as someone offended by the shop owner's remarks suggested he return to that country.

The difficulty Australians have with racism, real or perceived, is that our western standards (and laws) don't apply equally to everyone else on the planet. We seem to think that racism is something that white anglo-saxons are guilty of against persons of other races - not the other way around.

I know many people whose ethnicity is different to mine, be they Asians, Afro-Americans or people of any other complexion. Some of us get along fine, with others the relationship can be strained at times, but the friendship is still there, a testament to all concerned.

With my dealings with these people, I have found that some of those races are virulently and openly racist if you give them an opportunity. The thing is, such comments are not made maliciously, they're simply trumpeted as facts. And who can deny facts? When I've suggested that what they just said could be interpreted as racist - and therefore potentially punishable - they become even more incredulous. What? Punish me for speaking the truth?

So was the offending shop owner just being true to form? I believe he was. I don't believe that he has or had any thoughts of ingratiating himself towards his "white" customers - he was merely telling the situation as he saw it. So let's be careful how we judge. We're all different in many respects and much the same in others."...brave soles that stood toe to toe..."

Clever that. Wish I had thought of it.....Although churches consider themselves to have "moral authority" - in that they dictate how people should live their lives - this so-called authority has effectively vanished over time and churches are kidding themselves that they are still relative to society.

We, as western, democratic societies in the main, have laws to govern our behaviour and many of these laws are firmly based on the Ten Commandments. There must be some basis for laws and that is as good a basis as any. Our present legal system although not perfect, has evolved over almost 800 years, since the signing of the Magna Carta in 1215. The application of those laws has reflected society's hopes, needs and expectations and are modified as necessary. Not so with the churches, although there have been some very minor adjustments. 

In the main, churches have had to be dragged kicking into the 20th century, let alone the 21st century. "Recalcitrant" is the word that Paul Keating once used to describe Malaysia's Dr Mahatir and it could be applied equally here.  

Given the nature of the prolonged and systemic abuse within the Catholic Church (and possibly within others as well, but those are not the subject of the article), one can only wonder what action might have been taken had the offending body been a company or group of individuals. I'm certain that the criminal conduct would have been severely punished by the courts and Victims of Crime compensation would have been payable.

There is no reason in this day and age why religious (so-called) organisations are not subject to the laws of the land and retain their tax exempt status. One would hope government would act on this, but snowflakes and hell come to mind.sleepykarly - I wouldn't be at all concerned if the churches (all of them) were taxed either. Both the Anglican and Catholic churches are the largest property owners in Australia apart from governments. To qualify that, by "largest" I mean the number of properties owned. Admittedly, some buildings are given over to being churches, but the majority are not. Perhaps the churches could sell off a few to provide housing for the less fortunate?

Or if that didn't work, get the Vatican to sell a few paintings. (Hint: They can afford it).Almost a clever argument:

"Name one court in Australia that will charge a superior for murder when that moral act was performed by an employee."

Police do not charge people who have committed no crime. There are exceptions to this, i.e. mistaken identity and so on, but the intention is to charge the person they believe responsible for the murder, in this case and have them appear in a court of law to be judged. If the superior in your example had not committed the murder, how could they be charged?

If that superior, however, had somehow aided and abetted the murderer after the event, or had a hand in the planning, but not the actual execution of the murder, then they can be charged and in specific response to "which court" the answer is the Magistrates or Local Court, District Court and Supreme Court. 

So in the case of the Catholic Church, some (but not all) superiors could be charged with criminal acts. We live in hope!
Colette   - I take your point, but what do you want Australia to do about an unfortunate situation in U.S. public schools? That is a problem that only the USA can deal with.

The Catholic Church on the other hand, is in Australia and should - repeat should - come under our legal jurisdiction. Failing that, Vatican City is a nation state and perhaps our erstwhile Foreign Minister could have a word with a few people in the UN to get something done? Sanctions perhaps?

The Catholic Church as an institution, has behaved intolerably throughout this whole sorry situation and I am just one of many who has been disgusted and offended by the pious attitude exhibited by some of their adherents and apologists, not to mention senior members of the Catholic clergy. To that extend myself and possibly a number of others, are happy to "stick the boot in" and make our feelings known. Perhaps when the Catholic Church realises the extent of public outrage over their past behaviour, only then will anything get done to improve the situation. I am not optimistic of this, however and so would be happy to see the Catholic and other churches, cease to exist.Dave In Melbourne - aren't "moral failure" and "moral responsibility" simple enough to understand in the context of the author's article?

"Moral failure" is a failure in maintaining one's written and stated moral beliefs. Not practising what one preaches.

"Moral responsibility" would imply a responsibility in the moral sense, it not the legal sense, or a responsibility to maintain a stated moral belief or position.

Individuals within the Catholic Church actively practised moral failure by their deeds. The Church had a moral (and legal) responsibility to deal with the problem instead of sweeping it under the carpet, simply because it made the Church look bad.
The points of view being expressed in this thread would indicate that even discussing religion can be fairly divisive! So much for Dr Bird's argument.Thank you Neil for your all-encompassing response.

I can now announce the winner of today's competition - the person with the closest correct answer is A.Mtsvn who wrote at 1:38:12 -

"For your belief system lets you personally profit from helping others (aka front row centre into heaven). An atheist probably wouldn't join because they cannot rest on the assurance of the after death insurance that you have signed up for."

Congratulations!
Neil - With all due respect for your beliefs, why on earth would you place yourself in the middle of a war, together with other minorities likely facing persecution? Should I applaud your bravery, or is this just some idealist stunt? Or maybe you'll be picking up an AK47 upon arrival and joining your side in the "good fight"?

Couldn't you do something to help without the expense and risk of travelling to northern Iraq? Donate to the Red Cross, or Red Crescent for example? Start a fundraiser in your workplace or church?

Let us all know how you get on - really. I'm certain the ABC could use an on-the-spot reporter. But join you? No thanks. This atheist is 67 years old and he's staying put!Dr Bird - what tosh!

If the world didn't have such a thing as religions, there would be one less thing dividing communities and individuals. That means one less object to stand in the way of peace, understanding and acceptance.

In the words of the late John Lennon - "Imagine."DaveM - what you say about Israel is generally correct, but your words are only a cover and a lot of froth, which try to hide the Zionist (not Jewish) aim of a Greater Israel.

As far as Syria, Iraq and Jordan are concerned, Netanyahu must be sitting back laughing his socks off. He's surrounded by faltering or fractured nation states. He has an informal arrangement with Egypt and he's biding his time, watching the Saudis. He knows damn well that Israel is not going to revert to the 1967 borders and no-one is going to make him do so. The UN? The USA, Israel's major sponsor? No way! All he has to do is not upset the USA and the dream of a Greater Israel may just come true by default.The only thing I would be prepared to offer the middle east at this time in history would be humanitarian aid, where it is warranted and where Australians can control the distribution.

Our previous politicians have committed Australian troops and others to fight the "war on terror" (whatever that's defined as this week), with no long-term plan, no exit strategy and no thought as to how that might affect relations with the countries concerned and those countries' allies, e.g. Syria - Russia. Our troops have acquitted themselves to their usual high standards. Not so our politicians.

Australia - and more particularly our prime and foreign ministers - should take a step back, formulate a policy for Australia and ignore American requests for any military assistance. We have an obligation to assist in the middle east, after all, we helped contribute to the present mess, but we're not obligated to repeat our mistakes.It is indeed a time for clear heads. Whether our prime minister is able to take a step back and look at the position in the middle east and elsewhere objectively, is another matter entirely.

It is noble and right to help others in distress. It's part of our Aussie ethic to "do the right thing" and give others a "fair go." But with the middle east, we have to ask ourselves "What can we do to change the situation for the better (whatever that may be) without alienating Muslims or world and domestic opinion?" The short answer is nothing. The middle east situation, for one, is complex and has deep historical roots. Nothing will happen by way of what we would see as positive change overnight. To misquote part of an advertisement: "It won't happen overnight, but it may happen." Only local politics in the region can determine the outcome.

Certainly, Australia shares some measure of responsibility for the current situation in Iraq and elsewhere. Getting involved again militarily will not undo that, nor right any perceived wrongs. I believe our best bet is to adopt a non-aligned position re the middle east and limit any activity to humanitarian aid where needed.

Hi Mick - I think you would agree I wasn't talking about refugees, but you're quite right. It's a vexing question when a large percentage of those claiming asylum happen to be middle eastern males of military age, with no papers. But who am I to judge? They may be perfectly genuine.Without detracting from anything Michael Ware might have said about Islamic State, he couldn't have been kidnapped by them in 2004 as they didn't exist as a group until 2013-4. Is this a typo? Or was he kidnapped by "terrorists"?

It's hard to accept what a person says if they are quoted or
reported incorrectly.
Michael - I could not care less whether you are Jewish, Calathumpian, Muslim or a Spaghetti Monster adherent. The (off topic) comments re Israel or the IDF have more to do with Zionism than one's religion.

However, to address the points in your article. As many posters have and will point out, this is about "business". If an Australian wasn't involved, it would be someone else. Business and politics should not be mixed, but inevitably they are. It can also be argued that conducting business with something like the North Korean regime may open doors that were previously shut. What business giveth, business can take away - as in sanctions imposed by governments. There are sorts of justifications for doing business with rogue regimes - the Bush family in the USA did deals with Nazi Germany and more recently, with members of the bin Laden family.

Someone will always jump in to seize an opportunity.

On the question of what do we do about North Korea, that is a much harder question. China is obviously a key. Perhaps send Clive Palmer as an ambassador? Seriously though, China has to realise that it's propping up a pariah but what choice does it have? If the two Koreas ever reunify, China will have a US ally on its border and that it unlikely to occur in my lifetime, for a number of reasons.

So isolation of North Korea appears to be the least expensive, least dangerous and certainly the easiest option. Trouble is, what can you do for the North Korean people? They are the victims.

Sorry Dove, but I disagree.

Japan - at least in the short term - is unlikely to move any of its manufacturing or electronics industries to North Korea, simply because of China. Recall the spat going on over small island ownerships in the South China Sea? If it escalates too much, it may even lead to a localised war. (I don't think the USA will come to Japan or Taiwan's aid in the event of a localised war. They would be too scared of escalation).

Japan and China are particularly edgy at present and Japan's fighter pilots get their aircraft scrambled daily to intercept Chinese overflights. 

I would be more concerned about a North Korean missile test going "wrong" and hitting either Japan or some other country and the resultant backlash.Mio - I usually agree with most of what you write in these columns, but I take exception to the following:

"What I want to understand is how the conceived children, now adults, feel entitled to probe and insert themselves into the lives of their donor fathers. 

Yes, I heard all the emotional rhetoric about "yawning gaps" in lives and "hearts torn out" through not knowing, but that's not convincing."

For you to have written the above, you are obviously not the result of a sperm donation, or an adoptee. I speak as an adoptee from birth and the one thought that is always in the back of the mind is "Where did I come from?" It's not there 24/7, but it's there 90% of the time. Sperm donor kids and adoptees have this strong bond in common.

I agree that the sperm donor (or parent placing a child for adoption) should have their privacy but on the other hand, I believe it is every child's right to know who their parents are. I feel very strongly on this latter point. Parents and children are the basis for our society and for one part of "society" to be missing for the child is not a comfortable feeling.

Perhaps the best way forward would be to change the law so that (1) the sperm donor or adopting parent can express a wish to be introduced to their offspring at a date in the future, say 18 years on. (2) The same right could apply to the child to make application, with the proviso on both sides that the application may be rejected with no come-back.Have to agree with you JB, but please don't hold it against them. Their attitude stems from the fact that they're not emotionally involved in the whole issue (pardon the pun). They're looking at it totally logically without being personally involved.

The child of course IS the one affected and that will have a bearing on the child's emotions and how they interact with others as they grow up in the knowledge they are somehow "different".Under existing law, the donor has a right to privacy and that right should be respected and upheld.

It doesn't lessen the child's curiousity about their father/parents however.

What I said earlier still applies. Keep the existing law which can apply to existing donor children, but enact a new law that gives people options to contact, or not to be contacted, in the future. Donors cannot realistically expect privacy in this day and age, so why expect it in 15-20 years time?enno - I don't know where you got that idea from, but let me inform you that you're wrong. Each case is different and not every adoptee manages to track down their parent(s), but I would suggest that out of those that elect to take on the challenge of finding parent(s), more people succeed than don't. It only took me 7 weeks to find my sister (who I didn't even know about until I was in my thirties) and I didn't even know her first name. Finding her given names only took 2 weeks and as a result, I subsequently met both my biological parents. In England. It can be done if the desire is there, as with everything else in life.Well said Edwaard, but I prefer a slightly more radical idea - give them no money at all. If they want to spend their own, that's fine. If they have no funds to get their message across, that's even better.

At least we could get some peace and quiet during election campaigns.Please refer to my comment above in reply to Edwaard: BUT, if we ARE going to give political hopefuls funds or access to funds for their campaigns, what about this?

No paid advertising in the media, that's radio, TV, ABC, Murdoch press, whatever. Each candidate has a website set up for them by the Electoral Commission (to control spending of authorised funds). If anyone wants to examine a candidate's policies, or feed questions to them, they simply visit the website! The Electoral Commission then monitors the number of "hits" on a candidate's website, compares that against the candidate's actual number of votes cast, makes an adjustment to reach a percentage of the vote (based on a mathematical formula acceptable to all parties) and voila!

No political party funding required!
"...people are finally starting to realise that the govt has a structural cashflow problem which adjusting the priorities won't fix."

I'm sorry to do this to you Michael, but please delete the word "cashflow" from the above sentence and then it makes  sense. 

Unfortunately, even if Abbott goes, there is no-one up to the task of appearing to be a leader in the LNP ranks at present and our federal opposition isn't "opposing" anything. Take a leaf out of Tony's book, Bill and learn to say "NO!"  
" ...the ABC hates Tony Abbott and will do all it can to undermine him and his government."

Then add in all the disaffected LNP voters, plus those that see what Abbott has morphed into and didn't realise it previously and you have before you a coalition that stands decimated."Where is the west pushing? The last time I looked the EU hasn't invaded any European nations, though many independent nations that suffered under Russian rule have now sort the EU's protection from Russian (undue) influence."

It's not the EU pushing, so much as NATO. When Gorbachev was in power, a deal was done with the US which resulted in US nukes in Turkey being removed (because they targeted Russian assets), Ukraine was "de-nuked" under Russian pressure and NATO promised not to encroach any further east. This was at the time of the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989. Since then, NATO has crept eastwards towards Russia, which quite rightly feels threatened and betrayed. (It is interesting that there does not appear to be any written agreement re the above, however, all sides agree that the matter of NATO and its proximity to Russia was discussed. Gorbachev insists there was such an agreement).

Russia therefore felt honour-bound to make a stand and in doing so, Putin wisely chose the path which would result in the least possible retaliation - no regular army in eastern Ukraine (just soldiers "on holiday"), only take or re-take those areas with predominantly Russian speaking people and don't be goaded into doing something stupid when the US, NATO, EU etc all start sanctions. So far, his plan appears to have worked, but the sanctions are starting to bite, the rouble is up sh*t creek and at America's behest, the Saudis are pumping oil out of the ground at a rate to make one's head spin. (Ask yourself why John Kerry was in KSA recently). The result of this has been to drive down oil prices and therefore, to wreak havoc on Russia's oil pricing and income.

America is extending its policy of containment of Russia (and China) - instead of sticking with Syria, then Iran, the US has gone straight for the jugular against Russia, Syria and Iran's big brother.

We do live in interesting times.


CommonSense - examine the questions in any survey, find out on whose behalf the survey is conducted and the answers are all self-evident - the questions are worded so as to produce a desired result. There is usually no way you can answer these questions with a "Yes" or "No", they usually require qualification in some form, which of course, one cannot do because there's no provision for it.

Thus, to answer the question: "Do you think that Tony Abbott is a good man or a bad man?" - Yes or no - more than 50% of people would probably answer "Good". The fact that they might hate him, his policies and every word he utters doesn't fit the questionnaire. So after the survey people report back and say to Tony Team Australia - "Look! 57% of people think you're a good bloke!",  Tony thinks he's doing the right thing by most people and the required policies don't change.

Surveys are like maths - you can get any result you like provided the question is framed the right way. 2+2 does = 5.Brian - to make an extreme example - a particular person is known to hold radical political and religious views. He has advocated publicly his dissatisfaction with our government and way of life. He is suspected of aiding criminal terrorist organisations. Those in authority would dearly love to put him away, but as yet they have no proof.

All "particular person's" electronic transactions and messaging are stored, as with everyone else's.

Those in authority decide that "particular person" needs to be fitted up so they can arrest him and put him away for a lengthy period. They access his metadata and make a few "minor" alterations - dates and things like that.

This guy then gets arrested and is charged. He can't get bail because of the nature of the offences he's been charged with. He remembers that he has his bank statements and other "stuff" stored on his laptop, which will corroborate his movements as he claimed to police prior to his arrest. His lawyers eventually get access to the material and note that their client's story does not hold water - when he said he was shopping at XYZ Store, he wasn't. the date is different. According to his bank records, it was two days earlier. Mysteriously, his and the store's bank statements agree.

This is an example of intentional misuse. Unintentional is just as dangerous, if not moreso."When it comes to surveillance of our private lives, most of us are less worried about Big Brother than Big Business, write Peter Lewis and Jackie Woods."

Which goes to show the uninformed, apathetic nature of voters right across the political spectrum in Australia. Just to reinforce that view, the first response by Michael D: "What's all the fuss about?"

We truly get the government we deserve....and the $64,000 question: "Does this imply American hegemony over outer space?" - Yes.

Not satisfied with wrecking our world, they want to wreck everything else in the universe as well.

Are you walking around with your eyes closed Joe? (Answer: "Yes - as tightly as possible in case I see something I don't agree with").Wrong. It's Ukrainian government forces. Please try to keep up.Not quite accurate Mr Wombat. It's being reported - just not in the Australian media, unless it's anti-Russian. (By the way, did the Swedes ever find that "Russian" sub that was seen by everyone except the military?)It's my belief that the "west" - largely as a result of its own media - have got the situation all wrong.

Russia knows that it is not a "Great Power". A significant one, definitely, but nothing compared to the old Soviet Union. As a result, it has tempered its actions and its rhetoric, against what a number of Russians see as continued and increasing provocation by the west. It is only in recent days that we have seen an increase in Russian air force activity in international airspace, while they test out the west's reaction times and listen to our ELINT.

Napoleon and Hitler both unsuccessfully attempted to invade Russia and the cost on all sides was horrendous. No-one remembers this better than Russia, who refer to WW2 as "The Great Patriotic War" because they ran the risk of being either exterminated or subjugated. Russians have long memories.
They perceive any threat to their sovereignty as almost a matter of life and death. This "under threat" mindset therefore flows through into their foreign policies.

The current position appears to have reached its present state not because of Ukraine (although that obviously didn't help matters, with the US assisting in the overthrow of the Kiev government), but because of NATO's proximity to Russia's borders. In this regard, it's helpful to read Mikhail Gorbachev's remarks of recent days, which - thank goodness - have been widely reported in the west. We have to learn to appreciate the other side of the argument and if necessary, make concessions. This is what diplomacy is all about, obtaining the best outcome for everyone, rather than running roughshod over one's neighbours.

As I hinted at the start, our media has done an absolutely woeful job of reporting on Russia, Ukraine and the goings-on in that part of the world. All they seem to be doing is parroting media releases from the White House, instead of finding out facts and reporting on them.

No-one is suggesting that Russia is blameless in the current European environment, but one has to ask what the American interest is. While the US is part of NATO, it's not that Russia is threatening the US and so why the Americans are so uptight about Russia needs exploring by the press.Joe. - the size of the Russian economy in this context is irrelevant. The Russians see themselves as being "squeezed" by the west. The west says that Russia is militaristic and expansionist. Does any of that sound familiar? The west (read "USA + lickspittle capitalist running dogs" or whatever you like) is trying to encroach into Russia's sphere of influence - not the other way around. WTF is America doing being part of NATO and dictating to Russia? Whatever it is, it's not diplomacy.

The American people are a great people, as are citizens of the entire world. It's just a damned shame that a bunch of paranoid psychotics appear to be running the USA at present, rather than sane people in government, looking out for the best interests of their populace.Who has Obama invaded? No-one to my knowledge.

Who has the USA invaded? See the handy map courtesy of ABC News today.

Now ask yourself - who has Russia invaded, where are they and how many overseas bases does Russia have? How many overseas bases does America have? The answer may surprise you Joe, but somehow I doubt it.Rockster - perhaps you could also answer why is it that men have to work longer than women before they can obtain the aged pension?

It's all a big balancing act - there are plusses and minuses throughout. Of course, if a woman wishes to work until she is 65, or even longer, that's entirely up to her. Personally, if my (male) circumstances had permitted, I would have retired at 62 if I had the choice. And collected my superannuation."Well let's just see whether the Liberal boys 'allow' her to become their leader then, even though she has out-performed them all. I wouldn't hold my breath."

Well done Cloud - you've just exemplified the victim mentality of the so-called "left" - you acknowledge Bishop has out-performed her fellow ministers but you don't give her a snowball's chance in hell of being leader of her party!

You may have set the feminist cause back a few years my friend!
"It is a pity that she does not acknowledge that many, many women do not get her advantages due to a combination of gender, race, class and fortune."

Julie Bishop also added the word "ability". I notice that you didn't.The major difference between Australia and New Zealand, is that we're one effing big island (plus Tasmania) and NZ are two small ones.

In terms of the world stage, we're both almost invisible and certainly insignificant. A or NZ will never become world powers like the US, Russia or China. New Zealand already knows this. We don't and we're kidding ourselves.

It's about time we acted accordingly.BoP - Well put. Couldn't agree more.

And before anyone starts complaining about conspiracy theories, just look at which world leaders have said what and then look at the facts that have followed.

It's not looking very pretty out there right now and some governments are going to do some fairly stupid things. Thank goodness for the internet so they can be reported to the world at large.Happy - certainly not for divorce, as our "no fault" system only requires 12 months separation for either side to initiate divorce proceedings. Provided the paperwork is in order, the Federal Circuit Court will usually grant the divorce without question.

As far as property settlement or child custody matters go, usually each party is aware of the other's finances, but I agree there are secretive persons who do not disclose all their assets for division by the court. A party's new partner may be involved in a criminal enterprise (or suspected of such) and those two situations may give rise to bank or police records being the subject of a subpoena. The party requesting the subpoena would need a good reason for issuing and I don't believe that many lawyers would recommend you go on a "fishing expedition".JamesD - You do have the right to privacy and it's enshrined in our privacy legislation, going back as far as the Privacy Act 1988.

Unfortunately(?) this right to privacy prevents individuals from checking out your credit history (unless they are licensed credit providers), prevents people obtaining your unlisted telephone number and other things which would be of interest to someone in the credit area, for example, if you are an absconding debtor, or if a company wants to "pre-vet" you before offering you a credit facility. This information cannot be passed between people without a proper legal basis and there are severe penalties for non-compliance.

Similarly, government has its own privacy act which makes it an offence to pass information to outsiders, without a valid legal reason. Centrelink has its own rules regarding information disclosure, so you won't (or shouldn't) get any information of a personal nature through either government or the business community without a very good reason for doing so.

As an individual, therefore, if you wish to chase someone up because they owe you $20,000, there are very limited legal means at your disposal. I stress the word "legal".

Consequently, since the advent of the privacy acts, people owed money (and substantial sums of money at that) have essentially no legal way of chasing a debtor if the debtor isn't on the electoral roll, owns real property and has an unlisted phone number. You can try social media, but again, not everyone uses it - especially those "on the run".

So as an individual, government will know everything about you, but you're not allowed to discover anything about anyone else - even if you have a valid legal reason. 

Another example of justice denied courtesy of the state.JamesD - you are of course quite correct. There is no "privacy" in our Constitution, it is something that has been tacked on by legislation.

The nub of the matter is that you and I, or anyone else, have no right of privacy from the government. They can do what they bloody well like and we can't. The coffin lid is getting well and truly nailed down.

On a sarcastic note, the government doesn't trust us to handle information sensibly and so they simply withhold it via legislation."All leaders have to be egotists..." should read "All politicians have to be egotists..."

There isn't a leader worth following anywhere in Canberra or the states right now. We got the government(s) we deserved.Australia's government does so much want to be like America's, with its NSA and myriad of other security organisations - so many in fact, that's it's a surprise they even know they have two hands, let alone what the other is doing.

The Americans "got away with" spying on their own citizens by accessing their wanted data from overseas terminal connections, courtesy of GCHQ. Surely Australia could just ask the Americans to return the favour? I mean, they've been accessing data for years under the 5 Eyes arrangements - why should new legislation be required? Oh - to make it legal?"OTHERWISE Australia will not only have a Ghetto mentality emerging but will also have a larger JAIL Population with really failed &amp; dangerous people emerging after that !!"

I believe you can safely count on that and my reason for saying so, is not that "Australia has to do more", but rather, the new arrival to Australia should be required to (1) study and be able to read and write basic English, so as to be understood and to be able to fend for themselves, (2) attend a short course - perhaps even a 1 day lecture - in which Australian values, customs and laws are explained in day-to-day terms, i.e. treatment of women and the law, so that reverting to their "old" culture when dealing with a situation is not an excuse. This should be a basic requirement for both parents and any child over 10 years of age. Failure to complete the two assignments without good reason, means forfeiture of social security benefits.

You have to want to be an Australian and it does require some effort on everyone's part. Including the new arrival's.
An interesting read Mungo.

Back then, I didn't vote for Whitlam or the ALP, both were anathema. Since then I have mellowed and now long for a politician or statesman/woman in the mould of Whitlam or Fraser to lead us.

The matters you raise in the article are, of course, only part of the whole story. After the ALP was voted in, we had the "government of two" for a while (Gough Whitlam and Lance Barnard) - it was almost as though Whitlam had never expected to win the election and hadn't made arrangements for a Labor cabinet. Given the mood of the electorate and the "It's Time" campaign which had large numbers of media persons supporting it, just about anyone could see that the ALP should romp it in. 

So Whitlam and Barnard took on a mountain of work in creating things like the Family Law Act 1975 and numerous reform bills. After a while, people were asking: "Is Gough going to appoint anyone else?" It all seemed quite surreal at the time.

We also had the Khemlani loans affair, Jim Cairns and Juni Morosi, Lionel Murphy's raid on ASIO and suddenly, there was a perception that the ALP had lost its way and didn't really have a grip on office. All these things together (plus a little background help from the CIA) helped Fraser win office in 1975."What, like the right to privacy, right to legal counsel, freedom of speech, freedom of religious belief, freedom of attire --- these are basic civil rights..."

Not all of which are enshrined in law. The government giveth and the government taketh away. Privacy, for example. What privacy do you enjoy from government prying into your affairs? None. As a result, the government has an all-encompassing picture of you, medically, emotionally, financially, lifestyle, you name it they can access it - most of the time quite legally. They can quite literally control you should they wish.

What happens when you invade someone else's privacy? Fines and/or a gaol term depending upon the circumstances. 

There's also a small matter of "innocent until proven guilty", "reasonable doubt" and so on, but I don't want to spoil your day in one go.This piece of legislation is both disgusting and un-necessary. The security services have more than adequate means of detecting terrorist plots (provided they're not using the American model, which was strangely defective in preventing 9/11). The federal and state police already have the power to act in the prevention of the commission of a crime - what's new here? The fact that they tell you about your home being invaded 6 months after the fact - maybe.

The people that came up with this legislation are nothing short of idiots. Who are we at war with? Seriously - who? When were we attacked? Just because a few "religious" nut jobs claim to have a grievance, don't alienate them further - try and find out what their problem is and see if you can fix it. That's what politicians are there for, to keep their constituents happy - not have their constituents thinking: "Maybe we should have a revolution after all - look what this lot are doing to us!"

If you are against this new Bill, then do something about it. Flood your elected representative with emails, letters etc until they get the message that they are there for us and not the other way around. (It's a little thing called "democracy" - not that we have any left).

What's even more disgusting is that the ALP seems to be going along with the legislation! Aren't they supposed to be a party for the ordinary person? Bill Shorten, you should hang your head in shame. You claim to be a Labor man?

Keating's "unrepresentative swill" may have referred to the Senate, but now it fits both houses like a glove.the yank - please don't be too hard on us about secrecy. It's not like it's a recent phenomenon, our state and federal governments have been secretive for years. It's in their blood. They have the information, therefore they have the power. You can't have it because we say so.

Then came FOI - Freedom of Information, for information that  should be publicly available anyway! What do we get? A long delay before some heavily redacted document (which costs the applicant a tidy sum of money) arrives in the post, leaving our questions unanswered.

Morrison is a subject that should be taught separately at school - it's too long and involved to go into here, just let me say I'm in total agreement with you. The man's a megalomaniac.

Freedom and privacy. Think on what they mean to you. Then ask yourself how much of each you have and how much of each the government has. How do they balance up? I thought so."McMahon was the worst and should never have been elected."

Untrue. He had classic comedy value and a very attractive wife.

Two out of three ain't bad.
""Fears grow as a person ages..."

It's not fear, M. or Mme. Voyage, it's adulthood. The young child suddenly running across a road because they see their mum or dad on the other side isn't thinking about the bus that's about to kill them. An adult knows about buses, cars and other dangerous things on the road and through that knowledge, makes a conscious decision to stop, look both ways and cross only when safe to do so.

We are more aware of risks, but we don't have to fear them.The media is its own worst enemy.

We are breathlessly told that an unfortunate soldier on guard duty has been shot and a lone gunman has gone berserk inside parliament - in Canada. There are constant reports of the threat of Islamic State (IS) - say 50,000 people at best, with no navy, air force or major infrastructure of state, that currently occupies part of two countries - in the Middle East. Both more than half a world away and our parliament goes into lockdown in response!

Why can't the media just report the facts and show our politicians as being scaredy-cats, because that's what they were. AFP are already in place. Security is something that has always been surrounding our parliament. Suddenly it's panic time.

The ABC is as guilty as anyone in this. A few days ago, they reported that Iraqi members of IS were training pilots at Aleppo in Syria and that they had three captured MIG-21 jet fighters. IS has three jet fighters? That's a game-changer!
It was left to commenters to point out that MIG-21s are fourth generation fighters, that in the picture accompanying the story, the one MIG-21 visible was unarmed and that in any air battle, they would be mincemeat if put against F18s or F22s.

The ABC and other Australian media, has failed to follow up this seemingly important story, with the news that the Syrian government forces have destroyed two of the MIGs whilst landing and made the third inoperable. We can't have the Syrian government shown in a good light, so the matter is not reported.

Then yesterday, we had the Chechen president quoted as saying that the leader of IS, al-Baghdadi, is an agent of the CIA. Given who backed, trained and armed IS and the fact that al-Baghdadi was locked up in Guantanamo Bay for 3-4 years then suddenly emerges into the spotlight with "instant army - just add water" - that's not an unreasonable hypothesis, so what if it's true?

Personally, I believe we're being conned but our federal government is either too stupid or too hamstrung to do anything about it.

"What we are not hearing from anyone in the Govt. is what is actually happening in Iraq."

Or Syria - which is the easier to answer. Right now, partly due to the pressure being taken off the Syrian government by the US and others attacking IS positions within Syria, Syrian government forces are slowly winning back lost territory. If this keeps up, the government forces will win the day and then be able to commence rebuilding the place. However, that can be construed as good news therefore, it isn't worth reporting.

But wait! Didn't the west back the Free Syrian Army (and where are they now? - IS). Or the other rebel groups (that have also since joined IS or Jabhat al-Nusra).

This whole Middle East farrago stinks. There is NO benefit to Australia in our being there, we can accomplish nothing in the end except create more grief and anger and it's not even our fight!

"... if he passed them on for humours publication why is he outraged..."

He is outraged because his privacy was breached and that's why his lawyers applied for and got an injunction - which still stands.So it's in extreme bad taste if I did a stand-up routine about people with a disability, but it's OK if someone like "Steady Eddy" does them? Is that what you're saying?Well, Ben, you would be the umpteenth person to write about the "Uni email scandal" and I shall be the umpteenth plus X. No matter.

I am aware of the emails and the circumstances of how they came to be in the public eye, yet despite the media's best attempts (and yours Ben!), I have no interest in reading them. They are a mere distraction in the tapestry of life, a political "outing" if you like. It bothers me not one wit if the good professor is an out-and-out racist and bigot - that says more about his employer and the people with whom he associates, than it does about him.

We don't know the whole story and so comments on it right now are presumptuous. What I and others care about is the professor's ability to teach, his input into the recent curriculum study and the likely effects thereof. His teaching ability does not seem to be in doubt, given his position. What is his real demeanour? How does he address his students? Does he have a reputation as being a racist or bigot? 

The matter is before the courts. Let them decide.To Mick, renae and foolking -

The major problem I see with any government, state or federal, is their media monitors. You know, those people that - for a job, mind you - sit in front of a screen all day, analyse the media and provide responses to complaints about government. The people the spin doctors look to.

Over more than 40 years we have been subjected to governments being able to respond to a complainant on (say) radio, after the complainant has left the airwaves and put over a nice glossy blurb to spin the matter in the government's favour. We have been subjected to this propaganda for so long, we accept it as normal.

Many of the population don't follow politics. They either don't vote, or they vote a particular way "because Dad did and his Dad before him". They have lost the realisation that neither the LNP or ALP are what their policy platforms claim them to be, nor do they represent the people they claim to. In that respect, they are both frauds.

More of us tend to vote for believable minorities or independent candidates.

So for those who are disappointed about a particular government stance on any subject, don't panic. You weren't going to get whatever you wanted anyway.The Australian government has no strategic interest on the African continent.

That's the answer to your questions."Perhaps when we get our new government they should issue a world wide apology"

Would that be in advance, or retrospective?Fukushima was constructed in a country prone to earthquakes and tsunamis.

Australia, on the other hand, is geologically stable and on that basis alone, is the perfect place to have a nuclear power station.

We are also a sufficiently large country to have such an asset away from large population centres, but close enough to uranium as a source product and also close enough to hook into the national grid. In particular, I'm thinking somewhere north-east or east of Port Augusta. In the unlikely event of a misshap, the prevailing wind would not invade any large population centre for hundreds if not thousands of kilometres.

It's about time Australia took nuclear power seriously. The rest of the world has, where it's been feasible.Weather forecasting for the world.The passenger wasn't "wearing" an oxygen mask - it was wrapped around his neck, which means that the oxygen masks all dropped due to sudden depressurisation, which would occur if the aircraft was hit by a missile, riddled by cannon fire or just fell apart in the sir.

The current crop of rumours (pending the release of the official report) certainly suggest the Ukraine government forces are to blame. In addition, there is a lot more than circumstantial evidence to back that up.If vigilance is the price of freedom, what's the price for utter stupidity?

As many writers in these columns have pointed out, there is nothing in this new legislation that was not already covered in criminal law. Murder is still murder, even if a "terrorist" is the offender.

All Brandis and his bunch of mindless cohorts have done is to drive yet another wedge between Muslims and those of other or no religion, so as to provide us with a bunch of ready-made patsies, should anything go wrong, anywhere, any time.

The aim of government in Australia appears to be "While we're here, let's legislate for something". No apparent forethought at all.

If Australia becomes a republic one day, which I hope it will, the royal "Dieu et mon droit" ("God and my rights") will have to be replaced by "Why make it hard when you can make it bloody impossible". Somehow it seems fitting. 

Sorry to burst your bubble, Tiger Tim, but that is utter rubbish. Just read the newspapers if you don't believe me."...The robustness of Australian politics means that these laws will be under constant review..."

Sorry I couldn't post earlier, Coogara. Been trying to pick myself up off the floor...It's a dog eat dog world out there son!"It's hard to understand what a life without privacy will be like, but we're all about to find out"

As I told people from 1988 onwards - these privacy laws are nothing to do with protecting YOUR privacy. It's about protecting the government's privacy and that of their agencies.

So now the government has to tell us nothing and we can't (legally) find out. Great.

I don't know why some people got so het up about "privacy" in the first place. It's not like we have any.The videos shot in the middle east certainly have had a salutary effect on the world's population, particularly in America and Great Britain, as most recently, it was their citizens suffering beheading. Prior to that, there was no move for the "west's" armed forces to move into the middle east, except on the request of Iraq. The "western beheadings" were the galvanising moment for action to start.

Had Australia in particular not whizzed off at a rate of knots to show the Americans how obsequious we can be, we would still have a small risk of a terrorist act being committed here. The same holds true throughout the world. It's less of a risk than being struck by lightning, but it's still there.

Our being involved in the middle east (again), with no plan of entry, specific tasking and exit plan, only increases the risk to Australia from any nut-jobs living here. Even so, that risk is small compared to crossing the road.

Don't surrender your rights and don't submit to terrorism, otherwise they win by default.I'm still here spud. Not going anywhere. Not running, not ducking and weaving and not believing a lot of the BS being put out by our government. Sure, there's a risk, as in everything, but unless you're an insurance actuary assessing risk to just having a life, I'm just getting on with life and doing the best I can.
Reality? John and spud - If you want "reality", get your backsides over to Syria or Iraq, pick up a weapon and use it on whoever you think fit.

Get it through your skulls - Australia (nor Britain, nor the USA) is the middle east. We cannot solve their problems for them. They don't want "democracy", they crave leadership with a capital "L". The best we can do is supply humanitarian aid and take in genuine refugees.

I've seen enough "reality" in my time to know that helping the US out of a jam is more dangerous than playing with unexploded bombs.

As far as Bali is concerned, it was a target because lots of westerners go there. The fact that most westerners happen to be Australians was unfortunate, rather than any plan to kill us en masse.

As I said before, there are nut jobs out there in Australia, whatever their political stripe. The police and courts can quite well deal with them. Until Is or anyone else tries to invade, it's not our fight. Simple as.Mainly agree with you the yank, but there's one angle that the article has overlooked entirely.

Suppose Turkey "invades" Syria, even on an R2P basis, gives IS a good whacking and kicks them out of Kobani? Turkey is then free to take on the Syrian armed forces, a dream coveted by Erdogan as he wants to re-live the splendour of the Ottoman empire. IS couldn't possibly match the second largest military in NATO.

There's no telling where this mess will end, unless somebody comes up with a proper plan damn quick!Joe - "Unintentional" is right!

I don't think the majority of Syrians (or Kurds) would be too happy about it, but who knows what machinations whizz around in our leaders' heads? That would pre-suppose a plan, though and somehow, I'm not convinced. There doesn't appear to have been an over-abundance of planning so far...Peter - I severely doubt that IS will make any move against Turkey - unless Turkey attacks them first. Turkey has been too good to IS in the past. How do you think the 46 Turkish hostages got released? Close cooperation between IS and Turkish intelligence services, that's how.

IS know Turkey's military strength and know they would be fools to take Turkey on head-to-head. That's not to say that IS might not activate a few sleeper cells, just to keep the pot on the boil and give Turkey enough distraction from entering the fray properly.Turkey's just grandstanding, wanting the west to bankroll them for "all the trouble" Turkey is going through in helping out NATO (under its own obligations, I should add).

Turkey isn't serious about getting rid of IS - it would prefer to get rid of the PKK and the Kurdish problem. That's why Turkey has been blocking Kurds in Turkey from crossing into Syria and helping their countrymen in Kobani.
I'm no military expert either, but you have to admit it makes a great pic for the media!Have to agree with you, the only qualifier being the parties to sort out this mess. Could I suggest a triumvirate - the apex being the UN and the other two being (1) Russia, Iran and Syria and (2) Turkey, the US and Saudi Arabia. That would cover both protagonists and backers, with the vetoes of Russia and the US being neutralised.

With IS out of the way, borders could be re-drawn to reflect ethnicities (and oil revenue), with Syria and Iraq being greatly reduced in size to compensate for a Kurdish autonomous region.

That way, the US foreign policy nerds get their fragmentation of middle east states (which keeps Israel very happy), no one state has sufficient strength to threaten and take over another and the US doesn't have to commit any ground troops.

Iran is the puzzle in all this - how far will they go to settle things down? If the west lets them "go nuclear" then Israel will step in and start bombing. Hardly the desired result.We now have the situation that Iran has formally warned Turkey against moving into Syria, according to PressTV. The "warning" was only at deputy foreign minister level, but it's still there and should be acknowledged.

Iran claims that Turkey and itself are working towards a resolution to the IS problem in Ayr al-Arab (Kobani) so the diplomats are earning their pay this week.The media - yes, all of it, not just the corporates, is in a pretty sorry state in Australia.

Media monitoring probably started the rot, with state or federal governments being able to instantly respond (spin doctor) to complaints about them aired on radio or television. This created a belief that "we had better be careful what we say" and so in the end, nothing of any worth or interest was said at all, because the government would straight away trump it.

After that, the media became used to taking "media releases" (more spin) from government, instead of finding out for themselves and challenging government at every turn.

Our libel laws actively prevent media whistleblowing and our whistleblower laws are a joke.

The commercial news media is well-known for its inaccuracy in reporting. ABC News is now becoming known as having almost no news at all, whether due to budget constraints or otherwise.

Thank goodness we have the internet, whereby we can search the world's media, get different versions of a story and make up our own minds as to the facts. Media here sure as hell won't do that for us!""There are studies which show that 80% of refugees remain unemployed for five years and more."

It's actually a bit of selective data reporting. The magic 80%/5 years figures refer to a refugee study undertaken possibly 2 years ago. I can't recall exactly who conducted the study, but it seemed authentic - a university or government department. 

The study was trying to show which groups of refugees remained out of work the longest and if possible, find some reason for the problem and try to correct it. The group identified as such was the Afghan community with the 80%-5years figure attributed.

I stress that the study was not undertaken to show how "unemployable" Afghans might be; rather, that they appeared to suffer the most by the change in language, culture and so on. 

Well GRF and Reddog, here's my tuppence worth -

1.   IS are "allowed" by the west to form their caliphate. Bear in mind
      that unless you are a Sunni (minimum requirement) you will be executed.
      Wahhabist is preferable. Shia Iran is sidelined for the moment.

2.    Israel acts on the "Greater Israel" plan drawn up by the Zionists, which,
       coincidentally, almost matches the caliphate land area and together with
       the US and others, declares war on IS.The way things are going, we may need conscription again, just so that our military bases in Australia can be maintained!"It is a very good thing that many countries are addressing the problem of IS."

"There may be much more to this than meets the eye and ear or the government is far less certain of itself than it wants to project and is not being open and transparent."

Exactly anote, exactly. Now let's examine some aspects of this multi-national task force. Two of the biggest backers of Islamic State (Saudi Arabia and Qatar) - total of 6 aircraft. Turkey - another IS supporter - dragged kicking and screaming into the fray but won't let the US or NATO use its airbases. As of today Turkey has about 14 tanks on its side of the Syria-Turkish border, preventing Kurds leaving and also preventing Kurds getting into Syria to fight. They had no such qualms with IS fighters and/or their weapons.

And Turkey is part of NATO?

Just from the three examples above, having Sunni fighting Sunni is not going to be a resounding success. Forget the Iraqi army, they're next to useless as they are at present.

The "coalition" are using jet aircraft when they should be using close infantry support aircraft, such as the A10 Warthog and Apache helicopters. There's no infantry on the ground, so there's a reluctance to use those assets, for fear of flight crew getting captured. (Today it was reported on CNN that Apache helicopters are now being used in Iraq - but not at Ayr al-Arab (Kobani) where they are most needed.)

IS are possibly less than 50kms from Baghdad. Iraq is in no position to defend itself and it's only the non-Arab countries that can be counted on to do any real fighting.

So why did America let things get this far and why are they now treating IS almost as a casual foe to be engaged only when they feel like it? Why the holding back? Is it because the US trained many of these people in Jordan? Is it because IS was funded largely by wealthy Saudis, Qataris and the UAE?

Why has Syria not fallen and the government still remains popular with Syrians?

In short, no we cannot afford this war, but it has nothing to do with money. Australia should get out of the middle east before it's too late.It's been reported (in the MSM unfortunately) that Saudi Arabia has nukes on order from Pakistan. According to the report, KSA has paid for them but has not yet specified a delivery date.

I expect they'll want them delivered just before IS becomes a real state,Read the fine print in the policy before you sign it. You may not get what you believe you're paying for.

That apart, would you really want the US as an ally?Disregarding the state of the federal budget, there should be no "War Tax" because Australia shouldn't even be back in the middle east to start with.

To make it worse, we're there with totally the wrong equipment, so we're now paying to use tools and personnel that can't do the job being asked of them effectively.

Now THAT'S a waste of money!"I have an idea how they can pay for it."

Me to Aja - bill the Iraqi government. They want us there, they can bloody well pay for it out of their oil wealth.Ann - I sympathise with your frustration. Everything you said is out there in black and white and all one has to do is read it. This is not tinfoil hat stuff - this is what real people and governments have actually said what their aims are. The MSM can't seem to get a hold of that; they just keep repeating the same old mantras, brown skin bad, good skin white, we need their oil so we sell them arms etc etc etc.

Even if one disregards the containment policy towards Russia and China, it's obvious to anyone with half a brain that the house of Saud and similar kingdoms in the gulf states cannot last forever and will fall. It's just a question of will they fall, or be pushed? Then look at the US carrier fleets in the gulfs and there's your answer.Spot on, the yank. Someone has to come up with a plan on how to defeat the ideology before it's even worth talking IS militarily. Otherwise....."In the news tonight, how the west is faring in the war against IS on its 10th anniversary....""..why should America have to be the only ones to risk there young soldiers?"

Because they were asked by the Iraqi government and were silly enough to say "Yes" without saying to Israel - "We prop you guys up. It's payback time."Oh come on 'Loo - WMD - that's the lie. Try to keep up."It really comes down to what the US promised the saudi's and other arabs to get their cooperation"

I'm hoping it wasn't a promise - more of a threat. Help us, or else!"For the moment, Australians should be proud that they have joined an international coalition to help a sovereign government whose territory and citizens are under attack from a violent group - a group that also threatens Australia"

Yes, we can be proud, but was it necessary to invoke this pride in the first place? There are matters closer to home and probably more deserving that require our attention. America, as the world's number one superpower, certainly does not need our assistance to overcome IS. (America's ability to do so, using "firepower" as opposed to boots on the ground is another matter).

Whatever one might think about any militant Muslims in Australia, they are far in the minority and certainly no threat to Australia. Neither is IS, even if you imported them wholesale into the country. As Dove" aptly pointed out in these columns only a day or so ago, we are talking about a bunch of people who wouldn't even fill a football ground. Threat? Get real!

Certainly IS are dangerous, evil and deserve to be obliterated, but let's not ramp up the hysteria too much - at present we're using a hammer to kill an ant. That's expensive for us, but unsustainable as far as IS is concerned. 

The west has been selling arms - and highly sophisticated arms at that - to the middle east for years. It's about time the middle east started using them and stopped relying on the west to do their dirty work.Have to agree Grasshopper - Abbott was reported as saying that he personally found the burka confronting, BUT....except the "but" was instantly forgotten and we then had the "ban the burka" mob yapping away madly. Suddenly Tone was "anti-burka". 

This, regrettably, is the standard of reporting in the media that we have become used to. We seize on words that are misquoted, taken out of context or even just implied and base our entire summary of a person on that. Mind you, I'm no fan of Mr Abbott and even less of Bill what's-his-name-again(?), but if journalists and reporters can't get the facts right, or the context in which something is done or said, it doesn't tell the whole story. That's why a lot of us spend half a day trawling the media, trying to find out "the full story", or the background to a particular event.

Our Australian media is simply not up to the task at present.
Q:  How do you define a "moderate" rebel?

A:  They haven't joined IS yet.

Or as someone with experience with boots on the ground said, when asked why it was so difficult to find "moderate" rebels, he replied: "Because there aren't any!"Well, I suppose that you can't go broke while the Federal Reserve lets you keep on printing money (and charging the US government interest on it)!"...the air campaign against Islamic State should be greeted by Australians with a mixture of quiet satisfaction and concern. Satisfaction because we're doing the right thing; concern because it's not clear if our Government understands the strictly limited end-state the campaign can achieve."

Satisfaction because we're doing the right thing - but are we? Certainly, we can feel nice and warm and fuzzy because we're there to make a difference and try to alleviate the suffering of the local populace, but at the end of the day, it will just revert back to the same old inter-tribal, inter-religious rivalry. Nothing will change except the initials of the participants. In short, nice gesture, waste of time.

It's all very well quoting R2P but if you got into trouble, would you first call the neighbours, or would you phone someone on the other side of town? And Australia's about as far out of town you can get relative to the middle east.

Our concern should not only be because our government (1) hasn't debated the issue in parliament, or consulted anyone, they've simply barged in and one could almost say we were back in the middle east before anyone else. (2) The government doesn't appear to have an entry-exit plan. They might say they don't want to advertise to the enemy. That's fine, but then why tell the enemy you're even contemplating coming over and with what? (3)  There doesn't appear to be any humanitarian strategy worked in with the bombing. The locals will simply love that! (4) Then there is the increased risk of alienating (further) certain sections of the community, who may feel a tad peeved that Australia is back in their homeland. It will certainly assist with Islamic State recruitment.

Whilst I would expect Tony "Team Australia" Abbott to try and big note himself, I had better expectations from the ALP. The two parties might as well merge now and be done with it.

All this, just so the US can start and continue bombing in Syria and obtain regime change via the back door.

No John - count the freedoms you have, that are enshrined in law. (Tip: It will take a lot less time than your suggestion)." ...but just like all those "we asked average Americans where Australia was" and..."

Ann - the clue is in the wording "average Americans". Most times, in an unmarked atlas, they can't point to Australia straight away. Again, the words "straight away" are key words. A person may select Australia on a world map on the sixteenth attempt. They may pick it first time through their own knowledge of where Australia is and what it looks like on a map ("Hint: It's the big one next to New Zealand." "New Zealand??")

In general, however, (three more key words), Americans cannot point to Australia on a world map on the first attempt and have even less knowledge of our relative position viz-a-viz other countries. Like Iraq. Or Iran.

Like someone once said, the only way Americans learn geography is by having a war."In 2013 the ABC was allocated $70 million over three years to expand the depth and quality of its news and current affairs for the digital era. ABC viewers and staff have the right to question management on where this investment has been made."

OK. As a viewer, I'm asking. ABC News seems to have deteriorated in quality over the last couple of years and particularly in the last 12 months. We get press releases, not journalism, the news crew around the world has been trimmed, weekend online news is partially updated (at best) and comments sections are closed, at a time when people have the time to contribute. It's only in "Have Your Say" that a posters comments can be rated and the "rater" has to log on, but that's more of a website problem than a news issue.

In past years, I have always regarded the ABC as being trustworthy and accurate - as well as one can be anyway. Commercial TV news is not up to the task of accurate reporting, let alone investigative journalism and this is where the ABC shines, with long-running programmes like "Four Corners" for example.

Yet the halo is starting to slip and when we can't receive accurate and timely news from our national newscaster, we have a problem and it has nothing to do with money. 




Jack44 - wishing you a safe journey in whatever you're doing.

Did the $64,000 question ever come up in your conversations with Sunni or Shia Muslims - "You people advocate me, or the west, doing something about Islamic State. What are YOU doing?"

(Crickets)

Then perhaps you could politely point out that the west is not going to bail them out forever and they had better start fixing things for themselves, or we shall send them a big bill for all the work done in their name."5. Quran also say, stay loyal to the country you live in, it is part of the faith."

Not having read the Quran, thank you for pointing that out. If more people were aware of this teaching, perhaps our (Australian) attitudes might change for the better. 
After reading the article, I'm more convinced than ever that any religion is a bad idea.John, I believe the yank has a valid point. Take this legislation for example. Other countries have similar legislation, but does that make a smart idea? Why do you live in Australia and not Zimbabwe or Great Britain?

This is the problem - we think we live in a democracy, but we don't. We don't tell our politicians what to do, they tell us. Were you consulted prior to this new terror legislation? Damn sure I wasn't. And wasn't the timing perfect - just as the security threat was raised and we tootle off to the middle east again. So I'm with the yank on this one.Good point Anne.

If you want to live dangerously in Australia, become a whistle-blower. No legal protection whatsoever, at least not any of effective standing.

For this situation to have developed, you must perforce look to see who or what has the most to gain from stifling whistle-blowers. Over to Canberra now, for our...."They have wasted millions looking for a lost airplane..."

If your parents or children had been on MH370 you might be thinking differently. This is necessary search and it's in our patch.

"...they have devastated the manufacturing industry..."

which started around the early 1970's, when we found we couldn't compete with countries paying lower wages. But hey, we kept on pouring money down the toilet and the unions demanded more and more money for their members. Manufacturing industry in Australia? We can't afford it. 

There are other items in your post I agree with, but all the things you complain about, would have happened or will happen regardless who is in power. It's inevitable.I don't know if you go back as far as the Vietnam War, GJA, but at that time, any Australian passport issued to a male of military age was stamped "Not Valid For North Vietnam".

Perhaps the Australian government might like to bring that practice back into vogue, but modify it just a little - "Not Valid For Syria, Iraq, Iran, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Somalia, Central African Republic, Libya, Egypt, Israel or Israeli-occupied territories."AMF - Good luck getting a straight answer from Alpo, but at least you know what the answer will be, regardless of the question being asked.Back in the "good old days" (whenever that was), governments formulated policies and enacted legislation for the public good - usually in response to lobbying from an adversely affected part of society. Governments responded to the needs and wishes of their electorate. Attempts to bring in new but unnecessary legislation were howled down by the media and as a result, by sections of the informed public and consequently, silly, unnecessary legislation did not get past "Go".

Now, the government is proposing and enacting legislation which, in whole or in part, the electorate does not need. In this current situation, it can only lead to an escalation of antagonistic relationships between Muslims and non-Muslims and engender a fear among Muslims that they are being targeted. This is despite the fact that many in authority in the Muslim world have come out and unequivocally stated their hatred in "Islamic State" (or ISIS/ISIL) and that they offer IS no support or succour.

That isn't to say that certain people will try and aid IS in one form or another, either by raising money or going overseas to fight. There's bad apples in every barrel, but it's hardly a reason to make matters worse for all of us living in Australia.

The tail is the Australian government. We are the dog. It's about time the roles were reversed.
