Oh come on, as if TA is going to call for an election, he 's in power and has  28? months to regain some sort of popularity.

As others have pointed out Clive Palmer is a business man, unless he is going for CEO of the country, he will improve his  business environment, grab a few trophies and retire from politics ostensibly for health reasons.

If Clive continues to use available  experts in their respective field, in formulating policy,he could take over on his survival instincts. 

The hissy fit with the senate clerk is an example of his strategy having teething problems. If a fine is a tax then banks are taxing people with late fees and police are often  tax collectors.,is this constitutional? Any penalty imposed by a private or public  organization is a tax then?Nicola Roxons effort to bring in plain packaging is perhaps the only example we have of a govt going against a corporate , party donating lobby group. A standout of the previous govt. 

I think banning it is the wrong way to go, the high excise is correct , bung it up on price cutting if it gains traction/ increases smoking. 

the vaporiser should be encouraged , it's less harmfull.

All illegal drugs should be available via carefully constructed regulations, with the users wellbeing the first priority.

The revenue and employment would compensate for the difficulty, and knock a large hole in the black market. 

Alcohol advertising should be banned especially around sport, now there is a hipocracy.I find it a little beyond belief that this govt has decided to use the term"team Australia", considering the very successful film that came out in America lampooning  their approach to terrorism. 

 Team Australia,something  Yeah, here we come to save the err day.

 heads should roll, nice one advisers.
We already know that different business collects our data , sells it and tailors internet adds accordingly. The  server you use keeps  a history for a long time. Private enterprise is already watching.

If you were a terrorist you would not use the same server, your use of internet would be disguised and you probably wouldn't use the same approach twice,..watch the watcher watching the watcher   
So presumably the metadata can find a consistency that reveals the perpetrator.   the ministers must be too busy to watch telly.   

 When the collection of information is set a task that tremendously benefits people  you would expect  govt rather than private industry to be  the main driver. Only institutes of learning or the public service   can set aside time for developing computer programs that analyze at a no cost to the customer for the betterment of life. Research and development funding in metadata is what an astute government would look at.

It doesn't matter how we arrived, but what we do now, we're here, the information age   
 That the issue has arisen over perceived fear of people who's religion is unfamiliar is unfortunate because making people feel uncertain of foreigners  has been a natural predilection  for politicians and shock jocks  here and we need to move away from it.By pumping trillions of "fake" dollars into  the world economy via the US, hasn't this devalued the whole worlds economy because we are all tied to the greenback? But if the actual value of something is subject to market demand then the outcome for us is that our income has to be less, deliberate inflation for us deflation for them. Does anyone understand what the consequences are? Is this a fair assumption?The collection and storage of metadata could be a useful tool for a discrete considerate govt. It could be used to benefit people and improve quality of life.

 A government that declares that it is open for business and has proved that it is not to be believed doesn't deserve the access to more private information.
Unfortunately my perception of the knights in shining armour has been severely diminished, I'm sick of watching people  being ridden roughshod over.

This is another potential bullying act.
I think it's a step in the right direction that 18c has been kept, it might be that the govt is listening to the people . 

That the woman got off on a good behavior bond is sensible and  an example of modern communication ability and should serve as a warning. A bloke probably would cop a fine because of inferred physical violence and that depending on circumstance would also be ok  I think.

If the reason that people don't go on bigoted rants in public is because they may be caught, just maybe the bigot will wonder why it's not tolerated, not ideal but better than before the i phone. 

Protecting a person from abuse is not Big brother.

The manner in which the parliament treat each other sets an example of conduct for the rest of us, they should lift their game.Looking at how other countries cope with their problems and then being able to choose the best approach is a rare advantage and we have it.

Australia should be a pacifist country and so of course should all religions. 

Anzac day is about the horror of war and coping , it always has been.
The role of a modern soldier should be to protect , rebuild, learn the local culture and listen to the stories to gain understanding.Good article, it's important that the destructive aspects of the Abbott  govt. aren't forgotten.

The" panel of experts" that was used to formulate this "employment" policy clearly had no one with any social impact training,, tough love is an oxymoron.

There will always be the unemployable and there will always be a need to look out for them as a society. 40 jobs a week is so far from reality one wonders what planet these loonies are on.

The concept of voluntary community work, ie cleaning someones house who can't easily, picking up rubbish learning a skill by volunteering your services are ,in my opinion perfectly reasonable approaches to dealing with the problem. 

The problem being peoples self esteem and confidence and not feeling ostracized by the larger community, a real issue in Australia , exacerbated by these clowns.

The fact that their approach could be seen as an attempt to help people is the only redeemable aspect of this pathetic policy.

I hope that someone from Labor or a more reasonable Liberal reads this post.Firstly I think this is a silly article , I didn't read Latham's book but to presume that experts in their respective fields will be incapable of incorporating,caring, thoughtful policy is very odd.   

Surely the incumbant govt  appoints the experts and hopefully  would screen for lack of objectivity and especially bias opposing their political belief.

I consider this to be a progressive approach to forming policy but one would hope that it is how it has always been done.

The reference to the reserve bank is asking for conservative [not political] objectivity , something that everyone that follows politics in Australia pines for, a voice of impartial reason , like err the speaker in parliament, a body to oversee appointments, etc.

Is it impossible?, someone mentioned in comments on the Drum a while back that a group of volunteer elders to play the role, it's hard not to immediately think of the 2 old guys commenting on sesame street.

Good subject matter in this article but it is  shooting the messenger.I don't think that Abbot , Hockey  and co actually realise that everyone wants to lift the poor out of welfare dependence and have more people contribute to help balance the books.

This purse lipped approach that is currently being pursued is really confusing, are they living in a parallel universe?

I'm sick of the slinging match and the getting personal approach and am looking forward to seeing progressive ideas actually tried, if this govt is able , show us.

We  are old enough and wise enough now to shop around and choose policy from around the world that suits our criteria. It's also time we backed ourselves and our own ideas. 

I've read plenty of comments here over the past year with really good concepts and don't we have perfectly good highly trained academics and public servants, why not ask ?

Not being able to use ideas from places that don't fit their ideology will ruin this govt, and yet there's no doubt they are proud of many small L (or wet)liberal achievements. We are a forgiving mob, get on with it.People who have looked for work for years tend to lose the desire for financial aspiration and start to develop a life style that requires relatively little money to give their life meaning. It is the security in having a (rented)house, transport ,health services,education access that really counts, just like living anywhere.

What is really important is that govt is aware of these people and seeks to not alienate them from the rest of the population.

These people don't really have much spare time because the human brain is always working to find coping mechanisms, the drug alcohol,perscription pills, other drugs, often fills the void,a strangely busy void, but a Brandis type approach has no place here.

This is the area that govt can work hard in to for a more inclusive society, I know that govt. has to see everything from an economic perspective, because they are managing our money.But I wonder how long it will be before we see a govt. or even a minister who realises that to live cheaply and go without many of life's luxuries is also meaningful and rewarding.You can aspire to be a decent, kind person and learn everyday.The cost to the full time wage earner on a good income will be far less than what it is today and is a far sounder, cheaper economic model.All people need to feel good about themselves, after all we all pay tax. Material wealth does not always equal quality of life, working hard at appreciating your life and that of others and other living things does.A good article from Chris, it is refreshing that an IPA bloke can have different views to the govt.

Perhaps the problem with data collection is that it is sold and distributed by business and govt is trying to use this approach as a model.

Turnbulls  approach really isn't,t much different because the it will still reveal the searcher, it is more compact which makes sense.

Chris is completely correct in saying that the search powers now of ASIO are adequate.

Govt could use data collection productively but the information should remain anonymous, again their approach doesn't auger well with good governance.
I suspect senator Lambie was speaking bloke because that is the work environment she was used to. 

A defence mechanism that usually makes the interloper take a step backward. 

Normally such a comment would force a conversation shift. 

It's a shame she didn't say that she'd like a man with little money, talks a lot and has a small penis.

None of the commentors using a female analogy could[or were blocked] bring themselves to compare the appropriate  female genitalia... Is that the time?    

Good article Chris, thanks,   this is a gaping hole in the concept of capitalism. Too big to fail is ridiculous, no one, or entity  should  get that, ever.

Banks weren't always involved in high risk strategy , it used to be that banks were conservative in the nonpolitical sense of the word. 

There's 2 ways to fix the problem, firstly a government  owned bank. If one of the big ones topples it's a good time to pick over the skeleton, very out of fashion however.

Second, force banks while they are making huge profits to firewall themselves to risk.They don't want to and they can make it tough for any govt. to get re elected.
  
aguy; mentions that the directors should take a pay cut, it really is not funny that they don't when they botch things.

Too big to fail  is grossly unfair and is  the  towering example of what happens when there is not enough checks and balances imposed by government.
 And draws a line in the sand for any government that considers itself economically capable.The simplistic description of the parties is a little self indulgent on behalf of the author but it would be nice if it was that easy.

How about Labor has the heart, libs are good with numbers and the greens care for the living things.

A great reason to drop the stupid pretense and allow  the  successful candidates to focus on the issues, collaborative govt. how easy was that?

Parties in their present form have passed their use by date.

  
The inherently silly part of the climate change debate is that everyone knows that as stocks get low  oil is getting much more expensive, making alternatives more commercially viable 
Climate skeptics can ask for proof of the negative impact in rising temperatures , but even the biggest dolt[unless it is his income stream] can see the world is being denuded of natural growth and polluted alarmingly. Why not renewables and humans living with minimum environmental impact?

If I'm reading this article correctly the problem is how banks then on sell the mortgage, being viewed as very safe lending, not the tax advantages to the mortgagee. It's the dodgy way the banks are financing the mortgage themselves. 
And that our superannuation is buying poor economic strategy or gambling.

We need a new player that is focused on stability and low profit or a profit ceiling,  for superannuation and building new houses. 
The more ethical European banks might be interested, but it would be better if we owned it ourselves.

A bank should represent its customers who are automatically it's shareholders so as to minimise corruption and to stop  gaming  the depositor .

A free enterprise bank based on slow safe growth, that is advised directly by the RBA. like what everyone thought banks actually do/ did once . 

This is really good ground for labor to be brave with policy again and spend time on costing something fairer.

People will wear cost if the vision is rich enough.

Change the rental law[and tax]on houses standing idle, increase tax incentive on lowering   rent prices.It's is not so much about trying to seek no political position, more about a willingness to concede  that an idea may work and being prepared to allow it to float.
Some adjustments have to be allowed by the incumbent ,a  get out clause needs  a mutual charted, costed  path[if possible].

 This is what the original author was getting at I think, which makes this article to some degree a prop for avoiding compromise.

The more we focus on what forces a politicians hand the better though. 
Politicians read us as a market share, limiting  the responsibility of decision making  is seen as risk avoidance .

It seems that corporate donors are shouldering the risk at the moment having given the govt financial assurances and are going about   trying to streamline their income, which is good business.

Both major parties are afraid of govt. ownership,  it's the only[not tax] income the govt. receives that allows people to invest back into the country. The only other avenue is Australian/owned made products and services. 

Cheap power/ solar panel and high quality steel manufacturing  is our future, all Australian owned.   

Using words out of context is a favorite dumming down for politics and the USA always feature.

Similar to "reform" ie, just dunce the whole issue was, "zero tolerance ."From now on we are intolerant'. 

Hiding the truth by using words out of context confuses the reader because it is  immediately nonsensical. 

We could do without these stupidities. 

Someone commented the other day that the constitution mentions 227 elected representatives, nothing about parties. 

 I'm sick of politicians being unable or unwilling to vote with a clear conscience.

It's time to make it known that we will vote out anyone who doesn't support transparency and deterrents for bribery in politics.

Another good article from Quentin, this issue especially cannot afford to be swept under the carpet.

If the parties aren't prepared to be bipartisan on this issue, it is a fatal flaw and  they should be broken up, and it sort of seems to be happening. 
 

Brandis is toughening laws for  revealing illegal activity. if there is no clause for 'in the public interest ' this is another example of poor judgement by our attorney general.

He's oversimplifying issues for his own ideological bent again.If Clive really wants power he could get  involved in cleaning  up; donations, ICAC ramifications,  a code of critical thinking for paid  media,  refugees,environment  and lead a tax discussion, he's in. .let alone reconciliation.

When the weight of his efforts become more self interest he knows there's nowhere to hide.

This is good times in politics,
 who ever is seen to be co operating and willing to put forward good policy wins.

Go parties, show us your common sense and we'll show you ours.

It's not really about the political parties, it's more to do with the people and there seem to be 3 main features that we are predominantly.

The main drivers are:
  
1 Business/people  2 people/ people  3 green people [which includes farmers]   and various combinations.

Each party has versions of all these people, it's now about the most cooperative politics and media  to enable problem solving.  Who will be best at it?

This is an opportunity for everyone in politics.  



Maybe we are entering an age of spiritualism, where the individual within the organization will be able to speak freely and thoughtfully.[no snorting 

The difference is it is the Internet that keeps the bastards honest,  

Religions;  kindly leave recruitment and sloganeering at the door, say something sensible ,ie, sitting on the floor[refugees]  is a real gesture but speaking wisely on issues  is the only real way of showing that you are not just players."if you are successful, you must have worked hard; and if you're a failure, then you mustn't have tried very hard."

So it's the perception that they aren't trying, an old car means you  are not with it,.. weird,.. dodgy.

The frantic saturation that is advertising is the main tool that creates the perception of inequality.

It may come as a surprise that people don't have to dedicate the prime of their lives to working, you just have less material wealth. I don't think conservatives would have a problem with this. 

That is where our culture has to re evaluate, saving for the future is meritorious, but we can't save our life for when we retire.The all seeing all knowing spin doctors must be telling politicians the people are dumb, don't go on telly and try to explain your policy. They wont get it and the opposition will have a field day.

Why is it that the Henry tax revue is ignored?

We all coped with the previous tax rate before the mining boom, just promise that corporates and the rich will be pulled into line.

Maybe the spin doctors are really saying," you don't think like  normal people so don't try and talk like one".

Are spin doctors just psychopaths that made it to the top of the heap quicker than politicians? 

The new senate have refused to be pushed into legislation they're not comfortable with, good on them.Palmer wants power and revenge 
And if being seen to be  reasonable will give him more he will do it. 

A few people have really annoyed him and fortunately for us it's mainly political heads he's after. 

He's the best current  chance we have of the major parties getting together and positioning an independent arbiter for donations and election campaigns,  to create a more  even playing field.

The issue of people seeking refuge whether it be to start a new life or find sanctuary until things cool down is not going to go away.

A completely different approach is required that is both humane and far sighted, there is an alternative.
 I' m going to have to be a little patronizing here, or should I say, "do a bolt', because I'm also feeling righteous and everyone needs to hear.

We need a remote processing 2 centres[to start with], to make the most of the seasons.
Think of them as state of the art community centres, a place that is safe, a place to learn life  skills.
 Refugees have amazing stories and telling us is really healthy for all involved.

Now consider  them living   with new age technology that makes life simpler and more effective, sustainable living that only has beneficial impacts on the environment.  

And lastly think of it as a learning hub where we all can go, a place where you can lose your red or rubber neck, or just enjoy the place.

We process on our soil, the people are safe, and  we all learn, and it costs half the price. [Shuffling papers] "Have you got that? ,.... well good night'".   

 
I express an admittedly frustrated explanation of an  alternative to the way we perceive refugees based on friendship  and the  response I get is, "it sounds like Abbotts response to a mesothelioma sufferer." 

The only comparison  I can derive is a suggestion that the idea is "a stunt , not pure "., or the concept drew no interest at all. 
 
I left out... 

The new  preamble to the constitution is the closest modern  political statement as to what we expect from our people. 

Refugees,immigrants, all Australians need to  know about this "will of the people ",CJB22: Thanks for the reply, The  decisions are up to the govt. of the time, when that time eventuates. The concept is the people are much better equipped to cope even if they are returned. It is a sanctuary learning/meeting facility rather than a ticket straight into the suburbs.I agree with Chris here he describes what sounds like a pretty likely scenario. The level of nastiness that Abbott reached has only been transcended by P Keating, who was obviously his , Costello's and sort of Pyne's  secret hero.It is not surprising that the atmosphere is patronizing  But gosh they're a relatively servile bunch as you would expect being newbies ,don't you think? Glen Lazarus is the bloke who represents informed  independent decision making for my money. I think this govt. would be very pleased with a business, small govt. senate which it looks like they represent. 
They represent conservative politics with the emphasis on not conserving nature, or  a welfare net, and no  public ownership.
 Clive Palmer wont last his health will do him in if he's not disciplined with it , but a few million people will be depending on his sense of social largesse.

 The greens have an oxymoron for an immigration policy but we're lucky they are there."..if you're paying more in bank interest than you're earning from your asset year after year - whether it's rent from property or dividends from shares - there's only one reason you're holding onto it, and that's capital gain". 

The above statement is very hard to disagree with.
 And the ramifications for the country  is the perfect groundwork for
an open discussion stating objectives and alternatives for  the stakeholders. No govt. in recent history has been able to pull this off ie; tackling the big issues,
 they require a disciplined  opposition who's agenda isn't just destabilizing the incumbent.

However if rent collected  can be shown to be low and in a housing shortage area some compense should be negotiated via taxSomeone commented the other day that the great Australian dream is to own a house ,not own  a business like the US. 

 This is the point of difference that negative gearing has to take, if you live in it, it should be an advantage not a disadvantage. New houses as someone mentioned here, could still attract negative gearing.

 Incentives for low rental could help fill the void.The implications of this wilful distortion of our history are profoundly disturbing, both for Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians.

The truth beautifully stated, thank you Dr Alan StephensComments here seem to be distracted with what constitutes a war and whether it is any different to what happened all around the world, and whether all the white people were responsible. 
 
Everything that war does and can do was done here to aboriginal people, and it shaped our culture for better and for worse, put whatever spin you want on it.

If you don't believe it go and seek the truth, and when you've finished go and read about Banjo Clarke  and other aboriginal people who's spirit can  lift you back up. A very important part of the rebuilding process. 

Inclusion in the brutality of war is a very good idea.  
Media is not like that here on the drum, I have learned a great deal from comments and it feels like a fast track to current politics. . It is the comments that make an effort to inform and educate that I value most, people expressing ideas. I stumble around with my own points of view and I have never felt  engaged[had head space] before  .
The angry extreme  drummers aren't always nutty[in my view] and the middle ground is often very enlightening.
 It is very time consuming trying to get insight into politics, and challenging to acknowledge your own personal bias.

I have read profound articles and comments here, a precis of the most notable would be very informative reading for a polly,in my[ now  slightly less] ignorant opinion.The govt. is going to have all the money[well some] that was going to be spent on environmental issues, to divert to blocked cost cutting measures,.. and  they're not responsible.
Orchestrated disaster whilst the treasurer dances and smokes cigars.
The brick with eyes is going to need a costume.. lycra and a cape.

Go Xenophon!

Is this really happening?  
This article left out Glen Lazarus and strangely enough Lazarus represents the "climactic sign"-wikipedia. An article about him suggests that he has a lifelong interest in politics.

Combined with a few others the senate may not be too bad at all.

Perhaps politics will become a little less erudite and a little more trenchant... the demise of waffle that serves no purpose but to confuse, not educate.I wonder how the govt. will go cutting the red tape set in place by the very people who took [stole] the money.
 
Too big for immediate independent justice,.. hmm heard something like  that  before  

The Gillard government's consumer protection laws on financial planning look like strikingly sound policy.One would hope that the ATO will  get the funding to ask  questions of the self regulating body. No independant checking at all?, boy 55billion is a lot of money.
 All in the name of civil excellence, I don't like being cynical but this does smell fishy.
 If there is no one rorting the system it is unique.If we have such good relations with Sri Lankan govt. then they wouldn't mind if we check on the wellbeing of  people that have been returned to their shores, for a few years.Most people accept that people trafficking is unacceptable and that we would rather fund better  UN camps than make our own.

Why the secrecy?, mainly because a media monster was created for political reasons. It's an attempt to undo the damage done in the children overboard election campaign. 

Educating ignorant Australians and telling people smugglers we are on to their game would help, secrecy is ultimately a petrie dish for more mistakes.I think the article is being a little harsh, there are too many assumptions as to what P Kelly is thinking.

I do think he seems to be thinking in terms of the sky is falling though.
Hasn't it nearly always been the practise in Australian politics that the reaction to an encumbent makes more way forward?

The tax cuts made by Howard are no longer appropriate, and Tony is unearthing what Australians really think. 

There has for instance already been signs that the pollies are listening[ seen to be treating new senators with respect.. so far] and social media is bound to be a driver. Some good points thanks for the articleTony Abbott recognizes that it is sort of inhumane to separate a mother from child in the first 6 months.

This is a real acknowledgement of  the special time lost between a parent and a child whilst the parent is at work.

And a clarion call for all the times lost together due to work commitments in the future. 

 The govt needs to begin work on a living cheaply and efficiently policy that enables parents to manage on less with minimized future impact financially.Immigrants are great for Australia but our infrastructure clearly cannot keep up, and we all suffer for it. This was not the case earlier, unless you were a plant or animal.

The benefit now of migration is more fudged figures for pollies to wear as a badge, growth conquers all.

Brainwashing new immigrants with notions of how we would like to behave is a good idea. Don't litter, don't waste, grow local plants,respect/ embrace your new country and natural environment , tolerance, even for idiots.
Quarter of the waythrough these comments and one more  alarming point that is only been spoken about so far is this.

By taking in migrants so quickly our environmental quality of life suffers. It tends to take generations to begin to conserve and truly value our natural surroundings.

This must have a compounding effect on our original custodians of the land.
Developing a respect of country in Australia also has a human face, and it is this, and other aspects of Aboriginality that make our country unique.
We evolve as a people and keep the best aspects of each culture. 
Learning about country[nature  ] must not be lost.Islam at the height of its power showed great tolerance[probably true] , more so than christianity  now.
If we ever have a majority of allah followers, we will have Sharia law.

 My suggestion would be glean every speck of useful insight in the Koran, tell us, we   move on, help us  all build a great inclusive  culture.

Anyone who judges someone else on  their religion,job, heritage is being  a fool, and it's too easy to do, and it' s not our style.It is worth noting that if we took on refugees and migrants and their environmental impact was zero or actually helped build the natural world there is almost no argument for not accepting them from  me.

We could take them all, as long as they don't waste like us and improve our lives dramatically.

As opposed to greed is good, both parties agree on growth is good.

We are going to need some seriously cheap and efficient public transport, and "smart houses."Iv'e learn't a lot from  some comments,  thanks abc


 " until you realise you need an increasing population to make your superannuation, the value of your house, in fact, pretty much any capital you own, appreciate."

This is really interesting, business and govt, wants fast  appreciation.

People want superannuation and the value of a house to accrue very slowly because it repesents stability and makes it easier to plan, surely?  

I suspect that the greens feel that if we all lower our carbon footprint we can take many people.

Alternatively introduce immigrants to a style of living that leaves no footprint.Then slowly introduce it to the population.



Interest charged on purchases 19.740%

My credit card doesn't seem to be suffering from low interest.

It's time to insulate ourselves from USA shonky economics. 

Superannuation should be used to finance public housing development  and means testing on rent . Foriegn investment in our housing is something we can no longer afford, unless it also has means tested rental. Houses cannot stand empty unless you want to pay a levy for rental support. House prices may remain inflated but people will be able to afford to rent and cope with the next crisis. 
This will take the pressure off business and welfare.

Go back to the gold index and cop the slower grwoth, at least it's real.So the question remains ,what is Tony on about? My guess is he 's after archetype bogans.
People who don't want work and especially their teenagers. A bit like the old compo crew wearing their fake neckbraces, but a true economic underclass that have learnt to adapt to very low income, ie welfare albeit poorly 
Advertising for quick fixes and  instant gratification has been very effective a skimming these peoples lowly income, Beer ads from birth, instant food that has no preparation, hire  purchase., they are easy prey for [ or un] sophisticated marketing strategy.   
The correct approach would be to celebrate the successful ones that lead their lives with a discipline that everyone can be proud of and to make efforts to engage these people in the broader community. Tony is trying to engage them but it's more of a carte blanche scatter gun bludgeoning, hitting many innocents. Their will always be unemploymentYou have to wonder what happened to this poor woman in her formative years? 
On a lighter note the Seppos just aren't that good at soccer are they, they have  some great music though.Ricky Muir needs some seriously experienced help and to read informed  unbiased  viewpoints. Tony Windsor  could really help.

This bloke could be great for politics, he needs good counsel.

Art will survive if it has enough artistic merit, but more in his case because of the audience development process rather than the art itself. Unless that style[ audience engagement] becomes a movement you wouldn't expect it to be of great value, would you?I know one of those really passionate teachers who strives for excellence in learning. 

 The victorian education system has always trialled different strategies and you can only admire the dedicated educators. 

This article is spot on in suggesting too much of a good teachers time is taken up in administrative duties.  This sort of analysis will no doubt lead to another improvement in education, well done .I find it very confusing when a govt sells profitable business and then says it is not gathering enough income. 

The argument that the business isn't managed properly also seems a contradiction from people who profess to know business better than everyone else.Wouldn't you just fix it and keep the income stream if you're good at business?
 If it wasn't profitable a multinational wouldn't buy it unless they knew of a way of avoiding tax.

All utilities could be bought back with superannuation money and we would be insulating ourselves from international economic woes in safe local  investment.

We could just demand correct tax according to overall profit and most corporations would pull out.. cheap utilities!
It's a bloody shame you guys didn't say directly to the public why Rudd could not go on, or out him when he was destabilizing the PM.
It seemed like the PM had decided she wouldn't stoop to that, she had to and would have got public support with a proper explanation. A battle on 3 fronts ,Sheesh.

One would assume that the two major parties will conspire to undo Clive , I hope part of the conditions is the standard of debate rises.
 The libs aren't going to like it if donations and advertising have set limits , but surely this is one avenue to weaken his game. The smartest operators in the country have a brand new bargaining chip in Clive. If it improves our system he could be just the dose of salts we need. 

He stands for a lot of what is wrong with modern politics. A true lowest common denominator that highlights what is unacceptable to most people. Go CliveI also meant to add thanks for a well written article  DarrinI agree with this article in principle , it's very true to pinpoint P Keating as the instigator too. PK was also the first to talk in primarily economic terms 
 and initiate policy which was not really labor ground, he began to blur the lines.

The difference for the current govt. is they are pulling policy from places that no party has advocated before.

After the years of purely  destabilisingly negative opposition [and  the distracting leadership crisis that was Rudd] the coalition can hold itself responsible for the current climate. 

What is critical is that Labor do not play[ yes you Albo] the same game even though it has been proven to work.
With traditional areas of Labor concern such as housing , health, education and the disadvantaged, there is finally  clear air for point of difference. [refugees needs more  work].

They must almost ignore the govt and appeal to the public by requesting media space explaining their  alternative  policy,just like Palmer but with unselfish substance.

The most dangerous card to play because the coalition would be stupid not to adopt it,is to re establish the old taxes Howard dropped.

The greens are gaining ground for all this except SH-Y has to be more careful.      
  

The Palmer/media cheap thrill are just made for each other, When that bubble finally  bursts it is important that the media has some of the entrails stuck on it[Mr Creasote anyone?]It's a fair old leap to say"It cost both Rudd and Gillard the confidence of the country and consequently their prime ministerships." In refering to the ETS and the carbon tax. 

I seem to remember full page adds [mining] and [murdoch] media attack dogs and a full blown opposition campaign grossly exagerating the cost.

I think that internal division in a minority govt. may have been worth a mention.

 Does anyone really think that Clive has an environmentally conscious bone in his body? [Nup, but if it helps both causes thats politics] 

Macbeth you say? more like he sacked shakespeare and humbly accepted the writers role whilst on his way to greatness.

I thought his dormant  strategy for an ETS was very good politics and proves that in  the heady mix of groomed ego and politics he  has a real  impact. 

I still can't get over seeing  Clive speaking on behalf of the world.
If he does that again he is going to need oxygen, at those heights the air is obviously  pretty thin. 

He is using his  political advantages and  media better than the others. 
He may inadvertantly clean up politics, by belting the major parties around the head with a bag of money [real gold coins]   
Probably a good time to wade into the left/right  conservative debate having read quite a few of the comments  with 3 points.

1 I feel like a conservative in that I like many forms of progress that have happened in the past,  and social order including some  that has been sold or broken down, also  preserving other living life forms ie; to conserve. 

2I have no antipathy with the left or the right  just for being, each case on its merit. 
Borrowing ideas from other cultures /countries is healthy, after all we are a mob of mongrels[in an elegant sense] but the idea  has to sit well with what I know it is to be Australian. Which is a costruct of [world/ aboriginal/ white settlers /war/ history] fairness and justice. 
3 I wont judge you until I have found out why you behave the way you do, and sometimes  that will take rigorous discipline, and  at  times  I will fail, but that will be my failure.
 I am an Australian conservative. [if Clive can tell the world stuff, then I can do this ]  

Paul Taylor: This is a really useful concept I think, and you could well be correct about Clive , my only problem is your port. You have to make it newcastle or another large existing port, the great barrier reef does not need any more manmade pressure : ie point AbbottA little dental work wouldn't go astray, sharpening up the canines would complete the picture.Hizb ut-tahrir is pure political doctrine who's goal is total world dominance. Uthman can only speak in terms of political religious ideology. This man is  immersed in islam  unless you are , his discussion will not be comprehensible. Using him like this and indeed this article is disingenuous and  in itself offensive.
  

The overwhelming reason that the greens don't want the fuel tax is because they do not want to be associated with such a brazenly biased toward the wealthy budget.
 "Fear of being seen to be complicit in Abbott's budget"


 It is pretty clear that the tax reductions made by Howard were not sustainable without a mining boom.

I'm not sure how the fear and hubris fit into the equation but it will be a massive swerve from this govts projected  path to reinstate it.

This is the first article that I've seen that shows any even guarded merit toward the greens in mainstream media.

Given their pariah status I suppose this is some kind of tacit acknowlegement that they are seen as less corrupt. Which is very topical  in our current  politics.

A good  article thanks 
This article is very timely, withdrawing support from the poorest people in Australia is astonishingly regressive,at a time when we are losing employment.

Being on welfare is a miserable business as any assets or savings deplete as time goes on.  This is the only aspect of Hockeys argument that people would agree with in general.

It still hasn't dawned on anyone in the liberal party[that is convincing Hockey] that to create employment is way more expensive than a safety net.
Why is this man treasurer?, surely there is a more suitable role for him.

On a more  positive note public housing initiatives [cheap rent] and cheap holidays, like affordable camping, will lift peoples spirits and generate its own wealth. Learning to repair things, fresh food campaigns,quality of life.

If there was real provision to back out of the proposal with measurable losses it may be feasible . Whilst thrashing out the details of how to extract the market from being overwhelmed by larger players that do not have the public interest at heart. Perhaps  a framework for extracting ourselves from other agreements that haven't been beneficial could be formulated. Japan is  rather good at this sort of thing.

So that being sued by a multinational is too problematic for them  to bother.

 Tony Abbott is just kidding himself when he describes our international weight. It's business Tony we are small fry, they will eat us alive with no barriers . The dream is turning rather sour"Thanks to the Government's disastrously bad selling of the budget" It wasn't the selling Chris ,it was the budget itself. 

"The debt is Shorten's biggest weakness"

Agreed this is the area the libs have always had traction whether it is real or percieved. Not as big an issue in opposition though.

Boats, if Labor don't go nearer the Greens approach[UN camp funding] a more humane approach yet still clamping down on people traffickers, they will lose votes.  

 Taking on the coal industry requires a carefully  developed and cashed up  counter attack, neutral agreed.

It's not surprising climate isn't at the front of peoples minds , they still have a nasty[ lied to shock] knife wound from the budget to comprehend.

Rudd and the media  scuttled a good PM. it played into Abbotts hands none to subtley. 

If Shorten sticks to measured thoughtful [ please don't froth like Abbott did in opposition] response now ,he can open up with policy, [labors strength] cost things very carefully, he  will walk in the next election.

 A remember the lies  landslide.Dr B S Goh, Australian in Asia:  Li Copula Maths formula, ahh that was the one about giving loans to people for houses  with no deposit and no  hope of paying them off if the economy changed, then on selling the loan. Gee  why didn't that work.

Whether as you suggest ,treasurer Swan sailed us through the GFC by default,  he did. Maybe planning that your income revenue isn't going to be blocked or watered down is a mistake, it's understandable. Lets see how the new govt. copes with a similar problem. 
I"m begining to think that labor need to develop a publicly funded housing policy using superannuation money. The polar opposite of the Li Copula Maths formula, as Dr Goh so eloquently described.

The strategy being to set rent at a rate that will grow the fund slowly and carefully, no on selling, no asset stripping,  we own the mortgages and borrow from the superannuation coffers. This would minimise risk and keep international monetary fluctuations at bay. Something that only the labor party could develop, the greens may well support it though. The house becomes part of everyone superannuation as the mortgage is payed off or the rent is paid. With advantages if you choose to buy the house you are renting.

The idea is in the planning stageIt is possible to selectively log, but it requires great care and considering the damage already done it is marginal. Small operators that educate themselves and develop the knowledge  to protect remnant and grow forest could work sustainably. But one rogue or one ignorant govt and the damage is literally irreversable, a leap of faith and trust. But people have done it , and probably still do.There is one policy that is good politics that should draw consensus and is largely responsible for the problems we have been facing.
 
It is reasonable to conclude that the reason we have a government that is so off kilter with what the people need is it is not what they focused on in opposition and was not required to win the election.

There clearly was big management issues in the Rudd government, but the conduct of media, the speeding up of information and the lack of objectivity in focusing on the progressive policies of the Gillard government means the problem lies squarely at the feet of media.

The quality journalists and the ABC have allowed the agenda to be taken over by clowns and business interests, complicit in that a line has to be drawn, and when it is stepped over something objective has to be said.

When Labor complained they had a right to, at the time they were at war with the agenda driven media and deserved more support from the responsible editors and journo's.

It's just weird now with vested interests turning on each other and every minister with the exception perhaps of the foreign minister not knowing the game, and mostly turning up to the wrong playing field.

The code of conduct needs to be tightened, something that people here have been saying for ages, and the ABC wasn't , isn't brave enough and needs to develop their role so as to remain objective , or state the bias, but come out all guns blazing when public opinion is being swayed by LCD idiots, more care with ministers but go to town on the menaces of society.

All media needs to state their bias and all reporting must have an educative background as part of the piece, this should affect change on about 85% of content and close down news for d___ heads.Graeme H. I actually do want to change the world, I'm just learning, also I'm not sure I'm brave enough or have the dedication of Tony Windsor, or could raise the funds,or how I'd feel about having a team support me . Let alone what would happen to my ego or my humility?would I just self immolate one day because of my own self importance? No one may listen but we can try here.I find it a little odd that an article ostensibly about media still draws the ire of left/right politics, you guys would bite someone if you got off your chain.

Tony Abbott did what was necessary to gain power, he played the media, used the lack of numbers to question the govt.s authenticity.

And now is being held to account for seemingly going against the gist of what his pre election statements.

The best way to improve our political climate would be to make the media more accountable.

It should be legislated that what is deemed to be political comment be required to state bias and have some educative background content.

Education is a valuable tool and deserves bipartisan support .It's even worse than this if that is possible, the very pillars of Christianity need rebuilding in the western world. One of the pillars is that we are all responsible, man woman and child, for the torturous death of Christ, whilst this approach worked wonderfully in the past and still performs wonderfully in the developing world it has a whole new meaning here, today.

Attempting to burden people with this kind of guilt and particularly harnessing people with this kind of lifelong sense of failure , is pure unadulterated psychological abuse and needs to be completely reformatted.The authors point is a good one and the article is well balanced, there is plenty of time to change policy and adapting to being in power and reading the people's needs is good governance. I hope that the libs drop their open for business approach to everything.it is not everything that govt. does, it is a public service, and frankly alienates large groups of the community.

It is fine to grow and develop whilst in office, it is expected. 

Tony Abbott used to love John Howard's white picket fence, although it was lame, at least it represented family and continuity.

A future that represents low costs and sustainability, home cooking not take always, a return to Australian made and leaders in technology is what people will happily spend their tax dollars on.

These things can easily be Liberal policy and good for business, lowest common denominator speak and politics has reached it's threshold, and is detrimental, especially this early in your term, you dummies.It really was a surreal move, the only directive was, don't use it to pay off your credit card, which I thought was the worst decision. Only people who manage their money well don't have credit card debt(probably Drum readers). This would have added vastly to the Banks coffers and may have avoided the too big to fail guarantee debarkle  here,and stymied the personal debt crisis that we now face brought about by underhand banking practice that successive govt.s won't address,  a flagrant waste which is an environmental disaster and damages the fabric of society.

Prudent financial management used to be advise imparted by banks who had their customers best interest at heart, it was the mid 80s when govt stopped talking about a work/life balance and only spoke in terms of work. 

Govt.and people in general constantly underestimate the sophistication of advertising and we are woefully ill equipped to deal with it in a beneficial way.

It's not "nanny politics,"or anti competitive or socialistic, it's just good sustainable governance .This article isn't up to Chris's standard of late, there is nothing wrong with making a move for political reasons, such as being seen to do nothing. I thought the $900 was bizarre at the time and had never seen anything like it, I know we have family allowance but handing out money? It was a brave political move and it worked.

Now we have a manageable debt and restoring taxes to pre mining boom levels is the obvious way out and easily explained. The real issue is that every tax payer in Australia will be expecting the govt. to move on multinational tax accountability and some of the wealthiest tax advantages.

Malcolm Turnbull is the only incumbent with the nous it seems( there must be others),and Labor has a golden opportunity to develop a tax package and ask him what he sees as workable. Bypass Hockey and Abbott, personality differences shouldn't stop them from working with the party and get on with a workable tax program that will benefit the country without increasing hardship on the vulnerable.Just keep the press out of it.

It is also time for both parties to test the water with the Greens they both need to raise the status of  the 3rd party of Australian politics it would be to everyone's advantage and a great time for relationship building, the first year of government.I think Australians are realising that however well meaning your intentions are, physical force used n the diasporas that is the ancient Muslim world means you probably won't achieve your objective, our soldiers become pawns in a game we don't understand.

We could possibly offer protection here in Australia,getting innocent people out as refugees without violence but in our current political landscape that's just a bad joke.

The best thing we can do is educate ourselves in what are the underlying driving forces that are creating these conflicts and offering aid that actually reaches its objective.Rupert has had a controlling interest in politics for ages, we all know that new PM's are granted an audience with him and it is one of the first things they do, the same was true of the Packer empire.
Controlling people's opinion is power and no one would give this up lightly.

Private media has always also been funded by corporate interests and Rupert is their gatekeeper.

Just consider the outcome of the MRRTor the NBN,had Mr Murdoch decided he would not allow access or directed his editors to support it.

This mantle of influence can't be publicly seen to be owned by a large corp. like say, Monsanto or Douwe Egberts but such an influential tool or its modern equivalent will always be.

Australians need to realise that govt. is a small player is alone in that it can act with the people's best interest in mind, and it's ability to tax and influence multinationals needs strong public support.Having read quite a few posts I think the jury is still out on Clive's motivation.is he still just pissed off with the Libs spending his donation money and then duncing him or is he after the Hanson vote or is it both.Or is he simply actually a Liberal operater  just biding his time, waiting for them to get his act together.A post earlier reminded us that he acted as a media consultant to Jo Bielke, fascinating really.He obviously has guile and cunning, and isn't in great physical condition, just maybe he wants to be remembered as a bloke who genuinely wants to achieve something for us all.He' s no Tony Windsor but maybe we'll all be pleasantly surprised, all cynicism aside, it is a national trait and strangely healthy.Losing the multinationals will turnout to be a good thing for car manufacturing here. A lot of what constitutes a modern car is what advertising has told people is necessary. Without the multinationals telling us what is allowable and what isn't we can make much better cars, we have the raw materials and a real need for good transport. Most of the parts are designed so that repair is either difficult or not worth it,or made to fail with age. A bloody Toyota is just about a verb and that's who we should copy, just tougher, cheaper and easier to work on.Front wheel drives are rubbish, more planned obsolesance. Start the concept of a car from scratch

It's about time that government recognised we have some of the best engineers, always have,and Australians are a very practical mob.

Just give us a little bit of support at the start, buy off the yanks and the Japanese, tooling we think is good enough and watch smart business and national pride grow. 

This is a real vote catcher and doesn't have to be faked, just believe we're capable, if you don't your grossly underestimating  us.
Building new roads and filling them with cars bought from overseas, let alone the fuel, is counter productive for us.

Just to develop my previous most(please excuse the indulgence), city cars should run on batteries, country cars on 2stroke fuel injected turbos with battery back up(electric) all Australian made, we are possibly the best innovators in the world, up there with the Germans. And if any rev heads follow the ABC,yes racing does have design uses.Cmon we are a really smart mob, lets use our skills.This is a good idea, allowing professional people who are are trained in the specific fields, social science economists etc to develop tax . However isn't it obvious to everyone here that the corporate world controls much of govt. policy, especially tax.

It doesn't matter which side of politics is in power, the corporates have either the last say, through anti govt media campaigns or actually helping develop policy.

Being dictated to via this mechanism is entrenched in capitalism and has even more impact in the more devout religious world of the Middle East.

Would an independent tax commission via public servants be protected from this onslaught? Unlikely unless the public was educated enough to recognise in advance what corporate manipulation looks like and the public service could report these power plays.

Therefore the best way to advance all people's interest is our version of an AUSSIE SPRING(please excuse the shouting) . An outing of recent and historic examples of corporate political meddling, enabling politicians room to implement policy that is fairer. News corp. probably wont be keen, it has to be a people driven, take corporates, multinationals to task in an informed manner."v" I found your posts here really interesting and I would encourage others to read them.

2 points. First system theorists would benefit greatly from the storage of data via Australian web users,of course they would be kept without any individuals address or server used, sort of the opposite to what the govt. proposed, and quite exciting to consider such a program.

Secondly, the way you simply explained how business only pays tax on net income, rather than gross income like the rest of us, reminds me of how mining companies simply put their super profits back into infrastructure to avoid the MRRT.(and negative gearing for that matter)
It's a little like us just sinking money into house extensions, or car improvements, to minimise our tax if we also had this advantage.
But I wouldn't use the term "radical", you'll frighten the punters, innovative might suffice, thanks for the posts.

Morrison and Bishop have been useful, I was sure the article would mention stopping people smugglers as a win although how to actually help refugees hasn't been achieved yet. The war is a large  economic drain just after being assured we were in financial trouble. 

This perceived superior economic management and the pugilist in Abbott is the biggest potential this govt. has, if he called in the corporates and quietly explained an end to tax minimization, political  donations and new laws for  lobbying, ie  no contacting politicians, he'd be very electable.

Abbott would gain the support of the Labour party and the people. Tony has to shape up for the real fight, only then will reintroducing Howard's mining boom  middle income  taxes he cut be acceptable. 

Can we call climate change air pollution, even deniers acknowledge pollution being detrimental and it avoids the tedious novice  projected outcomes semantics.
 Is it anti business to study the health effects of various pollutants breathed in, absorbed through the skin and ingested and if so, who would pay for the studies?

Research and development that includes re empowering the CSIRO are a must for any parties policies.A clear explanation thanks IanM: and carbon dioxide is already a   component of  the air  we breathe, increasing the c02 level will encourage growth in plants and other  cheerful reasons as to why warming the planet is either good for us or unverifiable ,.. despite expert consensus, will go on from people with small indignant grasps of the complex cocktail that is the earths life supporting processes.
 It is  complex so our media packages it in a sporting formula so as to create sides and media performers, which best suits who it represents, the corporates, that have a stake in the fossil fuel status quo. Any change affects their business model detrimentally in a financial sense, so naturally they will spend money influencing public opinion with a known formula. The most obvious forms of pollution or increasing clearly unhealthy chemicals is immediately obvious to everyone and avoids the stupid game that I think is a deliberate ploy to distract and defer progress. We are conditioned to not consider the future so only the present is useful in changing popular opinion. 

It wasn't that long ago in Australia when the work life balance was much healthier, there have been many improvements and innovations since then, but what people aspire to now has very little to do with quality of life. Why would anyone want to work more than 35 hours a week unless they loved their work? There will always be the  type of  driven personality that foremost hungers for wealth, good luck to them, but not everyone fits that mindset.    Politics is meant to protect the rest from being controlled or abused by this type of person.    

The bar for rent and house prices should be set low enough for a better lifestyle, people will  prosper and it gives govt. a logical goal. 

The market needs firm permanent ethical boundaries to work in but with business paying for political parties election campaigns this will never happen.

Once a person is  accumulating  enough wealth to be moderately comfortable, determined by experts but set low deliberately, their time could be used in other productive purposes as they see fit.

Aspiration in the modern sense is an empty shell, it alienates society from itself, modern marketing and advertising/media  has no true interest in the customers wellbeing, it is purely self serving. This would be a useful topic for the G20 and tax avoidance by multinationals is the money missing that could make the world a lot fairer.With the weight and influence of Macdonalds on one sleeve and VB on the other decision making going to be lethargic and slurred.Each new player for Australia has to be given a proper opportunity, 3or 4 tests on the trot. The older cricketers have to decide amongst themselves who is carrying the most injury and sit out that test to allow the newcomer proper opportunity. one or two new players at a time.
 There are too many variables in the game that have nothing to do with the batsmen's ability or mindset to judge them on one or two tests.Interesting comment TS: If a party had the political will to legislate businesses [who effectively finance the parties through donations]   out of tax havens, they'd leave in droves, the economy would take a real hammering. What is the sweetener to make them want to stay? The political/economic realities are pretty ugly.havasay: What isn't ludicrous garbage is that both parties are funded by business, you don't think that influences tax minimization schemes and legislation, did you read Chris Berg on lobbying? You miss the point, the extra tax won't end up in our coffers because of this influence .People smugglers had to be stopped, spending money on refugee camps in Indo is sensible, temporary visas until home is safe could take a while in Afghanistan, but so be it  The main  issue  is population sustainability and immigration for mine , also xenophobia.

It would be possible for Australia to carry more people sustainably if we ourselves were, and anyone entering the country to live should be taught best practice.  We need learning centres where locals and travellers and the unemployed can interact with refugees.
    Just imagine how everyones quality of life could improve and how much unnecessary fear could be addressed with this type of facility, and this proposal makes economic sense.
 Isn't that  what these forums are about, daring to dream of better outcomes for all? .I'm .off to sit with the duck.Yes, this is the fundamental flaw in the more caring approach to refugees. We should be teaching them sustainable living techniques that make them way cheaper to accommodate. Rather than using them as laboratory rats, we should also go to these places, refugee sanctuaries, and learn about different cultures, make friendships and find out about sustainable living. I don't believe that we have a responsibility to settle these people here, their safety and wellbeing is a different issue. When there country is safe they should return. ,why take our jobs when unemployment is normal here? it makes no sense,  the refugees could be turned into a bonus for us, and the incentive to get to Australia would change. 

To work in a garden, eat well , have access to proper health and education, develop friendships and community, that is the future.The candidate has a perfect right to keep her convictions and must be a committed green to be endorsed, she will lose a few votes but really, this is the way our system should work. Yes it must be frustrating to see an opportunity become more marginal.I think this is what Chris is saying it is corrupt to invest in lobbying but it has proven financial benefits. I just don't get how cutting red tape is going to stop corporate influence on government. I get that it will be cheaper for business.The article must be saying more than that Bruce: you wouldn't show off your crown jewels in public without having a point. What is he trying to say, that business will withdraw lobbying if there is no government?Peter; The sugar discussion is  an ideal example as it is very cheap to manufacture has addictive properties especially when balanced with salt and the uninformed genetically exposed or very young can develop tastes that will take them through life dependent on unhealthy  levels to feel satisfied. Combine this with bright chemicals, lovely advertisements encouraging peer pressure and the manufacturer is set for life, cradle to early grave, diabetes and suffering for the sucker.
 Evil is a stupid word but that doesn't sound like the customers best interests enter into the equation at all.

I think you drastically underestimate the power of business to influence people in a dangerous fashion, do you understand that choice and freedom aren't factors when this insidious combination is applied?I don't know duck: but underestimate the risk in going for the ride with modern packaged food at your peril, eat raw food and grow your own sometimes,  it's much healthier and it puts you in touch with your  living connection to the earth, tell your kids .Fascinating article Chris, I constantly drone on about ending corporate donations , making interaction between govt and business more transparent, and it is clear that corporates spend big on avoiding tax, viewed as  costs. 
 I was racing through the article to get to  the answer, as the issue of red tape and lobbying could easily be related, as you say, but the problems remain.

Are you saying that with little  regulation imposed by govt. business will be more responsible, take up the slack, or just more profitable. Is there any examples of this in the world?
 Environmental standards have been relaxed in all the Liberal states at the moment and annoying remnant bush is being cleared, which makes it improved land, rivers are choking again with feral species but it's much cheaper.  

The idea of small govt. responsible ,ethical business is a great idea, I am genuinely interested in how it could work.This is the most extraordinary article I have ever seen, is this the IPA showing off its muscles, what is the point of the article, that business will responsibly care for people and all living things under its own steam, this really is a fantastic concept, how does profit reconcile with responsibility. I knew we were on the brink of something but I didn't see this coming, please tell us more Chris.Why should government be encumbered with making rules for business, it is constantly harassed via lobbying and tempts politicians with corruption.

Business should sit down with professional independent folk representing  who and what will be affected and thrash out the details via arbitration, completely independent of government, approaching a politician for reason of lobby should be an offence, 

Chris Berg is right, lobbying is pure corruption, success dependent only on how much money you have. This could result in smaller govt, a great article, thanks Chris.By making the public service smaller such as the CSIRO and other research abilities there are less people able to represent the public good. This makes lobby groups more powerful because there is no one qualified to argue for the people , it is left to the hapless politician to do the research. 
 
That is why lobbyists should be arguing their case in arbitration with people qualified to represent the people in the particular field. Lobbying politicians should be illegal.
 Thanks again Chris your article has helped me clarify my position, I agree that small government sounds sensible and cheaper.Another aspect of this and an important one lies in the language. One would think that it would be prudent and conservative for  politicians to make a decision  being able to call in an independent authority on the subject when faced with a lobbyist.

 Conservatives are now radicals..., intent on breaking down the independence of government, with bullying tactics from all powerful corporates that determine their political future via media.
There is now no funding to educate professionals that could help politicians  and no employment anyway.
 The only research now  is for corporate interests where  the outcome is  predetermined. 

drt33th: Yes that was my mums experience too, she tried all her life to keep her weight down with many diets, I suspect the sugar alternative that she put in tea wrecked her pancreas after being dissolved in hot water daily  over a period of 30 years. She lost connection with raw foods and homegrown things, her palate never really liked them, unprocessed bread for the poor , white bleached for the successful, etcIf there were any professionals that could explain why this happened to the author and the obvious environmental causes, they would have been weeded out of the public service and found different employment  years ago. 
And if there are any left that have studied in the fields of nutrition and the impact of media on eating habits,  they have to keep their heads down, get  marginalized or lose their job.

This is why corporations cannot have so much influence over government, they cannot perform proper duty of care.

I had a childhood of glorious colours, and imaginative scenes watching television, healthy food were the dull  guys and cigarettes, alcohol and food with virtually no nutrient but packed with beautifying taste chemicals to prolong shelf life, were the good guys. It is sickening to do that to children, "get them while they are young, keep them for life"
Nicola Roxon deserves acknowledgement for her rather amazing effort with tobacco companies. To affect change on the whole of the food/advertising  industry with all its influence would take both sides of politics, if it were allowed and a study was done on the cost,just financial cost, not the suffering, on the community that can be directly attributed to unhealthy food strategies by industry it could change things for the better. But who would commission such a study?It is very sad that most people are so controlled by  marketing and advertising, this feels like a Leunig comic. is it ok if I just sit with you here for a while?  your approch works for me too.. thanks CobberThe required checks and balances that the food industry require have been forced off the agenda by powerful lobby groups and the taxpayer is left to pick up the pieces.
 The psychological conditioning from advertising and additives plus sugar , salt and fat, follow the US model, we have to break from it.
 It is an ongoing tragedy. Mac donalds on one sleeve VB on the other, an Australian cricketers shirt.There is 2 main problems with unions , the first one is how politicians rise through the party ranks and who or what they actually represent, an internal workings issue.
The second one is more just taking a scalp in the name of ridding corruption in politics. 
There's is no way that corporate influence and political donations can be flushed out of the system without taking union corporate influence with it.
 In its pure form the unions have done ,and will do great things for people, but the relationship with the labour party is to combat the liberal relationship with business, both cosy relationships  have to go. 

The communications between business, unions and politics has to be transparent and a lot more formal than what it is now, it is inherently corrupt in its present state.
 Somehow we have to set guidelines on media and advertising and extricate ourselves from the approach of the  giant marketing machine  that is the corporate world. Food habits and standards are making people suffer unnecessarily and that is just one example that everyone is probably aware of. 

Politicians must be controlling our destiny not corporations, we can't just be fodder for profit.You weren't here Alfie: surely your brand of politics comes from the disenfranchised[ immigration perhaps?] of Britain.Politics and being a public figure dedicated to progress and changing or influencing the role business plays in politics is risking death or it surely must feel that way. 
To dedicate so much time to improve quality of life for others only to find that for some reason real or imagined you are deemed  not suitable must take extraordinary self belief and patience.

The only way modern politicians can survive unscathed is to let business have its head. And it is horrible to watch the outcome, the  devastation, even just in terms of say, obesity or other examples of the destructive  helplessness of the under/unemployed embracing  constructs  of happiness and comfort perpetuated by the media/advertising.

Without free education and strong nonprofit organizations such as the CSIRO, universities and other public servants to report to and advise business and government, capitalism is too powerful for our small  democracy. How could anyone choose to be a politician in this environment? 
It can't be for the money, that would be madness, who or how  would you serve?"What's really disturbing, is that after this much evolutionary development, the human species is still prepared to turn a blind eye to deficiencies in those it wishes to elevate to almost deity status - rather than accepting that the warts make everyone more truly what they are; and that they achieve anything at all, much more worthy of appreciation."
 
 Bloody well said,  I agree  it goes against the grain of who we are, it spoils the history of the man, he doesn't need the waffle, no one does, it's not real or possible.Wouldn't a bank become a better long term investment  if it had the money to support itself through crisis and then force its competitors to improve risk management? Isn't this exactly the checks and balances role that one would expect govt. to play?
The govt. could technically dump the bank and take on the housing mortgages couldn't it Forrest? it sounds a lot cheaper, why prop up a corporate interest, the stock market is not a guarantee of security, it is gambling after all.I don't actually believe you are for real Peter the Lawyer: Unless what you are saying that business must volunteer a portion of its profits and raise its ethical and moral values massively to fill the void. Is that it, or is that  the people wet behind the ears can do it in their time off. Do what you ask?" our comfy cradle-to-grave welfare state (yes, including corporate and middle-class) perpetuates moral hazard ", yes, and exactly what aiming to own your own house works toward.

This "welfare state" is a legitimate way of looking at the issues of human development I think. 
And the biggest player that distracts and divisively seeks to control people is advertising. Require ethical and moral standards of business and watch the people emerge with vigor.Gordon: yes the welfare state is an important part of the discussion.Bruce: People develop a political language for nuance, and to effect change they all need to be considered. Also certain phrases or terminology set off alarm bells which I guess is partly what you are saying Bruce. I'm saying that each "dominant ineptitude"  carries a seed of truth or value. Most of the posters must want improvements to our politics and contribute real insight, this is our society talking, we are all in stages of development, some of yours are beauties, thanks.Well the list of where to start becomes a little clearer with articles like this.
No single political party can take on the big ticket items without being unceremoniously tipped out of  office, or ridiculed to the point where aspirations of govt. are just fanciful.

The mature discussions that Mr Abbott called for have to include this one, too big to fail is the antithesis of capitalism and the very area that the coalition says is its specialty, economics.

The political engine that is  running our country is in dire need of a rebuild.

End political donations, change media ownership laws and strengthen ethical/objective  content provisions,including all advertising, until all parties agree on these changes, politics is in limp home mode.
 Confused minds locked in repetition  and obesity will prevail otherwise. 
The barter system is a nice fit for capitalism  uses many of the mechanisms, ethical standards would be the first cab off the rank surely.We seem to have become a banana republic, we sell dirt.Fair call Gordon: it was an oversimplified lament on not value adding our resources.We have some of the most practical and innovative people in the world here, so why can't we develop highly automated manufacturing and industry, we don't need to compete with wages if one person can now do the job of 50. So what's going wrong? Are multinationals effectively blocking innovation here, why should they invest in local business?
We need a steel manufacturer that produces the best steel in the world, whose profits go to Australians,either taxpayers or shareholders, but who will organize it or stump up the money?

The National party? 

Yes our national industrial/manufacturing  health is proportionate to the funding for the CSIROCome off it Gordon: It may have been necessary but if it is repeated the outcome could be far worse. Why shouldn't a private corporate posting healthy profits be responsible for its own wellbeing? You are guaranteeing shareholders[gamblers] money first, not taxpayers, they are behaving like they ride shot gun over the govt. of the day.But the article is saying that banks should have better facility to protect themselves and act more prudently, this is more about the shareholder being protected than the mortgagee, 5 billion is their combined profit in one year. It's not reckless or wrong to claim they were bailed out. Banks do not represent the mortgagees, they represent their private selves.The ability to hold an opinion that you truly believe in and cannot be swayed. It is fitting and kind of laconically wonderful that Jackie Lambie is leading the way into how politics needs to reform itself.
 Your a gun Jackie but you need some bloody good public servants around you to make sense of all this.People don't join defence for the money;   How could you possibly arrive at that supposition.Fair call, the problem isn't just Murdoch or the corporates he represents, it is the 'way' marketing and advertising seeks to manipulate people in every aspect of their lives. An human  ethics trading scheme is required.Interesting that the media are inflating fear of the 'others' as you see it. 
If both parties feel the same way real discussion can commence on how to eradicate it from public discourse via the media, a very important step.Opponents of the govt. , it appears that the MSM is also an opponent, it's time for dialogue between the major parties ,corporate donations, over bearing union influence and media control of current affairs,frangipani: The approach is education, history, etc, I think that discussing the issue in a broad sense without taking sides is a beginning for understanding, a base for education. Brandis  talked of working on inclusiveness for disaffected muslim youth the other night, which is a start..Good to hear some reason and thought going into a long term approach. Would that address get a mention here without the ABC? only scathingly most likely. 
Don't they have corporate donations and media monopolies?

Raising the GST isn't the only way to increase the tax base. and it only encourages tax avoidance, but corporates can't avoid it? 

It's as if taxing multinationals is too hard otherwise, so it will do, which is possibly true.
 These long term implication addresses from the PM sound like a good idea, devolving the federation was one thickhead idea, long term coal use another. Feral cats is worthwhile.

A real speech about mutual respect in the workplace,  increasing training and flexibility would do a Liberal PM, one about the right to live without shame under or unemployed would be restorative.Denny; Union heavies influencing policy for personal gain, corporate donations, general corruption due to lack of transparency, these are genuine reasons for holding a grudge with the Labour party.

There is a sense of entitlement in the left, are you saying  this doesn't exist  on the right, or that it is a different sense of entitlement? To be in control perhaps.

Personal responsibility is a useful goal, it requires effort in terms of self  esteem, self confidence and a society that wants that for its people without prejudice, it doesn't have much to do with party politics. Does it really matter what you do as long as you are contributing and feel good about yourself? 
 It is  important to eradicate  mexican needle grass in a local  area, using an interest and passion, is it wrong  to collect the dole as payment? The problem exists business wont fix it without govt. funding, cat eradication etc   

This type of personal responsibility is undeniably beneficial and a valuable goal to work towards for politics.Without a senate there is still corporate donations, media political leverage and other forms of corruption, the concept of reasonable discussion that seems possible in NZ is the best part.How does a Bill Shorten, after watching his party get broken down with tireless, often trite  argument , not seek revenge and be equally obstructive? 
The Labor party and the greens, the opposition are being asked to rise above the standard set, it would feel as though only Tony Abbott, the main perpetrator will benefit, he will then be seen as a conciliatory Prime Minister.

Labor and the greens are being asked to unveil good policy that may not be complete , and would not normally be revealed until just before an election, again it is the opposition taking the main risk.
This brave approach would work, except who in the media, the ABC,? is going to remind the people of this brave , generous move away from normal politics, is it even possible to keep a fire burning with corporate  influence dictating what everyone sees and hears. Without offering relaxed media laws or scrapping an obligation that annoys vested interest, why would this brave approach get oxygen in the public domain? This formula does not fit Murdoch operandi.
You would have to hide changes to media laws, ethical standards, breaking up ownership, are very private, mature  conversations, bipartisan politics, end corporate donations. etc
   
If Bill Shorten can do this he will be the greatest opposition leader the country has had, and the outcome may be a Coalition govt. 
Noel Pearsons address shook the ground, he directed his rage at inertia and it was excellent. 

Good article, the new laws put too much pressure on politicians to act with integrity and with the relationship they share with the corporate world.
It only takes one little favour over some fairly innocuous request to do long term damage and how are we to know? Requests for information have to be filtered through an objective independent body.
 Chris is right about the temptation that information creates for hackers, the financial incentives are bewildering in scale.I think it's capitalist punishmentApparently there was a misunderstanding in the translation, it was actually 40 olives , according to G Robertson, not virgins awaiting.I think Orwell would be particularly savvy with regards to political media and their   people deliberately muddying the water so as to push through agenda that was not in the general populace 's best interests, more a vested few. Why write  an article about a bad article and  silly comparison?  Abbotts 3 word slogans would be of interestMature debate is a great idea and I think that Bill Shorten should take Mr Abbott up on the offer. GST is a difficult debate because it is a lot harder on the poor, unless Tony wants to introduce  means testing.

 A discussion on taxes and revenue raising would take bipartisan 'mature' 'adult' considerations. 

Throw in No corporate donations and Media/corporate  influence in politics and we'll be back in 'business'.CC:  " IMHO we should preserve our resources for adaption and not for the false dream of reversal. Reversal has more central control and more tax collection potential and that is why there are science and politician factions who need to pursue this line"

So the outcome of adaption would include some  reversal but the free market would instigate change ..is that it?

I agree with this but you didn't answer the question, you merely avoided it, however it's true  resources should be left in the ground until cleaner uses and production methods can be found. So agreed, adaption rather than reversal, an extremely difficult goal that has to be pursued.  Pollution is a  by product of market forces ignoring the impact on life , it doesn't matter who you vote for the fact remains.Even when something is appallingly obvious it often gets left behind, buried under the media of  weddings, disasters, etc, we forget,  that is why the first 2 points of  this article are so important. 
 
Greg Hunt has a stewardship over  all the living things in Australia in a government that doesn't understand the importance of  remnant vegetation or  pollution, Cat eradication is the only problem  that has been identified that is on a  similar scale, I wouldn't want to be Greg Hunt.

The climate change debate is a silly distraction from the pollution , degradation, toxicity  that towers over everything that we do, eat and breathe. The speed at which we hit tipping point or if we do, is  just one  outcome ,not the issue itselfI think that makes about the same amount of sense as the PPL, not a bit more.There is a third point in this quality article, giving industry money for change, requires a backup of public servants to manage it, and if they are underfunded/not policed, it will fail.

So trading schemes sound promising, a new trade able raft of goals , perfect 

We can introduce this approach in many areas   

Advertising ,politicians, media,corporate citizens   ethical standards trading scheme with best known practice being the ultimate goal.Ethical  corporate behaviour trading schemes would be good, the market in media,advertising, politics is rich ground,
 this  may be the  way to force vested interests into healthy outcomes for all. 
I was going to say that it wont make any difference vested interests will always find a way to subvert politicians,that controlling factors have to be made public  and clear before reform can begin. But after reading some of the comments I  grasped the possibilities and it was a good feeling. I particularly liked the comment authority should flow from respect, thanks Bruce. We could do this , the powerful structures imposed have overstepped the mark of reasonableness, a nourishing article thanks.Good article, the cost of rent and aged care affects everyone, the impact of negative gearing has been pointed out and there are other factors. Any investor overseas or otherwise,including banks see this as a long term sound investment and it is out of control. 

The need for a new tax[or increasing an existing one] that is fair and goes directly to where it is intended is what politicians are desperately looking around for.

Tax offsets that encourage the landlord to progressively lower the rent is a field that the best and brightest public servants should be allowed in to, tweaked  negative gearing may be the enabler. 

The NBN has the ability to open up rural Australia to employment and  cheaper housing, it is  a great idea.There are two main points in Brands argument that no one in Australian politics, or who is interested in politics can ignore, if they are genuine.

The first is corporate interests play a very large role in determining policy and who governs.

That advertising, marketing ,media shape peoples, mindset,  attitudes and lives. 

Only a neo conservative would say that this status quo is necessary and indeed  healthy.

To restructure this entrenched influence is indeed a radical concept and the first step is that it is acknowledged publicly by the perpetrators, politicians and the media.

To objectively recognize these major influences in our lives, to grasp reality on mass, would force vested interests to restructure this  will incur  a financial impact, that they will  logically guard against, shareholders interests etc.    

Meanwhile we all wait in a turbid pool of confusing, destructive, stupidity.The revolution can be as simple and non destructive as just acknowledging publicly how our system really works and co operating with vested interests in changing things for the better.

The NBN , pollution tax that generates income for renewable technology, standing up against the tobacco lobby, these are  healthy initiatives, it is the co operation with industry, determining what is healthy that lags. End corporate  political donations, restructure media ownership laws and we could  be traveling nicely. 
 It is true that influence on community has largely been taken out of independent govt, hands.The most influential people in the world either own or represent large corporations and  politics is their  natural stomping  ground. Liberals acknowledge this and try and get on,the best bargaining for democratic outcomes, some in the Labor party try to fight this influence and will nearly always be outflanked, except for brief moments when they prevail. 
The main weapon that can be used to seduce  an otherwise reasonable and democratically minded politician is power  and personal fortune, this is a strong argument for not paying politicians in line with their corporate brethren. Ego and the desire  to engage in  democratic outcomes are however necessary predispositions. 
The only radical change required is educating and publicly  alerting the average punter as to what is influencing their decision making process, what is artifice, what is of true sustenance, no corporate animal or human need be harmed in this process, but they need re assurance,  that is the true role of a politician.Abbott was on the news every single day sharing his views on govt.your opening sentence Peter refers to a trickle compared to the MSM  daily message.I find it amazing that you could see Abbott not obstructionist, but it is true that the Gillard govt passed record legislation.
So really it was the influence and domination of his views by the media that gave him this appearance, it is  strange how perceptions can be so different. 

If Bill Shorten is prepared to kowtow to market forces more than Abbott, he will win, but is that possible ?I think it is a fair call to look to Paul Keating as the modern  master of adversarial politics. The Liberals had to either sink or swim, only Howard had the good sense to not try and compete, leaving it to his learner  guard dogs Abbott and Costello, this showed common sense and increased his vote.

The pack of ugly utterance pollies that now lead the country are the  brutal outcome and Bill Shorten must look to Howard as to how to combat the issue, he can still show strength and logic.

I strongly disagree that fuel excise and GST have to be increased, but a bipartisan conversation has to begin on how to raise taxes.Sounded like she saved us 5 grand and everyone was happy with the blokes efforts, surely this one will backfire and the exposer will cop it.
Reciprocal employee/ employer loyalty would be a great thing for a Coalition govt. to work on. 
Faced with the massive bill that a student, who is struggling to pay rent, is looking at to become a doctor, only a  child from a wealthy family could now consider it. Also if you have to complete extra  courses to realise your dream of becoming  a doctor, the student income support will run out, again only the wealthy can do this. Our education system has undeniably been altered for the worse and the problem must be rectified.Ann: This is a really interesting post, if a government creates incentives for business to employ apprenticeships it creates a false market which will inevitably be exploited. Is there any way around this predicament?Andrew C: A valuable and illuminating comment, thanks Andrew, this would go a long way to separating media from direct political influence. But we would still be left with advertising that didn't have its customers best interests at heart, implementing by deceit unrealistic goals and outcomes[unless you include this in how business operates]. It should also be acknowledged that Rupert also represents every business that advertises with his corporation.  Awaiting your next response to an issue with interest.The very man who understands best the anti social marketing  mechanisms and structures and how they are implemented warns against the outcome. And yet he is best placed to help divert the flood of unnecessary items and artificial needs that bombard the westerner from cradle to grave. 
This Mr Hockey,Abetz, etc is why people don't pick fruit ,drive taxi's, work as farmhands, it's as far away from their world as it is yours.

Advertising/media  as we know it must be dismantled and restructured into something way more holistic than what it has become today.

 A government 's agenda on a life's meaning and  value  cannot be focused  on  employment first, the individual should  be encouraged to contribute to society however she feels fit.  

The tax that John Howard dropped because of the mining boom has to be reinstalled and the raft of advantageous methodologies that benefit the corporate world have to be slowly pulled down to compensate the disparity.The "unwashed youth" wont rise up in Australia because no government would be stupid enough to create a suitable environment. 

Affordable, if not free education is critical,  and job training , which the coalition seems to have embraced is another. 

When the Coalition/Labor finally realise or acknowledge publicly that most of the cost, the  unrealistic, unreasonable pressure that is applied to a [young] persons life comes from advertising and media, our quality of life will rise according. 
  Rent  and other unavoidable costs have to be carefully managed by government and both sides of politics seem to be aware of this. 
This  makes a surcharge for Medicare silly because it only affects the poor adversely and increasing the GST equally so. 

Means testing is the logical approach,but regardless  tax has to be increased and this needs  to be designed fairly, both parties have to get together and discuss this, everyone knows that introducing a new tax will be an election loser, so there has to be bipartisan consensus.This is a difficult article to read possibly because of its scope but effecting change and outcomes are just not clear,is this deliberate?

The concept of a  subsidiarity approach does sound beneficial but shouldn't the revenue just be direct to the local problem by the federation then?

The article is about not doubling up bureaucracy/ saving money  and creating new tax revenue for states. That sounds reasonable, but taxing road use on existing roads reveals an agenda that doesn't sound like it  will save money for the average punter. 
So what is the agenda?
Anyway without addressing the functional errors that is the relationship with politics/business/advertising/media first, the ideas will be problematic to implement. 
Agreed scrapping a Council of Australian Governments Reform Council,[ a what?] sounds like a retrograde step unless it doesn't address the issues of business/ media infiltration of govt. either.   

I know everyone has their own version of reality but i find the authors version staggeringly different to my version of common sense  and therefore  relatively manipulative, whether intentional or not.

"Analyze the politics of a particular event properly"

"..criticism levelled at a  writer[s] who seek to explain the mechanics and mysteries of politics'

'everything in politics is politics'.

Yes, so what about the submersion of a political writer in the status quo and the inevitable  inability to have independent perspective.

Public opinion is measured, but really , how is this possible and isn't it impossible to not reflect the media and their market interests in the  conclusions? 

If you put up too much of  a dissenting voice even if you are correct, you do not represent market interests, you'd be out of a job Paula. It makes only a small difference if its the ABC.

In reality every article or broadcast is missing a vital part in its endeavours to express the truth. And that is 

the role that the market plays and by natural extention the media and advertising.

Our current take on capitalism would not allow it as it would be deemed anti competitive and  fly in the face of  financial backers, and in turn would set off its own corrective train.
 
There is no one to  blame, Rupert Murdoch for instance merely understands how it works and facilitates, he's just bloody clever, This is not corruption, it is all legal. 

Rupert Murdoch and his genius  is probably  the only single person who could develop the program of   required checks and balances required for true progress in politics and advertising/media. 
  

Cloud Spirit:I suppose I just explained it poorly then, did you really think I could spout  all that waffle and not be saying she is just part of the  marketing exercise and therefore professionally  unable to state or guess at the whole  issue? .. the" by natural extension thingy" Oh well.Peter the Lawyer:..so let the market decide what benefits the people, markets implement their own policy unrestrained, preying on human weakness  and if you are stupid enough to fall for it, it is profitable and stays 

Do you really think that this would be in the best interests of the people? eg  food that isn't made to eat rather to look good, rampant pollution,coal runs its filthy course. Self regulation, less law, fines, etc.. would be heaps cheaper but how does it work? LCD everything? People now are servants of mundane superficiality of the corporate world  is that more of a free choice? Is that society?Objective,educative news that develops and allows  political understanding, totally agree. I will have to take your word for your authority , but it seems like your saying you can write. The NBN does seem like a hell of a lot of digging and silicone but wow what a concept, pretty sure your wrong about gonski, it was to improve kids education that would have been left behind, there's no hidden agenda.Like it or not everything is business, now that is a fair call. 
It's just that bombarding people with matters of no consequence until they become fearful gibbering idiots, or polluting the absolute crappers out of everything and then having to eat and breathe whats left doesn't seem fair. Could we just have some objective checks and balances please.Guaranteed arrangements for their evacuation and treatment are not in place..
This is an interesting use of the politics of fear and shows just how powerful it is. Should we risk a persons life who wants to help, or should the govt. step in like a protective father , showing care and wisdom.
Who did the poll that showed that Australians didn't want to help, but wanted to fight ISIS.
M.A.S.H. was a popular show but it relied on humour  where as there have been hundreds of war movies. What does  shape an Australians  view of the world?Unless the facts have changed from the other day it is very hard to get infected by ebola.You have to ingest the virus via infected body fluid  or have a graze etc,   it is not airborne, one of the commenter's, GRF, is  pushing for people who have recovered working at the hospitals that  sounds sensible. Logistics management and funding for people working in the hot spots is logical. Withdraw from the middle east, sponsor saving lives and refugee camps in Turkey instead.Yes they do, it is in all marketing whether implied or direct, It depends whether you watch the news but your distance removes the immediacy of the message, which is an important ingredient.Glistening Beaver.. , agreed and yep you got my attention. I think there are plenty of pollies, admen/women who would prefer better tools to work with. We are bombarded with fear every day and it has to stop.
Fear is easy to refresh and can arrive in any message, that is the power of fear.No one wants to acknowledge fear because it feels weak to do so, such is the power of fear. It is a miserable marketing/ political tool.That' s not god, if it were me I'd be tipping alcohol, but I enjoy your writing, err excuse me Alan.It is still a huge trading partner and relatively stable because of this. One wonders where the private investment in china is going ,overseas into property?Beautifully written Zulu, we should observe the direction taken by this nation that understands history without a capitalist priority. Private industry can build it here but government has to be independent enough so as that projects  are primarily in the peoples best interests.The most amazing thing about Gough for me, and probably for the Chinese is, how did a man born in Kew, schooled with privilege, end up implementing policy that reached the poorest people in Australia, it's puzzling,  I have some reading to do.I'd like to thank the editors of the drum for not publishing some things I wrote  about Gough Whitlam, they were desperate  uninformed self aggrandizement drivel.Wouldn't filing for bankruptcy relieve the debt?Yes the current Australian coach is a good example that sometimes the scorebook isn't enough, tolerance for various personalities you would guess would be a strength  of his abilities now.Mining coal is a filthy process and burning it worse, but I think Tony Abbott has a point about coal.

We need a manufacturing industry and to do this we need to make very high quality steel.
With technology that could be  developed by the CSIRO it is possible to use coal in a environmentally safe way, but it uses more coal.
The question is whether it is worth building/fitting out coal fired plants when the investment could be put into solar or a newer technology. It would take a mighty powerful bank of solar panels to make steel.
How does a coalition govt. invest in technology without going against its ideology, give tax breaks  to multinationals?Agreed on the chief medical officers opinion counting. Why is it that people  hide behind defining climate change when pollution and its affects lower everyones/things  quality of life on the planet?A great insight into the man, the   "the Whitlam government", will be a little better informed read for it , thanks.TNBB: If the Abbott govt. choose to use the best ideas going around in the world today, they deserve all the credit for implementing them here. Those reforms were original and unique here, isn't that the point?He was the sum of intellect, ego and self assuredness, his wife  and all the people that believed and  went along with him.He and his friends  developed   a vision to improve the lives of people in a totally different socio economic group to his. The same structures that held back worthwhile  reform then are just as powerful today, his government broke through. Today it is about mapping out  the appropriate role for  corporate influence in  politics and media,  it will always be "time", progress waits with unnecessary waste. 
 He required tolerance and in return his influence made the whole country more tolerant. It's an historic day.The comment is one of those strangely revealing gems  that describes  how many politicians don't want to be seen as, and exactly what is missing in our politics. 

Our politics are all force, strength, toughness, work for financial benefit, ignore weakness, exacerbated by hardly any women around, all Yin, no balance.

And yet Yin and Yang are more descriptive of our national character than all other labels, it's complex, interwoven and diverse.
The big issues that we face  won't be resolved without this  balance.
 Objective Legislation that enables fairness, transparent politics,  competition that supports  sustainability on many levels, diluting entrenched corporate power in politics  doesn't sound very Yin.  



There is a way out, if rental prices are forced low enough for people to be able to save. Any foreign investor or a speculator should have to accept that a large chunk of their potential rental income  is being restored to Australians wishing to save for a house. Any foreign investor or speculator who decides to leave their house empty should be subject to a "vacant" cost.No, I don't think this manipulation will stop,commercial media is an  animal that feeds on human weakness to satiate it's corporate /political masters. Not without both parties recognizing this massive problem publicly will they alter this approach, they seem to be  in too deep and incapable of change. Entrenched vested interests would have to alter revenue streams,  and spend  on new models, research and development are expensive, and the status quo means they don't have to budge.  
The concept of the 4  estates is a furphy. There is the voting public, and the rest. The great hope is education and awareness via the web.

"Terrorism, war and security issues are now considered to be the third most important group of problems facing Australia, after economic issues and a group of issues involving religion, immigration and human rights."

It was brave to write this and seems correct , only it dissolves the article as relevant and reveals it true intention, "look over there!"


It will be very interesting to see how "Australian" media reacts when the conversation at the G 20 turns to pollution. Tony thinks that people are being silly and should just get on with it, which is towing the corporate line. Without "our" media able to run interference  and distraction, just going quiet on the issue will look very strange and compliant.Yes, I too would like to see an opinion piece on how Australia should be treated by other countries. And what affects us most is the corporate behaviour of their large businesses, how do we think we should be treated by multinationals? Surely the country that houses a multinationals headquarters has to take some responsibility for ethical corporate behavior.The idea of teaching Bahasa in primary schools is a really sound approach for developing relations. Australians helping to teach english in Indo and vica versa,  will in turn help improve the standard of living. 

We have much to learn from our northern neighbors in terms of community and diverse traditions. The really valuable thing we can do is help address waste management and pollution and conservation/land management. It is an area that no doubt Jokowi will have trouble getting to and real help from Australia would show genuine consideration, not monetary reward for investment.  
With this approach maybe one day our heads of state may have a real platform for friendship. And like a lot of things in politics and life,  the hypocrisy, being a large net polluter ourselves, will be startling.An enlightening article that has no Lib/Labor bias, it reveals the structures that govt. has to deal with. For us it's like the local owner of the estate  has a nasty addiction and if he needs more the town has to pay. David Murray must be some kind of superman if his report can effect structural change on the banking group,.. profit would suffer.!This is the line in the sand for this government, are they capable of withstanding the leverage and lobby they will cop if they try to implement the recommendations to be  announced? Are the coalition responsible financial managers?
The anti capitalist, anti competitive, government reliant private industry that is Australian banks  is an anathema to  Liberal ideology. Scott Morrison to the rescue!

This overall issue is so large and has so many corporate  arms that use the same path to wrestle influence, it requires  bipartisan support and public awareness.
The affiliated media will not give the issue any air, the only time it could be forced into the  public domain is during an election campaign that addressed corporate influence in politics, does either party have the poitical will, and could either explain the problem clearly?A nicely put together reply ,kind of sums it up for me, thanksYes, but the hair shirt and  itchy underpants must be hell, you lost me at the busy intersection.Fair call, it just that because he existed doesn't mean that what history purports what he did and said  is all true, it would be a good time for the message  that Jesus  taught to be discussed, having a Christian PM and war. 
By default or deliberate the worlds philosophy evolved enough for  Jesus to exist, for the message to be extrapolated to mean gain territory, wealth, participate in war, makes no logical sense.
So  how much of the bibles teachings are purely to harness people and manipulate free will/marketing?  and equally, any US and THEM is only relevant in terms of compassion and greed, or  rich and poor.
 One of the  most valuable discussions, in a contemporary sense,  that professors of Jesus's teachings could have  would be to reveal the extent that it has been hijacked for greed and  political purposes.
 If, as you say he did exist, he'd probably  really like that, and Christianity could become  more relevant, after the ensuing massive restructure and upheaval. I think there is great nourishment for the spirit in it and it should be a highly personal interaction. Evangelists are spruikers, and  religious righteousness is disingenuous, by its very decree, an oxymoron.  no person has that authority, except {the concept of} Jesus.
Does it really matter if Jesus lived? his  creation is powerful enough in itself. A modern take could remove most of  the dogma altogether.Our bombs are equally lethal. An alternate  way to retaliate sensibly is to render weapons less effective  with shock absorbing physical  barriers , protagonist identification,etc  Australia should develop technology and strategies  that make war very difficult.

 Education is the only non lethal weapon used in modern warfare partly via propaganda leaflet drops, this could be dramatically improved, contacts, safe haven, development of consideration of the opponents plight for humanitarian purposes.   
People will see this as a trite post but the alternatives are all worse.The next huge advance that a place as wealthy as Australia can can make is to take the emphasis of a productive life away from ones ability to earn an income and place it on  how a person can contribute  whilst developing as a valued  member of a community.

Our social security should make provision for people who do not fit the 9to 5 cycle yet wish to contribute and be respected accordingly, owning personally the responsibility of achieving positive outcomes. Being and remaining poor is fine for someone who doesn't aspire towards financial reward,  of course the security of a safety net becomes more important for these people.
 Consider how many people pour their money into vices like alcohol, cigarettes and gambling , all to do with avoiding reality, while  making large profits and tax revenue for others.

There is a massive dormant workforce of great creativity waiting to be allowed to join in. A more unemployed inclusive society could help shrink this divide, and the nations quality of life and productivity would benefit.

There's nothing wrong with delusion , you of all potential entities should know that.The author refers to clearing ones mind from the everyday hubbub,and is inclusive as to how.  A scientist benefits equally from this action, it allows in possibility, as you state; trusting in our innate abilities,   whatever the cerebral may have blocked and what may be floating around in whatever form. Your argument however doesn't  cater for religious avenues  of attainment How   do you know about an individuals personal relationship with their god/process of understanding.

I don't believe in righteousness and yet I end up attempting   it all the time, tooTimely and thought provoking , thank you. Anyone, anywhere, that discusses contemplation and finding peace,particularly with the sort of tolerance for difference this article exhibits deserves congratulations, well done KevinI see this slogan as a representation of oversimplified politics, it probably actually alludes to the concept of yin and yang.

The angry response of a character that is spoon fed toxic fearful  information and lashes out, it is so easy and short term. 

An alienating emblem equally for the wearer.

But the stronger more nourishing message requires patience and thoughtfulness, long term.

Heaps of Aussies are like this but historically it is a mere pretense of uncertainty, a tough but brittle shell, whilst inside is something far more giving, and sort of needy. 

The way the term 'conservative' has been bastardized so as that something that emerged from the US is made to fit here is perhaps more damaging, it has no place in Australia.    

Patriotism is not a solution, education is though, and recognition that Australians are a tolerant mob, given to crapping on and bagging difference, an ignorant but seemingly necessary exercise in droll.
 The boat people issue is one that is deemed people are safer if they don't come by boat, it avoids queue jumpers and profiteering from people lives. It doesn't make us uncaring, but  forces the issue that refugees and their welfare is an area we should spend money on as decent global citizens. Camps we are involved in should be the best, which ever country they are in. It remains a painful lesson.Cuts to the public service not only mean that it is incapable of innovation it also means that it has no ability to tell what is going on, and this even affects "the Block" 
We have seen 3 recent examples of the govt being unable to comprehend what is happening,which affects decision making.

 The one affecting the block being foreign investors volunteering information on house sales, which is not in their interests to do.  How many overseas investors would have bid, if the auctions weren't so  public? 
The relevant department is so poorly staffed it has no way of telling  who is driving the market.
Small government might be a good idea, but scaling back the public service while population grows is illogical, well founded advice from experts disappears and we are left with politicians guessing.There is some truth in what you are saying GBE without getting cynical. The rich can keep their money,they earned it  ,it is just the rules that advantage them for reasons that have nothing to do with hard work that need to change.
 By the way the leaders of this proposed communist party would become rich through hard work and privilege wouldn't they?Now that we have access to  free information via the internet  it may be that the walls between rich and poor  will lower . If knowledge  is power, it is more plausible now than in the past.
 Unfair financial advantage and its structures are discussed and  becoming evident to more people.  

A rich minority is still a minority albeit an extremely powerful one, they deserve to be treated how any minority  in modern Australia should be  , with dignity and decency. we should treat these people with great respect as we remove the most unfair advantages  that they have acquiesced. There are many great and good people in their ranks, like any minority.

We are probably going to have to fund change through middle income  tax  rises, the rich/vested interests  will be very able  obstructionists, preferring the status quo. 

We will be threatened with banana Republic status but that is a ruse, we should go about these changes in a thoughtful, objective and  conservative manner, and take the word conservative back while we are at it.This staccato explanation rumbles along ok until it gets to international obligations and having to keep people permanently if in 3 to5 years  it is not suitable for them to return. I disagree, we should  have a right to return these people when safe to do so,  if need be. Our only real obligation is their wellbeing and enabling them to lead rewarding lives whilst they are here, we can also prepare them for resettlement home with decency.

Interactive refugee camps that teach healthy living concepts are what we need, we will all benefit. Ive droned on about this many times and wont bother to elaborate again right now. 

 It is difficult to tell who is delusional  from where I stand , me or all of the rest of you, the weight of numbers is a little unsettling. A fool after self aggrandizement or just someone  who has great faith in people, or both, I can't tell from here, perhaps my water needs changing.Given that education reform is constantly evolving it is not surprising that Chris finds this annoying. There will always be local content that doesn't apply to other states but the general approach is worthy and complex. Of course our human history should delve deep into first peoples culture, they are shaped by their country and teach us intrinsic things about this place, unique, our country, nature  and human interface.
 Gillards emphasis on no political interference is  astute and shows principle.   
The  frustrated approach to this subject matter is indicative of a neo cons take on the world, take  a look at 'conservative' responses to the other  article, "when felix goes feral" a pattern emerges. If it doesn't fit neatly into a financial box, keep cutting till it does. If you cant buy a consultant, ignore science and independent experts, they are  problematic."Attempts to control the media.."I agree controlling media for political purposes is offensive  AE: have someone strap your good self  into a chair one day and cop a dose of  commercial television in all its glory. I bet you can't do it. 
To say that media merely responds to its market is just rubbish. 

It constantly evolves as a sophisticated mechanism to control and develop its market, using repetition, blandness and fear, it responds to who is paying. If you don't believe me try the test,  I bet you can't do it, 
This mechanism is doing untold damage to our society, objective, transparency with honest regard for  the audience is fundamental to a healthy national psyche.

" Every year, it seems we give away a little more freedom to the constantly expanding state...".I agree but it is corporate politics, not just Labor. 
By agreeing to bombing Iraq ,Bill Shorten has indicated that if he wins office it is unlikely he will go out of step with the US. 

I would be expecting the opposition to be working on policy implementation, this being the great stumbling block of recent federal govts.

The disdain that the liberals have shown for anyone not financially secure is a similar stance they have used in the past,they lost.

What is critical is that Bill Shorten and Labor take a pragmatic position on the state  of Australian politics and move to help the govt. implement change. 

If Tony Abbott rejects the offer, he and his supporters will become increasingly marginalized.

This strategy will  reveal Bill Shorten's natural integrity and statesmanship, we have some big issues that continue to destabilize Australia and must be addressed.

Endemic  political corruption. Self serving, highest bidder, media. Divestment of funding for technology. Unaffordable tertiary education.

A new tax  revenue flow has to be found and developed, it is easier to ask the middle income earners to pay more. Corporations are above being taxed fairly, until it is more profitable to be good corporate citizens, they wont.  The rich are very hard to pin down and too well connected and resourced.

This real discussion has to begin and Bill Shorten is best placed to take the initiative.This is a pretty unhelpful  and  bitter piece, the author probably has enough insight to write something useful that could help, pity.Where was Peta when Tony decided to say he would shirt front Putin? boy there was a moment for the shepherds crook.

Alan Jones and his divisive commentary is a shining example of the need for public figures  to be aware of potentially corrupting approaches to public discourse and act accordingly.Get back to areas that you have some knowledge in, this isn't your field, you haven't thought this through. Licenses are available for suitably trained people with natives deemed suitable.This is a prime example of what happens when you shrink the CSIRO down to nothing, there is no one looking into it. Would a tazzie devil problem be worse? probably not. Feral animals have to have a bounty, it should be possible to make a small living culling them.This hot air isn't worth the pixels it was poked on, as sensitivities have  been set aside, go forth and waffle out of earshot. This flowery self trumpeting  alarmingly trivial trite  uses a blunderbus  aimed vaguely at the only recognizable inroad that govt has made against deliberate addiction of people for profit, can't you find better subject matter? you lemming, pity Carmel didn't work in a brewery. Bugger I did it myself.Anecdotally it seems that a lot of unemployed people are entering training programs in my area, as a result of the government pressure.. There are no advertised vacancy in these fields but still if the person chose something that interested them it is progress. 
It was and still is puzzling as to how the market is going to create jobs without the govt pouring in money, 
The cost of training is one expense that should show up soon, but good on them, a lot of money well spent, hopefully.

If employment blossoms from this initiative then the govt. deserves reward and I for one will acknowledge their superior understanding of market forces.
The benefit of being in the pockets of businessSound logic I reckon,and interesting point about Rudd, so what is influencing the blue collar workers vote, the ability of the party to get its message across, and how it is portrayed  by media, surely.

Didn't Howard /Costello reach their natural end? and Rudd is media savvy, he achieved office but what else.

 "increased democracy is the right thing to do, it will also move the party to the left, away from the centre where elections are won." I'm not sure about this statement but I suppose you are saying we have moved to the right [media driven I think] and progressive policies are thought to be  economically unworkable.I don't think business cares what clothes[wing] you are wearing except in terms of how it can be profitable. Mainstream media just wants to produce a product that is profitable, if big government creates better stories then that is good. But turning over govt so as it remains fresh is equally newsworthy and interesting, as long as it is  re enforcing favorable profitable relationships for financial backers.I think if the carbon tax had have been called a pollution tax it would have held sway. I actually thought that the Gillard govt had progressive policies that had merit but the costings, and Swans insistence of a return to surplus without bravely reinstating income tax to previous rates or taking on other revenue losses, no one believed.He was ill equipped and failed to explain in simple terms  important principles. 
 The idea that media reinforces attitudes but doesn't create them I find puzzling, doesn't mainstream media operate through funding driven by the market?
 Do you really think that the market doesn't shape peoples opinions/attitudes  via media in all aspects of life?  I take on board what you are saying  though and appreciate the effort.Peter the Lawyer:  I agree media doesn't care which side your politics sit on, it is irrelevant business interests is the only driving factor, and of course you know that, your "everybody knows" line  is farce.Lehan Ramsay: Yes I agree, isn't it about  the horses?. 

There is not that much use in Labor setting itself back years in its ability to resolve internal issues when the Australian political system needs a rebuild. 

It is not fair to ask people to vote for something that does not function in their interests primarily. 

Corruption is evident in; lobby groups , pre selection political donations  multi national influence. 
 And it is all propelled by media that does not have mental or physical health of its viewers playing any role but a cursory one.It is probably the same risk, lose the leadership or push through reform, it is not the loony left anymore , without a financial power base you are irrelevant now.
 
What is being overlooked in this article is that it is corrupting business practice that is the lure for unions, unions  act as an agent for favoritism. The end result can be  a more expensive project that wasn't necessarily required, Victoria 's desal plant a shining example.

As ICAC  proved, manipulative  and underhand business practice is common in politics. we can get to the bottom of home grown corruption but our hands are tied when it comes to international interests. This is why we have to hold sovereignty  with any project that is in the national interest, and independently and objectively edit media. 

Good luck Bill Shorten and congratulations John Faulkner.There is not that much use in Labor setting itself back years in its ability to resolve internal issues when the Australian political system needs a rebuild. 

It is not fair to ask people to vote for something that does not function in their interests primarily. 

Corruption is evident in; lobby groups , pre selection political donations  multi national influence. 
 And it is all propelled by media that does not have mental or physical health of its viewers playing any role but a cursory one.Empathy is complex, draining and requires study and thought and an ongoing  answer,  whilst  casting aspersions requires very little effort,  just cunning.I hope commenter's here don't start saying this is a lefty conspiracy because the effects of generating fear impact on everyone. This tool of manipulation needs to be acknowledged and interpreted  through modern eyes, the side effects are profoundly damaging to all.It is time to recognize media for what it is, a marketing tool for whoever is bankrolling it. As this article so aptly points to current examples of sensationalist media it overlooks the more ominous aspects of this form of communication that reaches into nearly every household when the occupants are relaxing, and aims for market share for whomever is paying. After people began fitting in Japan one avenue of subliminal  manipulation was dropped. But reading these comments we are just naive when it comes to the insidious  complexity that cradle to grave marketing is , they have done a good job.
No one is going to restrict what goes on ,only an unaffiliated body could and all politicians have to take this seriously as  their own roles  become less relevant and choice  more limited.Does anyone really think that the US printing money is  going to improve things?I liked your reply to Ben better, you skipped wisdom and learning from past mistakes and going on gut feelings. no useful answer is ,as you pointed out a waste of time.
 We need to own our own industries, mainly,we need free education, government has to invest taxes into developing technology.
  We will always be relatively rich unless our population grows too large. Our level of decency, what people fight for here and at home, guarantees our safety. Not fortress Australia, the great continent that is Australia.The US just pumped trillions of dollars into the world economy, the moment gold stops dropping buy it, surely. 

I think your right for what it is worth and are pushing the steel barrow. It has to be majority Australian owned and environmentally sound , our wealth is too easily siphoned of to multi nationals, keep pushing.The impenetrable wall that you are speaking to is largely because no Australian govt. is powerful enough to do this ,you would be taking market share from multinationals. To finance this development with multinational money is to water down the value so greatly that ,taxpayer dollars will end up overseas. I think politics needs cleaning up first.The only way a government is going to be able to re introduce a sustainable tax base is by explaining a vision of the future that logically addresses our issues. and cleans up various forms of corruption.

Value adding our mineral wealth by making the worlds best steel and building a highly automated manufacturing base,investing in technology/education.

Banning political donations, developing  pre selection and lobby group transparency.

Redefining mainstream media/business ethical obligations so as that they can improve quality of life, not decimate it.

Return queue jumpers, but treat all refugees with care and dignity.

Work on strategies that mix age groups together, acknowledging anyone who contributes/ engages with their community.


"Get out of the way and let business get on with making this the lucky country again." as Howard did.

I agree but it is not just  govt regulation. that is in the way, if you think that is all that is blocking our development, I think you are incorrect. 

Howard sold assets had a mining boom and watched as our "common"wealth was redistributed  to multinationals  and also  joined a pointless war. my fluff is better than your fluff so nerr,.. sheesh. 

Empathy and ethics  are way more complicated and time consuming but it allows us to evolve as a people. This personal responsibility will make many  rules/laws redundant.
I agree, my parents and grand parents and the community I grew up with wouldn't treat strangers like this. I have no idea what Tony Abbott is talking about whens he draws on Americanisms and Thatcher years political motivation.

It is bloody odd. Some people think that refugees is different, well it isn't, we would always put them up, if you're a queue jumper we will look after you but send you back to a camp that we draw from., and keep an eye on your safety. 

Alienating people however you spin it unless you met them personally, know their circumstances,  you have no right to think any lesser of them.

Moderates will gain power soon and the unnecessary secrecy and removal of rights will be quickly dropped.  
Career satisfaction, intelligence and quality of life can't really be measured in an economic sense.  

What is profoundly obvious is that without free education and cheap rent for students the gap between the rich and poor will always grow.

Any  government that includes funding for nutritional meals in primary schools will raise living standards in the future.We are a great country and our generosity of spirit,classlessness, gentleness and humour are some of our best attributes.

We, are always going to be spending money on refugees and the sooner we develop a sophisticated approach that is befitting of our national character the better.

The most economic and farsighted approach yet proposed is to grow our culture and benefit refugees greatly at the same time.

Our ancient country relies on people treading lightly on the delicate tapestry that is our natural environment and a combination of evolving modern technology and old knowledge, is the best means of developing this symbiotic relationship.

The proposal is a no environmental impact human sanctuary that empowers refugees with knowledge that will improve their lives dramatically when they return home. 

The facility will integrate Australians with these people in need and reveal our compassion whilst we learn, develop friendships, and take home strategies that improve our own quality of life.

There are a great many false costs in our lives that can be stripped away, refugees will remind us of these in a practical way, a defrag. for us, natural beauty, sanctuary and friendship for all.The article is indicative of the destruction caused by labor Rudd once he was rolled for driving everyone around him too hard and without backbenchers  opinions being held in any esteem.

The retrospective  lessons learned by Julia Gillard and the Labor party in general should be very instructive.

And the main lesson is if a publicly popular member of your party insists on destabilizing the leadership by feeding the opposition and media damaging private details for reasons of revenge and leverage, he must be outed.

The formula is what every magazine uses, folksy easily explained personality differences, examples and resolve. Take the problem and use it as a tool to show the ordinary everyday relationship issues and by doing so remove the ground from the opposition. The key is honesty, such a shame that Gillard didn"t use this approach, she thoroughly deserved another term[Swans silly insistence of surplus was cheap fortune telling] and could have helped educate the public in politics, exclusives to a womans magazine is probably the best vehicle, because they're monthly issues, and if one isn't objective enough, drop it and use its rival. Ray Martin could actually be useful, a non politic.Interesting that Argentinia has population of 41,000000, I wonder how their infrastructure, reservoirs etc  are going , put this in the silly micro glance at an issue and extrapolate comparisons pile. but I do wonder how their Eco system is holding up.Phew, heavy and beautifully written, initiatives  that help create a sense of community, that endeavour to mix generations and encourage social interaction will also help alleviate many of these issues. The wealth of experience and perspective that older people can bring to younger people's lives, exactly as this article does, is sadly lacking in our society  A more coherent  and responsible mainstream media that has structural educative content built into its agenda is a must for a healthy culture.This is an article that shows the full extent of how media has entered our lives, the author can acknowledge the pursuit of corporate interests being profit, but cannot make the connection that this is the very reason politics is oversimplified and deliberately distorted.
He blames voters for interpreting the message that is tailored for the same outcome. 

When people are studying media in decades to come they will be amazed how corporate profit was allowed to freely enter all facets of people's lives and how checks and balances are farcical, industry controlled illusions.I would agree but watching the manipulation and controlling influences of media has always irked me, as good people build a better place, there are others that contribute to suffering, now my kids have grown up its time to try and help improve things. It is why people come back to the ABC. They have the time and the headspace to be informed and help make a difference.Malcolm Turnbull , as an intelligent man how can you flag funding cuts to the only media that can act objectively in Australia?
It is essential for politicians and their message  people receive  information that actually informs without private enterprise pursuing its agenda.
Do you not see the damage or realise the implications? This isn't freedom of the press it is corporate interest profiting in spite of the people. I do not believe you cannot see this. Please help.The responsibility of reducing ABC funding sits with the responsible minister, blaming the ABC for  axing a political commentary program that is expensive by nature, says way more about the incumbent govt. and pressure it exerts than anything else.Macroprudential tools, what a lovely  way of describing dealing with irresponsible lending practice, gee maybe they shouldn't lend money to people who can't afford it without creating unnecessary hardship. Banks have to have some accountability in the profit driving up house prices to the detriment of all potential mortgagees. The legislation that enabled these shonky lending practises would have been driven by industry lobby groups who donated money to election campaigns.

It was once feasible to save 30% of the cost of a house and that was the minimum deposit, combined with the ability to make the repayments. The bank manager developed a relationship with the family and its budget, by knowingly relieving themselves of their professional conduct whilst withdrawing access to local managers, banks should also incur some of the cost to the community.It is testament to the human condition and our ability to adapt that pollution deniers can't see it for the smog. They will go on eating and drinking things that really shouldn't have been made for human consumption  as their bodies and minds try to compensate despite the complications. The 5% that benefit directly and can avoid the ghastly ramifications and actually enjoy the status quo, they must find the deniers they aren't paying a curious bunch indeed. Keep them drunk, distracted and feed them information that blurs the ability to make positive decisions in their lives. As the internal organs sour and the sunny disposition disappears from ingested pollution, some manage to release their personal emissions here.It is testament to the human condition and our ability to adapt that pollution deniers can't see it for the smog. They will go on eating and drinking things that really shouldn't have been made for human consumption  as their bodies and minds try to compensate despite the complications. The 5% that benefit directly and can avoid the ghastly ramifications and actually enjoy the status quo, must find the deniers they aren't paying, a curious bunch indeed. Keep them drunk, distracted and feed them information that blurs the ability to make positive decisions in their lives. As the internal organs sour and the sunny disposition disappears from ingested pollution, some manage to release their personal emissions here. Vent those spleens.Well Morrison really isn't trying to hide behind anybody or anything, except for the secrecy in using the navy in an questionable way. But he is what he is, warts and all, it's refreshing if that is possible.

The shores of Lake Argyle after local consultation, would make a good site for a human sanctuary to take us into this century and beyond. We need a worlds best practice in sustainable living site with zero environmental impact. A training /learning facility for refugees that equips them with life skills that they can take with them when their countries are safe again. This learning facility will be invaluable for us too, we can interact,help and take home concepts that will enrich our everyday lives.It would be a mutual learning/shared experience.

We need to radically alter our own inefficiencies and to see these things at work will go a long way in alleviating the anxiety of change. Rather than putting refugees in a prison or a zoo we,can offer worlds best practise in developing meaningful life strategies whilst learning and benefitting greatly ourselves.
The money we save by not replicating our own enormous inefficiencies we can spend on improving our lives and the lives of refugees. An natural progression that builds on what we already have as a multicultural society,that make us world leaders in this field, living well, natural good will is why it will work.BJA no, it isn't 't possible and the Navy shouldn't be used in this manner, you choose to comment on that and ignore the rest of the effort. Piked it because you couldn't tell whether it is real? It is"Primarily motivated to create fear" the primary motivation is a caliphate in this case.
In the case of our politics the primary motivation to create fear is to win elections, for business it is to buy things that would  of otherwise be unnecessary. The fear still works if it is only perceived.
Why is it that most tv after 8:30 is about murder, because it is the best way to engage  people or because it is a lowest common denominator that must inevitably incite fear through sheer repetition?

How much of our quality of life is spoilt by various entities benefitting by creating fear.

A sound article that actually reflects this governments highly developed skill set in cultivating fear.
