Yank, it's not proving difficult for anybody but the Labor Fan Club. 

Your call for bipartisanship is laughable given that you consistently barrack for the party which dismantled the previously effective system. Remember?

Start acting like adults? Yes Labor should indeed start acting like adults. Rational thinking is a good thing!MB, the thesis of the article is that deterrents are un-necessary because of the practice of boat turnbacks.

Your Labor talking points are of no relevance, except to show that you have nothing to say about the topic at hand.Yank, I disagreed with you. 

But as you raise the subject again, what is current Labor policy? It's last two or three were all disasters! 

Does Labor even have a policy on this issue? On any issue?10% might be a bit high Evan. Their ABC is not really representative of the population at large.Mike, here are two strategies for deterring illegal migrants from arriving by boat:
1. turn the boats around + mandatory detention + no permanent residence
2. turn the boats around

Which would be more effective?Rabb, we do all realise that only the richer illegal migrants can afford to pay the people smugglers, don't we?

That's how the unfortunate individual who was killed came to be in PNG in the first place. He was able to pay the fare!Alpo, changing the subject only shows that you concede my point.

Next?More relevant MDG is that the author appears to be advocating that boat turnbacks are the only measure necessary to deter illegal migration.

As the present High Court case illustrates, the advocates of open borders will stop at nothing to erode border protection.Running from inhumane treatment? They could have stopped running when they first found safety. Instead they seek to migrate to Australia.Agreed AJS, but with your last point, what happens to the first person who arrives over the cap?Really AJS? 

And those who want to defeat the quota, choose to get on a boat, arrange publicity in advance, have the lawyers ready to apply to the High Court? 

Are they among those who will wait for the next quota?

It's a nice idea, but impractical. If there is a queue, there will be queue jumpers. If there is a quota, there will be those who don't want it to apply to them.AJS, nice in theory, but the open border advocates would never tolerate it.LR, who exactly is it that you claim is speaking or acting in your name? 

Parliamentarians are given their seats by electorates. The idea that somehow they should speak or act your you is delusional. So is the "not in my name" rhetoric.All fine talking points, LR, but who exactly is it that is speaking or acting in your name?

Oh, and congratulations on figuring out the inspiration for my screen name. Most Labor Fans aren't as smart as you are!HPH, you make my point.Fine stuff again LR, but who exactly is it that is speaking or acting in your name?It sure doesn't look like a child's drawing to me. It demonstrates highly developed fine motor skills and good penmanship. More like something produced by an advertising agency.Who has authenticated the authenticators? Propagandists are not to be trusted.Should have been easy to rebut MJ.

Just name a few ordinary Australians for whom human rights advocates have shed tears.Alpo, there's no point quoting what I write and then not addressing it. 

By definition minority groups are not ordinary Australians. Get it now?MJ, that's your logic not mine.T, it is not a human right to migrate to Australia.Alpo, you agree with me and still want to argue. What's with that?Another one who agrees and still wants to argue.

What "these people" have sought to do is to migrate to Australia. Any claims to asylum ended with the first country they reached.Still,MJ, the coalition pays better than the Labor party. 

Big oil is a good payer as well, so I'm told. I'm still waiting for my cheque.MJ, you may not be entirely surprised to find that I was not being entirely serious. 

But really, you write what you do without being paid? Why?Yes indeed. The great divide is not between left and right. It is between those who think rationally and those who can't or won't.Excellent Helvi. Good luck influencing people.Predictions are tricky things STT, especially about the future.WGT, you are almost right, but you are wrong about the Labor party. 

That once proud party has become what it despises.Agreed PtL, but governments and politics can cause all sorts of problems.Comedy gold, STT. Too funny!Tim, you are correct to talk about balancing conflicting priorities, but the two priorities are not "liberty" and security.

In this case the discussion is actually about privacy and security.

You don't lose liberty when somebody records information, it is an invasion of your privacy.Words to live by Duncan. 

That philosophy also encourages people to try to understand issues which affect them. The Labor Fan Club won't like that!Quote: ... may be ... could ... could ...

Couldn't be more certain.

Quote: If the Coalition does implement mandatory data retention they need to balance the challenges of maintaining personal freedom while protecting all of us from new cyber threats and traditional security threats.

Correct. So why not start from that point rather than finish with it.

Speculation is not information.Michael, extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.

It would pay to be a bit more reserved in your interpretation of one month's figures. The first precaution is to look at the margin of error in the figure. Was there any?TJC, what Michael has done is to take what he describes as a surprising one month change and interpreted it as the USA passing a baton to Australia. 

That's an extraordinary call based on a one month "surprise".

The graph is quite jagged indicating cause for caution about drawing bold conclusions from one month's figures. 

He may be right, but he may be wrong. What does he say if next month surprises in the other direction? Australia has handed the baton back?What's that Alpo? The Australia Labor Force Unemployment rate produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics is an exact figure you say?

In the immortal words of John McEnroe, you can't be serious.

We do all realise the figures are produced by taking a survey, don't we?APM, there is more evidence of groupthink than conspiracy. 

Groupthink threatens rational debate even more because the groupthinkers are unaware of the behaviour.M, group think stems from a subconscious desire to say things which will please a group (like you and the Labor Fan Club). 

The dopey call for a team australia approach appears to be a conscious call for the nation to adopt an attitude toward terrorism prevention (like the previous dopey call to be alert but not alarmed or me calling on the Labor Fan Club to show some sense).

Hope that helps!Oh no its not, MDG!MDG, you make my point. The word "defence" does not appear in the section. Nor does the word "truth".

You were wrong to use the term "absolute defence" and you were wrong to say what you did.

Interpreting statute is quite complex. It does not involve barracking for one side or another.MDG, the judge borrowed heavily from other areas of law, particularly defamation, in his judgment. The fact that he had to do so illustrates the problems with the section.

The nexus made by the judge between much vaunted opinion about errors of fact and the wording of the section are the most legally contentions part of the judgment. You are pointing to the weakest link and claiming it as a strength.

It is unfortunate that the decision was not appealed so that a more authoritative interpretation of the law could be made.

Basically, judges make mistakes. The fact that the decision delighted the Labor Fan Club is neither here nor there.Quote: The idea that a person should be charged with a serious criminal offence - and any offence involving the word terrorism is serious - and that the prosecution do not have to prove beyond reasonable doubt that they committed that offence is an affront to a nation that purports to be liberal and democratic.

Greg, any experienced lawyer knows that the standard of proof is a complex issue. 

For example, when asbestosis was first litigated the defence was that there could be no proof whatsoever that the particular fibre which caused the disease had come from any particular place.

Here, the same situation applies. The standard simply isn't as cut and dried as you suggest. Juries are forever asking for direction about what constitutes reasonable doubt. Judges who explain those words simply invite convictions to be appealed.

The emotional rhetoric about "an affront to a nation" needs to replaced by serious legal argument.Crow, arrests are either made by police on suspicion a crime has been committed, or as a result of the issue of an arrest warrant by a court.

The standard of proof in both cases is reasonable suspicion, not the criminal standard of beyond reasonable doubt.

The issue Greg is the creation of offences for going to certain places or associating with certain people. There are numerous offences of that nature already (eg being on prohibited territory), but of course Greg fails to even attempt to explain that.

That is why this article is so poor.Alpo, not many object to asylum seekers. It's the illegal economic migrants that raise hackles.

Oh, and 51/49 in the polls you say. Perhaps Labor's hate campaign isn't proving as effective as you hoped.L, an illegal economic migrant is an illegal economic migrant. An asylum seeker is an asylum seeker.

It really doesn't matter how they arrive. The trick is to tell the difference.Quote: No. It is Eric Abetz's contention that an unemployed person, in between their five hours a day of community service, should also be submitting two job applications each and every day that is a bridge too far.

Is that right? Which survey question told you that?

It's bad enough asking poorly constructed survey questions, but this is just making stuff up.M, the "you started it" argument is pretty lame.

Still, if that's all you've got, go for it!PP, you agree with me yet still protest.

There was no survey question which led to their conclusion. The "bridge too far" was simply made up to suit the propaganda.Quote: Before we make any decisions on any changes to these laws, four questions must be answered.

Ask the wrong questions and you'll get the wrong answers. Focussing on financial loss caused by unauthorised distribution of content is the wrong question. How much financial gain can be made is the right question.

Focussing on market efficiency is the wrong question. Inefficient markets are invariably replaced by more efficient markets without legislative intervention.

Mark asked about the business environment and then misdirected himself to other things.

Whether things can be legislated effectively is the wrong question. Legislation is only ever a revenue raising measure or an intervention to enforce public ideas of morality.

The right question is how those who create, produce and distribute content can be rewarded for their efforts. Start from there!Quote: Democracy is very much at stake in Australia at present.

What? Has the next election been cancelled?

The Labor Fan Club would be well advised to reconcile itself to the fact that not getting their way is a result of democracy in action as is the obstructionist behaviour of Labor in the senate.What an interesting article. By providing this insight into the views of Ms Milne, their ABC has done the nation a great service.

Ok, starting at the beginning, "Mr Abbott is not content that we've already sacrificed desperately needed public services ..."

What desperately needed public services would these be?Quote: But the change is there nevertheless, and a poll conducted on behalf of Australian Marriage Equality (by my company) confirms it.

Newsflash: advocacy group says majority favour what it is advocating.

C'mon Auntie, be serious!Not your best work Annabel. You've overdone the motif.

And you failed to grasp the difference between censorship and the need for a new model of copyright in the age of broadband.

The problem, in case you really did miss it, is that there is little incentive for people to produce content unless there is some way to profit from it.Yes, HPH. Create, produce, distribute. Everybody in the chain needs to make some money. 

There is of course the prospect that those who create can reach the paying public with a minimum of middlemen.Yank, miners pay royalties to the states and income tax to the commonwealth.

If you want to say royalties should be higher, that's fine but they should be going into a sovereign wealth fund rather than being frittered away on recurrent expenditure.

If you want to abolish the flat 30% corporate tax rate, that's fine but why stop at one industry.

Above all, give up the barracking. It does you no credit.Alpo, I have stated my purposes clearly and unambiguously on several occasions: to hold the government of the day to account; and to have a laugh at the expense of the Labor Fan Club.

Barrack away!All you need to do now, V, is to explain why a flat rate of 30% is appropriate for all other corporations in all other industries.

Go for it!JH, if that's what you want then more power to you. My question is why the Labor Fan Club only singles out one industry to be taxed at something other than the 30% flat rate.

As usual, Labor advocacy strongly suggests that they just haven't thought things through (and appear incapable of doing so).Nice one V. How about "Howard out now"? 

Or the ever present protester chant "What do we want?" ...

As always the black Labor Fan Club pot is calling the kettle black.As always, the Labor Fan Club pops up to confirm that the great divide in Australia is not between left and right, but between those who think rationally and those who can't or won't.

The article, in case you missed it, was by Jonathan Green.Yank, pretending to be even handed before concluding that it is all really the government's fault is standard propaganda these days.

Both you and Jonathan Green do in fact savage the PM and the government whatever they do (or even whatever they don't do. 

You admit it in your last sentence.Only in the eyes of the Labor Fan Club, JB. And outside their ABC they are in a very small minority.Bravo Edward. A logical proposition if ever there was one.

Do nothing and get the basic dole. Do work and be rewarded. 

Now to do something about the dole rate reducing so rapidly once some income is earned. Create some more incentive for doing a day or two's work a week.Their ABC does not exist to fight battles for one side of politics as an evener upper (although you could be excused for believing that it sees itself that way).

By the way, it's not so much the bias of their ABC that gets me, it's the extraordinary lack of quality.

And then there is the daily censoring of these forums by the moderators.Australia most certainly did not deserve Rudd/Labor/Rudd!How wonderful for Green that he is above and beyond the media here at his gig with their ABC.O, the funds are collected into consolidated revenue. 

The problem is that Labor insists the government must not reduce spending.Sell the ABC?I would buy it, E. Their ABC has no value as a going concern, but it owns some seriously good real estate and some valuable copyright. There'd be quite a handy profit to be made selling its assets.Comedy gold Paul. Too funny!The UN resolution was quite sensible - cease fighting in the area of the crash. If one side or both violates the resolution, then there are plenty more resolutions.

This strenuous argument by the Labor Fan Club amounts to no more than that nobody should ever do anything. Dressing it up as some sort of insight is simply vacuous!Quote: Such a pity then that they'll have to use up 25 hours a week doing menial tasks ...

Sounds like the life of the average public servant!Greg, several of your graphs are not marked on the horizontal scale. There is also a big gap in the middle of your beveridge curve.

And you decry anecdotes, but respond with vacuous rhetoric like "You would have to be either extremely deluded, or a member of the Cabinet to think people are choosing to stay on such an income."

You'd have to be a Labor Fan to be convinced by this article that the government should not review employment services.

If you don't like the idea of requiring those on centrelink benefits to jump through pointless hoops then suggest an alternative. But of course, that's not the Labor Fan Club way, is it?

As your beveridge curve actually demonstrates when properly interpreted, if the government keeps doing the same things it will get the same results.M, asserting that Labor had the answers just eliminates you from any rational debate.

Agree or disagree with the proposed changes by all means, but don't just barrack.Quote: It's the most important question in Australian politics right now.

It might be to the Labor Fan Club, but rational thinkers see a bigger picture. Even their ABC's fact checking propagandists measure the government's progress in 60 or 70 different areas.T, what is it with the Labor Fan Club and all that hate?

Hint: private enterprise creates jobs which need to be done. At best, governments can only avoid getting in the way.The same way they do now, J. The job seeker reports to centrelink. Centrelink conducts random checks.Quote: By the way, she had a university degree and had worked for many years in the public sector.

That explains the underperforming due to depression and lack of confidence. The wrong degree and the public sector has been the ruin of many.JH, what can be done? Greater minds than ours are addressing that question as we type.DitD, we do all realise that you didn't even attempt to answer the question, don't we?

What is it with the Labor Fan Club and hate?The question, DitD was what is being said in Dutch newspapers.

Attempting to answer the question would be a good way to engage in debate. Instead,out come the same tired old hateful Labor talking points.

Right, JH. You start by saying you don't understand what is going on, and then advocate a course of action.

Think of the children!Which is why Australia is not getting involved. Think harder!Bruce, every action reported to date indicates that the AFP know the risks to personnel and are determined to create a safe environment to do their work.

Your use of insults and name calling against the foreign minister simply makes my point.Quote: Karzai, whose constitutional term of office expired on May 22 but who still remains in power, has persistently proved to be a master of political deception and survival, without a long-term vision or policy agenda for Afghanistan.

As long as we all know who the bad guy is. Oh, and the credit goes to Kerry.

Glad that's sorted.You don't say OF. In fact Whitlam came up with no end of dopey ideas. Then he ran out of other people's money and turned to Khemlani.The reasoning is sound James, but it depends on whether Australia is a market maker or a market taker.Quote: But GDP numbers will hide the truth for they do not fully take prices into account.

Oh really? Tell us more.HM, that would mean the GDP figures fully take price into account.

The quoted words were nonsense.Alpo, now you are just making stuff up. The IMF has predicted higher growth for Australia than the government did.The relevant adage is that to keep things secret from your enemies requires you to keep things secret from your friends.

The last thing a police or military operation needs is the added burden of protecting spectators.

In plain English, journalists should look out for their own safety and keep out the way of people doing dangerous work.

Bitch and moan all you like but do it from a safe distance.Ann, as I said, to keep secrets from your enemies you need to keep secrets from your friends.

Are you seriously suggesting that the journalists should have been told where the Australian forces would be and when?

Why not ask Australia's forces to wear big red targets and maintain a running commentary on twitter as well?Ann, the naivety you demonstrate is quite touching.

The actual situation was that the Australian forces attempted to negotiate for an area to be clear and for roads to be clear FOR AUSTRALIAN FORCES.

To then have journalists blundering about would be an unacceptable risk. The commanders made an operative decision. It didn't suit the journalists so they are having a whinge.

Don't let your prejudices cloud your reasoning.Agreed,GBE. The quality of journalism here on their ABC leaves a lot to be desired.

In that respect it is disappointing to read the articles written by journalism academics on these pages. Post-modernism rules and there is no such thing as fact.Ann, in a word, YES!Quote: The mere 30 billion surplus left to Labor  ...

Hey, a billion here, a billion there. Pretty soon it adds up to serious money!Ooooh, grumpy. Fancy being accused of being out of touch with average Australians.

Tell us more about this pain. Last I heard quite a few measures were being blocked in the senate.Oh, Alpo. The 52% in the opinion polls include only average Australians and the 48% who don't include no average Australians.

Even by Labor Fan Club standards that is utter twaddle.Hockey has seemed a bit sour and scowly since Abbott became leader.Alpo, Labor were (and still are) pretending that government debt is not a problem. 

The major legacy of the Labor government was the legislation of grandiose schemes which were always to be paid for some time beyond the budget estimates (or were off budget entirely).

Oh, and as much as you may believe that terms like neo-liberal strike fear into your opponents hearts, nobody cares. It is immediately written off as the Labor Fan Club having nothing at all worth saying.

Rather than use your tired old terminology, how about saying what you want to say in plain English? Somebody might even take your arguments (if you have any) seriously!Snake, that is just plain wrong. What you are referring to is the debt ceiling and that has now been abolished.

Why their ABC publishes the steady stream of utter falsehoods from the Labor Fan Club defies reason.Quote: But more surprising is Joe Hockey's extraordinary fall from grace.

Is that right, Barrie? You might just be claiming victory a bit prematurely. 

Adversity can be the making of the man. See how things play out.Alpo, anybody who claims to see a change in trend following the change in government is kidding themselves.

Job creation? See the graph labelled Employment growth since March 2007.

Think harder!Quote: Clive Palmer?s Palmer United Party now has the balance of power in the Senate. ... is good or bad for fluffy kittens?

Ok, I made that bit up, but "good for democracy"? What a dopey question.

The current balance of power is the result of democracy in action.

Oh, and the voters get another go in a few years!CC, the idea of being democratically representative is one of opinion. 

In their wisdom, the drafters of the constitution chose two different ways to sense the will of the people. First by single seat local electorates in the lower house. Second by multiple seat state electorates in the upper house.

The effect is that 52% of the vote in the lower house will result in 90% of the seats. That is a good thing for producing a workable majority in the lower house.

The senate election system is dysfunctional in that it has been able to be deliberately manipulated in recent years.Yes FF. Abolition of the upper house in Queensland is yet another unintended outcome of misguided thinking by the Labor party.

Labor gets so keen to secure power from time to time, it never considers what will happen when they lose that power. The result in Queensland was of course the Bjelke Petersen years.Yes, SFBI. It will take the fact checkers a while to explain why Lambie's behaviour is Abbott's fault. It should be worth the wait!Reinhard, it may come as a surprise but a substantial proportion of voters will never again trust Labor with anything. That's what happens when Labor is as dishonest and incompetent as it was last time around.Quote: We're lucky in Australia to have gone the better part of a century without a high-profile bank failure.

That's a strange thing to say in the light of Labor governments losing both the Victorian and South Australian state banks.As usual MMM, to Labor everything is somebody else's fault.

Both bank failures occurred because Labor governments at the time decided to run government like a business. Of course with little to no business experience Labor stuffed up. But what's new?Alpo, debt is not the same as public investment.

Those billions Labor threw away gave the country debt, but there is no asset or income to match.C3, there aren't many cyclists on the Gillies Range Road. First, it is 44.6km between the towns at either end (Yungaburra and Gordonvale). 

Second, most have more brains. For those down south, the road is a bit like the roads to the ski resorts but not as wide and not as safe (even though the DMR has just done a huge amount of roadwords to improve things).

Cars routinely crash either against the embankment or go over the edge on the other side.

Not safe for bicycles!Nev, I've changed my view. I used to think that at least some alarmists genuinely believed they were saving the earth. I'm not to proud to say I was wrong.Good news Mervo. The weather will start to get warmer very soon. 

I predict that in as little as six months, it will be like summer all over again.Yank, instead of (for example) quaranting losses against future income from the asset, Keating went further and said that the losses were not tax deductible.

Keating's measures were as ham fisted and ill-conceived as all the other Labor stuff ups are. There seems to be a complete blind spot in Labor as to the natural consequences of the actions they take. It is though Labor is completely blinded by its ideology and hate.GD, quarantining losses was an example of what Keating could have done if he had thought things through. Instead he took Labor on an ideological crusade just the same as the one you argue.

Actions have consequences!Steven, I agree that amendments to the tax system can dislocate markets and must therefore be thought through carefully. Keating did not do so.Michael, this makes two articles by you on this subject but I am yet to be convinced you actually understand what negative gearing actually is. That is especially so after your interpretation of Mr Murray's statement.

To remove doubt, it refers to the situation where the interest and outgoings on a property exceeds the rental income on the property (ie a loss is made).

The most common objection to that arrangement is when individuals offset the loss against other income. There is a worthwhile discussion to be had on this arrangement, and in deductibility of expenses incurred in earning income but you have not had it.

What Mr Murray refers to is the amount of borrowings being used to finance property purchase (ie leverage). His words you quote are NOT specific to rental property but to residential property in general.

I hope this helps.JiB, everything distorts market behaviour. Regulatory intervention more than most. The concept of a free market is so misunderstood by most that sensible discussions are near impossible.

My point, however, is that it is a good idea for people to understand what negative gearing actually is before going off on ideological tangents.As I've said on many occasions, the great divide in Australian politics is not between left and right, but between those who think rationally and those who can't or won't.

I am yet to see any evidence to the contrary on their ABC.MMM, you've had a couple of goes at making this point, but it's a dud.

There are at least four different versions:
1. global warming;
2. anthropogenic global warming;
3. catastrophic anthropogenic global warming; and
4. climate change.

There are people who says that there was no such thing as the little ice age or medieval warm period. You'll find them all on the alarmist side. Mann has tried to get rid of this evidence of climate change from the beginning.

Only alarmists deny that the climate constantly changes.DW, I named the name. Michael E Mann is his full name. His Hockey Stick completely eliminates the LIA and the MWP. His work is quite well known.

The only denial that climate constantly changes is on the alarmist side. That is where the Goldilocks notion comes from that the world has been not too hot, not too cold, but just right until the industrial revolution changed everything.Let's be real, DW. Mann's Hockey Stick denies that there was ever such a thing as the LIA or the MWP.

Now you deny the denial. Recursive fury is just around the corner.JB, would you be happier if everybody praised the Rudd/Gillard governments for their incompetence?RR, Shorten who? Leader of what?No, Stalga. The head of the reserve bank said no such thing.Either that harry, or Labor keeps doing what it is doing and reaps the natural consequences.DW, if the oceans are warming then coral will simply grow further from the equator. 

Try not to confuse alarmism with science.Quite so Reinhard. Here in Cairns it has warmed by several degrees. And that's only this morning.

Meantime, in the Australian Alps the snow is warmer than evah!Bruc, how about because those who maintain the figures keep cooling the past and warming the present?

The 1990s are getting cooler every month!Quote: They are essentially caravan parks, except you don't put a caravan on the plot of land - you buy a building that sits on it.

This could do with further explanation. 

In Queensland the relevant act requires that the buildings be relocatable. It was drafted to deal with relocatable homes (even as large as portable school rooms).

What has happened is that homes being built have gradually become unable to be relocated without being significantly damaged.

Once again, however, a quick lesson in constitutional law would prove valuable. Turning a state issue into a commonwealth issue requires discussion of whether powers have been referred to the commonwealth or whether the commonwealth has simply drafted model legislation to be adopted by the states. The partisan jabs are simply unhelpful.Quote: The St James Ethics Centre held a major debate last week on ways to fix NSW's political donations system.

It would help if each of the 10 suggestions was accompanied by an explanation of how it would fix NSW's political donations system.

For example, how would (1) early disclosure of cabinet documents fix NSW's political donations system?

It would also help if the perceived problems of NSW's political donations system were explained. Otherwise these are solutions in need of a problem.Greg, your argument has no substance at all. To illustrate, consider your side's habit of describing any policy you do not agree with as regressive. It's just name calling.

Oh, and do have a look at your graph of quarterly electricity greenhouse gas emissions. The visual effect is to suggest that some quantity has fallen to zero. The convention is to show the break in the vertical scale. Failing to do so puts your graph in the realm of propaganda.Reinhard, correlation is not causation. It is important to consider what other factors are at play.

You do want to predict that the graph will immediately turn the other way once Gillard's tax is repealed, don't you?Democratic process got Palmer elected and will give his electorate another opportunity to vote in a few years.

In the meantime, to use the words of a former Labor minister, we pray for sense and reason!Alpo, you say you are sure of many things. Gillard was going to lead Labor to victory in the 2003 election for example.

See how you feel in a year or two.Government by twitter has little to recommend it.SN, you need to look back to a time before PUP. When Palmer presented the government in Queensland with his own legislation favouring his interests and was refused.

It was not the federal government which gave rise to PUP but the Queensland government, by acting properly.

As for predictions, they are tricky things especially about the future and even more so when tainted by malice.It's broader than that Kevin. Beazley would be the exception on the Labor side. There's no denying, though, that Latham, Hewson and Fraser certainly have lost the plot.Agreed Patrick. It's even worse when people discover they can vote themselves funds out of the public purse.Ms Lambie appears to take exception to a wide range of things, both real and imaginary.

Still, the voters will have their say in around six years.Quote: How else could someone like Abbott actually win power?

I hope you figure it out one day Jeff. 

Hint: if you don't like the current government, vote against it when you get the chance.Quote: It is a debate that has demonised science and those who have devoted their lives to research ...

Not so. The good name of science has been tarnished by those who see it as a source of authority for political action and personal power rather than a systematic means of discerning knowledge.

As a result there is precious little that can be identified as being the result of the scientific method.You make my point DRL. You were responding to my message, weren't you?Climate change: the climate of a place becoming warmer, cooler, wetter, drier (or in some cases staying the same).

Climate: what you expect
Weather: what you get

Hope that helps!Yank, you've got to be able to quantify a saving before passing it on. That is why businesses who have not had to remit carbon tax would be concerned by the compliance cost. 

The more sensible option would be to require those who have actually remitted carbon tax payments to pass on the saving. At lease they are able to quantify it.

Having taken that step the savings will flow through the economy.

Oh, and Abbott has not agreed to an ETS with a zero rate. That is Palmer you are thinking of.Malcolm, Labor introduced this tax. You can hardly blame this government for the difficulties if faces in cleaning up yet another Labor mess.STT, why shouldn't all companies ... be forced to pass on the savings, you ask.

Figuring out how much of their present price structure would be an administrative nightmare for a start (unless they are among the relatively few companies who have remitted the tax).PM, the parliamentary draftsman's office drafts legislation.Malcolm, you hate clouds your logic. The carbon tax is a Labor tax.Robyn, the key factor is that only a limited number of businesses actually pay the carbon tax. For them it is easy to pass on the savings because they know how much they pay.

For the rest, it was just another cost increase. Unlike the GST where the tax is explicit in each transaction, the carbon tax was so badly designed that nobody knows for sure how much they have paid.

Palmer's amendements are unworkable. The best political option is to pass them and then not enforce them.Quote: Mr Abbott don't you think its time to make contact with Ms Julia Gillard to seek advice on how to negotiate

What? The same woman who entered into an agreement with the Greens when that party was never going to support the coalition?

Surely you jest.Quote: The Palmer United Party intended for its amendment to require power companies to pass on any savings they made from the repeal of the tax to consumers, or face a hefty fine.

Not quite. That was what the early amendments were intended to do. Later amendments required all corporations to pass on savings and added a penalty for certain corporations which didn't.

It's quite disappointing that their ABC got this wrong.Quote: So it often seems to us that the other side of politics is simply batshit crazy. 

Pretending that the world is either meritocratic or not confirms the wizdom of the quote above.

For the record, inequality is a good thing. Poverty is not.TSI, the greens were much better when they focussed on the environment. Those days are long gone.I don't think so STT. I think that was mostly a political tactic to neutralise the issues.

If Labor had promised free beer, the coalition would have said they did too.

This is the problem for Labor going forward. They are opposing all sorts of things now that they should not be. Time will tell, but I think it will eventually bite them in the bum.... and of course despite the predictions of the Labor Fan Club that the AAA would disappear should Labor lose office.

Remember now?Paying royalties into a sovereign wealth fund would work.

Labor's mining tax was all about fixing holes in their budgets. The proceeds of the tax were all earmarked to be spent.CJB, to Labor everything is always somebody else's fault. Right Labor Fans?Quote: The political case for the budget should have started before the election, making it clear that our budget actually needed fixing.

The political case DID start before the election. Labor immediately launched a scare campaign thus making any rational debate impossible.

Remember now?It's great entertainment DJ. The problem is that once people discover they can vote to benefit themselves at the public expense, democracy leads sharply toward disaster.

The solution? Politicians who vote on principle rather than expediency.Yes MB, sort of. That's more an example of lobbying, but the ideas are related.Good question MM. I don't know, but there is much wisdom in those words. Much more too in other sayings for those who wish to think rationally.Who is this "we" you refer to Aja? 

BTW: be a bit careful about saying what somebody else "wants". Your crystal ball may not be as good as it seems.Quote: How strange the political landscape has become when a billionaire stands up for the poor.

That alone should give you cause for skepticism.Yes Malcolm. I truly believe that, as you say, your only skeptical moments come when Tony Abbott opens his mouth. 

Then again, the opposite of skeptical is gullible!Malcolm, perhaps you should be skeptical about other things. Real scientists are born skeptics, you know.Quote: You say it was electoral poison for Labor, but that was only because ...

To Labor, everything is always somebody else's fault.Rusty, you make my point more forcefully than I could.

To Labor, everything is somebody else's fault!Oh really, Malcom? An important means of curbing AGW you say?

We do all realise that the W stands for warming don't we? How many degrees warming did it curb? To the nearest millionth of a degree will do!

AGW is undeniable and insignificant.Quote: The decision is a major setback for Abbott who desperately wanted to "axe the carbon tax" as one of the first decisions of the new Senate. Government MPs were extremely keen to push the recent budget firmly into the rearview mirror.

A triple banger. First, on the facts the events are little more than a muck up that will be resolved in a few days. Many people will be very surprised if Palmer does not act in his own self-interest by supporting the removal of the carbon tax.

Second, the ever unreliable mind reading of what Abbott "desperately wanted".

Third, more mind reading about government MPs being "extremely keen".

Give up the mind reading. Report the facts. As a Labor luminary once said, don't write crap.Malcolm, another clanger I'm afraid. Not as bad as your misunderstanding of peer review, but close.

Come back at the end of next week and tell us about what you have imagined today.2007 is getting a bit long in the tooth RC. Got anything more up to date like the greatest moral challenge of our time? Or maybe there will be no carbon tax under the government I lead?

Time to move on!Malcolm, AGW is both undeniable and insignificant. I have said so on many occasions and misrepresenting what I say only harms your cause.Rusty, along with many other items of Labor faith, that one is just plain false. The words the Labor faithful would like Gillard to have said were not spoken.DR, Labor would dearly like the Australian population for forget its dishonesty and incompetence in government. 

There's no chance when Rusty and others want to go back in time and argue forward from 2007!You're a bit Shakespearean Johnno. Much ado about nothing.

Give it a week and see how you feel then.We do all realise that the PUP withdrew its own amendment, don't we?How interesting that nobody has mentioned what he actually said 

Even at the height of World War II, Australia gave the Japanese submariners killed in the attack on Sydney full military honours. Admiral Muirhead-Gould said of them: ?theirs was a courage which is not the property or the tradition or the heritage of any one nation?but was patriotism of a very high order. We admired the skill and the sense of honour that they brought to their task although we disagreed with what they did. Perhaps we grasped, even then, that with a change of heart the fiercest of opponents could be the best of friends."

Still, hate factor 5. Right Labor Fans?Agreed Frank. The refugee advocates knew just a bit too much about the voyage and those on board. 

Even if the High Court disqualifies what has happened, the government is likely to just change how it goes about things or legislate to overcome the decision.

And so the game of cat and mouse continues with those determined to achieve open borders.Gerard, when things go to the High Court they tend to get a bit legal. 

This is a pretty good article setting out some of the issues without advocating a particular position. Quite rare, but most welcome at their ABC.Genfie, there is no objectivity about the findings of the refugee tribunal. It was stacked and directed to wave most boat arrivals through to meet Labor's political imperative.Agreed TSI. The game of cat and mouse continues.What's that Helvi? 

Surely at some stage during the 6 years of the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd enlightenment, Labor published information about the fate of the 433 Labor heroes!

Heck the refugee advocates knew the names of about a third of the present group without that information being released. Surely they know what happened to the 433 they saved from the forces of darkness. Or has that gone down the memory hole?CP, to remove doubt, seeking asylum is an excuse for illegally entering Australia.

You're welcome.No, no, AMF. The boats are still arriving in Australia. 

They are then being whisked away to secret underground prisons before anybody sees them. Right Labor Fans?Interesting and alarming reading. Yet another mess the Labor Party has left to be cleaned up.Indeed Nova. I can't see why Kohler included such a cheap throw away line. Too long at their ABC perhaps?Non-sequitur GF. I was referring to the what Kohler wrote. Your Labor talking points belong in another discussion.Quite so Paul, which makes Kohler's swipe at the federal government nothing more than the typical partisan nonsense which appears daily on their ABC. It shouldn't have been made and does not deserve to pass unchallenged.

Oh, and federal Labor boasts of all the legislation it passed. It plainly overlooked the problem and hence left it as a mess for the current government to clean up (according to Kohler anyway).

Hope that helps.A bit melodramatic, but reasonably accurate. A very well placed little birdie tells me that there is a wave of good news announcements stockpiled for the election campaign, but that would surprise nobody. 

And surely Labor can find somebody more sophisticated than the present opposition leader, even if it means changing to a leader who is not yet in the parliament. I know they only had a minibus load to choose from, but what a shocker.Predictions are tricky things JC, especially about the future.Bill who? What's he doing these days? Still in the parliament?V, I agree that there have been some unsupportable things said and done in respect to the law and legal profession.

The only thing wrong with the cutbacks to the public service, however, was that they did not go far enough. Nobody would even notice if 50% of public servants disappeared.

Then there is the dramatic over-administration in Queensland Health which remains almost untouched.Geoff, public servants are people. 

Like the workers in Sir Humphrey's hospital with no patients, many of them are seriously overworked at producing nothing of tangible value.

Let me illustrate. If 50% of them took a sickie tomorrow, who outside government would notice?Oak, exactly the scenario in Sir Humphrey's hospital with no patients I referred to above.

And the tangible output to anybody outside government is nil.

Best wishes.Ann, I said 50% not 100%. Try not to extrapolate too far to make a point.Try getting rid of half of the administrators.You'll find that after the debacle of Labor's computerised pay system, Nurses are quite happy to be paid the right amount on a regular basis again. 

You'll also find that spending less on administering the pay system will free up money for other things.

Next?It was more than punishing Bligh for asset sales LT. Once the disgusting campaign Labor ran was revealed for what it was, the moral dimension kicked in.

So Benghazi was a non-issue?

Talk about throwing mud, check your second sentence!HPH, you've answered your own question.Whether it is a Labor Party stuff up, or an Obama mess, it's always somebody else's fault, isn't it Crow.

Who was it said the buck stops with me? Or was that before Obama was elected?Tell that to the loved ones of people who died.Helvi, all the best with the move.You're welcome. 

You've got it wrong, though. I am not a "Liberal bird". I seek no more than rational debate. The cards can fall where they may.Quote: By this, he meant the unflinching clarity of reason that is embraced by people whose way of interpreting the world is blinkered by a narrow, limited agenda.

What an ironic statement from a refugee advocate!Quote: The Abbott Government has falsely pretended that the story is much simpler than it really is, and the refugee remains the villain.

Whereas the author has falsely pretended that the story is much simpler than it really is, the the Abbott Government remains the villain.

With this article, rational thinking has hit a new low at their ABC.Feel free to quote Abbott as using the word "victim".

Try not to invent things when what was actually said does not suit your cause.No, MJ. The word you are looking for is target. You do not become a victim unless the blackmail succeeds.

As I said, with this article rational thinking has hit a new low at their ABC. Don't make it worse.J, we do all recall that the people on the boat in question claimed that they required urgent assistance, don't we?

The basic law of the sea requires nearby ships to render assistance and then transport those on board to the nearest safe port. That's the proper starting point. 

Your assertion that this is akin to piracy is an example of why the Labor Fan Club cannot be taken seriously.I don't know Reinhard, but congratulations on at least asking the right question. There is hope for the Labor Fan Club yet!B, asset deflation is no panacea. The tendency of the Labor Fan Club to change what it does not understand is very concerning.Quote: Usually only featuring in public debate in its real estate context, the ability to write of interest payments against other income is not just available to property investors, but also to shareholders, businesses and other investors.

The general principles of taxation are that profits (income less expenses) are taxed, income and expenses from multiple activities can be pooled, and losses from any year can be carried forward.

The term "negative gearing" simply means that for the early part of the ownership of the asset, income is less than expense.

Commenters would do well to think things through before engaging in rage against the capitalist machine.It depends Yank. If it is a republican president, there are widespread suggestions that he is a dim wit. If it is a democrat president he is hailed as a messiah.HR, Australia's borders mean a whole lot more than they did under Labor.No Yank. Transparency in government is a different concept to democratic government.

It is quite possible to have a transparent undemocratic government (benevolent dictatorship), or an opaque democratic government (which is what Labor Fans call the current government).

Don't let your hate dull your logic.Quote: However, there is one very clear principle in the Refugee Convention: it prohibits the refoulement (or return) of asylum seekers to the country where persecution is alleged to have taken place without assessing claims for protection.

Equally, there is a very clear principle of the law or the sea: all vessels must respond to a distress call with those on board to be taken to the nearest port.

Just because people want to enter Australia illegally, they are not entitled to a taxi service from international waters. They have no case until they are in Australian waters.

It was a nice stunt by activists, and it will be applauded by the Labor Fan Club, but it was just a stunt and it failed.Yes indeed S1. The refugee convention is a relic of another time and place. It does not fit with today's reality.Rhonda, the latest people smuggler tactic was to phone ahead and arrange maximum activist publicity whilst in transit.

The intended message? It is still possible to travel illegally to Australia and claim asylum when you get there.

All was going according to the activists' plan. Then, apart from a few bleating ninnies, all went quiet. Oh, the shock horror. The tactic hasn't worked.

Get it now?Helvi, the ultimate truth about on-water matters is that there are fewer of them than there were under Labor's open borders policy.

That is, of course, apart from the loopier conspiracy theorists among the Labor Fan Club who express the belief that the boats are still arriving but are now hidden out of sight in secret prisons. Right Alpo?Yes Helvi. The payback to the nation is much quicker with skilled migration. It's vastly preferable to the open borders policy you advocate.CM, you'll find that indigenous means that they did not need to come to Australia. They were already here.
Alpo, you don't seem to understand that what you advocate is an open borders policy.

If you accept illegal arrivals by criteria, then there is no limit to the number who can arrive. Open borders.

If you take people by number, then at some stage you must close the border. You have never admitted that it is then that the big question arises: what then? Ask them nicely to hang around for a bit til a vacancy arises? Shoot them?

It's all very well and good to parade your compassion as a badge of honour, but think harder!Alpo, those who exceed the quota don't want to go to a third country. They've already skipped numerous third countries on their way to Australia. It has cost them quite a bit of money to get as close as Indonesia!

For once TFG, you are right. Each wave of migrants is poorly treated. Not the least bad treatment is that meted out by the most recent wave against the current wave.Wow. Talk about putting a positive gloss on things. Bravo.

I'm not sure that I agree, though. You can shine sh*t, but underneath the surface it's still just a turd.Quote: Concepts such as "permanent disability" and "fitness for work" are complicated and nuanced. We need a welfare system that is able to deal with them in a sophisticated way. And we need media reporting that errs on the side of compassion and understanding, not fearmongering.

Quite so. How much money do you want and who pays?

How much of the disability tax dollar goes on public servants?Quote: And so this new review of Australia's governance will now be powered by the Commonwealth's preference that each tier of government should be allowed "sovereignty in its own sphere". 

Seems sensible. One of the great problems is duplication of the public services in the states and commonwealth. For example, there is simply no need for there to be a commonwealth education department or a commonwealth health department.

Alternatively, the power can be transferred to Canberra (as Abbott is quoted as approving).

Who cares? Just get rid of the duplication.Your worst clanger yet, Malcolm. 

Peer review only gained popularity relatively recently as a system used to "review" articles in publishing of journals.

Neither Newton nor Ptolemy, for examples, ever published their work in peer reviewed journals.

Oh, and the corruption of peer reviewing is possibly the most pressing issue in science. For examples, see the debtate in medicine and climate science.

Science does not work by peer review. That is just silly!Reinhard, the transactions of the Royal Society was not a peer reviewed publication.

As for Ptolemy, you agree with me but still want to argue. Very Labor!Newsflash: man who makes his living spruiking catastrophic anthropogenic global warming pleads with government not to cut off his livelihood.

Think of the children!Quote: The mantra of this Government appears to be to solve problems that don't exist ...

Greg, a mantra? Really?

A mantra is a sacred utterance, numinous sound, or a syllable, word, phonemes, or group of words believed by some to have psychological and spiritual power.

I stopped reading there. Hopefully the article improved after its first sentence.A, somebody in the Labor Fan Club has to be last to realise what has just happened. Try to let it be somebody else.

Think harder!Arf, referenda are used to change the constitution. Gillard's carbon tax is not a constitutional issue.

Hope that helps!Quote: Does anyon really think there is going to be an ETS? Does anyone really think there will be a climatechange/global warming reducing mechanism of any kind put in place?

Johnno, you've figured it out. This is really sorting the sheep from the goats. You're obviously smart enough not to be a member of the Labor Fan Club.Facts are facts, Malcolm. No matter how much you hate you can't turn a loss into a profit.Interesting concept that, Michael. That citizens and leaders of one nation state can be answerable to those of another state, or some tribunal created by a group of states.

Do you think it will persuade the North Korean leadership, or will there have to be a war?As if to ilustrate the author's point, the editor uses the sensationalist words "hurting our democracy".

It is worth taking a step back to remember that Australia's democracy is quite robust. There is no doubt that it will be entirely unaffected by Palmer or any other present player.

The greater the scope for stupidity and irrational decision making in one period, the greater the scope for sense and rational decision making in the next.JB, life in a democracy means you get stuck with decisions you don't like (but others do) made by governments you don't like (but others do). Just imagine how rational thinkers thought about Rudd/Gillard/Rudd.

Quality of decisions is another issue, as is the misguided twaddle spouted by the Labor Fan Club each day.2007 Malcolm? Before Rudd lost the courage of his convictions?

Times have changed. Temperatures haven't. Do keep up!Quote: He climbed aboard a cherry-picker to emphasise just how shocking the rise in global temperatures has been relative to the last few thousand years.

Nah. It was just a Mann made hockey stick. Fake as they come.Quote: Because at the moment, our politics just seems to have stopped making sense.

Jonathan, politics is making plenty of sense. It's just the Labor Fan Club who don't understand what is going on.Dictatorship you say? Climate change (presumably CAGW) proven you say?

Hint: extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.

... and you complain about the government not mounting aruments. Where's yours? Or was that it?Don't think so Maus. It was a case of Rudd losing the courage of his convictions about the "great moral challenge of our time".

Then Gillard fixed the problem by promising there would be no carbon tax!Quote: One is reminded that Mr Gore has only recently met Professor Palmer, and must have been struck by his - Gore's, that is - unique opportunity to influence the path of a nation ...

For a moment there I thought you were going to refer to Gore's ability to bring on cold and snow at places he speaks.Umm, the government debt is a Labor thing.PoM, it is never persuasive to start with an insult.

Asset sales are fine if they retire public debt. Labor's apparently incurable habit of funding recurrent expenditure from borrowings is the problem.Financial gurus said that, did they? What, all of them?

Why, that's better than a 97% consensus!Malcolm, hate is no substitute for rational thought. Still, Pavlov would be proud and so will the Labor Fan Club.Congratulations, HJ. You are undoubtedly the first Labor Fan Club member to pick up on the inspiration for my screen name. The others aren't as smart as you are.

Its disturbing to hear that Labor had no choice but to flush a couple of hundred billion dollars down the toilet. I always thought they might have exercised their free will and made a rational choice.Quote: As the Palmer United Party prepares to take control of the Senate ...

No. The term is balance of power and PUP is only part of that balance.

I stopped there so I don't know what the rest of this week's propaganda was.Voting is only a part of parliamentary work, TJC. It's what goes on behind the scenes that is really important.I'm not from the Greens cheer squad, but quite a large number of trees have repeatedly not been chopped down.

I've got several in my back yard that I haven't chopped down thousands of times.

Hey, somebody has to use their land to suck the CO2 out of the atmosphere!Yank, are you advocating higher or lower welfare spending? Bigger or smaller government?

There are two ways to look at wealthy people. Either you can look and say you want to take it from them, or you can look and strive to join them.

Australia's enviable situation did not come about because the early settlers relied on welfare. Welfare is necessary, but not desirable as a growth industry.James, your premise does not support your conclusion. It would have to be a fixed pie for your conclusion to hold, not a finite one.G, you are arguing against yourself. An aging population and ever increasing welfare dependency are the reason present welfare growth is unaffordable. But you knew that.Lisa, the key is in the broadly shared desire for self-betterment. That is where the wealth of the modern world is created, and that is why extreme socialist ideas always fail.

Hope that helps.Reinhard, as usual you make my point.

To get from a settler economy to the present day required people with aspirations.

BTW: we do all realise that commonwealth public servants already enjoy a generous PPL scheme, don't you? Why do you want to abolish that?Quote:The undisputed number one topic of economics over the past year has been inequality. 

Really? Not sustainability or growth? Not apocalyptic global warming?

Give a man a fish and you've fed him for a day. Teach him to fish and you've fed him for life.

Seriously, Greg. The day you sit down intending to do more than sledge the government will be a better day for everybody.Warwick, come back to us when two things happen:
1. an alarmist makes a falsifiable prediction which actually comes true; and
2. those who say there is a problem act like there is a problem.

Quotte: Alarm bells are ringing everywhere with respect to climate change. Recent observations of craters in Siberia and methane bubbles reaching the surface in the Arctic ocean are indications that some of the more catastrophic climate scenarios may come to pass.

And these things have happened because the temperature of those regions has increased by how much?

Your scary stories aren't scary any more. CUL8R!Yank, after years of finding excused for Labor's incompetence and dishonesty, it is good to see you wanting to hold the government to account. 

To have any credibility though, you really should now condemn the former Labor government. Otherwise your outrage is as selective as ever.

What say you?Here's the thing Barrie. The more media commentators such as your good self view everything through the prism of point scoring, the poorer public debate will be.

Lift your game!Yes Alan, it was all there. But somehow Labor's incompetence and dishonesty was Abbott's fault. Go figure!JA, Abbott did make it clear quite early that his main priorities were to stop the boats and repeal the carbon tax.

Labor also accused him of relying on three word slogans a very long time before the election.

Does that answer your dare in any way?CL, it's a long bow to describe the Greens and PUPs as conservative. Both are nothing more than obstructionist.CL, fair point about the greens, but Palmer is far more opportunist than conservative (you don't get that rich that quick without being an opportunist). He couldn't control the LNP in Queensland so he set out to get revenge.

Obstructionist is the most appropriate tag. Conservative he ain't.... and the benefit of the carbon tax was ...

Answers to the nearest thousandth of a degree will do.Repeat after me, Reinhard.

Correlation is not causation.... which has provided the benefit of ...

C'mon Reinhard. If there's more than pointless symbolism, tell us what it was!If you say so STT, but what horrible crime did the nation commit to deserver Rudd/Gillard/Rudd?Alpo, so the nation appointed Abbott as leader of the opposition, did it? There were rational people thinking it was the Liberal party.

You do write the funniest things.Splod, it's consensus when your side does it, but populism when the other side does it.

How'd I go?Ukeman, the place for the debate between world views is in the media. 

That should be a key focus for their ABC. Instead, groupthink rules.Nice to see your optimism, Cathy, but this is their ABC. Labor heroes are not to be shown in a bad light.

Damn that Goldstein!Quite so, Splod. The articles chosen for publication by the editor and the replies chosen for publication by the moderators leave a lot to be desired.

Still, with rational replies permitted by the moderators every so often, there is still hope!So, the Labor Fan Club moves some way to acknowledging that Labor created a long term debt problem. Of course it is the current government's fault for trying to fix it.

Still, there is nothing like reasoned argument, and this piece is definitely nothing like reasoned argument.D, not knowing the difference between a slogan and a name assigned to a group must be a trademark of the Labor Fan Club.Ah yes, MJ. To Labor everthing is somebody else's fault, isn't it?Actually Yank, most of the Labor Fan Club deny there is a debt problem. I'm pretty sure I can recall you denying there is a debt problem too.

That is why this article (and your reply) represents something of a breakthrough.Is that right Albany? The government aims to push more people into poverty?

This is yet more evidence that the great divide in Australian politics is not between left and right but between those who think rationally and those who can't or won't.Reinhard, let's start with Swan's announcement that Labor had returned the budget to surplus. Then move on to the fact that to Labor a surplus actually means a $30B deficit. 

Finish with the fact that what this government actually did was to restate Labor's budget but with real figures instead of fantasy.

Then you can have a go with your Labor talking points aka lies.Quote: Rather, there's overwhelming agreement (79 per cent) with the view that social classes still exist in Australia. If anything, the intersection between social class and politics is becoming more polarised.

And yet your survey didn't ask people's views on either of these subjects. How very unsurprising.Over and over again, what passed for logic under Rudd was always the same:
1. We have to do something.
2. This is something.
3. Therefore we must do it!

Labor never has understood what is required to govern effectively.Tedd, you'll have to take it up with the author. He disagrees with you.The retrospective hypothetical "would have said" is pretty limp at the best of times RNE. 

That said, what a pity Rudd and Swan didn't take note of your quote from Adam Smith.RNE, I'd rather rely on Smith's words themselves rather than your slanted interpretation of them. Thanks all the same.Predicting the future is tricky WS, but I agree that Labor and its Fan Club have no idea of the reputational harm they are currently doing themselves.

Carry on with the hate or not Labor Fans. It makes no difference to the real world.T, it takes genuine skill to be wrong on everything you say, but you've done it.

Let's take it from the top:
1. My response makes no predictions;
2. I have never asserted or thought that this government would be the nations saviour;
3. You will have to identify the inconsequential rabble (unless it is Labor).

Get well soon!Muzz, the point under discussion is that Labor and its Fan Club are inflicting reputational harm on themselves.

You make my point quite neatly. Thanks!Anti-Christ you say Culex? 

Not so, both Gillard and Rudd are Martians. Gillard's voice was a dead give away. Even Labor admitted it in the end!Quote: This has all come about as public broadcasters, such as the ABC, are under funding pressures. 

In the immortal words of John McEnroe, you cannot be serious.

Just ask yourself what it would take for their ABC to suffer a 20% cut in funding. That, dear fellow, is what commercial outfits like News Corp and Fairfax have suffered. And more!Alpo, the ALP and Greens have no right to a taxpayer funded propaganda unit.

Try responding to the point made. Their ABC is under no funding pressure whatsoever.Quote: The People of Australia have the right to a balanced, diverse, and objective source of information and commentary.

Exactly so. Instead the nation has their ABC.Alpo, the way to prove that their ABC is under funding pressure is to put forward relevant facts. You have provided none!Agreed. The Labor Fan Club does not appear to understand what its campaign of hateful propaganda must invariably yield.

Hint: every action has its natural consequences.Grumpy, it was Rudd who announced that you were either with him or should get out of the way.

Remember now?Surely among Green's best, TGS!Quote: The Prime Minister's concept of Team Australia seems so simple: the Australian way, you're for it or you're against it. The Australian reality though?

How bizarre. Jonathan makes no reference whatsoever to the concept of Team Australia. 

What ever prompted the editor to put that in the headline and introduction?G, it is not statistics which unite a nation in a common goal. 

The instinctive railing by the Labor Fan Club against the idea that the nation should unite in opposing terrorism is purely based on who said the words.

The response is greatly to the Labor Fan Club's discredit.ETR, I will join your call for Hockey to confesses to his imaginary sins right after the Labor Fan Club admit that Gillard is a martian?Agreed Zing. Of course neither Labor nor its Fan Club appear to see the rod they are making for their own backs.

Never mind!It was a combination of luck and meanness you say Stuffed.

So what is Labor's excuse? After all they printed leaflets announcing that the budget had been returned to surplus.

Just unlucky and too nice? Yeah right!But Labor did achieve a budget surplus. Wayne Swan said so!And immediately the Labor Fan Club wants to change the subject. Too funny!Actually T, Swan was said to be finance minister of the year which he wasn't.

That just about says it all for Swan and the magazine journalists who gave him the gong.Quote: The number of people believing the Australian economy is heading in the wrong direction is at its highest level since we started asking the question more than four years ago.

No, your graphic says that it was higher at 39% in April 2013.

Push polling is bad enough, but try not to say things which are so easily proved wrong.BJA, it is currently toward the end of the dry season in FNQ. 

One of the characteristics of the climate up here is that rain at this time of the year is negligible. Banana growers certainly don't rely on it.

The banana crop in FNQ, whether at Innisfail, on the tablelands, up at Lakelands and everywhere else is just fine. 

The person who told you there is a drought affecting the banana crop in Innisfail is a liar or a fool.Australia? Increasingly isolated?

In your dreams. The truth is that India will increasingly rely on coal and nuclear power to lift its population out of poverty.

Just ending the process of burning dung for fuel would be a great leap forward.Quote: On that level alone, the G20 must be counted a success - despite Tony Abbott not getting the public acclaim he had wanted. Or perhaps because of it.

And there it is. Even above the inaccuracies and misrepresentations. Everything comes second to domestic political sledging. And the two minutes hate will now proceed here at their ABC.

Seriously Aunty. It is time to lift your game!

Oh, and just in case this actually gets past the censors:
1. The session in which Abbott spoke about domestic matters was a session where ALL leaders spoke about their domestic matters.
2. The much vaunted Obama/China agreement is nothing more than an agreement to allow China to increase its emissions until 2030.Good grief. So a free trade agreement must be denigrated because it might affect the climate.

Haven't you heard? China has said it will INCREASE emissions until 2030. Australia's emissions are completely insignificant in that context.

Where's your sense of perspective, Kyla?Miow, if the banks are taking money from you then you are doing it wrong.Quote: economic growth will not happen without a major attack on climate change.

Tell us more GO. How much hotter, cooler, wetter or drier does it have to be before economic growth takes off?M, your words are your own and as abusive as ever.

GO said that the economy will not take off until action is taken against climate change. I asked him to give some numbers. You just can't get more open minded than that.

Speak for yourself and allow others to do the same. You'll like it!Read what you wrote Malcolm. You have written two things about me which are both false.

Why their ABC continues to publish such things is beyond me. 

Time will tell whether this reply will ever see the light of day, but your malicious follow up is published. As always.GO, all of the arm waving in the world will not advance your holy cause one inch.

I'll ask again: How much hotter, cooler, wetter or drier does it have to be before economic growth takes off?

Don't want to answer? Hey, it was your assertion!M, you ask what else did we think Abbott would achieve at the G20.

Assuming that the "we" you refer to is the Labor Fan Club, what was expected was that he would give you fresh reasons to be outraged about everything.

Your Labor talking points convince nobody of anything.P, if Keating is the answer then you are asking the wrong question.S, once upon a time people did vote Greens as an alternative to the coalition. That was at a time when the Greens had more of an interest in the environment and less interest in one world government under the UN.AE, at lease some people took the Kyoto protocol seriously. The China-US "deal" permits China to keep increasing emissions until 2030.

It was Obama at his disengenuous worst.Turnbull might always swap sides F. He can't be ruled out as a potential Labor leader.Quote: The Abbott Government was never going to work. 

So you said before the last federal election. But then again you also said that Gillard would lead Labor to victory.

Your obsession with polls and electoral results is quite fascinating, by the way. You are truly living the dream!There's no doubt about it Rank. 

1998 has never been cooler and it will continue to cool on a week by week basis as historical records are adjusted.

Let the alarmist gravy train roll on!Quote: No doubt, the ABC fact check will now put Tony Abbott's shirtfront back-down on Vladimir Putin as another broken promise.

It could well be, QG, but that says far more about their ABC than anything else.What's that Alpo? Labor spent and borrowed irresponsibly?

That is the comparator in your first sentence isn't it?Quote: On top of that, because of where China says it's heading, there is now a question mark over coal exports.

We do all realise that China has said they will increase CO2 emissions until 2030, don't we? 

It's only the ideologically driven who want the western world to reduce emissions at the same time!Not entirely on topic RC, but the growing US self-sufficiency in oil is yet to play out in middle east politics.

Starving terrorist of funds is one of the few good arguments in favour of moving off reliance on middle east oil.Barrie, wasn't it you who was promoting mature debate just a few weeks back?

Have you had a chance to speak to the Russians yet about why they have warships in the area?

Have you had a chance to see what the Chinese have actually proposed in the much vaunted great climate leap forward?

Your priorities are very strange.M, of course the Russians are entitled to have their warships in international waters. They are also entitled to have them in other waters with the agreement of the nation concerned. We'll have to put you on mastermind with special subject the bleeding obvious.

Their ABC, however, was full of how this was intended to intimidate somebody. You now come up with the same meme.

My suggestion was merely that Barrie might ask before indulging in the speculation you now raise.

Talk about own goals. You'll win the world cup!R, the great divide in Australian politics is not between left and right, but between those who think rationally and those who can't or won't.

I don't ever refer to lefties and I do not approve of terms such as leftards. Your insults however show that is all you have.TT, their ABC was full of speculation about the Russian ships just a short time ago. Rational people ask rather than speculate. I understand why this is a mystery to the Labor Fan Club.Malcolm is a bit of a pain, but he's entitled to post his inane rubbish on their ABC.

Oh, you meant Turnbull. Yes, he really should join the Labor party and be done with it once and for all!TT, tell us more. Who is it that regards Abbott as an embarrassment? Who has the government blamed for a problem of its own making?

So, TT. You regard Abbott as an embarrassment. That's it?

Climate change is a problem of this government's making. You cannot be serious.How do you do that Amethyst? Vote wholeheartedly, I mean?

Do you use an extra large number or a coloured pencil or make a little drawing?

Be careful. You may end up making an informal vote!Well done AG. Like Basil Fawlty mentioning the war, you mentioned sexism and got away with it.

I wasn't so lucky. I mentioned that feminism was inherently sexist and got censored. Four times!... and union officials AHLD. They really need a quota. Oh wait ...Nice one Algernon.

Who says their ABC moderators don't have a sense of humour?That's pretty much the problem with the whole article, NN.

Every time somebody bleats about not enough women in particular positions, it cheapens the achievements of women who are in those positions.

The approach of Gail Kelly and Julie Bishop sends a signal that women are capable. The whining of Gillard simply made it harder for others to follow.Quote: It is stretching things to use the label "sovereign risk" every time a policy change affects a company's bottom line, share price or even its viability.

Margaret, that's exactly what sovereign risk is. The risk that business conditions will be materially changed during the life of a business because of changed government policy.Astounding achievement is correct.

More engineering than science though.Forbidding new test, says the headline. Strange that the author didn't use that word. Perhaps the editor meant daunting. Who knows?

The decision was made under Labor. The author says so. And somehow, Labor getting it wrong is a defeat for the current minister.

Lift your game Aunty!Snow on the Alps. Surely not. 

Our children will not know what snow is. The science is settled. 

Thus spake the prophet.SM, alarm is not helpful other than in creating a fight or flight response. 

The problem caused by the boy who cried wolf was that people would not listen when a real danger emerged.

Too little science and too much advocacy is the truly stupid idea of the day.Alpo, I can't speak for Peter, but you start with a falsehood and then trot out nothing but alarmist hypotheticals and fantasies.

You are welcome to your religion, but don't expect others to follow.
Future history books, GO? Really?

Predictions are tricky things, especially about the future.

Still, those who control the present, control the past and those who control the past control the future.Umm, I can tell you that up here in the tropics, air-conditioners provide very welcome comfort during the wet season and especially at night.

The need for heating? Not so much.C, air-conditioning is freely available. People are indeed entitled to use it if they wish.

What is it with the Labor Fan Club and telling others what to do?Ironically A, what you have written is exactly the point the previous correspondent was making. Nothing Australia does will alter the temperature here or overseas by even 0.00001 of a degree.Anote, to direct your own words back at you, you can be as emphatic as you like; exclaim, shout from the roof tops and repeat your simplistic, absolutist statement ad nauseam. It will not make it correct and it displays your ignorance.

Not even 0.00001 of a degree includes the very real possibility that it will make 0.00000 of a degree difference. That, of course is literally nothing.

Don't barrack so hard. You detract from the real issues.GB, to Labor everything is somebody else's fault, isn't it?Quote: Governments having access to personal telephone and internet information is necessary to protect society from terrorist or criminal actions. 41% 
Governments are increasingly using the argument about terrorism to collect and store personal data and information, and this is a dangerous direction for society.  44% 

Really? These were the alternatives in a survey?

Essential Research cannot be serious!DD, when the evidence changes, some people change their mind. What do you do?... and the two minutes hate begins.

Damn that Goldstein!Look at what you wrote R.

Better Aunty? Fifth time lucky?Tighten it up, Alpo. CO2 is not "plant food". It is a reactant in the reaction known as photosynthesis.

Oh, and I live in FNQ. You may be interested to know that the supermarket chains have in recent years been rejecting part of the banana crop because the bananas are too large. Nothing to do with CO2 of course, but true none the less.

There have only been two incidents of widespread cyclone damage to the banana crop in the last 20 years. Despite the hype this year's major cyclone was a complete fizzer.

Your apocalypse is simply failing to materialise. Better luck next millennium.LR, I think you are right that most see the "shirtfront" comment as an amusing irrelevancy. Except for the Labor Fan Club of course.

Now, tell us more about this script...T1, I speak for myself thanks. Your words are your own. Your interpretation of Fischer's words is simply fanciful.STT, you'll have to take it up with LR. He wrote it. I simply agreed.Wondering about the people you share your country with, MM.

Here's the thing. Not everybody is obsessed with hating Abbott as you are.

Hope that helps!MM, hate is a powerful emotion. Don't let it ruin your life.

That is, of course, unless you are paid to write your comments. In that case, more power to you!Research is a wonderful tool, RB. 

It will tell you that faceless men was a term used by Labor about itself. Witness the famous photo of Whitlam waiting outside a room waiting to be told of the decision of the faceless men who controlled the party.No, C. That is simply not true. The newstart benefit has been increased many times over recent years. Always by small amounts, but increased none the less.You might just be onto something Bones. 

Democracy is doomed to problems once the voters figure out they can vote themselves more money.So Yank. Your heroes had government for six long years and failed to take any action. 

That must say something. Perhaps Labor is in on corporate corruption as well as union corruption.... and the one that Labor is soft on both corporate and union corruption.

Give the claims of moral superiority a rest Yank.Yank. Here's how it works. Believe it or not, some people do not spend their lives demanding this or that from the government.

I'm quite happy for the government to do its thing and allow the natural consequences to take effect at the next election.

But what say you? Is Labor soft on both corporate and union corruption? Does Labor really just look the other way like you do?Quote: I  won't shed any tears if any union officials are charged and found guilty in a real court ...

Strange then that this entire article encourages readers to look anywhere but at corruption in the unions.

Strange also that the author refers to a "real court" as though the findings of the royal commission carry little weight.Oh dear. Yank, the article was a transparent plea for people interested in the outcome of the royal commission to "look over there".

Standard stuff for Labor so I'm not surprised you followed the lead and seek to diminish the seriousness of union conduct by distraction.

The only trouble is that if you do it all the time, as you do, people stop listening to the distractions.FN, recommendations from a royal commission for criminal prosecution are quite serious. 

Interesting that you believe that jail is an appropriate penalty for the activity investigated by the royal commission. Do tell!The article encourages people to look away from union corruption. Think hard before you do the same.Quote: This is the nub of the disagreement between women of the left and women of the right over what should be done to progress the advancement of women

And there it is. Turf wars where the "ism" is more important than the people.RS, misogyny is dislike of, contempt for, or ingrained prejudice against women.

By saying that Gillard was subjected to something but Bishop isn't, you are in fact saying that Gillard wasn't subjected to misogyny because misogynists have the same attitude to all women (not just one or two).

I agree with you. Gillard was disliked and held in contempt because she was dishonest and incompetent.As I said in the seventies, gd, why would the female of the species give up all of their advantages and settle for equality.

It usually went down terribly well with the more radical sisterhood. I could tell they agreed, but for some reason they pretended they didn't.Rabbie, you may not be entirely surprised to learn that I was not being entirely serious.

Hook, line and sinker!Ah yes. The good old days!M, for anybody to subscribe to even one "ism" means that they aren't thinking properly. To subscribe to two means they have more problems than just contradictions between the "isms".Ah, MTB. The famous claim of the Labor Fan Club to be able to read the minds of those they hate. We haven't had that one for a while.

A welcome return to form on their ABC!Alpo, you place great importance in polls and election results. 

The people were relatively united immediately after the Whitlam years, but perhaps not in the sense you hoped.

Whitlam was a great man but, other than as above, a uniting influence he was not.Alpo, you should be happy that there are neoliberals in the government. 

After all a market economy with strong government oversight is what you advocate day in and day out!Quote: He has been memorialised and will long be memorialised; but now it is time to give this old man a well-earned rest.

Admirable sentiments Mungo, although of course as well as being old, Whitlam is in fact dead.Quote: It's taxpayers who now need the protection.

Because of course if the banks fail the taxpayers need no protection. Right Ian?No, SD. If you follow my comments (and it's quite flattering that you do so), you will find that my views on the market are quite narrow. Essentially, markets and capitalism are features of our world.

Broadly speaking, my view on the world is that everything has natural consequences. For example, the hate displayed every day by the Labor Fan Club is that they will end up without friends.

On the issue in question, letting the banks grow "too big to fail" has natural consequences. Having banks fail has natural consequences (as per my comment).

Enjoy!FK, my comment was about the poor quality of thinking displayed throughout the article.

If you've got a good suggestion (and both your suggestions are worth discussing), then more power to you!I'm a big fan of allowing individuals to set out their platform  as they see fit before an election, then do as they see fit during their term. At the next election the cycle repeats and the voters can pass judgment as they see fit.

Lambie delights some and annoys others. PUP may or may not survive.

Time will tell.HF, you are right of course, endorsed candidates of political parties are bound to the party platform at peril of disendorsement. I was talking more of my wishes rather than current reality.

I think Lambie is haphazard and detestable, but she is beyond my sphere of influence because I am not in her electorate. I have to leave it to the good judgment of those who are.

I'll back anything which improves the quality of political discourse.
Yank, no offence, but every so often you do tend to sound like a vuvuzela.

The argument that the military (and public servants) must always have wages increased at least to match CPI is pretty shallow.

Look a little deeper into the issues. Have some of that mature debate you advocate so strongly.Post service stress, Yank?

Yes, but an entirely different question to cpi based pay increases.Time of conflict, WHTF?

Allowances for increased levels of risk and duty are the relevant issue, not base rates of pay.

Think harder!Yes, DD. It would be too cynical. Creative, but too cynical.And to think of all of the lives which could have been saved in WWI and WWII had the allies just embraced the German army. 

Bugger!

Or was that different?I'm not surprised that you don't understand, A.

I'm also not surprised that you have nothing other than imitation.

Carry on!W, it wasn't the German people who would have heeded or rejected your advice.

It was the Polish, French, English, Russians and all of the other countries who declared war on Germany.

Your prescription was for those nations to embrace the German army rather than fighting them.

Or was that different?... or even that they don't have the ever hateful Labor Fan Club baying for revenge all the time?

After all DD, if Australia is to follow the NZ model, we have to be sure we've correctly identified the problem.No, Alpo. Neo-liberalism is what you advocate. Market economy with strong government oversight. Remember now?Barrie, you deal with two issues.

NZ does not have the problem of its citizens participating in and promoting terrorism as Australia does. It has the luxury of being able to talk in more abstract terms about how the middle east problems can be resolved and to ignore the history of the region. Apart from the French sinking a greenpeace vessel, terrorism in NZ just hasn't been an issue

NZ does not have the fiscal imbalance between the commonwealth and the states to deal with. That was the context of the recent hysteria about the mere mention of potentially changing the GST arrangements or rate.

It was a nice speech and mature debate is always preferable to acrimony, but at some stage you need to recognise that all of the acrimony in Australia is coming from opponents of the government.Bonnie, you cannot be convicted of a crime which is "not on the books".Wow. So many misconceptions. Where to start?

Quote: Are we going to begin criminalising everything that could result in harm to a fetus ...

This is probably the key issue. Criminal sanctions are applied in two circumstances. First, intentional acts. Second, wilful negligence. The threshold for conviction is well known, beyond reasonable doubt.

A fundamental principle of criminal justice is that the crime must be proscribed before anybody can be convicted of it. The mother was not convicted of being a bad mother. She was convicted of a specific offence.

Once convicted, there is always the question of whether compensation to the victim should be part of the penalty.

Surely their ABC editorial staff could have run this article past somebody with some legal knowledge before publication. It is among the worst I have ever seen here at their ABC.Yes, Michael. Their ABC should indeed be fact checking the articles they publish and maintaining the highest possible standards.

That is the role of the editor.Yank, common sense isn't quite the right term, but applying the ordinary meaning of words is a key principle of interpretation of legislation.No Yank. I was correcting what somebody else wrote.

Defend Abbott? Show me where I have ever done that.

Pavlov would be so proud of your response.

Ann, I don't feel strongly one way or the other.

My interest is in the uninformed commentary here on their ABC.Here's the thing Michael. Those who start out determined to find fault will invariably succeed.

The reality is that the law has been drafted by the parliamentary draftsmen, not by the person you are so keen to attack.

The law will be applied by the federal police as they understand the legislation.

The courts will then interpret the law as prosecutions are made.

Please try to be a little more objective.Ann, I only trust people I know and I only know a few members of this government (in fact I taught some of them when they were are school). I don't know any senior members of the government.

I take comfort from knowing that in a couple of years time the electorate will get another chance to express their will.

As is illustrated by my comment, I have great confidence in the robustness of the four branches of government in this great country.TJC, the AG is the chief law officer of the nation. If the system is working well, his department would have been involved in drafting the bill.No M. That is just plain wrong. 

Parliamentary draftsmen do what their title says. They draft legislation (and associated instruments).

The draftsmen are a resource available to all members of parliament. To my knowledge there hasn't been a bill introduced into the parliament in a generation which was not drafted by the parliamentary draftsmen.

Stakeholders have their say, including ministers and government departments. All parliamentarians are included in the legislative process through the "reading" process.

Your imagination is running away with you.
WC, I'm actually quite indifferent to the legislation. I'm almost always happy for the government of the day to legislate as it sees fit. My interest is in the misinformation being promulgated by their ABC.

I don't know the answer to your question, but it is a good one. Hopefully it will be raised in the parliament.H, all legislation is drafted under instruction. My point was limited to correcting the misinformation in the article.Quote: He wishes.

So do we all.

Quote: In the narrow view, we see a man who has risen through grasping ...

And in this very next paragraph Jonathan begins the sledging.

Jonathan. You are part of the problem!
Yank, as always your first step to having a mature debate is to insult your opponents.

My point of course is that Jonathan did exactly the same.Yank, read the article and read my quote.

Jonathan did not have a go at all politicians. Only one.

You can't call for mature debate and then in the next breath sledge your opponents.

There's only one group who needs to take a deep breath, namely those who indulge in the two minutes hate every day because Labor is not in power.S, start from the beginning.

Quote: He (Abbott) wishes (for mature debate)

In the very next line Jonathan resumes his usual sledging.

Quote: In the narrow view, we see a man who has risen through grasping ...

Check it. It's right there in the article. Now, this is ENTIRELY within the control of Jonathan and the editors. He didn't have to sledge. He should have resisted temptation. The editors could have trimmed it out. They didn't.

So I pointed out that fact. And the response? The usual two minutes hate from the Labor Fan Club.

As I said, you can't call for mature debate and then immediately sledge and insult.

Agree?Ah, I love the smell of the two minutes hate in the morning.

Thanks to the Labor Fan Club. As always you make my point.Rabbie, you appear to be unaware of the two minutes hate. The reference is to Orwell's 1984. Google is your friend.

Second, there is a vast difference between Labor supporters and what I describe as the Labor Fan Club. 

To remove doubt, the latter are those who are either unable or unwilling to think rationally.Helvi, yesterday you proclaimed that Whitlam admitted his mistakes with ease. Today Gillard grew into the role of PM.

Just out of interest, what colour is the sky on your planet?Crow, no insult intended. I was merely expressing an interest in Helvi's home planet.Alpo, neoliberalism means a market economy overseen by strong government.

Remind us again which part you don't like.But that's the thing AMF. Which part of strong government oversight doesn't he like? Or maybe it is the idea of a market economy he doesn't like. 

Who knows?Ok, Alpo. You say you don't like authoritarian government. Then you say that the market should not be dominated by powerful players. 

So maybe you do like authoritarian governments but only if they oversee the market economy in exactly the way you prefer. That is of course to prevent powerful players dominating.

So we end up with your expressed preference being a market economy overseen by strong government. In a word your PREFERENCE is neo-liberalism. Yet you don't want neo-liberalism if it isn't done right.

Get back to me when you figure out what you want!No, DTR. You make the same mistake Alpo does. Neo-liberalism means a market economy overseen by strong government.

Neo-liberalism is in fact what Alpo promotes (except when he is advocating the dismantling of the capitalist system).

His complaint is that the world (and that damned Goldstein) are doing it wrong. So is yours.

Always bear in mind that the "liberal" part of the word refers to the Democrats in the USA.SB, you forgot the possibility of changing the GST. Abbott was vilified for that only last week. Remember now?

Better Aunty? Why censor civil comments?T, before you go too far off on a tangent, my comment was in reply to SB who criticised Abbott for not including all taxes in a discussion about tax.

I merely pointed out that T was wrong and gave an example.

Carry on!Ann, it may come as a surprise to the Labor Fan Club, but recasting federation is a long term project. 

It is not going to happen next Thursday and it is not going to happen in the life of this parliament.

Hope that helps!Ann, the very context of the GST issue is in recasting federation.

Ignoring the context makes your comment irrelevant.DAS, the problem is that native title is a very thin bundle of rights. People in Aboriginal communities generally cannot own land in those communities. The consequence is that they cannot borrow money because they have no collateral to offer. If they cannot borrow money then they are forever tenants on their own land.

If you give people full ownership of their land, then they can sell the land. The problem is that they can only sell it once. Then it is gone.

Aboriginal people lose both ways. To an extent this is addressed by ILUAs, but that carries risks ranging from frittering money away, through to nepotism and corruption. 

See the problem now?Whether you agree with what Noel says or not, he is always worth listening to.

This speech is one of his best.QCB, the separation of powers concept doesn't apply in Queensland. 

That's not to say that Petersen didn't fumble his answer, but the question by Fitzgerald was ill informed.Don't be so surprised. The executive branch of government does this regularly.No, WHTF. The issue with the chaplains program was whether the commonwealth had the power to fund such a thing.

The interpretation of commonwealth constitutional powers is now so broad that they simply used a different power.

The Queensland government has almost complete legislative authority. Different rules apply.WHTF, many people have made the mistake about separation of powers. It is simply not part of the Queensland constitution.

As for not commenting on all of your points, far too many of my comments have been censored for me to risk putting much time into individual comments.

As for the rest of your Labor talking points. Expressions of hate convince nobody.Yes, in many circumstances I'd prefer police not to wear weapons. That includes shopping centres and sporting venues.

In fact there are many places police do not wear weapons now. courthouses for example. I think that is a good thing.Quote: The issue that emerges from the appearances of Colvin and Gaughan is whether or not it is appropriate in a democratic society for police officers to be undertaking such a role?

The answer is yes. Senior police have a broad role including education and community leadership. Further, senior police have a role to advocate for powers and laws which they regard as desirable.

Both require participation in public debate. Only those who don't like what they are saying seek to silence the nation's finest. The question is why people like Greg want to silence them.AJ, police are often referred to as "finest". Google is your friend.Yes, S. But as soon as they indulge in public advocacy they lose their secret status.

Never mind!Ruby, the problem with "isms" including feminism is that they are philosophies which seek to divide and set people against each other.

How about treating people as individuals rather than as examples of stereotypes which must be either praised or damned, patronised or vilified?

Quote: Women of colour are already feeling alienated from mainstream feminism and this has the potential to do a lot more damage.

This illustrates my point quite neatly. It reflects a world view where the "ism" is more important than the people. I disagree entirely.Quote: Leaving aside whether Kerr's concerns were warranted, it is hardly satisfactory to leave open a circumstance in which the prime minister and Governor-General play chicken with each other.

On the contrary, the mutual power to dismiss is essential.

The commission of the Governor General must be able to be withdrawn in circumstances of misbehaviour or incapacity. Likewise, there must be a mechanism for withdrawing the commission of the government and its ministers before the term of the parliament expires when it is unable to govern and unwilling to face a vote of no confidence.

The last part was what produced the impasse and is almost always forgotten. It meant that the parliament could not resolve the problem because neither side would back down.

Like it or not, the Governor General formed the view that the people needed to have their say about the impasse at an election.FL, you say that "After the Governor-General dismissed Whitlam ...". The timing is is a key point. The government was unwilling to face a vote of no confidence until AFTER the dismissal. By then it was too late.

Further, there is no role for the speaker to advice the GG who has the confidence of the house. Once a vote of no confidence is passed, it is for the putative PM to approach the GG to advise that they can form a government. In the circumstances, there was of course no vote of no confidence.

The Whitlam government had ample opportunity to "compromise in the senate" or "request an election" but of course never did so.

To require powers to be symmetrical or balanced is irrelevant in the space provided by their ABC. You will forgive me, I'm sure, for not penning a complete essay given that any contribution can be censored at the whim of a mediator.

Oh, if you do want to split hairs, it is the Queen in Council (on the advice of the government for those not familiar with the term) who appoints the GG, not the Queen as a person. For technical reasons, it's also not correct to say that the PM is "appointed" by the GG.Three points Fred.

I think you recollection of the number in the lower house is correct.  I think my recollection of Whitlam using procedural issues to avoid the possibility of a vote of no confidence is also correct. 

The speaker has no role advising the GG about such matters. It is for the putative PM to persuade the GG that he can form a government. That only happens of course when there is a change of government or after a no confidence motion succeeds.

You are quite right that the GG can act faster than the PM and that is the way it should be. The idea that the PM could sack a GG before the GG can act is a recipe for chaos.

You should write here more often. Now to see whether the moderators censor a meaningful conversation or not.Quote: ... his ability to easily admit when he got it wrong ...

No Helvi. The great man had many admirable qualities. An ability to admit when he got it wrong, easily or not, was not among them.

Introspection just wasn't his thing.Dunno, AMF. Gillard did a pretty good job of destroying herself. That tends to happen to the dishonest and incompetent who rise too far up the greasy pole of power.PH, you fundamentally misunderstand the role of the Queen in Australia's constitutional system.

Hint: the Queen almost exclusively acts as Queen in council.

Look it up if you still do not understand.Tragic event. Jumbled article.

Oh and quote: Death will come to every horse that raced in today's Cup.

Gosh, it must be an industry built on death. By hey, none of us are getting out of this alive (reincarnation excepted).Here's a hint. "Qualify" the respondents. Ask them whether they think there are more, less or the same number of bushfires and cyclones as there were 20 (or 100 or whatever) years ago.

That way you know which of your respondents actually has a clue. That way you can distinguish between the response from the uninformed mob and those who know their meteorological history.

Propaganda is all very fine, but why should Aunty have to lower herself to that level when she could actually inform the debate?

Oops, I forgot that the science is settled so there must be no debate. Right alarmists?Alpo, the term qualify is a marketing term. Note the quotation marks. Google is your friend.

You must have been in a different electorate to me. My ballot papers did not show an option of Direct Action.

I still like the idea of differentiating between the opinions of those who have a few clues and those who don't.Good on you Evan, but you have completely missed the point of my reply.

The article presents survey results. My suggestion is that those results could be made more meaningful by cross referencing against a test of how the better informed participants responded.Quote: And the answer to your question is YES we are getting more fires and those fires are now starting in late September early October to late May early April

Sorry, Evan. That wasn't my question.TJC, you've pretty much nailed the theory. All you need now is some facts to go along with it and to explain away the facts which go against it.What's that TJC? You want an example?

Try this one on for size: the number and severity of cyclones has reduced over the past 30 years.

As always, google is your friend!TJC, google "31000 scientists" or "the Oregon petition" then follow your incredulity.Interestingly B, Obama's job approval rating was pretty low before his re-election three (?) years ago. And I don't think it recovered much during the campaign.

Opinion polls are tricky things!Dunno, S. The big O got a messiah's welcome and even a Nobel Peace Prize just for being elected.

There were bound to be a few disillusioned among the faithful when he failed to convert water into wine. That's what happens when you overpromise and underdeliver.Malcolm, it is a long time since the common law was the basis of criminal law. 

The criminal law has been codified into legislation in every Australian jurisdiction. This is a good thing because it enables police to do their work far more efficiently.Stuffed, being hated by the Labor Fan Club is a badge of honour by those you hate. Not to mention cause for quite a laugh.Quote: If in two years, billions have been spent with no reduction in emissions, the blame will fall squarely on the Government and specifically on Tony Abbot's shoulders. Will the big polluters be forced to hand back the cash?

It would be a surprise if the allocation of funds was not tied pretty closely to a reduction in energy use or reduction in emissions (for those who actually do the emitting).

Time will tell. A little less "hyper bowl" and a little more analysis would have helped.Checks and balances you ask? How would I know. Wait until the program is implemented.

Speculation you ask? Not from me.

Is it a good idea you ask? Seems like a waste of money to me, but that goes for almost all government spending. Hey, the good news is that a few trees might be planted.

Why so miffed by everything MTB?Could be TJC. Apart from the haters, who knows?No, Theos. Scientific literature does not use the language you used. That is simply alarmism. 

Mind you there are quite a few alarmists who pretend to be scientists. One fellow even claimed to have won a Nobel Prize when he had done no such thing.I didn't get any matches for that phrase. You say you got 15.

Then you say you downloaded the entire AR5 report, but it comes in several volumes and you don't say which one.

One of us is exaggerating, and it isn't me.

Never write anything which can be easily proved false!Oh dear. I leave it for others to defend themselves. I have every confidence that the law of natural consequences will prevail.

GW? Maybe, but nobody ever tells me a place where this has happened. Have a go. Name a town or city where the climate has changed. Tell us what the climate was 30 years ago and tell us what it is now.

AGW? I've seen nothing vaguely persuasive. Permanent drought said Flannery. Sea levels to rise by 100m said Williams. Artic ice death spiral. Hottest evah by 0.01 of a degree.

Sorry alarmists, you are going to have to come up with better than that. Preach your faith elsewhere.Every town and city you say Theos.

Then it should be really easy to name one. Take your pick?T1, here's the thing. All you have to do is to name a place. 

Instead of that you wave your arms and use unconvincing rhetoric.Reinhard, I sincerely appreciate your references on this occasion. 

Unless you are saying that the climate is completely uniform over the Antarctic (for example), then you have chosen a range of places rather than a place.

As I type this, the coldest temperature is at Casey (-6.0). The highest is Macquarie Island (+4.0). That suggests the climate may not be uniform across Antarctica.

By all means pick one of the four weather stations in Antarctica. Then we may be a step closer to a sensible conversation (their ABC willing).M, a swing and a miss.

As usual you over-personalise things. The three people you named will most certainly not be counting anything. That is what the public service is for.

And then off you go with your Labor talking points. You convince nobody.How interesting. Men must not attempt to start conversations with women because that is harassment, unless of course the woman wants to be spoken to in which case she ...

Women on the other hand can start conversations with men at any time and men must respond because ...

Anybody want to complete the above sentences?

Realistically, that neighbourhood appears to have a whole range of anti-social problems.

Oh, so nobody must ever attempt to start a conversation with a person walking down the street. Are people walking down the street permitted to start conversations with stationary people?

And the officially permitted venues for starting conversations with other people are pubs, parties and work. If you say so.

What an antisocial attitude!Quote: We're caught in a bind. We talk about liberal democracy within the territorial confines of a sovereign nation-state as an ideal we aspire to on behalf of the rest of the world. But we can't talk about it without also talking about ourselves, the "West".

We .. we .. we .. we. Who is this "we" you speak for Matthew? It certainly does not include me.

Speak for yourself. You'll like it!Oh, so the "we" she speaks of is "the West". She wants to speak for the entire western world? Really? How pretentious.

Glad she speaks for you Yank, because she certainly doesn't speak for me.Edward, Alpo just likes using the term neoliberal because it includes one of his favourite hate words "liberal" and neo makes it double plus bad.

His lack of awareness that liberal in that term means his side of politics completely escapes him.

Never mind!Alpo, times have changed. Neoliberal does not mean what it did pre-WWII. You're on the wrong tram.CJ22, constantly "listening" through focus groups and opinion polls is one of the causes of political malaise.

Far better to elect the parliamentarians and leave them to do as they see fit. Then hold another election to pass judgment and pick a new lot.Quote: Too often commentators slam one side or the other when neither are virtuous and neither consistent.

Which is exactly what you have done in this article Barrie.

It's no good pretending to be even handed and then blame Abbott for everything.

Oh, and you wrote Rudd-Gillard-Abbott. For accuracy it really should be Rudd-Gillard-Rudd-Abbott. Remember?The GST applies to taxable supplies of goods and services.

Hope that helps!Yeah right JH. Gillard had to do what the Greens wanted or else they would have ...

Good luck with that one!Oh come on TOJ. 

It was oppression by misogynists that forced her to wear high heels in the first place. And youth and naivety that caused her to walk across grass in them.

Right Labor Fans?Tell us more, D. When did Howard say that?Alpo, terrorist recruiting by You Tube is pretty new, wouldn't you say? Filming beheadings and distributing the video on the internet is pretty new, wouldn't you say?

Still, all is fair in the propaganda war on capitalism and the west. Right?Copyright violations not a crime, DL? Even the author qualified his comment with "mostly".

See part V of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth)!The content of tweets is not meta-data DL.The Labor Fan Club complaining about Orwell's 1984. How amusing. Do go on!Michael appears surprised that an act of parliament is to be accompanied by regulations. That is surprising.

And file sharing is "mostly not a crime"? Part V of the Copyright Act 1968 says differently. Cause a commercial loss (which is what copyright owners suffer when people share copyright material without payment) and you have committed a crime.

File sharing doesn't justify mass surveillance? Isn't that a live issue in the iiNet case currently before the court? That copyright holders want iiNet to identify people engaging in file sharing?Adult discussion, Yank. You can either be part of the problem or part of the solution.

In this case you'd added nothing.RGB, both Yank and yourself can either be part of the problem or part of the solution.

You can't have it both ways, however. You can't legitimately criticise me for responding to Yank on a point and then carry that point on further.

Think harder!Start by naming a place where the climate has changed (without handwaving about the whole earth). Tell us what the climate was 30 years ago. Tell us what it is now.

Strangely, nobody here at their ABC has even attempted to answer the above challenge.Give us an example, Malcolm. Why are you frightened of the detail?Sea levels are part of the climate? Really S?

Keep going though. Tell us about Melbourne or Adelaide's rainfall.The amount of sea ice is not part of the climate of the Arctic, Prison. Even if it was, your claim about "lowest we have seen" as of September 2014 is wrong.Excellent Phil. Name a town. Say what the climate was 30 years ago. Say what it is now.

Droughts are, of course, part of the climate.Climate records, you say I. You don't mean weather records by any chance?

We do all understand the difference, don't we?Relevance factor zero, P.

My question was about naming a place where the climate has changed.What have you got against planting trees, TT?TT, it was something about the derisory tone you used about planting trees and those who advocated it.

Never mind. Carry on!Indeed, Algernon. If only those who say there is a problem acted as though there is a problem.Robb, I'd be happy if those who say there is a problem did anything consistent with there being a problem.

You know, like people who say sea levels are going might rise by 100m (Faine) moving more than 100m above current sea levels.

Or people who complain about the use of fossil fuels limiting their own air travel and disconnecting from the power grid.

You get the idea!Reinhard, I realise that this is difficult for you, but Palmer was the one who wanted the report. He is also the one who wants the trading scheme with the zero price.

That was the price Palmer set for the government to legislate its policy.

Hope that helps!R, you constantly mistake me for an advocate for the government.

I don't know whether the direct action program will have any benefit. Given that it will be administered by public servants it is likely that it will be a complete shambles.

That said, they are planning to plant some trees. Seems like a good idea to me.The captain's pick thing damned Peiris forever. Just another example of how everything Gillard touched turned to crap.So, NC. Spurr is guilty as charged of being politically incorrect?

But Labor figures must always be given the benefit of the doubt until due process is complete.

How utterly tribal!Yes, UA. It all goes to reputation. Once that is lost, everything is lost. 

That, of course, is why the laws of defamation exist.Destroy the Gillard government? So Kevni had nothing to do with it? Was it because she was a woman?

There are thousands of people serving time in prison who are both innocent and only there because of the nefarious activities of those who put them there. Just ask them!

Be a bit careful barracking against Kathy Jackson. She looks destined for prosecution, but there's every sign that quite a few Labor and union favourites will go down with her.Mixing business with pleasure is fraught with problems. Same as doing business with friends.

Both routinely start as though nothing could possibly go wrong and end in tears.Yes indeed S. It is all about whose side you are on.GR, copyright isn't the right concept. That is the right to be benefit from the distribution of your creative work.

Breach of confidence and defamation are the relevant concepts.Correct OUB, and of course she can seek damages if she believes her reputation has been damaged.Yes L, the reappearance of the "I've done nothing wrong" was a reminder of the Captain who made the pick and her team.

Breaking it down, it is an admission that something has been done, but the doer thinks everything was ok.M, unless there is more, the blackmail idea is a furphy. A blackmailer only has power until the secret is published.

Revenge perhaps but not blackmail.She wasn't a senator at the time.AO, I associate Peiris with Gillard and everything that is wrong with Australian politics.

She will, of course, be judged by the voters at the next election. I'm always happy for the voters to have their say.Let he (or she) who is without sin cast the first stone.

Both will suffer reputational loss. Both are entitled to compensation for those who have maliciously sought to do them harm.

It was fascinating to hear the "it was all a joke" line resurrected last week. It was fascinating to hear the "I have done nothing wrong" line resurrected this week. 

Have either of them said that they were more than a bit dopey for writing what they did? Wouldn't that be a refreshing change?

The odd one out though has got to be Bolden denying the authenticity of the emails. That denial was about as durable as a snowflake in hell.
Tell us more about this thumping people on the head, Yank.

The quotes in this article suggest that Murdoch was speaking out about a problem.

Labor Fan Club, right?Alpo, you misunderstand the term neo-liberal. It does not mean the approach taken by the Australian Liberal Party.

The definition has changed over the years but is presently associated with those who promote a market economy under the guidance and rules of a strong state. In less antiquated terminology, neo-liberalism promotes what is now known as the social market economy.

The bit about guidance and rules of a strong state sounds a lot like what you promote. That is of course unless you are still calling for the dismantling of the entire capitalist system.

Time to give the name calling a rest!Alpo, neo-liberalism means social democracy. You continue to rail against yourself.D, I've always thought that the Labor Fan Club viewed that description as a badge of honour.

If you don't identify with the description then I'm not talking about you. Ok?That's one possibility GO. 

Another is that the gross caricature held in the minds of the Labor Fan Club is inaccurate.A few other things deserve a rest too, STT.

At least try to say something about the message you are replying to.

GO gave one possibility. I gave another. Tell us what you think.Reinhard, as always I said what I meant and meant what I said.

Your words are your own.So true J51. 

Income tax should be set at 100%. That way everybody would get everything they want for nothing.

Right Labor Fans?Alpo, I'm just going with the anti-capitalist flow here at their ABC. 

Sorry you disagree.J51, you were the one who wrote "... it should be done like everything else through the tax system by those who make the greatest benefit from the economy ...".

I just went a bit further than you did on the road to socialist perfection.No, Jack. Medicare (and tertiary education) were indeed meant to be free. The original version was to be funded out of consolidated revenue. No medicare levy. No nothing.

As with all of Labor's grand plans, the only thing missing was how to fund it!Quote: ... the scheme was restored as Medicare by the Hawke government in the early 1980s.

Is that right? And there was never a co-payment under Hawke? Oh, you forgot to mention it!

How's this for a survey question: What percentage of your income are you prepared to pay for medicare: 5% 3% 2% or less than 2%.

Propaganda is the art of selective story telling and selective fact finding. If only the broader public was as gullible as the Labor Fan Club, Essential Research would have it made!You say it will just take a few more dollars EG. 

Is seven of your dollars too much for you to spend when you visit a GP?... and I ask the question again J. How much of your income are you willing to pay for medicare?DL, I regard Whitlam as a great man and a man for the times.

As you point out, part of his legacy is to temper the enthusiasm of those who follow with bright ideas.

Or at least that is what I thought until Rudd/Gillard/Rudd.Oh dear. CS, the way it works is that if the government can't get legislative support for the tax, they are obliged to refund it.

Blackmail? Be serious!Yeah right TN. 

It will of course be Labor who causes the money to go back to the oil companies by its obstinate refusal to pass legislation, we want the money to go back they'll say. What a winner!

To the Labor Fan Club logical thinking is just something that happens to other people.... and Howard caused the drought ... and Richmond hasn't won a premiership ... and everything!MTB, the degree of robustness of the electrical grid is a sensitive political question. The higher it is, the more expensive it is and the more people will complain about "gold plating". The lower it is, the more blackouts occur and the more people will scream about the power going off.

Choose your poison.

The second relevant factor is re-engineering the grid to allow for distributed power generation is an enormously expensive proposition. No longer will a set of high tension transmission wires be sufficient to get power to the grid. Instead, each new wind farm must have its own connection and each suburb with a high take-up of solar panels requires the grid to carry electricity both to and from houses.

Nothing is as simple as it seems.

Oh, and as for your obligatory swipe at Abbott? Meh.Helvi, what I find childish is the antics of the Labor Fan Club. You have simply added to that by rattling off irrelevant Labor talking points.

Like it or not, your reply is part of the problem. Aim higher. You know, like they do in Scandinavia!Theos, in the world of climate alarmism, peer review means approved by the chief alarmists.

Science will take decades to recover from this scam.In your dreams MS. By they way did you actually have something to contribute?Theos, the GW part is fine. The world after all is coming out of an ice age.

Just tell us about the A, the causal link between the A and the GW, and tell us what happened to C for catastrophic.

By the way, isn't it climate change now? You know, cooler, warmer, wetter, drier. The unfalsifiable and hence worthless theory?P, be careful what you wish for. Do you really want the government or some bureaucrat to pick winners of large funding grants?

That business went off shore because it could not get Australian government funding.

You might think that is a bad thing, but look what happened with Flannery's geo-thermal company. Tax payer money down the drain because the government was convinced that it was a sure winner.

Nothing is surer with government grants. The best snake oil salesman wins!Probably very badly Virgil.MS, renewable energy research is fine. This was funding to bring a product to market, not research.No, MS. Yet more government intervention is not the answer. 

The government has already thrown away far too much money on projects like Flannery's geo-thermal company.

When it comes to climate alarmism, the carpet baggers are too numerous and too skilled at separating the government from taxpayer money.

No, G. Those are your words not mine.JJ, the biggest driver for the construction of coal fired power plants in Germany is the systematic shutdown of nuclear plants.

China is a stronger example of a nation increasing its use of coal fired power plants. You just can't bring that many people out of poverty with solar cells and wind turbines.Alpo, more astute readers will understand the difference between the magical CO2 molecule and particulates in the atmosphere. Only zealots regard CO2 as pollution.Reinhard, the UCS are right out there with the best of them. Got a credit card? You too can be a concerned scientist.

They are an alarmist pressure group.Reinhard, the truth is that the UCS is nothing more than an alarmist pressure group and a money raising machine.

Nobody is more anti-science than warming alarmists. They have done long term damage to the good name of science.

Billions of dollars? Be serious!R, CO2 in the atmosphere has no harmful effects. It is essential for life on earth. Plants thrive on increased levels. The world is getting greener.

Pollutant? Denier?

Think harder!Yank, as I said to Alpo, only zealots mistake CO2 for airborne particulates.

The Chinese citizenry are NOT up in arms about the magical CO2 molecule.Your analysis suffers from false certainty Greg. From the report:

The impact on retail electricity prices is subject to uncertainty in the modelled components. Pool prices are inherently uncertain. This is because many of the drivers of pool prices are uncertain, such as:
?Weather driving demand is unpredictable and highly variable
?Plant performance (outages) is also stochastic (random)
?Fuel prices may vary over time although most fossil fuel fired plant tend to contract over several years and so these prices tend to be reasonably certain on an annual basis
?Participant behaviour (mothballing, plant retirement, strategic bidding, etc.) may swamp other effects over time.

One of the other considerations in the report is cross-subsidisation of households. This will (not might) result in a higher proportion of electricity bills being for connection to the grid rather than for supply of electricity itself.

I'd also be more persuaded by the engineers if only they were given a voice. Reports by economists based on the reports by accounting firms are invariably GIGO.BS, to Labor the damage done by the decision was just an unexpected consequence. Labor specialises in them. 

It's just the cost of being morally superior, right Labor Fans?Good thing this kind of thing doesn't happen in Scandinavia Helvi. It must have an Australian influence that caused Anders Brevik to do what he did. Looking further south, as Basil Fawlty warned, don't mention the war.

Shame on you for pretending this is an Australian problem.Yank, the video was not distributed by "the media". It was the social media which enabled distribution.

It is your side of politics which incessantly rails against capitalism and the west. These idiots (and those who manipulate them) are just following your lead and using your rhetoric.Yank, I'm not surprised you cannot see the connection between your constant railing against capitalism and the west, and the use of the same rhetoric by those who manipulate idiots into performing terrorist acts.

After all, to the Labor Fan Club everything is somebody else's fault!Yank, to be precise, people (not me) told you to go to the ComLaw web site to view the second reading speech. That is of course the speech where the government explains the purpose and provisions of the act.

Given your knee jerk opposition to everything the government does, that was good advice.D, the Labor Fan Club is a term I reserve for those who are either incapable or unwilling to think rationally and who mindlessly litter these pages with utter nonsense.

It's quite easy to exclude yourself from that group. Just show that you are capable of independent thought. Your choice, but sadly you have simply demonstrated that the description fits you well.

Talk to the hand you say? Yes, a complete refusal to consider contrary opinions is also a characteristic of the Labor Fan Club.

Oh, and you'll notice that I did not describe Yank as a member of the Labor Fan Club. That reference was yours and yours alone.

Enjoy!No Yank. Your reply opened with a complaint that people told you to go to the ComLaw web site. That had nothing to do with this article.

That was the part of your reply I responded to.Yank, you are not proclaiming an inability to understand legislation are you?

Why hasn't this inability inhibited you from previously commenting on legislation (and UN conventions)?Wow. The government talks about reforming federation, doesn't rule out changes to the GST arrangements and lo and behold the Labor Fan Club is away. The two minutes hate is on!

Abbott wants to tax the poor, they say. Abbott wants to raise taxes, they say. Abbott is evil they say. Abbott is a liar they say(see the comments on this page).

All pretty poor stuff from the party with a self-proclaimed monopoly on sweetness and light. 

No wonder sensible debate is next to impossible.ZB, lest the clarification get too lop sided:

3. The $8.8B returned money extracted from treasury as a dividend by Labor.

It's hard to pick a more stupid complaint by the Labor Fan Club than this one, even thought there is a very, very long list of stupid complaints by the Labor Fan Club.Reforming the federation is a very long term project, S. It is probably on about the same time frame as the debate about the republic.

Still, it provides hours of entertainment for the Labor Fan Club. Their ABC always does!Quote: In order to minimise extremism we need to foster a sense of inclusiveness - that everyone is part of the Australian in-group. 

And of course the Labor Party "in group" lambasted the Prime Minister for saying very much the same thing with his comments about Team Australia.

Groupthink is a very powerful thing.JN, I agree with the general thrust of your reply, but make the following observations:
1. the Labor Fan Club criticism was not of the concept of Team Australia but of a grotesque misrepresentation of that concept. That much is supported by the quote in my original reply;
2. Not only can the Labor Fan Club not peacefully disagree, the idea that people can peacefully agree is counter intuitive to them.

Anything other than the two minutes hate is beyond them as evidenced by this and every other page on their ABC.R, I remember Whitlam as a great man, but you are right. To Labor everything is somebody else's fault.What? Is that all David can muster against the legislation?

No wonder the main parties are in agreement.On the contrary F. If this is the sum total of David's concerns, then the main parties are right to do what they are doing.

Surely he has more than this!Peter, history has much to offer people who make statements like yours.Harry, it's worse than that. Not only is the media unaware of the negative public perception of their own role, many in the media (particularly at their ABC) are unaware that they are in fact in the media.

It seems to be another of those irregular terms. "My" side are journalists. The other side are all part of the media.Peter, claiming to have a monopoly on open-mindedness is pretty limp, even for the Labor Fan Club.No, JM. As Sir Humphrey always made clear, policy is for the political masters. 

The role of the public service is to implement policy, or as Sir Humphrey would insist, to implement wise policy.Alpo, next you'll tell us that their ABC is not part of the media. And that the greens have not cannibalised the Labor vote.No, Evan. Quint has it right.

From 50 to 150 is a tripling or in percentage terms a 200% increase.

Oh, and an increase from 2 to 16 is an eight fold increase or 700%, not 300% as you say.

(new - old) / old * 100No, GO, the government will not be remembered for the actions of its opponents. 

The war crimes thing is a constant from those who want to big note themselves. It is certainly nothing new. The Labor Fan Club was forever baying for Howard to be prosecuted as a war criminal.

It's just one of those irregular terms. You know, "my" side is all sweetness and enlightenment. The other side are war criminals.

Persuasiveness factor zero, but it plays well to the more mindless elements here on their ABC.GO, I pre-judged nothing. I merely pointed out some of the errors in your reply. 

You, on the other hand sought to pre-judge matters by asserting that the making of a complaint was somehow damning and had never happened before.

Then John reveals that their ABC's Greg Barns was one of those who complained. Too funny!Helvi, the coalition is in power and the Labor Fan Club is outraged about everything.

Relax. Australian political life is as it should be.Yes CG. Almost all of the budget measures have been passed. Time for the Labor Fan Club to move on.Right, B. So you want the Australian public to fear Abbott.

Did I get that right?... and now those same people believe that man can control the weather. Who'd have guessed?RC, I've heard of people confusing climate with weather, but this is the first time I have seen anybody confuse air-conditioning with controlling the weather.

Better Aunty? Why censor it the first time?People paid by the coal industry? Whatever happened to big oil?

Seriously, P, how many billion dollars are paid each year to big green? How many researchers depend on spruiking warm alarmism to keep food on the table? How much money is enough for Al Gore?

This ceased to be about the environment quite some time ago. I'll be more receptive to warm alarmism when those who say there is a problem act like there's a problem.

Bah humbug!DW, climate change ceased to be non-political when it became all about activists seeking power for themselves.DW, surely you jest. 

We all know that one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter, and that your side uses the rules creatively but the other side cheats.

Are you really suggesting that organisations like greenpeace are not political activists? That Al Gore is not a political activist? 

You might also like to name a few names when you talk about people in the pay of the "fossil fuel" companies. I'll wager that you'll find more of your camp on that list than your opponents.Astute observations APM, but why would the "left" discard the dumb harmful visions and start again with ideas grounded in reality now?

After all dumb harmful visions are what makes them what they are!This article would be more persuasive if it presented an analysis over time of family income and real estate prices.

It would also help if the author had resisted the temptation to make the swipe at one side in politics and in doing so make itself a partisan political piece.

More research required, to be funded of course by the author's political patrons.Warwick, the swipe about patronage of the coalition was gratuitous and detracted from your piece. Your rhetorical excuse just makes it worse because it is irrelevant to what you wrote.

I repeat that your piece would have been better had you resisted temptation.Gary, did you notice the complete absence of numbers in the article? That makes the piece nothing more than arm waving.Yank, with space so short, why waste words on an irrelevant party political swipe?

To suggest that media outlets are a primary driver of economics is just plain feeble.Rob, you'll need some numbers to back up that claim about growth of property values. 

Oh, and if you know of a fraud you should report it to the police!B, having chosen to make a party political swipe, the author really should be looking to those he favours for funding. Then again, those preaching economic revolution quite like spending other people's money, don't they?Quote: The speed with which large segments of the population take offence at anything they can get their hands on suggests that they're doing it more for their own personal pleasure than any public-minded impulse. The misguided belief that there exists a right to not be offended has spread like a virus.

Careful analysis will reveal that the above trend is not distributed uniformly across the political spectrum. Witness what is written on these pages each day.I challenge you to find a comment by me expressing admiration of Abbott, Yank.

Google is your friend!Sacked, Stuffed? Sacking's too good for them. They should be punished by spending an evening listening to an anthology of Labor Fan Club humour and sanctimony.Jonathan, the nation is presently celebrating the life of a great man. 

I think it is unfortunate that you feel the need to denigrate others at the same time as you celebrate what you admire about Whitlam.

Apart from the fact that we now live in very different times, one thing must be said. That is that Hawke was quite determined to maintain power for its own sake. He made the point that he wanted to be on the government benches for far longer than Whitlam was so that he could fully implement a reform agenda. It was an open and deliberate strategy.

It was Hawke who started Labor's move to a power at all costs mentality, sharpened by the whatever it takes mentality of Richardson. That completed Labor's transition from a party of protest.

The natural consequence was to push political life in the direction you lament.Each to his own, TDM. Like many others I regard Whitlam as a great man. 

There has been plenty of time over the decades for debate. This is a time for celebration of a life.  Let bygones be bygones.

Please do the right thing. Wait respectfully so that those who wish to mourn can do so. 

After that, feel free to resume the battle of ideas.
DD, my point was a little more subtle. The natural consequence of the brevity of the Whitlam government was that those who followed were determined to stay longer in office. In turn this led to more cautious policy from both sides which in turn led to the growth of fake policy differentiation, and gotcha politics.

This wasn't unique to Australia. There are parallels for example with those who followed JFK in the USA.

In the end we all have a choice between being part of the solution or simply standing aside. The part I seek to play is to encourage the Labor Fan Club to dial back the hate and engage in rational debate.
Interesting. I'd have been inclined to look into an action for defamation based on the imputations made by the New Matilda about the professor's character, the damage to his reputation, and the malice involved in the imputations.

As a matter of interest, has the convention been expressed in Australian law? If not, I don't think it will help him much.Just a couple of requests Greg:
1. identify a place where the climate has changed and tell us what the change has been; and
2. tell us exactly who is denying exactly what.

None of your pretty graphs or arm waving have any persuasive power at all.Alpo, today is a day to celebrate the life of a great man.

Leave your battle for another day.This survey was taken several days before Whitlam's death. To rewrite the article in an attempt to get leverage from the great man's death does the authors no credit at all.

The answer to your rhetorical question about what would Gough do now is that nobody knows because the sixties and seventies were very different times to the present day.

You demean Whitlam's memory by using it as a propaganda tool!Malcolm, just lift up your heart and sing the praises of a great man. 

Resume your battles another day.Rabbie, leave your battles for another day.

Just celebrate the life of a great man.No, not getting carried away. His shortcomings and those of his government are well documented. Today is not the day to dwell on those.

Today, it is right and proper to celebrate the life of a great man.Simon, what happened at the time of Thatcher's death was graceless and despicable. This is not a time for revenge. It is a time to celebrate the life of a great man.Exactly so WHTF. Today we are as one.Ah, the seventies. I remember it well and I remember Whitlam well.  

His passing is a loss to the nation. This is a time to celebrate his life and let bygones be bygones.

Gough was a great man!AFM, Alpo is very critical of the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd period because Labor did not dismantle capitalism and re-educate all the neo-liberals when they had the chance.

Still with his track record on predictions, 2015 should be a period of smooth sailing.... and don't forget Alpo, Gillard to lead Labor to victory in 2013.

It works like this Alpo, the voters always get it right. Then they get another go at the next election.

Try not to be so emotionally attached to election results (especially in advance). It's not good for you.But ... but ... but ... the science is settled. 

My favourite settled science is that the atmosphere has warmed the ocean.

Still, one day the alarmists will tell the world exactly who is denying exactly what. Won't they?Snake, when did CAGW lose the C? Isn't it climate change now?DW, it would be very careless to lose the GBR. After all it is quite large and we have maps of where it can be found.

If all else fails I'll show you where it is. I was out there just the other day.

Hint: fly from Brisbane to Cairns and turn right.Love it CBL. Warmer, cooler, wetter, drier. The magic molecule CO2 can do it all.

And people laugh when alarmists tell the world they have a magic knob which can control the weather. Who'da thunk it?Here's an easy one for you CBL. 

Name a place where the climate has changed. Then tell us what the climate was at whatever point you choose in the past. Finally tell us what the climate is now.

Should be easy!No, CBL. What it says are two things:
1. the passenger was alive some time after the aircraft was hit
2. the air bag system at least partially deployed

You've got quite a few leaps of logic before you can get to your conclusion.Mungo? The Labor Fan Club said he was dead not long ago.

Rumours of his ability to lead to the promised land are somewhat exaggerated.So warming now causes cooling CBL. Be serious!Snake, that is hardly surprising coming out of an ice age. Be glad you live during an interglacial period.Worse than Gillard you say snake? BIG call!

Labor replaced her with Rudd even though they knew what he was really like. Adverse judgments don't get any worse than that!No, DoR. We do not know what the rate of radiation to outer space was prior to the satellite measurements.

Come back when you've figured out what caused the series of ice ages which have characterised most of the earth's history.No Yank. No need for you to wave a flag. Just keep bagging the government regardless of the issue. Their ABC can ask no more of you.QCB, more CO2 in the atmosphere means more photosynthesis. That's actually pretty good for both plants and the food chain which depends on the plants.

Still, have it your way. What have the Romans ever done for us?What's that John? With global action the decision makers can control the weather?

Tell us more!But Craig, if the Labor Fan Club put its torches and pitchforks down, it would have nothing to do. They would lose their reason for being.T, we do all realise that the emails started in September 2012 when Labor were in government, don't we?

Looks like Labor created the climate for racist emails, or do you want to change your baseless smear in the face of the facts?K, you say that to get a democracy going in Australia again we need to get rid of Abbott...

We do all realise that it was the democratic process which put his government into power, and that of Rudd (mark I) and Gillard before him, don't we? And that you'll get your say at the ballot box about the next government?

The system of government doesn't become undemocratic just because you don't like the government, or want to join the collective tantrum of the Labor Fan Club.

The closest the nation has come to undemocratic government was the coup against Rudd by Gillard and the unrepresentative actions of those Windsor and the other fellow in enabling Gillard to form a government.

Thankfully both of those attacks on democracy have been remedied at the ballot box.The editors may wish to change the caption under the photo from apoplectic to apocalyptic. Then again, being their ABC, they may not.

Better Aunty? And why censor the first time without changing the caption?WP, there are quite a few people who are embarrassed that Richard Flanagan is an Australian. Barrack away!AT, you'll have to come up with some figures if you are going to make statements like that.

Don't mistake the sentiments of the Labor Fan Club here on their ABC to be representative of anything other than a very small group of fanatics and paid trolls.CFZ, burning coal releases carbon into the atmosphere which has previously been trapped for millions of years. Agree?

Then the only question is whether the release is a good thing or a bad thing. On the basis that life on earth would die without CO2, I say it is a good thing. Unless of course you want a dead planet!Fred, your allusions about asphyxiation as so far ahead on the scientific nonsense scale that I couldn't possibly compete.No cfz. CO2 levels followed temperature changes, not the other way around.

It's only the warm alarmist theories that have temperature following CO2 emissions in the present day.Ram, have a look through the geological records. Rapid changes in climate are the rule rather than the exception.

Having said that, where on earth is the climate actually changing? Melbourne? Cairns? Fiji?

Don't be shy. Name the place!GO, I see that you have replied to yourself. Sometimes it really is the only way to have a decent conversation.

Cheers!Interestingly G, despite being by far the largest media outfit in the country, many of their ABC deny even being part of the media. Exhibit A is Jonathan Green.Powerful stuff. Somebody points out problems in journalism courses. A student sets out to say there are no problems and unwittingly demonstrates the extent of the problem.

The problem of course is not bias, but quality.

Hint: one sign of quality journalism is that all sides can acknowledge the quality of the piece. If you are just trying to get cheers from the faithful, you are no journalist.Facts are not subjective you say, Reinhard. So why do you continually invent your own (as you have done in your reply)?

And this in depth knowledge you claim of journalism courses simply adds to your list of inventions.

Why is it that the Labor Fan Club is so determined to prove me right?Reinhard, you DO pretend to speak for all lecturers when you say that are pro-fact.

Or do you now want to recant that as well?Quote: It's not patriotism, but something sadder, paranoid and uncertain.

Perhaps it is nothing more than an expression of frustration at the anti-Western, anti-Australian values so frequently displayed here at their ABC (including this article)?Fuming and hating you say, Alpo. Oh the ironing!How strange that the eff Abbott tee shirts are ok, but love it or leave tee shirts are not.

How equally strange that my first two posts as above were censored by the moderators.

Better Aunty? Not too anti-narrative?
