You can't put the split of Czechoslovakia into the same basket as the happenings in Ukraine.  The first came as a mutual and democratic decision by the two peoples, without significant outside interference from anyone.  It was an internal matter, to be solved internally. Ukraine, on the other hand, is a product of the conflict between Russian imperial ambitions and Ukrainian nationalist ones.  Different kettle of fish entirely.You don't seriously believe that was a free and legitimate vote? I'd have believed it if it came up with a 60% in favour, but over 90, and you know the votes were counted before they were cast. There is no way any Tatar would vote for Russia.I can think of quite a lot of Russian propaganda that was untrue as well.  

The thing is, both the Americans and the Russians agree that it was a BUK that shot the plane down, over a war zone.  They simply argue about who fired the missile.  But the underlying point is quite simply that, were it not for Russian support and manipulation of the the rebel factions, that area wouldn't have been a war zone in the first place.My response seems not to have passed moderation, and I can't be bothered to look it up again.

Bascially, I linked to a number of satellite pictures and youTube clips of mothballed Russian tanks suddenly appearing in Ukraine from the east; of the clear evidence of the rebels having access to a lot of MANPADS all of a sudden;  to the propaganda emanating from RT on the whole issue (moral support can be as useful as guns and ammo); and from Putin's explicit statements that he regards any place that has Russian inhabitants as being part of Russia, international boundaries notwithstanding.How do you think they took Crimea?The government in Ukraine consists of more than the President, you know.  The Parliament is also elected, and it remained in power after the President high-tailed it for safer pastures.

Sure, a popular protest forced him to leave, but then, popular protests and/or displeasure with the reigning government has forced more than a few  presidents and pms to depart, without anyone believing that "the government" has been overthrown.It is also worth remembering that the government wasn't overthrown.  The President was ousted by the people and by the democratically elected Parliament.  The President is not "the government,"  even in the US, never mind Ukraine.Big difference between Bush Snr and Putin.  Bush was a politician who ran the CIA for a while. Putin was an actual KGB operative.  Very different mindset, not to mention skillset.Yep. I remember that one.  The Americans said right away that it was an errant missile from Ukrainian military exercises - a tragic accident.  The Russians blamed it on Chechyns.@Clotho - the only people who didn't think it was a Ukrainian missile were the Russians, who were  trying desperately to blame the Chechyns.  Everyone else knows what happened, including the Ukrainians.  That's why they took their BUKS off line for years.He may have restored some sense of unity, Kenj, but he certainly hasn't stopped the looting.  It's going on unabated, which is one of the reasons foreign investment in Russia is drying up.  When 20% of the national budget it lost to bribery and corruption, you can't really continue to blame Yeltsin.

And Putin has made it very clear that he regards any piece of land occuppied by Russian speakers as being Russian, regardless of any international borders that might exist.  So I think it's quite fair to call him a proto-fascist with imperial ambitions.From what I understand, it would be quite possible for the rebels to fire the missiles from the launch platform without having access to the radar platform.  They simply would not be able to detect that the plane in question was a passenger jet before they fired.I believe they bragged about shooting down a Ukrainian military plane at that time and that place.  When they found out it was a passenger plane, their facebook entries disappeared.Somehow, I just don't see the world switching over to the ruble or the rupee any time soon.  I don't think the US is going to lose a whole lot of sleep over that one.@Alpo - I don't think the Dutch were all that calm when they phoned Putin.  I'm not sure why you think Abbott should be playing nice with a man who's shown no willingness at all to control the rebels and get them to back off while the investigation takes place.@Rob - except, that's not a fair comparison.  The real comparison would be to ask how would the pro-Abbott mob would feel if his popular support plummeted, he was replaced by a more popular leader like, say, Turnbull, and Parliament continued to go about its daily business?  I expect they'd be disappointed that Abbott was gone, but they'd hardly be claiming that his departure meant the entire government had been overthrown.  I don't recall ALP supporters starting an armed rebellion when Rudd was booted.  

Rob - but again, that's not the equivalent at all.  The vast majority of MPs in the Verhovna Rada voted against Yanukovich.  And the vast majority of Ukrainian MPs continued to sit after he was gone.  It's not like the east lost its say (except for those MPs who skedaddled with Yanukovich, but they were still the minority and wouldn't have carried the day regardless).

Let's not forget, as well, that Yanukovych only got elected because he promised some movement towards the west, to appease the voters in Kyiv and western Ukraine, so it's not exactly a volte face for a new president to deliver on those promises.  The east can't expect to control the country against the wishes of the majority.

@Tiliqua - the people of Ukraine also voted for the Parliament which tossed the President out. Why does that part seem to escape so many Russian apologists?Mark James - well gosh.  Mass protests force a president out of office.  Isn't that what mass protests aim to do?  To force the parliament and the elected representatives to listen to the people?  To change policies, to change leadership? 

The reality is that the younger generation of Ukrainians in the west and in Kyiv were fed up with the corruption and incompetence of a series of governments, and saw the sudden decision to go into a customs union with Russia as the very last straw.  And they rioted.  

And Yanukovich crumbled.  But the government of Ukraine continued on, continued to govern, and held a new presidential election.  It may be rough democracy, but it's democracy all the same.

The same can scarcely be said for the self-proclaimed presidents of the breakaway pro-Russian "republics."Why does the Ukrainain army need SAMS?  Umm, maybe because Russia does have aircraft, and Russia just took Crimea, lock stock and barrel?I think that, if Putin sends in the tanks, we're looking at WWIII.  The Germans and Poles simply won't countenance that kind of blatant expansionism.  

It's possible they may agree to a referendum and the hiving off of eastern Ukraine, but not unless Putin backs off, and the referendum is held under neutral observation, not the Russian army, as ahppened with that farce in Crimea.Well, it's possible WWIII won't be nuclear, of course.  And while Ukraine might not be worth a war, Poland and Germany are.  

My point really was that it would be an enormous gamble for Putin to make a military move of that kind on Ukraine, and I'm not sure his army is yet in shape to do it.  He's got a master plan to rebuild the military after years of neglect, but it's early stages yet and I'm not sure he could really deal with the Americans, the Germans and the rest.  I think he'd be quite satisfied with a referendum and whatever chunks of Ukraine he can acquire without sending in the tanks.  I hope so, anyway.@Dove - we may be safe. The Ukrainians aren't.The "overwhelming" evidence comes entirely from the Russians.  Why do you give that more credibility than the statements of the Americans and the Ukrainians?

And if you want fascist thugs, have a good look at those pro-Russians.Well, I understand the nature of the "junta" (does anyone here actually know what a junta is?) and it's one hellluva lot more democratic than the real juntas in Donetsk and Luhansk and thereabouts.You haven't got a clue about who are the real fascists here.  

Would that be the government in Kyiv (which has fewer neo-fascists, by the way, than the government in Moscow) or would that be a bunch of pro-Russians rallying on language, ethnic origin and the Russian orthodox faith?

As for atrocities, you have to go a fairly long way to beat some of the things Russia itself has done over the last decade or two to its ethnic minorities.  The Tatars in Crimea will, I suspect, be in for a very rough time of it.The problem is, that Ukrainians are not Putin's people, Ukraine isn't his homeland, and Ukrainians do not necessarily want his way of life.All the evidence suggests the downing could have been avoided if Russia had kept its cotton-picking fingers out of interfering with a neighbouring state.@Dodger - I've read his comments.  Problem is, I think I know a bit more about Ukraine and the relationship than he does.  And I don't agree with him.  My prerogative, surely.@ JMJ:  Well, actually, no. It's doing a lot more for the Russian minorities in other countries than France does for French speaking minorities in Belgium, or the Netherlands does for Dutch speaking minorities in Belgium, or than Germany does for German speaking minorities in Italy or than Italy does for Italian speaking minorities in Switzerland. 

And Pan-slavism was one of the root causes of WW1.  That's not a great recommendation, actually.@aGuy -  Actually, to be accurate, youd be saying:

1.  We have jets.  We have military jets, and we have a major international carrier.
2.  That is a jet.
3. It could be one of ours.
4. If not, it could be one of the dozen other airlines that overflies us daily.  We'd better not fire.Sorry, I thought when you mentioned Ukrainians, you were talking about the Ukrainian military.

I'd have to say, if the rebels followed your rationale, Ben is right and they should be tried for war crimes.

1. We don't have jets.
2. That is a jet. Ukraine and many other countries have civilian passenger jets flying over this territory on a daily basis.  
3.  It's not our jet.
4.  It could be a civilian jet, Ukrainian, German, French, Malaysian, who knows.  We don't care.  Shoot it down.Why would the assume that any plane flying overhead at 30,000 feet was anything other than a normal passenger plane on a normal passenger route.The same could be said of the Russians. Every last word applies to them too.  Ask the Chechyns, the Afghans, and the whole of what used to be the Warsaw Pact.I can't explain  how a democratically elected Ukrainian government was overthrown.  Mostly because it wasn't.  The elected Parliament stayed in power, the President resigned in the face of overwhelming and violent street protests, and a new President was elected in a process far more transparent and democratic than the "referendum" in Crimea.

I'm assuming you don't have issues with street protesters trying to get rid of unpopular leaders and policies.  That's what happened, but they were just a little more angry, and a little more determined than the Occupy crowd.@Dove - didn't endorse the Occupy movement because I thought it was a bunch of spoiled western kids trying to keep the rest of the world from sharing in the spoils.  That doesn't mean I thought they should be jailed, I just thought they should be ignored.

On the other hand, the Ukrainians were fighting for a couple of really fundamental principles of which one was to be free of Russian control and all that that entailed, and the other of which was to shake up the Ukrainian oligarchy, of which the then-president was a product.  

I see a difference.   A lot of commenters here, however, support any protest against a government they don't like in this country, but deny the same expression to Ukrainians if they criticize Russian influence.  Why is that?Depends whose version you believe.  He was gone, one way or the other.  Parliament remained.  It's at least as democratic as the government in Russia.Until today, a lot of European and other airlines were overflying the region - including such notables as Lufthansa.  ICAO is going to  have to rethink its safety guidelines for conflict zones.Except it hadn't.  Lufthansa and a number of other airlines are saying now that they're changing their routes. They were overflying Ukraine just like Malaysian was.According to the Guardian "a report on the website of Russian state television from late June described how the rebels in Donetsk had taken control of a Ukrainian missile defence facility which was equipped with Buk systems. The report said that the rebels planned to "defend the sky over Donetsk" using the missile system."

So, if Russian State TV is saying the rebels had BUKs, maybe they did.Sure he is.  He's all for greater Russia, talks a lot about Russian ethnic pride, dislikes minorities and uses the Russian Orthodox Church as an ally in fighting the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church.  And he's in up to his neck with the gangster oligarchs that making a fortune out of exploiting what should be public assets.  Very neo fascist in my book.I know that the laws on domestic surrogacy vary, and I believe only three states have laws on international surrogacy, which is where the problem really lies.

I think we need to have a federal law governing surrogacy, and it should be somewhat akin to the laws governing international adoptions, with strict eligibility requirements put into place before people can even begin to think of entering into a formal contract.  Obviously, the WA couple would be unlikely to meet such eligibility requirements, given the man's history.

How to manage and  monitor at the overseas end becomes a problem, but at least get the Australian end under control, and then work with the foreign country on their end of things, just as is the case with adoptions.
I don't see how.  In a case like this, both the biological parents are Australian.Up to a point, I agree with you.  If the surrogate is properly informed, then she should be entitled to make her own decisions.

However, the "do no harm" fails when it comes to the consideration of the child or children, if the biological parents can simply discard a child that doesn't fit their criteria, be it the wrong gender, disabled, or twins.How is the biological child of two Australians a "stolen" child?I'm going to take a wild guess that the child came to Australia on an Australian passport because her biological parents are Australian and, given that surrogacy abroad is not illegal in Australia, the only thing that matters is the Citizenship Act.Policy ideas come from all sorts of place - unions, think tanks of the left and the right, business organizations, whatever.  That's the stuff of lobbying.  It's the civil service that generally evaluates and develops the ideas, and gives some degree of rigor to the analysis.  The problem is, civil services are being compromised by the pressure on them to deliver to the Minister instead of doing what's right for the real bosses, the voters. I've seen it in Canada, I see it here, and god knows, it's how things operate in the US.  How do we get back the independent civil service that has the protections it needs to say no to the Minister?Given that Russia claims it had nothing to do with providing the BUK, nothing to do with training or arming the pro-Russians, nothing to do supporting the on-going war, why should Tony's behaviour, however described, sabotage anything.  After all, the Russians claim not to be involved at all.There are a great many apologists for Russia claiming that they have nothing to do with any of this.  No one believes that, of course.  

My point was, if you do believe it, you have to go into some very interesting contortions to claim that Abbott's behaviour would impact on a country that wasn't involved in the first place.You're an apologist for Russia if you claim they didn't do it, and the Ukrainians did.  We don't know who fired that fatal shot, but we do know that, without Russian backing of the rebel insurgency, there wouldn't have been a war zone over which to fly.  

One of the things I find interesting is the supposed left-right split on this issue here in Australia.  The reality is that real left wingers in Russia, the ones who write for Novaya Gazeta, ran a front page apology to the Netherlands for Russia's role in the debacle.Actually, I thought it was more pro-realpolitik than pro-Russian.  What it boils down to is, the west is probably going to have to leave Ukraine to the Russian wolves because the west needs Russia's friendship, or at least it's non-enmity, more than it needs Ukraine's.  Sad, but probably a realistic assessment.The west, writ large, is  not a mosquito.  Neither is Russia.  But when push comes to shove, Russia needs us as much as we need them.  Drying up the flow of foreign investment as dollars/euros will hurt them.Given that the average wage is Ukraine is a fraction of that in any EU country, not excluding Greece, I suspect there's a flaw in your reasoning.

And the only comparison with New Zealand would be if Australia sent in the army and the navy, announced it was holding a referendum against the wishes of the NZ government, prevented any pro-Kiwis from voting, and then announced that 92% of all Kiwis wanted to become Aussie.That's one version.  The other is a public uprising against a President who was about to deliver Ukraine to Russia, followed by Russia marching in and seizing Crimea and all its resources.  And then Russia starts supporting the pro-Russians in the east against the democratically elected parliament and now the new, democratically elected President.  

Ukraine tries to stomp down on the rebels.  I seem to recall Russia doing something similar when it had a separatist movement in Chechnya (except they were much more brutal about it).  As for "right wing nutjobs" - have you seen what the rebel forces believe in?@Pedro - well, that's the funny thing.  I'd have said Michael was the right wing thinker, believing in the Russian push for ethnic, linguistic and religious purity.  

Me, I think the Ukrainians ought to be able to decide their own future, regardless of Mr Putin's belief that any place inhabited by Russians is Russia, no matter what the borders may say.  But I put it to you:  what do you think the odds are of a deal with Putin.  A UN organized and managed referendum in eastern Ukraine, to coincide with a UN organized and managed referendum in Chechnya and Ingushetia.  Bet you Vlad doesn't take it up.Some of your "reports" are inaccurate.  The pilot asked for a different routing because of bad weather of his planned course, and was directed to another standard flightpath, one in regular use by both western and Russian airlines.  He was flying above the no-fly zone though lower than he'd requested (not that it would have made any difference).  The weather in the area was good.   The citizens and at least one journalist say they were Russian tanks.  

As for the BRICS, what of them?  Russia's economy is in trouble, more so than the US economy.How do you know that Ukraine confiscated the records?  Surely you're not citing Carlos the imaginary flight controller.

And the data from the black boxes has been released to those that matter - the Dutch, the Ukrainians, the Australians, the Malaysians.You may not be lying, but you're mistaken.  The OSCE investigators most certainly were chased away by the rebels at the site.Like the bombs rained down on Moscow in 1956 and 1968?  Nope.  The US didn't do it in the Cold War, they're not going to do it now.  Doesn't mean the Russians are not being aggressive, they're just being (slightly) more subtle about it.@Alpo - that's not correct.  The OCSE observers were there within a day, and were driven off by the rebels, with a few guns being fired over their heads for good measure.  They've been trying to negotiate control and access ever since, and have gotten just about nowhere. 

That's why the Dutch in particular have gone ballistic over this.  Abbott and the Dutch PM have both have strong words with Putin, and that's the only reason the rebels handed over the black boxes.  They didn't do it out of the goodness of their hearts.  One of the Dutch observers complained the other day about all the difficulties with the "lunatics" on the site.  The only thing that has worked is getting Putin to haul on the rebels' leashes.

A reality check for you, Alpo.  The OSCE observers have been accepted by both Ukraine and Russia.  They didn't barge in, they went in and were driven out by the rebels.

And yes, the rebels had the boxes, wouldn't hand them over, then the Netherlands and Australia gets angry, and lo and behold, they hand them over.  How am I to take that, if not, cause and effect.  Ask the Malaysians how they felt about those rebels forcing them to sit there for hours while the "negotiated" over handing back the boxes.

I'm no cold warrior.  On the other hand, I've got nothing but contempt for those who, during the cold war, excused Soviet atrocities in Russia itself, in Hungary, in Czechoslovakia, on the grounds that well, they weren't Americans so it was all okay.  And right now, a lot of what I'm hearing is that kind of thinking:  that Russian fascism is okay because it's not Ukrainian fascism.@Alpo - quiet negotiating on site, which is what the OCSE tried, delivered nothing.  It was only when Putin started getting phone calls from angry world leaders that the rebels began to show a bit of cooperation.  Speaking softly only works if you've got a big stick to wave.Alpo - whatever your dislike of Abbott and Bishop, they are in fact pursuing policies which are very much in line with what the Dutch are doing.No, the results don't speak because you're blaming Abbott for doing pretty much exactly what the Dutch are doing and what  much of the rest of the western world, both liberal and conservative, is endorsing.  The reality may well be that they have a better handle on the situation than you do.

Anyone who doesn't understand the deep roots of Ukrainian national sentiment and dislike of Russian imperial ambitions, is not well placed to criticise those who do.I'm intrigued by your description of a government trying to quell a violent uprising as the aggressor.  I assume you used that term when describing Russia's behaviour in Chechnya, then.Yes, but I'm struggling to understand your point.  The Ukrainians have an armed rebellion on their hands, fueled by a foreign power, and they're trying to quash it.  Why do you regard that as "aggression?"What you don't seem to understand, Michael, is that the government in Kyiv is the legitimate, elected government of Ukraine, and the rebels are simply agents for a foreign government with territorial ambitions.Well, I think you have to be dreaming in technicolour to believe that the rebels have been cooperating with the OCSE people on the ground.  Firing shots over their heads, denying them access to the site, arguing about handing over the black boxes, none of that sounds like cooperation to me.That is crap.  They were at the crash site, and the rebels fired at them.  The only thing insecure about it was the rebels and their vodka.Nah, took them days to hand over the black boxes (which they were going to send to Mariepol) and only when Putin leaned on them.  They haven't cooperated, and anyone who's watched the footage or read the Dutch papers would know better.Hird did agree to shoulder part of the blame for the peptides debacle - and well he should have.  He had a responsibility to his players to ensure their well-being.  And frankly, spending a year in Paris at the Club's expense, getting a post grad qualification, doesn't strike me as a particularly onerous penalty for his lack of care.  Neither does the media ban.

I can't say I've got a great deal of sympathy on this one.  Frankly, no one at the club has really taken responsibility or shown any remorse for what happened, and that includes Hird.  The gold is more than a bit tarnished these days.Not good comparisons, really. The athletes who've used performance-enhancing drugs were cheats, were punished by being banned, have done their time, and have now returned.  Wayne Carey did some dumb things as well, and paid for it with court cases and being on the outer as a commentator for quite a while.  And he's fully acknowledged his failings. But none of these people had a responsibility to anyone but themselves, and the image of their sport.

Hird had an additional responsibility - to his players.  He cheated (yes, using performance enhancing drugs, whether you're a player or a coach is cheating), but his punishment was a paid year off in Paris.  He's never admitted guilt or apologized to anyone.  He put finals ambitions ahead of the welfare of his players, and that is frankly unforgiveable.Of course he can cheat by giving his players supplements.  Do you think that only the athlete is a cheat when the team is being given drugs on an systematic basis to achieve things they might not without the drugs?  Do lyou think only the East German athletes were cheating back in the 60s and 70s when their coaches and sports federations dosed them with steroids?  No, because the coaches and sports federations were getting better results than they should have with clean athletes.  And that's what cheating is.I am not talking about what Hird was taking.  I'm talking about what his team was taking.  And if he was involved in the systematic application of illegal substances to his players in order to give his team an "edge," then he was cheating as surely as the players were. Whether it's steroids or EPO or blood doping or unapproved supplements makes no difference.The "head of state" has nothing at all to do with the issue.  This is totally an Australian issue and has zero to do with the monarchy.

I grew up in Canada.  No religious education at all in the public school system when I was there, beyond the Lord's Prayer, and they gave that up when I was in high school.  That's 50 years ago.Parents are free to give their kids all the religious education they want.  Just not in a public school.  That's not Stalinist, that's good old fashioned separation of church and state.  One of the fundamentals of our democracy, by the way.@rinaldo - we're all being forced to pay for them, though, and they're taking valuable time away from teaching kids the basics.  Keep religious education where it belongs - in private religious schools, in churches and temples, and in the home.Any kind of religious education, special or not, belongs outside the public school system.  You want your kids to learn religious values? Teach them, take them to church, mosque, temple or synagogue, but leave the schools to work on their literacy and numeracy.This is about violence, not about marriage laws.  

If people choose to have affairs, that's their business.  There may be moral issues there, but there is nothing in having an affair which warrants violent assault.  And the protections for people in "illicit" relationships are exactly the same ones for people who are in licit ones - the protection we all  have in law from being physically attacked.@Jimmy - well, I think it's discriminatory - after all, men should be able to enjoy slogans demeaning them, their attributes and their brainpower too.  Why doesn't Wicked Campers give the guys a chance to see themselves been lampooned on passing vans and in public parking spaces?  They should have the same opportunities women do to enjoy insults and denigration of their gender.  It's rank discrimination, I tell you.  Guys should demand equal time and equal space.@Vince - well, exactly.  I'm just pointing out the obvious - that all the guys saying "toughen up" would have a different attitude if they were the targets of this sort of thing.The slogans are, as you say, all of those things.  Oddly, though, there don't seem to be any equivalents for the male gender.  Are men such delicate creatures that they need to be protected?  Toughen up guys, and let's get some good extreme feminist slogans going.Men (and women) get these comments all the time.  The difference is, a company isn't running vans around the country with comments about male shortcomings plastered on the sides.When it's directed exclusively at women and never at men?  Geez, women are being told to "toughen up" while men here are whinging about white ribbon day.  Talk about double standards.Yeah, but Wicked Campers only uses misogynist slogans, not misandrist ones.  If one is wrong, the other is wrong.Well, since I've yet to see a Wicked Campers van portraying men as rapists, it would appear that one half of your equation has been met, so why aren't you demanding that the other half be dealt with?  I'd say that it's not just the feminists who are being hypocritical here.So why is all the offence marketing directed at women, and none of it at men?So how come you never see slogans putting down men or treating them as sexual objects to be used and abused?  That would be just as "funny" after all.You're missing my point.  If Wicked Campers used the same level of slogans for men as it did for women, there'd be quite a few guys here complaining loudly about the evil matriarchy and the way the feminazis were demeaning men.  But if it's a woman being demeaned, and we complain, it's because we're being too precious or too sensitive, or lack a sense of humour.  What's good for the goose ought to be good for the gander, but some brave lads here are complaining about White Ribbon Day portraying men as potential abusers, while saying it's perfectly okay to have vans running around the country portraying women as legitimate targets for abuse.  If you don't see the problem, let's just say, I do.  And hypocrisy is only the half of it.@Graham H - read some of the comments here, notably from Evil Pundit, and tell me men aren't upset and don't care when they get stereotyped in unflattering ways.There's nothing especially robust about using slogans that denigrate females for being female, and none that denigrate males for being male. It's simple bullying, nothing more nor less, and you know what they say about bullies.You call that robustness.  I call that primitivism.I'm gonna bet if some feminist group started renting out campervans plastered with cartoons and insulting slogans about males, you'd care.@Jimmy - read through all the comments here, including the one directly above yours, and tell me men don't care.

Well, to AJS and Evil Pundit - you don't like how you're stereotyped?  Too bad.  If we have to suck it up, so do you.  So stop whining."On average, one man a week is killed by violence from a female partner in Australia."   That's simply not true.Well, you may not be able to fool all of the people all of the time, but Palmer is living proof you can fool some of the people some of the time.Oh, I dunno.  Abbott and Rudd were pretty much known quantities when they went head to head, and people had pretty good idea of what they were going to get with either one.  Clive, on the other hand, is a bundle of contradictions who somehow seems to have convinced the Greens that he's pro-environment, and frankly, that's a bit of fooling people that I'm sure Abbott would never be capable of.I'm no Abbott fan, but neither do I believe charisma is a measure of leadership.

 Let me explain, in an entirely non-Australian context.  Canada had a PM once named Pearson.  He was a rather dumpy man, with a squeaky voice, and about as charismatic as a sack of potatoes.  He may have been the best PM Canada ever had - managing to change the nation in a few short years in government, most of it minority government, by introducing national health insurance, the Canadian flag, refusing to get entangled in Vietnam and having the vision to support a centennial celebration that changed how Canadians thought about themselves and their country.

His immediate predecessor was a highly charismatic populist;  his successor, a highly charismatic and cerebral leader.  Neither accomplished half of what he did, and he managed not to divide the nation while doing it.  

I much prefer solid accomplishment to charisma, any day of the week.  That's not to say I think Abbott has or is likely to achieve solid accomplishment, but I've had more than enough of charismatic politicians that accomplish nothing.@Helvi - a great many people choose leaders based on charisma.  You overestimate the number of thinking people.@Kat - well, I read the article, and that's not what it says or implies.  The article says that this is a very complex area, one on which there are mountains of rulings, and that it behooves the Senators to ensure they observe their constitutional responsibilities instead of throwing a dummy spit when they're told they're overstepping the bounds.Her doctorate is not in law, but in literature.  She does, however, have a post grad diploma in constitutional law, and many years of experience with the Clerk's office.In any case, her employer is the Senate, not a random MP from the House of Reps.Perhaps you should have read the next sentence:  "However, there is an enormous amount of complex law on the question of whether an exaction of money amounts to a tax or a penalty, so one needs to be very cautious in this area. "

The Clerk gave expert advice.  Clive didn't like it and threw a tantrum.  And she's not even working for him, she's working for the ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, not a loud-mouth MP from the House of Reps.@Stuffed Olive - "Proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys, or imposing taxation, shall not originate in the Senate."

That's the first sentence of Sec 53 of the Constitution.  It seems very clear to me.@Stuffed Olive - the bill can and was unconstitutional because the penalties were being introduced by the Senate, not the House.  It's not the wording or intent of the amendment that was unconstitutional, it's the fact that it hadn't been initiated in the House.No, wait a minute.  The Coalition put up the legislation and it passed the Reps.  Palmer tried to change the legislation in the Senate, but what he proposed was unconstitutional because it involved a money bill, and the Senate can't introduce money bills.  His amendment had nothing to do with the Libs.They didn't.  They've agreed that they must go through the House first, which is precisely what Dr. Laing told Palmer.What I meant was that when Palmer tried to introduce his amendments, it was in the Senate, and the Clerk said no way, it's got to go through the Reps first. It's my understanding that it will now go to the Reps, then to the Senate, as it should have in the first place.Not exactly accurate, Olive.  The amendments had to go through the House before they went through the Senate.  That's the whole basic point.  Whether Abbott reneged or not (and he seems to  have agreed that Clive's amendments would be put through on the following week) Clive should have know, or have taken the clerk's advice, that he could not put money amendments through the Senate before they went through the House.  This is Clive's stuff up.  No one else's.@Olive - geesh.  Don't you get it?  The only thing unconstitutional about the amendments was Palmer's attempt to push them through the Senate first. Abbott was going to take them to the House first, which would have made them constitutional.Olive - Palmer says the amendments he agreed to were not what Abbott put forward.  We only have Palmer's word for that, of course.  In any case, at that point he could have simply said, that's not the deal, and had his tame Senators vote the legislation down.  If Abbott did double deal, then sure, that would have been Abbott's fault.

But that's not what happened.  Palmer went way beyond just deciding to vote against the legislation as it stood:  he tried to introduce PUP amendments to the Senate, amendments that were unconstitutional because they needed to have been approved by the House first.  And when the Clerk told him he couldn't do that, he went ballistic, told her she had to put them through, Constitution notwithstanding, or lose her job.  That's the issue, and it has nothing to do with Abbott.You keep saying it wasn't unconstitutional, but it clearly was, which is why they are now putting it through the House of Reps first.We live in a constitutional democracy.  The constitution is the leash.  The PUPS had better get used to it.PUP has already shown its mettle. They don't understand the Constitution, the way Parliament works, civilized behaviour or English Grammar.  That anyone actually believes Palmer has any interests beyond what will be good for Mineralogy blows my mind.Olive - the Libs knew exactly what they were doing.  They were going to put the amendments through the House first in the following week.  And anyone who's in Parliament ought to have a nodding acquaintance with the grand old notion that the upper house does not initiate money bills.  And if they don't, they should listen to the advice of an expert, not throw a temper tantrum because they dislike a basic precept of Westminster parliamentary democracy.The fact that the Senate cannot introduce money bills is not a little "detail."  It's a fundamental constitutional rule.  And yes, I think anyone who's been elected to sit in Parliament ought to be familiar with the constitution.From what I understand, Palmer introduced the amendements without consulting the Libs.  They thought they were going to be introduced in the House on the following week, not in the Senate that day.Public servants can always get dragged into a fight.  Ken Henry certainly did in his time, and so did the assorted heads of Immigration.  That's because those particular public servants had a policy as well as a management role.  There's nothing at all wrong with public scrutiny of their performance.

The Clerk, it seems to me, is a bit different because her role is primarily an administrative and quality control one, making sure the Senate operations run efficiently and that constitutional and parliamentary rules and standards are observed.  That she can be named is just part and parcel of transparency and accountability in governance, but she shouldn't be dragged into any sort of in-house fighting, least of all by someone who isn't even part of the Senate.  She's managed to avoid any sort of public comment on what happened, and that was exactly the right way to handle it.That is a truly scary thought.  I've seen some pretty outrageous things in my assorted travels, but I've never seen any one so blatantly buy power as Palmer - even Silvio Berlusconi actually had policies - and I've never seen a population accept it with such indifference, or even enthusiasm.

That the electorate, or part of it, has become so short-sighted that they're willing to put up with Palmer solely because he is causing Abbott problems says everything I need to know about the political insight and ethical standards of his apologists.  It's not pretty.I disagree.  Parliamentarians are always going to pay attention to powerful interests, whether corporations, unions or foreign governments.  But I have never seen a Parliamentarian exhibiting such naked self interest as Palmer is doing, and not being subject to anything like the level of scrutiny he should be over his business interests and practices.Well, that's the big issue, isn't it.  Always has been, but the media by and large simply ignored the blatantly obvious in the run up to the election, and hasn't exactly focused on it yet.  I'm frankly stunned that Palmer wasn't required to put all his assets into a blind trust the moment he got elected.Where I come from there are very strict rules on electoral funding.  First, no corporation or union can donate to an election campaign.  Second, personal donations are strictly limited (I think the limit is around $1500).  And third, and most importantly, parties and candidates are subject to strict spending limits on their campaigns.  It simply wouldn't be possible for a Palmer to buy his way into a position of power.  I think there needs to be a massive overhaul of the rules in this country, though obviously that won't be possible so long as the PUP has the balance in the Senate.Not a fan of democracy then?  The thing is, in a democracy, you don't always get the government of your personal preference; sometimes you get the government of someone else's preference.  That you dislike Abbott &amp; Co doesn't make their government illegitimate nor illegal.  Distasteful, yes, but then so was its predecessor.I entirely agree that whichever government is in power should be subject to intense media and public scrutiny,  and for that matter, so should the opposition and the minor parties, not excluding Palmer &amp; Co.  

What I don't agree with is the notion that the Abbott or any other government is illegitimate and illegal purely because one doesn't like it.  And that's what the comment above amounted to:  that a government is illegitimate purely because it doesn't stand for what the commenter wants to see in a government.  Well, that's the nature of democracy:  sometimes your fellow citizens vote for a government you can't stomach.  It doesn't make the government illegitimate or illegal.I think a lot of ex-stars really struggle after they leave their sport - some of them don't have the education to go on to other things, others miss the excitement and adulation, and some miss the discipline and routine involved.  I can think of a few, including at least one swimming star, who've had trouble adjusting post-career, and a few who've gotten into serious financial and criminal trouble.  

That said, I believe Thorpe was having issues even when he was still swimming, so with him, it could have to do with his sexuality as well.  If this interview takes some of the pressure off him, and lets him get on with his life, then I really don't care if he made money out of it.  He's earned.

I live in rural Australia.  I know  a few gay people, male and female, personally, and believe there's quite a little community in the area.  I've got a feeling you might find more intolerance in some areas of Sydney.I didn't quite read it that way.  She like the fact that he was sensitive, interested in fashion, and liked women.  It was, for her, a  new model of heterosexual man.  Now she's disappointed that he's the same guy, but gay, and therefore a stereotype, not the new model after all.    So, it seems to me that double standards are as much hers as they are the media's.  She wanted him to be a model of something just as much as the press and the sponsors did.
@anote - I think you missed my point.  My particular comment wasn't about Thorpe but about the author of the article.

So far as I'm concerned, Thorpe can be whatever he is, however he is.  That the author should on the one hand complain about the voyeurism of the media, and on the other be disappointed that Thorpe wasn't quite what she thought he was, seems to me to put her right into the media corral.  Like he should be expected to meet her criteria for modern male.Or maybe, there's a fourth possibility.  All of us find the teen years difficult, when we're trying to define our personalities, and grapple with our sexuality - but very few of us have to do it in the full glare of publicity, and with the enormous pressure of expectations from coaches, sponsors and fans.  

He struggled, all right, and in retrospect, made a poor decision but I don't think it makes him a coward, just a lost soul.  And god knows, he's paid a price over the year for it.

The Orderly Departure Program was possible because a number of countries agreed to cooperate on resettlement, because there was a finite number of people who would be dealt with, and because the Vietnamese tightened up at their end.

The current situation is not the same:  no other traditional resettlement country has agreed to take any of these cases off Australia's hands;  the number and sources of asylum seekers are infinite; and most source countries have limited interest in stopping the movements, while the Indonesians and Malaysians simply want to move people on from their own countries, and if that means facilitating smuggling, that's what they're going to.

The reality is that we're dealing with a far more complex problem than either refugee advocates or opponents will admit.  This is a mixed movement of genuine asylum seekers and economic opportunists, and our incapacity to sort the one out from the other created an enormous pull factor in the absence of effective penalties for the opportunists.  And that pull factor will exist even were we to vastly increase the numbers accepted in regional processing, because the 50% or so who got refused would still have every incentive to get on a boat.I read the article by Menadue.  His choice of figures is highly selective and does not, in fact represent what happened - that Australian asylum numbers plumetted further and faster than anywhere else, not coincidentally with the introduction of the Pacific Solution by Howard, and that they then rose further and faster than anywhere else, not coincidentally with the abandonment of the Pacific Solution by Rudd.  

Yes, the demise of the Taliban had some impact, but the Afghans were hardly the only boat arrivals, and what did or did not happen in Afghanistan had no impact on what was going on in other key source countries.

And by the way, like it or not, fleeing a war torn country doesn't necessarily make you a refugee under the Convention.I don't think you quite understand what the "war on people smuggling" is about.  We talk a great deal about Australia's obligations under the UN Convention and Protocol on Refugees.  Well, Australia also has obligations under the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol against Migrant Smuggling.  

The issue comes in reconciling the two.  And we need to start by accepting that not all people who are desperate for a new life are in fact refugees.  Some are, some aren't, but both fuel the smuggling racket, and a lot of people die because of it.  So yes, there is an interest, here and in Europe, in getting to grips with the smugglers.@Angry Ghost - I don't know whether there's a refugee industry or not, but I do know there is a people smuggling industry.  I know, further, that Australia has the legal right to board ships in its territorial or contiguous waters if it believes they are engaged in people smuggling.  I also know that it is not only a right, but an international obligation, to combat people smugglers.@Merlin - it wasn't in open international waters.Depending on who you believe, the boats were intercepted either in Australian territorial waters or in contiguous waters.  Australia has legal jurisdiction over the first, and some level of legal authority over the second, including the right to board ships it believes are involved in people smuggling.  Further, it has an obligation in both domestic and international law to act against people smugglers.  That's not piracy, any way you look at it.The Mediterranean boat movement is largely comprised of sub-Saharan and North Africans trying to get to Europe.  It's a different group of people than are trying to come to Australia. The two movements aren't interchangeable.@Mark James - what I'm saying is that the people who are drowning in the Med are, for the most part, not Sri Lankans or Iranians or Iraqis, but sub Saharan Africans. Australia's policies on boat arrivals will have no impact on the Mediterranean boat movement one way or the other, any more than a tightening of European policies would impact on Australian boat movements.I think there are a few things you need to bear in mind.   One is that there's a difference between people who are displaced by on-going war (ie Syrians at the moment) and those who displace themselves in search of better opportunities.  Tens of thousands of Tunisians took to the boats in 2011, but the UNHCR itself described the majority as migrants, not asylum seekers.  Why should receiving countries be expected to devote major resources to people who are not refugees?  

That applies to the whole of the Mediterranean boat movement - a mix of the genuine and the opportunistic.  States have a right to stop the latter, but the trick is to still allow access to asylum processes for the former. All states are struggling with this at the moment, and the UNHCR complains about pushbacks not just in our waters but in the Mediterranean and Caribbean as well.  

It's one thing to provide proper protection to genuine refugees;  it's quite another to surrender control of your migration processes to self-selecting economic migrants. It may be true that economic migrants will, as you say, keep embarking;  that is no reason to stop intercepting them.

The real challenge is how to balance off the two elements - keeping control of the borders while allowing genuine asylum seekers access to determination processes.   Australia isn't doing at all well, but neither is anyone else in that regard.  Anyone who believes there's a simple solution doesn't understand the problem.

@Peter - no, Italy already tried it - sent asylum seekers back to Libya - and got slapped down by the European courts.  So now they just take the people off the boats and let them loose with no proper determination, no permanent status, and no means of support.We don't know much about these people so it's difficult to speculate.

We do know that the first boat contained mainly Sinhalese, so it's a bit hard to see that they would have a well-founded fear of persecution.  Tamils might, but it's not an automatic thing.  Some Tamils have a legitimate fear of persecution, others, living in Colombo for example, much less so.

And the economic migrants are people looking for a better life who would never qualify under Australian or Canadian skilled worker criteria.  So yes, the economic migrants among them would be trying to short circuit the selection system.

Security risks?  There might be the odd ex-LTTE cadre who could be problematic but mostly they're just ordinary people looking for a better life.Without wishing to barrack for one side or the other, I'd point out that this whole article is based on the premise that the federal Coalition should clean this up - so if the author can hold Abbott to account for it, surely it's fair enough to hold his predecessors to account as well.@Paul - then why is Kohler demanding that the feds clean it up?My mother is in a nursing home in Canada, having spent four years in the retirement home of the same facility.  It's a private facility, but nothing like your description, nor like the ones the article describes.  She's getting very good care, better than my sister could possibly provide at this stage in both their lives.  And better, I might add, than some "socialized" facilities I've seen in the UK.  

I think, though, that this is an area in which the states and the feds are going to have to get more involved, especially with the arrival of the boomers over the next 15 or 20 years.  Certainly there are things we can learn from the Europeans, but perhaps the other source of ideas would be the residents themselves.  No one seems to be asking them how things could be done better, without blowing the budget totally out of the water.I have to admit, I don't quite get this.  My mother was in a retirement home in Canada for four years, and basically paid a monthly "rent" which covered a small flatlet, meals, entertainment, and 24 hour staff.  She recently had to move into the nursing care wing, which provides the same (she still has her own room and bathroom) plus round the clock nursing care.  She pays around $40,000 a year for the lot, with no bonds, no ownership and no complications. She's not in the top of the line place, but its very good and provides excellent care.  Oh, and the meals are good enough that she's actually gained a bit of weight, which is a good thing.

I don't know why provision of decent accomodation and care should cost so much more in Australia than Canada, or why the model appears to be so different.If the two boats were in Australian territorial or contiguous waters, then Australia has every right to stop and board them.  The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea is quite clear on that.

If the boats were outside territorial or contiguous waters but still in Australia's exclusive economic zone, and Australia had reasonable grounds to believe they were engaged in people smuggling, then Australia not only has the right but the obligation under the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants to board and investigate.  

I doubt the Somalis could claim the same international rights and obligations.

As for assessing refugee claimants, well, of course those assessments couldn't stand up to judicial review.  The question is - do they have to, given where they are taking place?  That's what the court is going to have to decide.No, I wouldn't agree that if the boats were outside our zone, boarding them would be an act of piracy.  Remember the pursuit of the Patagonian tooth fish poachers?  International law recognizes the right to conduct hot pursuit into international waters.

That said, I think the ships in question were in either territorial or contiguous zones, so the point is moot.Oh, and I do agree that the right place to decide whether international law was violated, is in the courts.  I'm just saying that comparing Australian actions with Somali pirates is ludicrous.Oh, and yes, I do think the question of whether people on boats outside territorial waters are entitled to full consideration under the Convention is a matter for the courts.   This is my third attempt, by the way, to say so.The ship was either in Australia's territorial waters, in which case Australian law would apply, or in contiguous waters, in which case Australia has some limited authority.  I'm assuming that will be one of the things to be decided by the court.Actually, I don't believe the Queen can dismiss the government, unless she happens to be in Australia at the time. Otherwise, only the GG has the right to exercise that power.@EMH - there are a number of factual errors in your comment.

According to the Refugee Council of Australia, the number of asylum seekers in the last decade is around 86,000.  Where do you get your figure for 20,000?  By the way, again according to RCA, the number in the last 4 years is around 60,000.

As for overstayers, your figure of 50,000 a year is also incorrect.  According to DIAC, there are in the range of 55,000 total overstayers at any one time. That's an entirely different thing.   It's a floating population, with people coming and going, but the total number has only increased marginally in a decade.

Also, you say that most overstayers are Americans, Brits, and Europeans.  That's also incorrect. Most are Asians, with China being by far the top source of overstayers.  If memory serves, Brits are about 4th out of the top ten, with Malaysians, Indonesians, South Koreans, Thais and other Asian nations pretty much rounding up the top ten.In 2013, something in the order of 18,000 people arrived by boat to make asylum claims.  The number of Vietnamese who arrived by boat was in the 2,000 range.astro - read up a bit on the movement.  There were in the order of 2000 or 2500 boat people arriving in Australian waters.  

Close to 100,000 Vietnamese were taken out of camps in Hong Kong, Thailand, Indonesia and elsewhere. It was a massive offshore processing, not different from the processing of Sudanese out of Kenya or Bhutanese out of Nepal or India.@Astro free press - the numbers who arrived from Vietnam by boat were nowhere near 50,000.  Closer to 2,000 in fact.  Almost all the Vietnamese refugees who came to Australia were selected out of camps under the orderly departure program.Look up the "Orderly Departure Program."  The vast majority of Vietnamese who were resettled in the US, Canada, Australia, France and elsewhere, were resettled under its provisions.  They were not boat people arriving on Australian shores; they were offshore resettlement cases processed in camps, much like the Sudanese or Bhutanese today.  

The first Vietnamese to escape when Saigon fell mostly got out under American auspices, got to Guam, and ended up in the US and Canada.  There were only a couple of thousand who took to boats and made it to Australia.  The rest streamed across borders or took boats to Indonesia, and from there the program kicked in.  

This notion that 50,000 boat people arrived on the shores of Australia is history imagined.To your first question, I don't know and neither do you.  

To your second question, if the boat was either in Territorial or Contiguous waters, then yes, Australia does have a right to take whatever means necessary to interdict smugglers, whether of people, drugs or arms. If the boat is in territorial waters, its within Australia's sovereignty, so presumably Australian law and Convention obligations apply';  if it's in the Continguous zone, it's not so clear to me what the legal situation is.  Presumably that's what the court will decide.No, Sri Lankans cannot apply for protection to Australia or anywhere else while they are still in Sri Lanka.  To be a refugee one must first be outside one's country of nationality.  

No, Sri Lankan Tamils who go to India do not have formal protection there.  India is not a signatory to the Convention and, while it doesn't "refoule" Sri Lankans, it doesn't offer them the protections laid out in the Convention by any means.

That said, the Tamils could have applied for protection to Australia while in India.

As for the first boatload, almost all of the people aboard were Sinhalese, so I'm at a loss to know what claim they would have had to be refugees.One of the things I find very exasperating about this whole debate is that people on both sides of the issue keep inventing things.

Asylum seekers aren't citizens and therefore are not covered by Australia's laws? Really?  Do you think, if you visit the UK and rob a bank, you won't find British laws covering your actions?  Do you think that, if a visitor to Australia is robbed or mugged, he or she won't get the protection of the Australian legal system?  Anyone on Australian territory is covered by Australian laws.  That's the whole point of national sovereignty.  That is indeed kindergarten stuff.

And while you may dislike the UN Convention on Refugees, Australia signed it, and enacted the key elements into Australian law.  So until such time as Australia walks away from the Convention, it is the law of the land.  The only question right now is how far out to sea the law of the land applies.

And refugee laws do not involve multiple jurisdictions, because the only relevant parts are the parts enacted into Australian law, which oblige Australia to give protection to asylum seekers who meet the Convention definition.  What Sri Lanka or Thailand or Botswana have to say about it is irrelevant.  All that matters is what the Migration Act says.

The High Court will interpret the law of the land. If the government doesn't like the interpretation, it's free to change the law - if it can.  But it's not up to the High Court to rewrite the law - their job is to ensure that it is interpreted and applied properly.  Don't like it? Write to your MP, not to the High Court.

From what I can see, the victims of Harris' abuse have talked to counsellors, doctors, family members, etc about if for years, and have been consistent in their claims.  And ultimately, the jury did decide, beyond a reasonable doubt, that they were telling the truth and Harris wasn't.  

If you think the jury got it wrong in this specific case, you're going to have to come up with something better than some vague reference to other cases in another country 20 years ago.It's my understanding this boat came from Tamil Nadu, and consists mainly of Sri Lankan Tamils who've been living in India as refugees.The difference between the Indochinese resettlement of the 70s and the current situation is that (a) it was a multinational effort, including by countries not involved in the Vietnam war;  (b) it had a start and end point;  (c) it had a finite number of cases to process, all of them already registered and in camps. None of that applies to the situation today.    

You cannot have that sort of approach when there are 50 million people scattered worldwide, when the obligation would be open ended, and when countries are not going to cooperate to solve the problem.  It's only in the last few years that Europe has agreed to a minuscule resettlement program - there is no way they're going to agree to up the numbers into the millions.  And even if they did, it still wouldn't solve the problem of people who are not refugees still trying to migrate, and drowning in the process, as is happening in the Mediterranean.I'd say that's pure hyperbole.  The Europeans have massive problems with boat arrivals, the Americans with Mexican illegals, and everyone is struggling to contain irregular movements, both of genuine refugees and economic  migrants.  While Australia's current policy is harsh, Italy also has a record of turning back boats, and Greece simply refuses everyone who makes an application.  

As for marriage equality and education, no one outside Australia has any interest whatsoever in what Australia is doing on either subject.  The number of countries which do have same sex marriage is a minority, even in the EU. And there's nothing especially exceptional about our overall foreign policy.  As for climate change, come off it: the only thing that's weird is that the Greens seem to think Palmer is a convert to climate change when it's clear he's just trying to save himself some tax.  The Greens in Europe are not so naive.

International conventions are legally binding if their enacted into Australian law.  The relevant parts of the Convention are.@Veganpuncher - the British brought some Tamils over in the 19th century to work on plantations, true.  They used to be called IndianTamils in Sri Lanka, to distinguish them from the much Sri Lankan Tamil population who have been there for over 2000 years.  I don't think the latter would have any particular claim to Indian residence after all that time.The problem with setting up processing points for asylum seekers before they get on a boat are twofold:  first, it becomes a draw card for people to travel to Malaysia and Indonesia, and stay in those two countries illegally, which is not going to please the Malaysians and Indonesians;  and secondly, based on experiences in selecting out of the camps elsewhere, less than half the applicants will be accepted.  What is to deter the other half from hopping on a boat?

I'm not sure what the solution is, but simply processing everybody offshore and giving them all visas isn't it.Yes, it is, because no other country in the region is a signatory to the Convention.Not every musician is an artist.  Neither is every painter.If a child breaks an arm falling from a tree he just climbed, I wouldn't call it exactly trivial, but I would agree it's something to be treated matter of factly, to be gotten over, to serve as a lesson about risks.  But if that child has his arm deliberately and intentionally broken by an adult, that is a different matter entirely.  That is assault, pure and simple, and no one is surprised if the perpetrator gets a two year sentence for it.  And no one is surprised, either, if the child has nightmares about it, or starts to act out later, particularly if the physical abuse continues.

So why do you see sexual assault as being less important than a broken arm or wrist?  Why do you judge it as trivial, when, if the same child were subject to a beating by an adult, you'd have no problems with the adult being severely punished?

This has nothing at all to do sexism or with a neo-Puritan abhorrence of sexuality. It has everything to do with child abuse. Period.  It is less than honest to compare an accident with a deliberate act by an adult who would have been well aware that what he was doing could damage the child.If the art market and the music market were about quality, Rolf would have spent his life busking in the streets and doing portraits for tourists.  He was an entertainer, and it was his fame as a celebrity that sold records and paintings, not the quality of the records or paintings.Where does the fame of a Paris Hilton or Kim Kardashian come from?  But they can now sell their "labels" for big bucks.  Doesn't mean they're real designers.  Rolf was a novelty musician and entertainer who parlayed that and some stage charisma into a "brand" that sold.I think I'm saying that very great art is going to hang on gallery walls, great music is going to be listened to a century from now, and great books will still be read no matter how problematic the artist or composer or author was.  The passage of time is the real test.  And nothing an author has done in his life will change that.  If Harris' art is as good as some seem to think, then it'll be there regardless of his own distasteful persona.  

But I personally don't think his work will be there because I don't think it was much more than an exercise in marketing and salesmanship.  Popular ephemera, amusing for a short time, but not much depth to it.   The thing is, I didn't grow up with him as a constant familiar entertainer on TV - I  saw him once or twice on American TV and that was it, so I'm not so influenced as others are by his omnipresence here and in the UK.  I just don't "get" why anyone thinks he's more than a fairly average entertainer.  Cheesy, in fact.The Irish Rovers?  Geesh, that does take me back.  I do remember them.  Well, if Rolf ever had a regular gig on North American TV, I missed it.  But I'd put him in the same class as the Rovers. Hardly the early Stones or Dylan or Springsteen.  Those guys had something to say.My feeling exactly.  Until I moved to Australia, I always regarded Harris as a novelty act, nothing more.  I had no idea he'd actually built a career on what seemed to me not a lot of talent.  Nothing I've seen since suggests that either his music or his paintings will outlive him except as cultural curiosities.Having seen the quality of some of the prize winners, I'm quite comfortable with my assessment.Doesn't mean we don't, either, now does it?I think we can and should leave it up to the owners.  Personally, I don't think his paintings are gallery-worthy stuff, but that's me.  I certainly wouldn't shell out big bucks for one of them, and wouldn't have back when five years ago.Plenty of artists, writers, composers, have been unsavoury characters who produced great works.  Great works transcend their origin.  The thing for me is that nothing I've seen or heard of Harris is remotely great.  So, nature will takes its course and his works will be forgotten, or kept as curiosities.@graazt - if we were talking about an artist whose work I really liked,  I might be in a quandary about whether moral outrage outweighs art.  But since I don't care for Harris' art and think even less of his music, the issue doesn't arise.  Moral outrage wins hands down.Hanging him from the nearest tree without a trial would be the act of a lynch mob.  Taking down his art is a choice anyone who owns his paintings is going to have to make as an individual.I'd argue that in Harris' case, the work was the artist.  If he hadn't been a celebrity, I doubt his paintings would be hanging in any significant gallery.Oh come now.  I'm willing to bet you wouldn't regard a public boycott of a particular product because of the behaviour or religious persuasion of the seller as being evidence of a mob mentality  "seeking vengeance outside the legal system."  I think you'd regard it as an expression of your right to free speech and free choice.  

What's the difference here?
I wasn't trying to tie you into anything, except the broader sense of those who criticize this article while insisting on the right to boycott products or companies they dislike.  BDS is only one example;  where I live, people are boycotting Woolies and Maccas because of their development plans.  No one regards that as being mob mentality. Why should it be different if people decide they want to boycott Rolf's works?

And of course he's got the right to appeal, but at this point, he's been convicted by a jury of his peers who were satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt.  As for the sentence, I couldn't care less if he ends up in some kind of Club Med prison, but he shouldn't get off with just a good behaviour bond either.  He's damaged a lot of people.I think that's a slightly different issue.  Harris got away with it for years because of his celebrity.  Sports people used to get away with it as well, but these days they're subject to far more scrutiny than Harris ever had to face, and they get nailed when they transgress.  They're caught much earlier in the process.  Harris was protected by his celebrity; modern athletes are exposed by it.  Time change, I guess.@Ann - I'm not prepared to pay good money to watch a rapist throw a ball around, and I'd be surprised if there are any convicted rapists actually playing these days in pro sports.  Hell, Todd Carney just lost his contract for a piece of grand stupidity that was nowhere near the kinds of things Harris has been convicted of.

I'm not a big sports fan, but it would seem to me the sports codes these days are cracking down a lot harder than the entertainment industry did 20 or 30 years ago, when the likes of Jimmy Saville and Gary Glitter were in their prime.  
From what I understand, the cops and prosecutors on the Harris case only took evidence from girls who complained to third parties at the time.  The third parties then testified. We're not talking reconstructed memories 30 years after the fact.Well, the evidence was enough to convince 12 of his peers that he was guilty on all charges.  They were there, they heard it all, and they were satisfied of his guilt.  And the evidence wasn't anecdotal, it was eye witness.  What do you expect ?  DNA?So, I reckon, based on your argument, that we should dismantle the entertainment industry for covering for Rolf.  Because sure as little fishes, there were people who knew what he was, and what he was doing, just as much as there were people in the churches knowing what their lowlifes were doing.Oh come now.  He lied like a flatfish about not being in Cambridge for a game show where someone claimed to have been abused - he was there, all right, and they came up with the TV footage to show it.  And when he then tried to say, he didn't know where he was, well, it's pretty hard to not know you're in Cambridge, actually. Having been there myself, I'd say there's zero chance he didnt' know where he was at the time.  

Plus, as I understand it, all the witnesses complained about their abuse to third parties at the time.  Not 30 years later.  

I don't know that he was a pedophile exactly, but he certainly seems to have been guilty of sexual abuse.  And six men and six women found the victims more credible than Rolf.  There you have it.Well, I lived through those 60s and 70s and 80s, and I personally cannot remember a time when sex between a 13-year old child and a man in his 40s was considered anything but abusive and worthy of a stiff term in jail.  That era was about consensual sex between adults or between teens of similar age;  it was not about sex between a child and a middle-aged man.  

Oh, and groping a girl who wasn't willing may have been okay in your eyes, but it was just a bit more than a "breach of etiquette," even back then.  And most guys I knew had more class than to try to grope some passing female at random, never mind try it on with a child.  The ones that couldn't keep their hands to themselves were regarded as sleezebags, even in 1960.  Nothing I've seen makes me think that evaluation was wrong.The art has to be great to transcend its origins.  Harris's art is scarcely good enough to make us forget its creator.  That's the difference between his work and Caravaggio's.  His art hangs on walls because he was a celebrity, not because he was a great artist.  And now that the celebrity has gone bad, the paintings just aren't good enough to stand on their own.Interesting take on the issue.  I think, though, that most of us react to paintings and other forms of art in a context, and not just as something isolated from the world around them.  That landscape or street scene might be of a place we know and it therefore resonates, or it might be by an artist we know personally, or we might have bought it in circumstances that have meaning.  It's hard to separate any but the very great piece of art from all the associations that come with it.
And frankly,  I don't think Harris is a good enough artist for his work to rise above the associations it brings with it.I've only seen a couple of his paintings and they seem exceedingly pedestrian to me.  I think they sold because they were painted by a celebrity and not because they were "art."  And that means the live or die by his fame and can't stand on their own.  That's the difference between Harris and Picasso, or indeed between him and Polansky.It's like the old line about a dog walking on it's hind legs - it is not done well, but you're surprised to see it done at all.  I think that goes for Harris' paintings.Well, I think myself that Harris's art only sold in the first place because of his celebrity .  So if people bought his paintings because of who he was, its karma that who he really is makes those paintings worthless today.well, the thing is, much as I loathe Polanski, I do think Chinatown was a terrific movie, which can stand on its own.  Harris's work would be worthless without his name attached to it.I see your point.  To be fair, I saw the movie on its first release, several years before Polanski had been charged with that sexual assault, so I can't feel too guilty about whatever royalties he collected from me.  Knowing what I know now, would I see it again? Not sure.I think you overestimate Harris's importance as an artist.  I grew up in Canada, and although I knew "Tie me Kangaroo Down" I always assumed he was just a one-hit wonder.  I had no idea he was anything more than a novelty act until I actually arrived in this country.  He was in truth a fairly minor talent but a great publicist, and that's what sold his music and paintings, not the quality of his art.The thing is, though, that Anne Perry's novels aren't especially good and her notoriety doesn't make them any better.  Same with Hitler and Harris.He's different because they're great artists, and he's just a celebrity who paints a bit.But we aren't living in the 50s and social media matters because it can destroy the reputation of a player, a club and a league in no time flat.  Professional sports isn't just about winning the game;  it's about selling the product, and that's what all those conditions on the contracts are about.  If players can't get that through their heads, let them play amateur football, tennis or whatever.If he can get a visa.  He couldn't get one the last time he tried.Back then they weren't on million dollar contracts, either.  If Carney wants to play football at this level, he has to learn that the big bucks aren't just for playing the game well, but for representing the team and the sport well.Nope.  Being good at rugby isn't the end of the story.  For the money they're making, they need to be good representatives of the club and the game as well.  Otherwise, let them play footy with the boys at the local oval on weekends and get a day job.Let the boys be boys, and when the sponsorships dry up, when TV no longer wants to pay big bucks, when the fan base shrinks to the hard core, when sports with better behavioural codes gain support at the expense of League, maybe have a rethink about it all.  If League were just a game, fine; it's not, it's a business.I'm not outraged by this event.  I'm annoyed that a guy being paid big bucks doesn't get what he's being paid the bucks for - and no, it isn't just getting the football across the line.  

If I had an employee that did things that embarrassed the company, he'd be gone.  If I had an employee the cost the company a sale or a sponsorship, he'd be out the door too. Why does that apply to kids working for a fraction of a Carney salary, and not to Carney?Carney was on a string of warnings about behaviour.  He'd been outed on social media before.  He did something stupid while someone filmed it.  What could possibly go wrong?  

I've done dumb things in my time, but never that dumb, never so explicitly giving the finger to my employer, never so completely missing the point about being paid big bucks not just to do the job but to represent my industry properly when in a public place.NO, he is not being paid only to play the game.  Why do you think pro athletes have behaviour clauses in their contracts?  Because they're being paid to represent the club in public as well as on the playing field.  If Carnery or anyone else can't live up to both parts of the contract, then the club has every right to tear it up and the athlete has every right to go find a club that doesn't have those kinds of conditions in its contracts.  And good luck with that.He doesn't have to be normal.  He has to abide by the rules of his club and his code. If he doesn't, he should go back to being a brickie's labourer and play footie on weekends.There's obviously no criminal penalty attached to Carney's idiocy. If the club wants to exact that sort of penance that's up to the club.  They've obviously had enough and I don't blame them.The Project?  Didn't see the clip, but they hardly represent the mature, adult take on things, now do they?The employer.  I've never been in a job where the employer didn't set the standards.  If the employee doesn't like the standards, he'd better find himself another job/career.I don't agree.  He's got a job, and part of it is to make League an attractive game and the Sharks a team that people care about, want to spend money on, want their kids to get into.  When you're in a code that is competing against three other football codes for sponsorship, TV revenues and bums on seats, you take responsibility for not reducing the attractiveness of your own team or the sport in general.I don't expect him to be a saint. I expect him to be a professional.  And that means, not embarrassing his employers or his profession. At the wages he's making, it's not a big ask.Look at it the other way. League has a business model. It's in competition with Union, AFL and soccer for sponsors, fans, TV audiences and sales of paraphernalia.  The likes of Carney dent the business model, just as much as a bad salesman dents the profits of the local car dealer.  Why employ either one?HIs behaviour didn't harm anyone else?  If the club lost a single potential sponsorship because of it, it harmed the club, his teammates, the club employees, and everyone that depends on the Sharks to be a going concern.  

And if the club is paying the piper, they do get to call the tune.  If the lads want to be lads and run about after hours. let them find a club that doesn't put behavioural standards in the contract.  I doubt they'll find many.Nope.  Not a bad example.  A good salesman who's had a bad night out and drives away potential clients in the process is not going to be working the next day.  

None of this has anything to do with my being outraged by his having a preference for drinking recycled beer.  It has to do with his contractual obligations, on and off the field, to his employer.  He was being paid more than generously to keep play good football and/and represent his club well in public.  He didn't live up to his end of the bargain.I don't necessarily agree that we create "reverence" around football players.  I think we expect well-paid professional athletes to behave, well, professionally.  

When all is said and done, professional sports is a business, and everyone involved in pro sports is a salesman for that business, players just as much as the club executives.  A sport or a game with an attractive image draws in punters who will buy tickets to watch the game, and merchandise to show their support; it draws in sponsors who want their names associated with a popular team; and god knows, it draws in millions from the broadcasters who televise the games.  But everything depends on the salesmen selling the product.  

So no, I don't agree that a rugby player is there simply to run hard with the ball. He can do that at the local park.  He's a pro, and he's there to run the ball and to sell the image of the game.  And when a player's antics turn sponsors off because they don't want to be associated with what he represents, or when they damage the image of a game as a whole (drunken rugby players getting into brawls or beating up girlfriends tends to turn off more people than it attracts), then the player is not doing his job.  It's got nothing to do with reverence;  it's got everything to do with professionalism.

Yes, players and politicians and the rest should be judged by the work they do - but if their behaviour brings the game itself, or the Parliamentary process into disrepute, then they should be judged by that too.I didn't find it a clever article at all. I found it an article based on zero understanding that pro sports is a business, it's there to make money, it pays players well for their part in the money-making, and in return it expects a respectable standard of behaviour that doesn't damage the team or the sport.

Nothing to do with "what about the children."  A lot to do with, you're paid to do a job which extends beyond getting the ball across the line, so do it. And if you can't do that part of the job that requires you to sell the sport, good bye.I'm focused on the business model because that's what it's about.  Anyone who believes that money isn't the driving force behind pro sports is dreaming in technicolour.  If Carney's off field antics cost a struggling club sponsorship (and what sponsor is going to want his product associated with this kind of behaviour) or fan support, then his on-field performance is not worth the price the club is paying him.  That's the reality.  If he wants to behave like an idiot, without the responsibility of representing the club in public, then he should go back to playing for the Atherton Roosters.

ANd he's not a lad.  He's a fully grown adult who appears incapable of learning from his past mistakes.From what I understand, the Sharks are desperate for new sponsors to replace the ones they lost over the peptides mess.  But when you've got a tool like Carney dragging the club name down as well, who's going to want their product associated with a team that's nothing but bad news?Yes, he was. He was harming his club's attempts to get sponsorships, and the game's attempt to combat AFL, Union and Soccer.  Never diss' your employer.Tiger gave the apology because he knew he'd hurt his "brand" and his "brand" makes him vast sums of money, far more than his actual on-course winnings.  He's a businessman.  So are the people who run the Sharks.He's 28.  He's not all that young, he's damaging his team's image when they're desperate for sponsors, and he's not exactly going to encourage young mothers to have their kids play League. Time he recognized that the big pay cheque is for more than just running the ball.Oh nonsense. They're grown men playing a game.  They're entertainers, not much more.  And if they can't honour the terms of a very generous contract, then they're less emotionally equipped than rather a lot of society.These football players are getting the pay they do solely and exclusively because of the fans.  No fans, then no big TV contracts, no profits on selling branded merchandise, no sponsorships, no money for making ads, no gate receipts.  See how much money you can earn playing baseball or ice hockey in this country.

 Its all about the fans, and its high time the players like Carney remembered that.Absolutely agree with you.  It seems to me the Greens rank environmental purity ahead of environmental achievement.  That they could fall for Palmer's line as a new convert to climate change, rather than see his blatant self interest in thwarting any kind of carbon scheme, speaks volumes for their political "nous."Taking tariffs of exports from Africa would be a start.  Investment in Asia would be another.I think the Greens are torn between the real environmentalists and the hard leftists with a wider agenda.  But between the lot of them, they don't have a clue how to actually achieve anything.I'd love to see a genuine environmental party that could actually achieve things.  The Greens are all over the place on environment - pure of intent, but utterly incompetent when it comes to delivering on anything.  If they spent less time worrying about peripheral social issues and more time focusing on critical environmental issues, not to mention learning the basics of getting things done in our political system, they might actually accomplish something.  But at the moment, they haven't got a clue.  And their gullibility when it comes to the likes of Palmer speaks volumes for their political sense.Since Uthman Badar was apparently not going to attempt even to argue that honour killings can be justified, I think the Festival was merely using the title as click bait, and the actual presentation was going to be about the demonisation of Islam.  That's hardly a new,  never mind dangerous, field of discussion in my book.  

I  just regard the whole thing as a cheap grab for publicity.  You want a real debate, on a real dangerous idea, then get someone to get up and give a speech arguing the supremacy of cultural values over universal human rights.  We live that conflict every day, and we often allow the former to overshadow the latter, but no one has the guts to admit it.  Time we faced up to our ambivalence about cultural values, and why some are sympathetic to groups like the Taliban for expressing national identity in spite of their appalling record on some pretty fundamental human rights."We need to have not only laws against such practices. We also need to argue the case of why these practices should be banned."

No, we don't.  The practices are already illegal.  We don't need to argue the case for banning them;  the law does it for us.  What we need to argue the case for is that any cultural or tribal practices which are contrary to fundamental human rights must be abandoned.I agree that dangerous ideas need to be brought out in the open and challenged, whether they involve honour murders or mandatory detention.  That said, I do not believe that it is any more acceptable to frame the honour killing argument the way this one was than it would be to frame torture as an acceptable instrument of police interrogation, or mandatory detention of children as a positive learning experience for the child.

I think the really dangerous idea is the one I've alluded to:  that no culture or religion should be exempt from having to observe basic rights, and cultures which cannot adapt to that simple concept have no place in society.  And that means a much harder look at how we deal with claims of exceptionalism in all sorts of areas and from all sorts of backgrounds.@Mitor - from what I understand, though, Badar wasn't going to try to argue that honor killings are justifiable.  He was going to argue that Islamophobes use honor killings as a tool to attack Islam.   That scarcely a dangerous idea, since it's pretty obvious that that is happening.  More to the point, it isn't the idea the Festival claimed would be debated.  Like I said elsewhere, false advertising to get bums on seats.I was thinking that.  I was also thinking, how ignorant does one have to be to assume that honour killings are restricted to Muslim populations.@Breakfast - "Many of the reactions were just that, as well as the assumption that the speaker was going to get up on stage and actually justify/promote honour killings."

But isn't that the whole point here - that the titled "dangerous idea" was just a ruse to get people to listen to a different subject entirely?  And you can hardly blame people for thinking he was going to try to justify honour killing when that was the title of his talk.  I don't blame him for that - I blame the Festival, fair and square.Well,  what you're saying is the Festival of Dangerous Ideas has the same ethical standards as tabloid journalism or radio shock jocks.  Anything, any cheap trick, to get the numbers up.  Well, it got them some publicity all right, but we'll all know in future that truth in advertising isn't their strongest point.

And what you're saying, second, is that honour killings are restricted to only one religion, Islam.  That's both uninformed and Islamophobic.@Mark James - when you have the outspoken leader of a prominent Islamic group speaking on a subject titled "Honour killings are morally justified" I don't think it's Islamophobic in the least to think that, as advertised, he's going to be explaining the circumstances in which honour killings can be justified.  

It is perhaps Islamophobic of you to assume that Muslims are the only ones who commit honour killings, and that therefore the reaction to the subject would necessarily be directed towards Islam, rather than towards any cultural value which permits honour killings.   I've got no doubt that there are Hindu women in India and Catholic women in Sicily who would have a broader perspective than you appear to have on this issue.

Bottom line:  opposing honour killlings, or being offended by the very title of the speech,  does not equate to Islamophobia.  It equates to supporting the fundamental rights of women of all religions, everywhere.I understood the context quite well, I think.  You're the one assuming that people who objected to the title and the talk did so because they took it as representative of an "amorphous Islam" endorsing honour killings.  I don't blame you for that, since it was marketed that way.  But  I made no such assumption.  

What I did assume was that there are a lot of cultures that endorse or at least turn a blind eye to honour killings, some of them being Islamic, and that we were going to hear a justification for all of them through the eyes of one of them.  And I thought (and still think) it was reprehensible.  And I think that dismissing the furore as evidence of Islamophobia, as you have done, is to ignore the fundamental reason for the outrage:  that fundamental human rights should be negotiable or subject to cultural or religious exceptionalism.

Of course, after I heard what Badar had to say, I realized I'd been suckered by cheap theatricals.  Seems the Festival relies on sensationalism more than actual ideas, dangerous or otherwise, to get coverage.Maybe we're misunderstanding one another, but I took, and still take, what you said to mean that you think the outcry arose from the assumption that "an unheard speech was evidence of an amorphous Islam endorsing honour killings." 

I don't see that any such assumption necessarily existed.  I know I was outraged, not by the concept that Islam would endorse honour killings, but by the concept that anyone, especially a citizen of Australia, could possibly find some sort of justification for honour killings.  My reaction, and I daresay that of many who objected, has got nothing to do with Islamophobia at all. It's got a lot to do with disliking men trying to explain why it's okay to kill women.@Mitor - Uthman Badhur has a website and no one is stopping him from publishing his speech or doing a podcast. But frankly, I don't regard a speech about honour killings being converted into an attack on Islamophobes as being in any way dangerous.  It's entirely predictable.I'm having trouble following the logic there.  Censorship starts when governments decree what can be said, and punish the offenders.  That's not the case here.

The Festival faced a public uproar over this one topic, much as universities often have students throwing conniptions over speakers they don't like. Especially if they happen to be pro-Israel.  The Festival caved, as universities often do.  That is neither here nor there.  Both Badar and his direct  opposite numbers can find other venues for their particular brand of thought, and none of them will be arrested for it.  That's free speech.

The Festival took a business decision to put that title up in the first place, and another business decision to pull it down.  That's their right.  They deserve a fair bit of opprobrium of the obvious baiting tactics, and for tanking when they realised they were losing rather than gaining business.  But that's what businesses do.That's not entirely true, you know.  Nationalism and religion very much overlap in the Muslim world, and the Sunni Pashtuns of Afghanistan and Pakistan have more loyalty to each other than to either of their nations.  And, has been pretty clearly established, they are far more hostile to Shia co-nationals than to foreign Sunnis.Not sure that's entirely relevant to the comments, but I wouldn't say that the "English" nations are in lockstep.  Generally, we're western nations with a certain level of prosperity and a common understanding of democracy and its values.  To that extent, we see the world in a similar light.  The wars of the last 40 years or so have shown, however, that where the US leads, the other English nations do not necessarily follow.  Vietnam is one example, Gulf II is another.Dove - I spent time in Pakistan, which is neither Arab nor Persian, but there, the Sunni- Shia divide ran very strong - to the extent that they were shooting up each other's mosques.  

The Muslim world is much bigger than just Arabs and Persians.He wasn't a revolutionary at all.  He said there would be a revolution.  That's about it.Persons who are driven to migrate to Australia for economic motives, are, by definition, not "refugees."  They are economic migrants, and expected to comply with whatever criteria are in place when they apply overseas for their visas.  That was the case in 1945, and is the case today.  

Refugees are different, they are persons with a well-founded fear of persecution, and their economic situation is irrelevant.  No matter the level of economic disadvantage they may suffer, they are not entitled to residence here unless they also have that genuine fear of persecution.  Conversely, they can be economically advantaged and still be entitled to refugee status if there is a genuine fear of persecution.  

Economic status is simply not relevant to whether someone is or is not a refugee.  And because economic status is irrelevant, so is your point.  If someone is not a refugee within the meaning of the definition, he is not entitled to refugee status, no matter how impoverished he may be.  That is a matter of domestic and international law.

The only issue, therefore, is whether a 50% cut off mark for likelihood of persecution is a reasonable one or if a lower threat risk should be sufficient.@Marty - read what I said again. I agree with your point and in fact made it myself.So would I.  And I do know of the odd situation in which a rejected claimant has been persecuted on return to his home country.  I also know, however, of others who have simply been caught up in family feuds, which are not the stuff of valid refugee claims.Yes, it has occurred to me.  I more or less said so.  I wouldn't put the figure as high as 50%, but it's certainly more than 1%.  You only have to look at the nationalities to know that.Some years ago, Canada did a study on the net benefit of migration.  Economically, there was none - the greater productivity and taxes they contributed was balanced out by the greater cost of providing infrastructure, health care, schooling and social services. Net neutral, in fact.The study I referred to was done some years ago, when it was believed that immigration was unquestionably an economic plus for a country like Canada.  The reality turned out to be far more complex, with some gains but also some costs.  What it boils down to is that the "mix" of migrants who are economically self sufficient, of migrants who are dependent on family members, and of humanitarian cases who are dependent on the government for lengthy periods, needs to be in sync:  too many dependent migrants and too few contributing ones, and you end up with a net negative, both for the economy generally, but also for the dependent migrants, who often end up enmired in poverty because the system simply can't handle them all.

For that reason, I don't have an issue with selecting people out of the camps providing it's a managed process.  Australia, Canada and the US have been doing that since WWII.  Virtually the entire post-Vietnam War Indochinese movement to all three countries was also a managed process out of refugee camps, contrary to common perceptions.  

With a managed program, you can control and direct the numbers, you can select the populations most at risk globally rather than rely on self selection, and you have a better chance of sorting out the frauds from the genuine.  Furthermore, the managed program takes account not just of the needs of the refugees but of the absorptive capacity of individual cities and states, which produces better long-term outcomes for both individuals and society at a whole.  The program is seen by the public at large to be fair and equitable, and therefore it has general public support, or at least acquiescence.  

When refugees "self select," however, you can't manage the numbers or plan for their needs.  It becomes a game of catch-up.  You're scrambling for resources to support them, and the results aren't always positive.  And because people who clearly are economic adventurers slip through the determination net, the program loses credibility and public support.  


As for economic drain, yes, we have to accept that the odds are that most refugees will be an economic drain in the short to medium term.  That's always been the case, and that's a price we, as a wealthy western economy should be prepared to accept, within limits.I think the answer is the same as the answer in Europe and North America.  We know that some of these people are genuine refugees, and some of them are not, and we resent being used by those who don't deserve it, and whose numbers prevent us resettling more genuine refugees out of the camps.As I think is pretty clear, there can be no "cap" to the number of irregular arrivals who  make successful refugee claims.  The only number that can be capped is the number of offshore humanitarian program resettlement cases, because we have no legal obligation to take any of them at all.  So, if the numbers of onshore claimants increase, say goodbye to the programs out of the camps, or to reunification of families.@Rabbithole -how about we look at some actual facts instead of blaming everything on the ADF and on American bombings.

In 2012/13, the two top source countries for on-shore asylum claims were China and India.  The two top source countries for boat arrivals were Sri Lanka and Iran.  Care to tell me how the ALP, the LNP or Australia in general have any responsibility whatsoever for the situations in any of those countries?  

As for Afghanistan, you do know that the Afghan refugees are in large part Hazara, and they are fleeing the Taliban, not the "corporate invaders?" 

I expect that, if things go sideways in Afghanistan, the numbers may reach even higher than the number of refugees before the Taliban was evicted, though probably not as high as the numbers when the Russians were there.  There are, after all, worse fates than American military activity, and Afghans voted with their feet:  when the Americans marched into Afghanistan, 5 million Afghans marched back home too.  I'm sure that doesn't fit your scenario, but it happens to be true.

As for the rest, here's the thing about constitutional democracy:  sometimes, you get governments you don't like, whose policies you detest; whose leaders you loathe.  That's what happens when everyone, even people with different and less progressive ideas than yours, get to vote.  And that's why it's a democracy.





Rabbithole - you're quite right that the government mainly cares for wealth northern hemisphere migrants.  They're the ones that are the most likely to be paying taxes which will support our assorted social programs, including support for refugees.  By the way, our two top source countries for northern hemisphere migrants are India and China.  

And the nice thing about a democracy is that the current state of political affairs is a temporary one.  Just because you can't imagine an Australia that has anything other than the same two political powerhouses slugging it out, doesn't mean that both of them couldn't be gone in 20 years.  I grew up in a Canada dominated by the Liberal Party and by the Progressive Conservative Party.  The Liberal Party is now only the third party in the Canadian Parliament, and the PCs are gone entirely (to be replaced, unfortunately, by a real right wing party).  The party that was perennially a third or fourth wheel, vacillating between 10 and 20 or so seats, now is the official opposition with 100 seats to its name.  

And yes, it's a democracy.  I'm not a fan of Swiss style democracy, which, let me remind you, took 50 years longer than everyone else to give women the vote.I don't know where the 50% comes from either, and I'm not entirely convinced by Mr. Barns' explanation.  I agree that it seems very arbitrary.

I do have an issue, though, with the idea that it should be up to the government to prove someone isn't a refugee.  That would mean an asylum seeker could simply show up, say he was a refugee, refuse to give any details of his background, and he'd be a shoe-in.  I think there has to be an onus on the asylum seeker to produce a credible explanation of why he has a genuine fear of persecution.  Simply saying "I'm an Afghan" or "I'm an Iranian" shouldn't be enough.  That's not to say I agree with the 50% rule, but surely, it's not unreasonable for a claimant to at least clarify who and what he's afraid of, and why.@Peter - I understand the concept of balance of probabilities, yes.  That's not my point.  My point is that, while that may be and probably is the wrong bar to set, surely, setting the bar at "I say I'm at risk and therefore you must accept me" is also wrong.  And that's where, in practical terms, the bar seems to be right now, with the onus on the government to prove there is no real risk, however measured, rather than on the asylum seeker to establish that there is a genuine risk, also however measured.  

Simply leaving all the onus on the government is subverting the very meaning of the Convention, which is all about well-founded fear of persecution.  Well, surely the wording of the Convention is such that the onus lies with the asylum seeker to make a reasonable prima facie argument that he's likely to be persecuted.  That doesn't mean a copy of an execution warrant, but it does mean providing details of who you are, where you're from, and why you think you're being persecuted, and maybe the odd document to support your identity.

If people in refugee camps can do that, I refuse to believe that those organized enough to get to Indonesia can't also do it.Okay, first, the genocide was in Rwanda, not Uganda.  

Second, yes, one should be able to establish that one is in fact a Tutsi and not a Hutu or a Zulu or some totally unrelated group, don't you think?  That's not that difficult - "do you speak the local language or dialect?" works for a starter.  

Third, are you personally at risk.  Yes, if you are a Tutsi who lives in Rwanda, you're at risk.  No, if you're a Tutsi who's spent the last 15 years in Kenya, maybe not. 

A Jew in Hitler's Germany would have been at risk, and that's why we have a Convention in the first place.  A Jew who arrived in Australia via the UK, not so much.I don't know about that.  Greece has been flouting its Convention obligations for years, to the extent that it's no longer really considered a safe third country.  It doesn't seem to be an international pariah because of it.Again you missed my point. You can argue that we should adhere to the Convention on moral grounds and I won't dispute it.  To argue that we should adhere to it to avoid being mocked is nonsensical.Actually, they don't.  Oddly, those who arrive by air have a much lower chance of acceptance than those who arrive by sea, possibly because we know who the former are and can check their claims.In 2012/2013, the acceptance rate for boat arrivals was 67.5% at primary determination, and 88% after appeals.  Sri Lankans were the least successful at 52%, Afghans the most successful at 96&amp;.That is simply not true at all. People leave their own countries for a whole series of reasons that don't equate to fear of persecution - environmental disaster, poverty, family feuds, even annual migrations.No, we shouldn't suppress outrageous ideas.  We don't necessarily have to give them a prominent platform, though.  If Mr. Bader thinks he can justify honour killings in any sense, let him do it.  The internet is wide open, after all.Do the Ukrainians get to have a say in your division of their country?As I recall, the Ukrainian people elected the new President in an election that was probably fairer and freer than the one that put Putin into power.  And since the pro-western Ukrainians outnumber the pro-Russian Ukrainians, should they get what they voted for?  

By the way, there are more fascists in Russia's Duma than in Ukraine's Verhovna Rada, and generally speaking, armies that base their whole claim to authority on their ethnicity, as the pro-Russians do, tend not to be on the left.  What I find ironic is how many supposed leftists have sold out what they profess to believe in, to support Russia, which is an undemocratic, increasingly authoritarian regime, without a free press or civil liberties, and with a nasty history of brutality towards its ethnic minorities.  How many Chechyn civilians have been killed by Russian forces in recent years? 


Once, being on the left had intellectual consistency and  moral integrity;  now, it just means being anti-American, and if that means denying democracy to Ukrainians, well, I guess that's just collateral damage.  
the Ukrainian people had a referendum and wanted to join Russia?  Must have missed your "reality."  Maybe it was in a different dimension.Ukraine is a country in the sense that the Ukrainian people share a language and heritage which is not Russian.  Western Ukrainians were mostly subsumed within the Austro-Hungarian empire for centuries, Eastern Ukrainians within the Russian Empire.  The physical territory occupied by Ukrainian speakers has changed drastically over the centuries with the forced relocation of whole populations but the boundaries of what is now Ukraine, and which is populated predominantly by Ukrainian speakers, were set when Ukraine was a republic of the USSR.  

Western Ukrainians in particular have a strong sense of Ukrainian nationalism - they look to their heroes, like Shevchenko for inspiration, and to the Ukrainian Catholic and Orthodox churches, rather than to the Russian Orthodox Church.  They're certainly as much a country as modern day Poland, which also bears little resemblance to the historical Kingdom.Why "must" there be a referendum, Alpo?  The Ukrainians just elected a pro-western president, and there are Parliamentary elections scheduled for the near future.  If those produce another pro-western Parliament, why should there be a referendum?  

If I were a Ukrainian, I'd take that the same way I as a Canadian would take it if the US or France demanded that Canada hold a referendum on Quebec sovereignty.  That's a matter for Ukraine not for outside parties who'd be perfectly happy to sacrifice half of Ukraine just to keep Russia happy.In case you haven't notice, the "civil war" is being lead by guys from Moscow, backed up with Russian-supplied arms, and now with a bunch of Russia army types "on vacation."  That's not a civil war; that's an invasion.  If the Americans pulled the same stunt in Mexico you'd be screaming from the rafters.Funny.  That's about the same percent right wing nationalists got in Ukraine.  So how come the Russians and their acolytes keep talking about neo-fascist Ukraine, and not about neo-fascist Russia?Look up the definition of coup d'etat, and explain to me how there can be one, if the democratically elected parliament continues to govern, which is exactly what happened.McCain?  Not even in government.  

Now, lets talk about all the Moscow based guys running the "republics" of Donetsk and Luhansk.  Hardly a Ukrainian national among them.@LB - No, no one has forgotten because that's not what happened.  You've been reading to much RT.

A democratically elected president went back on his word, and there was a popular uprising. He skipped town, but the democratically elected Parliament stayed, appoint an interim replacement for the President, and organized an election which voted in a new President. OMG.  Democracy.  How dare they.

And according to Human Rights Watch, the pro-Russians are being as careless with civillian lives as the Ukrainian army is. Not to mention, the little matter of MH17.Alpo- you don't get it at all.  Russia is and always has been an imperialistic nation, and whether it was the tsars, Stalin or Putin is a side-story:  territorial expansion is what they've been looking at for 400 years, and nothing has changed.Why shouldn't Russia accept that it's never going to regain the boundaries of the USSR?  That would be better for everyone too.I doubt that Putin is afraid of the "right," given his own policies, all of which are redolent of the worst aspects of neo-conservativsm - ultranationalism, appeals to ethnicity, corporate kleptocracy, authoritarianism, exploiting positions of power for personal wealth enhancement.  

And let's be clear about that "coup" - it was a popular uprising that threw out a President who'd just inked a deal with Russia against his election promises and the wishes of the public.  The democratically elected Parliament continued on.  Further, the subsequent election of the new President was as close to being democratic as you're going to get in that part of the world.  Coup?  Not exactly.

It boggles my mind that people imagine that, because Putin is Russian, he or his country are leftist.  They're not.  Authoritarian, yes;  corrupt, yes; hostile to free speech, certainly;  leftist, not hardly.  Anyone who looks long and hard at what's going on in Russia knows that its already in the grasp of the right.Oh wait a minute.  The US bought Alaska from the Russians, as I recall.  They fought a war with Mexico over disputed territories.  And their invasion of Canada was somewhat short lived, and in the context of the War of 1812 with the British. 

Yes, they've overthrown governments.  I do recall, however, Russian occupation of about ten very unwilling countries, post WW2, and their crushing of a couple of revolutions.  And an invasion  of Afghanistan, a brutal quelling of Chechyns, and now, seizure of chunks of Ukraine. 

Fair enough to blame one superpower for the wrongs it's done; that doesn't absolve the other.  And there are a lot of Ukrainians, Hungarians, Czechs and Estonians that would suggest you might extend your own reading.

I think that's a bit of a distortion of reality.  The west didn't have to grab those satellites - the Poles, the Hungarians, the Czechs and Slovaks, and the east Germans were desperate to escape a half century of Russian occupation and suppression.  The Hungarians and the  Czechs in particular had both seen their attempts to free themselves from the shackles crushed quite brutally.  No one needed to grab them at all.  As for the various Soviet republics that chose independence, most of them have bitter memories of Russian rule as well.  The Baltics were all too happy to turn westward as a protection against any Russian attempt to reclaim their territory.

And while it's true the west would certainly be sympathetic to Ukraine, let's not forget it was Russia that tried to force Ukraine back into political association through a customs union, and the Ukrainian people who rejected that attempt.  Russia thinks of the Ukrainians as little brothers; most Ukrainians do not think of the Russians in quite as friendly a light.  They still have memories of the Holodomor.

As for the impact of economic sanctions, we shall see.  Russia's economy has been stagnant for a while, it is in desperate need of foreign investment, and of course Putin's oligarch pals want access to their funds.  



The wealthy Arab states are part of the problem, given that they were largely responsible for financing ISIS in the first place;  now that it's come back to bite them, perhaps they'll also be part of whatever solution can be found.@Zulu - sounds pretty much like the Russian and Chinese ruling classes.Frankly, given the service standards in the Australian hospitality industry, the more foreigners with a service ethic, the better, I say.And from my experience, I suspect he was expressing his own views and it never occurred to him that others might not agree with them.Surely there's an element missing from the author's analysis.  The experiences, beliefs, and backgrounds of the two key figures - the Chinese restaurant owner and the Malaysian student - colour their own view of race and racial issues as well as of Aussie attitudes to race.

Having lived in a variety of societies, not all of them European or white, I know that racism is as common in Asian societies as in Australia, and is seldom challenged in the way it can be here.  That's not to say there isn't plenty of racism alive and well in Australia, but it is to say, someone from another country may have brought his own racism with him and simply assumed everyone here shared what he'd grown up with.  This incident might indeed say nothing at all about Australia.@no_subject - that's because the "creatives" know their market.@MD - which shows you that the "creatives" understand better than legislators just what a rare beast the "reasonable person" actually is.Or people could just eat better and get more exercise.Actually, I think ignoring the trolls and the misanthropes is the better solution. Calm, logical and evidence-based arguments don't work well, if at all.There's some truth to that.  I read the CBC website fairly regularly, and the CBC is lambasted on a very regular basis by people complaining it's a tool of the neocon government, and equally regularly by people complaining it's run by socialists or commies.  To me, that means it's probably more or less in the middle, and annoying the heck of of anyone who is not.  
I'd have to agree that the "troll" label is thrown around to often, and incorrectly.  Most of the examples in this article are not in fact trolling at all.  Many of the people who objected to Carlton's article weren't trolls, they were simply people who disagreed with him, some in civil terms, others, not, but that doesn't make them trolls.  

Trolls put in inflammatory comments to disrupt the whole thread. Sometimes, they can be wickedly funny, sometimes just madly irritating.  But people who simply fling abuse are not necessarily trolls; mostly they're just people who need to get a life.

I have to say, one of the things I find irritating is the assumption that people fall into easy categories - left or right,  and if you aren't one of us, you must be in the other camp.  What about the people, and I'd count myself one of them, who can't be categorized by simple left/right tags?  Who would be regarded as lefties on some subjects, righties on others, and off the wall on yet others?  People who don't fit into neat little one-dimensional boxes (or squares)?

I got accused the other day of being extreme right wing, for no better reason than that I had a different point of view on  one issue than my critic did.  I found it very sad that anyone should have such a cookie cutter view of his fellow humans, that he thought we all fit into a simple pattern and can be so easily categorized.  Humans are so much more complex than that.  Debate should never boil down to shouty matches between two groups when there is really so much more diversity of thought than that.  But, it does happen a lot here.    

I'm inclined to think some form of organized religion will always exist precisely because it is the creature of ignorance and fear, and both are very common to mankind.  You only have to see how many allegedly well-educated people reject science to know that.That's a very good analysis.Oddly, some of the brightest people I know have abandoned religion entirely.  

And the morality expounded in the Bible pre-existed the Bible, you know.  It's not as though "thou shalt not kill" wasn't a rule of society before the Bible was ever dreamt of.Well, I'd certainly agree that the Catholic Church has no moral authority.  But, if people want to belong to an organization, knowing that, well, it's their choice.  Not one I'd make, because what's the point of belonging to a church preaching morality without the moral authority to do so, but others may see it differently.The Christian churches have been great moral failures, but I wouldn't say they were any worse than any other religious organizations or quite a few ideological ones either.  

I do agree they should all be taxed though, and whatever charitable deeds they do can be written off against their obligations on income and land.You sure about that?  I'm willing to concede that some churches and temples and mosques punch above their weight, but I'd be amazed if the Church of Scientology is one of them.  Or, for that matter a few more mainstream churches I could name.Of course he's biased, and he's quite up front about it.  But he has a point:  atheist regimes are no better than religion-based ones when it comes to brutality.  Getting rid of religion might eliminate one rallying point for believers, but it won't eliminate the capacity of humans to be indoctrinated, and to do dreadful things in the name of whatever it is they do believe in, whether that be communism, nationalism, anarchism, tribalism, or robber-baron capitalism.@Zing - but I don't think that is the final leap.  Theism is simply a belief system, as are all political ideologies, tribal and ethnic values, and codes of ethics and morality.   All of them contain the capacity for evil, because all of them are created by humans.  But all also contain the capacity for good, and for the same reason.  One would scarcely argue that, because political ideology can certainly be twisted to evil ends, that all aspects of every political belief are inherently evil. One instead looks for the good, and eschews the bad.  The tension within politics between good and evil is no different in kind than the tension within religions and between religions.@ScottBE - I have no issue with Mr. Bird and his beliefs, any more than I have with rusted on believers of the major political parties.  They all have the right to believe and think what they will.  I'm just pointing out that there's not much difference between them, and the supercilious attitudes of some towards religion is rather hypocritical given the identical mindset they have when it comes to politics.

Man has the capacity to reason. Why so many surrender it to faith, be it in religion or in a political philosophy, while ignoring all the countervailing evidence that both religion and political views are entirely self-interested, escapes me.I expect you'll find quite a few atheists already there.  The good doctors of MSF won't all be believers.I don't think that was quite the point.  The point was more that eliminating religion doesn't eliminate man's capacity to do terrible things in the name of his beliefs.  If every religion in the world were eliminated tomorrow, and everyone became an atheist, some people would still do dreadful things in the name of exactly the ideologies you've identified.  Eliminating religion isn't going to change man's fundamental nature, or create some utopian world of reason and compassion.  It's just going to let humans find other ways to and other excuses for their brutality.I just think people would come up with new ones.   If you eliminated religion from Afghanistan tomorrow, you'd still have the underlying tribal rivalries.  If you eliminated fundamentalist Christianity from the US, you'd still have racial and economic and linguistic issues.  And if you eliminated Islam from the equation in Nigeria, you'd still have resentful northerners supporting a secular version of Boko Haram against decadent and corrupt southerners.OK - there I agree with you.  Stalin killed for reasons that had nothing to do with atheism, just as Hitler killed for reasons that had nothing to do with his supposed religion.  The author should simply have left it at, people kill for their beliefs, and eliminating religion won't eliminate beliefs in other things.Other than Dubya, I don't know of a politician that would think that bombing Bagdad would be doing god's will.  I think they'd all have thought, it was a strategic choice, and nothing at all to do with god.  And so it was.@Wildfire - bulldust.  The only reason women haven't been responsible for wars and holocausts is that women haven't been in positions of power.  I see no difference between men and women when it comes to arrogance, aggression and inhumanity. It might be expressed in slightly different ways, but the intent is there all the same.Oh come now.  Surely believing in gods is no nuttier than believing in Collingwood.@graazt:  "If everyone was to ditch intolerant religious dogma, and not substitute it with intolerant secular dogma then the world would be a better place."

That is undoubtedly true, but the catch lies in the phrase "and not substitute it with intolerant secular dogma."  My own belief is that most people feel a need to believe strongly in something - god, tribe, political party, economic model, whatever - and if they lose one option, they'll substitute another belief in its place.  And if their religious belief was intolerant, so will it's replacement be.  
@Graazt - yes, I'd agree, not all ideologies are created equal, but then neither are all religions.  

My point was more that intolerant people gravitate to intolerant religions and if that religion were to disappear (be it extremist Islam or Hinduism or Christianity) the people themselves would simply find themselves another way to express their intolerance.  Those jihadist, denied jihad, would revert to being extremist nationalists or something of the ilk.@rob1966 - religion is certainly guilty of the things you describe, but so are many other beliefs - beliefs in race or ethnicity, in one's tribe, in one's nation, in one's political ideology, in one's king or tsar or president, have all caused good men to do evil things too.  Both the World Wars were essentially secular wars, fought for national and economic reasons, and between them, they killed off some 80 million people.   There was no religious aspect to Stalin's murder of millions nor to Mao's, yet the victims were just as dead.  

I think it is innate in humans to want to believe in something  bigger and more meaningful than themselves, be it religion, ideology or tribe.  And when you believe, you excuse atrocities.Umm, no, I don't see that at all.  If someone hates gays, they're bigots and I don't care what their "religion" says about it.  I am perfectly free to call them on it.  

Freedom of religion gives them the right to state their views; freedom of speech gives me the right to criticise them for it.I see no particular reason to believe that, if you remove religion and nationalism, you will eliminate artificial lines between humanity.  You will not have removed the lines created by economic circumstance, education, gender, colour, ethnicity, language, political leanings, tribal and cultural values.  You will, perhaps, have accomplished the reverse of what you expect:  you will have created more division than exists even today.Interesting.  My great grandparents were earlier settlers in Canada, and the only point of view they had was to do better than they had been able to do in England, to give more opportunities to their kids, to escape the stifling class and economic structure of Victorian England.  Religion had nothing at all to do with it, and I suspect that was equally true for the average settler in Australia.  Yes, they carried with them the cultural mores of the country they grew up in, but they weren't driven by them.No, I don't think there is a big difference.  What difference does it make if a war is fought for religious principle or for power or economic advantage?  It's still a war, and people are still dead. And for what? Ambition and belief in one's right to take what one wants.  The Crusades are actually a pretty good example of that - fought under the banner of religion but fought for land and wealth.Oh please.  We don't even know if King Arthur existed, and if he did, he may well have been a Roman soldier or a local tribal chief. He's a legend, not the ancestor of the current royal family.

And let's get this clear:  Katherine of Aragon was the first wife of Henry VIII;  Edward was the son of Henry and Jane Seymour, Henry's third wife.  Katherine and Edward were not siblings, they weren't even related, and Katherine never engaged in any religious wars with anyone.  Mary, Edward's half sister, certainly pushed the Catholic cause, but only after Edward was dead.  Maybe you should revisit your history.Actually, the law was Hammurabi's and I don't think he was a god.But you could make exactly the same argument for political beliefs: that killing is okay, if it's for the greater good.  If you're a Pashtun, it's okay to kill Uzbeks; if you're a fascist, it's okay to kill communists; if you're a French military type, it's okay to kill eco-warriors.  Religion isn't required.

So, do moderate left wingers make Stalin and Mao possible? Do moderate right wingers make Hitler and Pinochet possible?Nope.  It'll hardly scratch the surface.  80 million people died in two world wars, with no obvious religious imperative to either of them.  Land, power, economic ambition, racial/ethnic issues drove those wars. Not religion.  Sort out human greed and human desire to control, and we can then start to sort out religion.The thing that makes people act against naked self interest is their concern for their fellow man, and for their society at large.  That is why man has moved beyond believing in gods, or appointees of gods (like kings) and has taken governance upon himself. 

Secularism is the freeing of man from the parasitic development of an unelected and unrepresentative religious cabal that has sucked money, independence and free thought out of humanity for far too long.  Yes, the public is self indulgent; it may have learned to be so from the examples set by the religious elite of all faiths over centuries.  

As for worshipping at the altar, I personally worship at the altar of free thought, free speech and equal rights for all. I've never found kowtowing to a religious tome or to a clerical cabal encourages any of these things.  And if man isn't worthy of unconstrained liberty, certainly churches and mosques are even less so. Their record has not been one to admire.  And much of the demolition lies at their feet.Atheists do not appeal to subjective ethics.  Atheists come from every ethical strain, every political point on the spectrum, they simply do not accept that there is a god handing rules down from on high.

There is nothing at all subjective about the rule of law in any secular country. You kill someone, you're going down for it, no matter your plea that god said you could do it.  That's a better value than arguing that you are exempt from obeying the rules of society because you happen to be a Christian or a Muslim or a pastifarian.Actually, I believe the Turks are starting to cooperate with the Kurds.  So maybe they now think Kurdistan might be the lesser of the possible evils.Can't see it happening.  There'd never be any support for it, and Australian interests in the Middle East are peripheral.@Voyager - that argument doesn't begin to make sense.  If Murdoch's press is biased to the right, then certainly Crikey is biased to the left by at least as wide a margin.  And its contribution to reporting, as opposed to opinion-writing, is far more limited than the MSM.  Nothing wrong with that, it's catering to its own market, but it's hardly the future of objective, intensive journalism any more than Murdoch or Fairfax are.@the Yank - but that has never, in the history of journalism, been what newspapers did. Every last one of them came from a particular perspective and presented an event from that perspective.  And I don't  have a problem with it, to be honest.  You know if you read Paper X you're going to get a conservative view, and if your read Paper Y you'll get a more progressive view.  Read them both and make up your own mind.

What I don't begin to understand is people who refuse to read viewpoints they disagree with.  All the folks saying they never read the Oz, yet canning it without knowing what it's saying, or facing the challenge it might (or might not) present. And the same goes in reverse.  People who rely on the Tely and never ever watch the ABC or SBS for fear their preconceptions might be challenged.Well, lets see. I confess. I read the Oz. I also read the Guardian (UK version), the Independent, the Canadian Globe and Mail, the CBC,  the ABC, the BBC, and sometimes Al Jazeera. I read the NY Times, the Vancouver Sun, and, from time to time, Corriere della Sera.  I occasionally dip into Crikey.  And for an interesting insight into propaganda, RT.  I also read quite a lot of specialist websites and newsites that you've never heard of. 

I'd say I've got a good a handle on the truth as anyone who sticks purely to media that mirror their own political persuasions.  If you rely totally on the Oz or the ABC or the SMH, you are never, ever, going to get the full picture. Read all of them, and you might start to make inroads.

Objective, intensive journalism? Umm, well that was kind of my point.  No one does it much these days.  Every now and then you find a gem among the mud, sometimes in the Guardian, sometimes in the Oz, sometimes in the NY Times, occasionally in the SMH.  But even that level of analysis is disappearing amongst the twitterati.I don't read the Huff Post that often because there are better sources of news and analysis, and because I loathe their anti-vaccination stance.  Sue me.If you believe you will get the whole, complete and entire truth by reading only one paper or website, then you are mistaken.  If you cannot bear to have your version of "truth" challenged by an alternative interpretation, then you can never be sure that you do indeed know the truth.

Mill said:  "Complete liberty of contradicting and disproving our opinion, is the very condition which justifies us in assuming its truth for purposes of action; and on no other terms can a being with human faculties have any rational assurance of being right."  In other words, unless your own truth is tested against someone else's truth, you cannot be confident in it.

If you do not read opposing viewpoints on issues, you cannot be fully informed.   That doesn't mean you will necessarily accept the other viewpoint, but it means you should understand that it exists and may have a kernel of truth in it somewhere.  That is particularly true of geopolitical issues, which have deep roots not amenable to the current fad for one-dimensional analysis and "good guy vs bad guy" characterization.  And even when the opposing viewpoint is very weak, as with the Oz's take on AGW, in considering it you will be forced to hone your own arguments and improve your own knowledge of the underlying science.  And that is where the truth lies.Yank - the Australian has a bias, but so does the AFR.  Read both of them, and you get balance.  Read one or the other, and you're just reinforcing your own pre-held worldview.I guess I don't see it that way.  They all seem biased to me, and they always have. You know if you read the Oz you're going to get a particular slant, and if you read the SMH or the Age, you'll get a different slant.  And when it comes to a subject I actually know something about, none of them ring true.Well, I've got a lot of respect for the NY Times, the BBC and the SMH, but most people would regard them as having a clear centre-left viewpoint.  They do excellent work, as does the leftish Guardian, but no, I wouldn't say they're completely balanced either.  

And in any case, the issue isn't really balance at all, its the media format.  Whether the newspaper is leftish, centrist, or rightist, it's in trouble.  Balance isn't the problem.Another person who missed the point.  The Murdoch press has lost readers, not because of its political stance, but because it prints newspapers.  The Fairfax media are in equally big trouble, and so are most major papers, left and right, worldwide.  

To paraphrase Marshall McCluhan, the media is the message, and the message that a newspaper gives to the Twitter generation is that it's old school and outdated, it's unresponsive to reader input and discussion, it lacks timeliness and quick reflexes.  It doesn't fill the need for instantaneous reporting on events.  It's just too darned slow.  

It has nothing to do with left or right, or balance.  People haven't suddenly stopped being progressive or conservative;  they've just stopped buying The Age or the Telegraph.I fundamentally disagree with the premise that the Murdoch press has failed because it isn't "balanced."  I'm not for one minute saying that it doesn't tilt to the right, but so what?  The Age tilts to the left.  Read the two of them, toss in the AFR and maybe a non-Australian source or two, and you have plenty of balance.  There has never been a time when individual news organizations didn't have a viewpoint, a slant on things. The balance doesn't lie in making each individual paper present all sides of the argument;  it lies in making sure that there's enough diversity that all sides get presented by somebody.  That there isn't a great deal of diversity in Australia isn't Murdoch's fault;  look to the legislators, and the failings of the more progressive media as well.@Clotho - I think my bottom line would be, whatever Turnbull might be planning (and I admit, I'm not up on that) or whatever previous governments of either persuasion have done, it's largely irrelevant.  The media game has changed, newspapers are going to die, and offshore internet publishing will make any restrictions Australia wants to impose a dead letter.

The world has moved on from the days of the print barons.  We're in a global environment now, and Australian governments, press councils and enraged citizens aren't going to change that.  We're going to be hit with tidal waves of "news" and "information" and we won't know which end is up.  And judging by the comments I read on major new websites around the world, we are going to go straight to whatever blogsite supports our world view, and ignore everything else.  It's back to the days of the broadsheet as far as I can see, and objectivity take the hindmost.
@the Yank - oh come on.  The Age has always selected its stories and spun them every bit as much as The Australian has done.  You just like the spin better coming from the left than the right.  No one in his right mind would call either of them objective.  Which worries me not at all.@Skeptic - but that, sir, is my whole point. Fox in North America is quite a toxic network, but if it screws up, it loses viewership to the more reputable news companies. Let it run free, and let the competitors compete.  That's what the free press should be about.  Not demanding that Fox be balanced.Twitter is great for keeping up to date with breaking news.  For explaining American or Russian strategic imperatives,  not so much.  That's the problem with the twittersphere and planet facebook - instant news, no journalism.I've never understood the argument that the NBN would kill Foxtel.  Surely, Rupert would merely use the NBN to deliver Foxtel to your laptop or your TV, the way he uses cable in North America.  It's just another means of getting his product to the  market.Like I said, why wouldn't Fox use the NBN to its advantage? It does in the US.You  make Rupert sound amazingly like Kevin Rudd.And every time you buy something advertised in a Fairfax paper you do the same. Or, if you pick up a flyer from your local bottle store, chemist, or hardware chain.  Not sure what your point is.@Mark James - I think it's a pretty long bow to argue that you're being "forced" to pay Murdoch because the manufacturer of your product advertises.@Paul - every newspaper in the world is in trouble, and it's not because they're taking political stances.  The Times of London has been a conservative paper for its whole existence, The Guardian, a left-wing one.  Neither has ever been "objective."  They survived, in the case of the former for 230 years, and in the latter for almost 200, precisely because they appealed to a certain readership.  Conservatives and progressives still exist, but they're no longer reading newspapers.  That's the issue, not "objectivity."All of what you say is true, but it applies to all newspapers, not just to Murdoch's.  I think a lot of comments here have the wrong end of the stick.  Murdoch isn't losing circulation because of his political leanings - if he were, the more leftish papers would be picking up circulation, and they're not.  They're all bleeding.  Its not the bias or lack of balance that's the issue at all - it's the format.  

Newspapers began to die in the TV era, when people could get their local, national and international news updated a couple of times a day, with lots of pictures.  Then comes the 24 hour news cycle and journalism by sound bite, with 2 minutes allotted for complex stories.  Next, the internet era, with instant access to breaking news, on-line journals and "citizen journalists" providing in-depth articles (of varying worth and integrity) and opinion pieces by people or groups with agendas to drive.  Then comes twitter - everything you need to know in 140 characters.  Which means, of course, you don't know a great deal, but at least you know it quickly.

Newspapers simply cannot compete against more fleet-footed media in terms of timeliness. You don't get "news" from newspapers;  you get a journal of  what happened yesterday instead.  That's a different market that no longer appeals in our fast-paced world.  Left wing or right wing, quality paper or tabloid, makes no difference. They're all going down the tubes, and the "press barons" will either adapt to the newer media, or disappear.  Murdoch, Fairfax, makes no difference.@Alpo - so far as I know, Fairfax is in dire straits, firing journalists, and cutting back on its papers.  That's my whole point.  Print journalism is dead, not because it's left or right, but because it's too slow.  Internet journalism will survive, in one form or another, though I don't think I'll be buying shares in Fairfax any time soon.  But it's not the message that matters, it's the medium, and newspapers are dead ducks, no matter which side of the spectrum they're on.  I don't believe it has a damn thing to do with left vs right.I think you're missing the point I'm trying to make. It has nothing or very little to do with the quality of the product, and everything to do with the format.

All the print media is in trouble, from the Murdoch papers through Fairfax to the likes of the Guardian, the NY Times and just about any major masthead I can think of.  Whether they're left or right, tabloid or broadsheet, populist or intellectual, every last one of them is struggling.  They just have no real place in a world that needs instant gratification.

This whole commentary here is an attack on Murdoch and his press, but the article applies every bit as much to his competitors.  

Fairfax may not be dead, but then neither is News.com - but all their newspapers are on life support.  They will survive or fall not on their papers, but on their ability to cut through in other formats, like the digital editions.  Papers are gone.

And no, I don't think more balanced reporting is the answer, because people read what they're comfortable with, something that resonates.  When people demand "balanced" coverage what they're really saying is, they want to read a version of the news that agrees with their own world view.  
Well, fine, if you like anti-vaccination propaganda forced down your throat.  See, that's the problem here, every media outlet, from the MSM to the citizen-blogs, has an agenda, and none of them are balanced.  The balance lies in having lots of alternative views out there to consider, not in demanding that each paper print all sides of every story.Democracy survives not because of a balanced press, but because of a free press.  Let the lefties, the righties, the Greenies, the fundamentalists, the Trots, and the anarchists all fight it out in public.  That's what nurtures democracy - not demanding that the Green Left Weekly print articles pointing out the contributions of capitalism to the world.As I understand it, it's only the print arms that are in trouble.  Murdoch is obviously moving to internet and cable as his main news arm, so his papers may well go the way of the dodo in the future without affecting his organization's news-gathering capacity..  Not sure what Fairfax is doing, or if they have any kind of a long term plan at all."a government is expected to rise above the mediocre expectations of the lowest common denominator."

I tend to agree with that comment, but just yesterday got into a debate here on The Drum with "direct democracy" advocates who actually seem to prefer a government which does not rise above those mediocre expectations.I agree it was an accident in that no one intended to shoot down a passenger jet, but I think the Russians do have a degree of culpability for handing over the weapons to a bunch of vodka swilling "freedom fighters."  It's equivalent to letting your three year old play with matches.The system in Switzerland hasn't worked particularly well, as a matter of fact.  When did women get the vote there?  1971, wasn't it?  

Most Australians do not have the time or the interest to provide an informed vote on all the elements that go into budgets and legislation.  Heck, most Australians don't have the time or interest to vote "below the line" in federal elections.@Rudder - yes, actually it is a sound argument.  Great political leaders are often ahead of the pack when it comes to visionary ideas.  Do you think we'd have had universal health care if it had been put to a referendum back in the 1970s, and people had been aware of the impact on their taxes?  I doubt it very much.  I know Canada wouldn't have had medicare in the mid 1960s had it been reliant on public opinion and not on a deal between a minority government and a left wing party.

And you disagree that most Australians have limited interest in political issues - and than attribute the victory of Newman in Queensland to "above the line voters" who didn't understand the implications.  And you finish by saying that if you care about what happens to your vote, you vote below the line.  Yet something like 95% of voters in fact vote above the line, which seems to me to prove my point entirely.
@Dazza - and what on earth makes you think that things would be (or are) any different in a direct democracy?@Peter - do you believe that, if the people had to vote directly, they would do anything other than vote for the position taken by the party of their choice?  I don't.@Arthur Baker - right off hand, I can think of two countries that are signatories to the UN Convention on Refugees, and totally ignore their responsibilities.  One is Iran, which, though a signatory and host to a million or so Afghans over the last decade, has given status to almost none, and the other is Greece, which has something like a 95% refusal rate.  I haven't seen either of them thrown onto the UN's funeral pyre.Yes, there were about that many airline arrivals. 50% of them were refused.Let's get real here.  I don't agree with the current policy on asylum seekers, but it isn't going to diminish our international position one iota when it comes to real politics.  

The majority of countries around the world either are not signatories to the Convention on Refugees, or ignore their obligations.  Do you actually think the Chinese, Russians and Japanese will think less of us for doing things they themselves do?  The Americans have a well established policy of "wet feet, dry feet" and push back boats at regular intervals.  The Germans seldom give permanent status to anyone.  The Italians shuffle them along to other countries.  The Greeks refuse everybody.  India isn't even a signatory, and neither is Indonesia, because neither wants to deal with the issues.

It's all puffery.
I care too, but I was addressing the specific point that our behaviour on refugees damages our world standing and restricts our ability to have a say in world events.

As to solutions, the UN has been lobbying western countries for years to take more offshore resettlement cases, and has gotten pretty much nowhere.  I don't see that changing any time soon.  The reluctance of Europeans to take significant numbers of resettlement cases is long standing and has nothing to do with our own position on asylum seekers.  

As for running humane resettlement programs in the region, that's fine and well, but what do you do with the 50 or 60% of asylum seekers who are going to be refused because they do not in fact meet refugee criteria?  Until we have a solution to that particular situation which does not involve those rejected asylum seekers hopping on a boat, we're back to square one on long term solutions.@Comrade - now lets be clear. Pakistan has about 2 million refugees (not 10 million) none of whom it provides any form of support for.  Those Afghans are supported by the UNHCR and donor countries, and by themselves.  The same applies to Ethiopia, which does not have any system for granting protection and permanent residence to refugees..

Jordan has refugees, yes, and again, is getting a lot of support from donors as well.  

The only reason Germany has 700,000 refugees on the books is that it gives permanent residence to very few, so they remains on the equivalent of TPVs, with no prospect of citizenship, and therefore remain under the UNHCR's protection mandate.  Australia has comparatively few refugees because, among other things, it gives most of them permanent status and citizenship comes quickly thereafter.

That is not to say that Australia's approach is anything like ideal, but it is unfair to compare unlike with unlike.

@Comrade - those figures are misleading.  Pakistan has a huge number of refugees per capita, and so does Iran, but neither country "accepts" them or pays for their support.   They are simply there, and are looked after by the UNHCR and donor countries. There is a very big difference between dumping people into refugee camps and forgetting them, and actually granting them permanent residence and citizenship.I'm interested that you blame the US and its allies for the Syrian debacle, and have nothing to say about Russian complicity.  

I also wonder whether you realize that last year, while the highest number of formal asylum applications made in industrialized countries came from Syrians, the second highest number came from Russians.  How are you going to blame the US for that?Given that India is far and away our top source of migrants, followed by China, the White Australia policy is well and truly buried.  Does that make you feel better?Well, I'm not an influential person, but I have two passports (Canadian and Australian), and could get a third (British) if I could be bothered to do so.  I know quite a few people in similar situations - they have a passport from their country of birth, perhaps they have a passport from one or both parents' countries of birth, and they have acquired the citizenship of another country later in life.  It's not unusual, especially in countries like Australia where so many are first or second generation Aussies.Haven't got a clue what it is you're trying to say.  Some people have several passports, some don't.  That's the modern, mobile world.@Les - Indonesia is not a signatory to the UN Convention and doesn't grant refugee status to anyone.Perhaps you need to understand what "persecution" actually means, and realize what Hazaras or Chechyns or Bhutanese or Yazidi actually have to deal with in their home countries."ALL our littoral neighbours are suffering problems of the same general type as those driving the refugees ? increasing social and economic tensions, degradation of the carrying capacity of their environment, violence, corruption and poverty"

That is true.  And not one of those circumstances entitles one to claim asylum under the Convention.   The only people entitled to Convention Refugee status are those who have a well founded fear of persecution.  Fleeing civil disorder, corruption, poverty, environmental catastrophe, is understandable but does not entitle anyone to protection.Of course its a conspiracy theory to argue that the MH17 was shot down by a Ukrainian jet.  The jet in question can't get to that height or anything close to it when armed.   I don't think anyone imagines the Russians shot down the plane themselves, but they supplied the weapons to a bunch of irresponsible yahoos, so they've got to carry some of the blame.As mentioned, the SU25 doesnt have the capability to get to the height the MH plane was flying at.  Plus, the evidence is that the plane was hit by shrapnel from a fragmentation warhead (ie a BUK) and not by cannon fire.@Dove - there are no "liberals" in Australian politics that I can see.

And being committed to organized labour is, I think, what has got the ALP in a lot of trouble in recent years.  Organized labour is not in fact particularly progressive, and the working class isn't particularly left wing.  So the ALP has roots in a culture that no longer reflects the modern left.  

I'd actually prefer to see a left wing party more akin to the Canadian New Democrats, who are not nearly as closely affiliated with unions as the ALP, and who reflect much more clearly modern progressives - educated, urban (and urbane) social democrats, more along the lines of the Scandinavian left than the British left.I'm a bit bemused by the concept of communism's push for internationalism.  Maybe the theory was internationalist, but the practice was entirely Russian (and Chinese) imperialist.  The Warsaw Pact was not an EU, with states having their own say in the direction of the union.  It was entirely driven by Russian aims and objectives, with is not internationalism in my book.

And if ever a nation has issues with migration and ethnic minorities, it was the USSR and is Russia.
No, actually, it isn't historically wrong at all.  The 2nd  International was genuinely an attempt at international socialism.  It died, and no one would call its successor anything but a Soviet puppet.   Neither the USSR nor Mao's PRC were internationalist at all, as anyone who has the slightest knowledge of mid 20th century history would know.  Their ambitions were entirely nationalistic.

The "international" communist parties got their funding from one or the other of the two, and marched in step with the Russians or the Chinese until the 1960s.  Just ask Lee Rhiannon.  They were never independent or international.  If you think otherwise, explain why both the Hungarian and Czech popular uprisings had to be crushed by Russian troops.


it was only in the 60s, and after the crushing of the Czechs, that the Italians, and to a lesser extent the French, started to back away from the USSR and express their own independent views of communism, based on much more democratic concepts than Stalin or his successors could ever comprehend.

As for the effects of Russian vs American imperialism, lets just say that West Germany did one helluva lot better than East Germany, and there's a very good reason why the Baltics, Poland and Hungary, not to mention the Czech Republic and Slovakia, walked away from the Warsaw Pact at a rate of knots.  There's also a very good reason why the most admirable of the Italian communists, Berlinguer, basically disowned connections with the Soviets in the late 60s.  Imperialism is imperialism, under whatever guise.  

When given the free choice, every country that had been under Soviet hegemony threw off the shackles the moment they could.  Not a single one of them regarded communist rule as being "international" at all. 

The concept of communism may be, indeed is, international.  However, its exposition in the 20th century was entirely based on the national interests of the two main players.

Actually, it's historically entirely accurate.  The Second International was truly international, but after that, it was simply Russian imperial ambition coated in the garments of communism.  Who do you think financed all those movements in Latin America?  Or in much of western Europe and Australia, for that matter.  Most of them were captive to Soviet instruction, even after 1956.  It was only after the Russians squashed the Czechs in 1968 that the movements in Italy, and to a lesser extent France, began to move away from Russian instruction and develop their own independent structures.  There was nothing at all international about communism up to then, and the post 68 Italians were not exactly sympathetic to the Soviet or Chinese brands.


I have a lot of time for genuine communists with democratic instincts, like Berlinguer.  For the authoritarian puppets in Latin America, and these days in central Asia and Byelorussia,  not so much.  

Oh, and I doubt that the central and eastern Europeans that put up with Russian troops on their soil for 45 years would agree with your characterization of Russian imperial rule.  Neither would the ethnic minorities in Russia itself.  Maybe you should actually try to understand why the Baltics, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, got the hell out of the Warsaw Pact the moment they had a chance.  And why western Ukrainians are so desperate to follow.  


I'd have thought Russia's treatment of Chechyns was pretty good evidence of their right wing proclivities.Russia has done a fair bit of invading of its own.  It is probably paranoid, but it could hardly have expected neighbouring countries that it had invaded time and time agan (I'm thinking Poland in particular) to accept the role of "buffer."Indeed, poor Poland.  Or perhaps you've forgotten that Poland disappeared completely for over a century, having been gobbled up by the Prussian, Russian and Hapsburg Empires.  The border squabbles of post WW1 Poland with its neighbours were scarcely on the scale of Russian occupation throughout the 19th century, and for the second half of the 20th.That was a damn good movie.  Well, I liked it, anyway.It was a comedy.So, are you saying these ships were off the Chinese coast during the APEC meeting?@caffetteria moka:  the Hungarians who got out of Hungary in '56 escaped to western Europe, yes.  And western Europe, for the most part, wouldn't have a bar of them.  That's why so many were resettled in Canada, the US and Australia.  And it wasn't the Red Cross that resettled them.  The Red Cross provided support and assistance while they were in their DP camps or wherever, but it was the governments of the resettlement countries that processed them, gave them visas, and sent them to their future homes.  The Red Cross didn't get them on the boats;  the freedom loving Canadians, Americans and Australians did.Caffettierra Moka - as a matter of fact, both Canada and Australia had exactly that - visa operations in Europe. I know for a fact that Canada had visa officers processing DPs in Germany and Austria shortly after the end of the war.  They were certainly still there throughout the 1950s.  ICEM (which is now IOM) and the UNHCR organized the registration, care and transport of the DPs, both from the war itself and later from Hungary, but it was visa officers abroad who actually processed them and issued them with visas.  The Red Cross and other organizations assisted the DPs, of course, but the selection and processing was handled by Canadian officials. 

Australia also had visa teams operating in Europe to select and process DPs.  If you read this original report, dated back in 1947, one of the new migrants decided to emigrate to Australia after working in Europe for an Australian immigration team there.

http://www.immi.gov.au/media/history/post-war-immigration/_pdf/19471107_first_displaced_persons.pdf

And here's a  mention of 14,000 Hungarians being processed in camps by Aussie visa officers post 1956.

http://www.immi.gov.au/about/reports/annual/2009-10/html/65-years-of-nation-building/Immigration-history-1956-1965.htm

The bottom line is that, while the UNHCR and all the other organizations certainly promoted and encouraged the resettlement of post war DPs and Hungarians, it always remained up to the receiving countries to decide who they would and would not allow to be put on a boat.
Oh, and as for the numbers - Australia, Canada and the US between them took around 100,000 Hungarian refugees from the 1956 uprising.  While Suez may have distracted the foreign affairs ministries of the three countries, it had no particular impact on the immigration ministries, which are the ones who processed the refugees.I think you've forgotten a thing or two.  "Either Stalin would win or Hitler would win" kind of ignores that, when Poland was invaded, it was because Stalin and Hitler had signed a deal and split the country between them.   They both expected the rest of Europe to lose.

And after the war, while the US financed the rebuilding  of western Europe, the USSR packed up everything of value in eastern Europe and hauled it off to Russia, then occupied it's conquests for the next 45 years..  Was that American greed and avarice, or Russian greed and avarice?

As for a better Kaiser and better diplomacy, well, if wishes were horses, we'd all be playing polo.  Germany was an aggressive and expansionist power looking to muscle into the colonial game in 1900 and looking to recover its clout in 1939.  It paid a very high price for its ambition.

That's because Checkpoint Charlie was in the US sector.  The Brits and the French both had sectors as well.  On the other hand, when you went through Checkpoint Charlie, you were in the Russian sector.  I went through Charlie a long time before you did - and it was pretty clear who ran the other side of the border.Gerard - I'm disappointed in you. Western Europe ignored its obligations under the Convention for years - why do you think so many refugees from Eastern Europe ended up being resettled in Canada, the US and Australia?  Because Germany, Italy, France, didn't want to know.  And now, Europe gets "maritime illegals" and just shuffles them on to the next country.  Or ships them back to Libya.I don't know whether my previous comment will get up or not, so I may be repeating myself.

Europe talks a good game when it comes to refugees, but it's taken a very long time for it to actually deliver.  There's a very good reason why those fleeing the Warsaw Pact ended up in Canada, Australia and the US:  Europe couldn't be bothered.  Sure, Europe signed up to the UN Convention on Refugees, but for a good 40 years after they signed it, it meant putting people in camps until they could get visas to the resettlement countries.  And now that Europe is finally honoring it's obligations, it's shuffling everything back to Italy or Spain or poor, tiny Malta, because under the Dublin Convention refugees have to be resettled in the first place they arrive.  And of course Greece simply refuses everyone anyway.  

Europe is very good at pontificating;  it's not so good at actually giving refugees citizenship.I'm very disappointed in that comment, Gerard.  As you well know, when the war ended, it was countries like Australia that took the DPs, resettled them and gave them citizenship.  After the Hungarian uprising in 1956, it wasn't Europe that gave the Hungarians new homes, it was Canada and Australia and the US.  Much the same happened in 1968.  The eastern Europeans that fled throughout the Soviet occupation of eastern Europe had to look to the same three countries for almost 40 years, because western Europe, signatories or not to the Convention, ignored their obligations.  There were refugee camps in Italy into the 1980s and beyond, and no one got resettled in Italy, only in the Americas and Australia.  

Europe talks a good game, but a lot of it is pontification.The truth  is far more complex than that, Gerard.  

Western European countries were all signatories to the UN Convention on Refugees.  Yet, when it came to the Hungarians, it was Canada, Australia and the US that did the heavy lifting. After the crackdown on Czechoslovakia in 1968, it was the same three countries, plus a few countries in South America, that took Czech refugees. Furthermore, Canadian, US and Australian visa officers were processing refugees who had fled Warsaw pact countries to western Europe well into the 1980s, because western Europe wouldn't touch them, Convention obligations notwithstanding.  Greece still doesn't.   And you cannot blame that on bombings that ended in 1945.

Furthermore, it is only in the last few years that EU countries have agree to any form of resettlement out of the camps in Africa or Asia.  For the previous 40 years, again, it had been Canada, the US and Australia and not the wealthy nations of the EU that had handled that particular burden.

As for the resettlement countries taking refugees to staff factories, I'd just point out that, while countries like Canada were taking refugees, they were also taking much larger numbers of ordinary migrants.  They didn't need to take refugees to staff those factories - but they did anyway.

Yes, the EU now has its burden of asylum seekers. I would argue that it only changed tack on asylum seekers when it began to suffer the impact of very low birth rates, and needed workers for its own factories.  Prior to that, it had looked to the US and other countries to take those who arrived on European shores.  Heck, Italy had Russian refugees sitting in a refugee camp south of Rome for over 50 years because it wouldn't deal with them.

And the EU's record on asylum seekers hasn't exactly been pristine, either.   It has tried various tactics, including shipping them back to Libya, and of course issuing TPVs instead of permanent resident visas.   That's not to excuse Australia's current visa regime, but it is to point out that criticism from Europe has more than a whiff of hypocrisy about it.Exactly.  The gastarbeiter were recruited by the Germans to work in their factories, starting in 1961.  They weren't some post-unification flood - they'd been there for 30 years.A lot of Ukrainians lost any hope they might have of exploiting Ukrainian reserves when Russia seized Crimea and handed the oil and gas rights over to Putin's buddies in Gazprom.I'm sure those tanks had Ukrainian number plates too.Why do you accept the word of an unknown Czech who once lived in Ukraine?Well, yes, that's kind of what happens when you're on the wrong side in two world wars. You lose territory.  Ask the Poles or the Ukrainians how they feel about their redrawn borders.@Reinhard - I'm aware of that, but Peter is talking about Hungary, which lost a lot of territory as well.Actually, by any measure, those countries are wealthier than they were 25 years ago.  Not as wealthy as the west, but far wealthier than when they were Soviet satellites.Actually, almost all the Vietnamese "boat people" ended up in refugee camps in south-east Asia, and that's where they were processed.  Rather like the offshore resettlement program we have today for Somalis, Sudanese, Bhutanese and the like.  Only about 2000 Vietnamese boat people were processed directly off the boat.The final days of Vietnam were chaotic.  I'm not sure what happened to the Australian Embassy staff, but I know a number of countries left their local employees behind, not knowing what would happen to them.  All of those countries, Canada included, have something to be ashamed of.  The US certainly can be blamed for leaving its own staff behind (though I know they got many out, too) but they can hardly be blamed for not getting Canadian or Australian staff out.To be fair, Canada established diplomatic relations with Beijing before either the US or Australia did.Some years ago, a Canadian political party ran on a policy of attacking "corporate welfare bums."  Maybe we need a party to go after "corporate dole bludgers."Most ISIS fighters are from the region.  We could provide all the things you suggest to every Australian (actually, I thought we already did, at least in urban areas) but it isn't going to have any impact whatsoever on Jordanians, Lebanese, Tunisians, Saudis and Chechyns joining ISIS.Well, I don't think that there's any possibility of that sort of utopian future arriving in time to nip ISIS in the bud.  And we can't starve them of new recruits from countries over which we have no control.  

As for people living in stable societies having no wish for armed revolt, that may be true, but those stable societies quite often have an appetite for expansion.Actually, I don't think that's true at all.   I think Palestine has a lot less to do with this than people imagine.  Tunisians and Chechyns couldn't care less about Israel vs Palestine, they have other issues.  Same goes for Pakistan, Afghanistan and a lot of other sources of extreme Islam.  Palestine is not on the radar for most of them - local, regional and tribal issues are.$20 million for ebola.  That's more than Germany is contributing.  Shame.This is  my fourth attempt to respond.  

Australia has committed or spent $38 million to fight ebola ($18 million already spent, plus the latest $20 million commitment).  Germany has committed $146 million.  Given the comparative populations of the two countries, that makes the per capita contribution very similar. 

My point remains, let's all get a bit of perspective on this.

Except that Australia's contribution is $38 million, not $20 million.Mr. Key may or may not have identified the root causes of ISIS.  What he hasn't done is suggest a single way in which NZ can address any of them.  Neither NZ nor Australia has the clout to sort out Palestine, Syria, Iraq or for that matter, Iran.   So long as those situations continue to fester, ISIS will continue to attract the discontented and the disconnected.  

So, yes, Mr. Key has looked at the strategic issues, but he's powerless to address any of them.  What does that leave?  The tactical question of stopping ISIS recruitment in NZ (and by extension, Aus) - because neither country has the capacity to address the bigger problem.I don't disagree with the need for clean-up, but once the current players are gone, who replaces them?  The likes of Clive Palmer or Rick the Motor Man?  More ALP or Coalition apparatchiks?  Greens who've never actually had to be held accountable for delivering programs?  

I find it very hard to put my trust in any party which is inherently non-democratic in its internal structure, and which is hostage to corporations or unions for financing.But there is no approach.  Mr. Key has explained the rise of ISIS and what needs to be done to counter its attractions in abstract terms;  he has not produced a single concrete suggestion about how NZ (or, by extension, Australia) could make it happen.  Standing on the sidelines and wringing your hands in horror is not an "approach."Oh, I agree that education here is important, and I doubt that anyone would disagree.  But the notion that NZ or Aus can effectively address the underlying issues identified by Mr, Key seems to me nonsensical.Let's put this in the simplest terms.  On the balance of probabilities, Russian-supported rebels downed the plane.  Russian-supported rebels have continued to obstruct investigations.  Russian-supported rebels have refused to accept the Ukrainian election results.  And Russia has already seized Crimea.  I think shirt-fronting is quite in order.It is a pity that Mr. Abbott and his counterparts in the other parties have the same attributes as many of their fervent supporters:  an inability to discuss things in a civilised manner.  Insults and denigration substitute for reasoned argument and civilized exchanges of viewpoints every bit as much here on The Drum as in Parliament.  We have the politicians we deserve.You just proved my point. No one is capable of saying to the other side, now that's a good idea, or that might work, or why don't we try to do things together for the greater good of the country.  It's all about, I'm right, you're wrong.@RobP - why not? During the Gillard period, plenty of legislation got through with bipartisan support.  A lot of the machinery of government is in fact fairly mundane stuff, to which both parties can agree.

But that wasn't my point.  My point was that the inflexibility and incivility of our politicians is simply a reflection of the same qualities in their ever-narrowing support bases.  The rest of the country is fed up with the lot of them, and with those who can't debate policies or politics in a civilized manner.  

Every time I hear an ALP supporter dismissing conservatives as evil, ignorant and uncaring instead of attempting to persuade the conservative to take a broader view, I despair.  Every time I hear a Liberal dismiss an ALP supporter as an economic illiterate out of touch with the real Australia, instead of trying to engage with what that ALP supporter is saying about social responsibility to the disadvantaged, I despair.  

It is quite clear that Australians are turning away in droves from traditional parties and traditional politics, and there's a reason for that.  And a lot of it has to do with the kind of inflexibility, my party right or wrong, attitude, and the contempt for anyone with a divergent opinion, that is so apparent here on The Drum and elsewhere.  If the parties want a political renewal, they'd better damn well start listening not to their rusted-ons, but to those who aren't aligned with anyone, and ask them why it is so.That's not the issue Hamad is pushing.  She seems to feel that those who support Dunham are offending black feminists, and need to back off.  The logic of her argument entirely escapes me, but that's what it seems to be.No, it's not a logical progression at all, and for a couple of reasons.  First, it puts race ahead of gender.  Wrong.  Second, it conflates "black" with "coloured" and frankly, thats a crass appeal at white guilt.  When it comes to racism, you only have to go to Asia, be it India or south east Asia or China, to know that the average Asian would never identify with black Africans or Americans.  Not in a million years.I must confess, I'd never heard of Lena Dunham until this all blew up, and frankly, I'm not very interested in learning more.  The recollections of an adult about her seven year old self are simply not that interesting.

That said, I think this article is one of the strangest I've read in quite some time (which is saying something).  Ms. Hamad's point seems to be that feminists who support Ms. Dunham are alienating the non-white sisters because the latter wouldn't get this sort of support.  

So, is she trying to say that Ms Dunham's behaviour did equate to sexual assault, and she shouldn't get support at all from the feminist contingent?  Surely not.   Or is she saying that, while Ms Dunham's behaviour wasn't sexual assault, she shouldn't get support anyway, because black women do it tough and so should white women?  She seems to be saying that the colour of Ms Dunham's skin matters more to black feminists than does the nature of her acts.  There's a word for that, and it isn't feminism.Most of what you say is true (though I'd argue that the British Empire had started to falter in 1914).  But that doesn't negate the author's point - that Orwell would also have seen ISIS for what it is - fascist, expansionist, genocidal - not unlike the Nazis in ambition, if not in ability.No, there are no good guys in the Middle East, which is kind of the point.  In Spain, right and wrong, good and bad, were more clearly defined.  In Syria, Iraq, Iran, Egypt, Libya, not so much.@Mitor - no, sorry, I don't think any of the four were good guys in any way.  Three at least committed or are committing crimes against humanity;  all four ran oppressive regimes;  and all four reaped the harvest of suppressing opposition by whatever means possible.  Egypt, Syria and Libya have been  on edge for decades and sooner or later, the divisions within those countries were going to explode, with or without western (or Russian) intervention.  Iraq is a slightly different case, but I don't think there's any way you can describe Saddam, who started two wars, one with Iran, one with Kuwait, that brought down hell on his own people, as a "good guy."@Simon - there are some "goodish" guys in the Middle East, I suppose - Turkey, Jordan (though they seem to be supplying an awful lot of fighters to ISIS), but I was really referring to those engaged in the current fighting.I'm puzzled as to which side would be the right one for liberal democrats to support in the Middle East.  Certainly not Assad, who is as ruthless a war criminal as Saddam ever was.  Nor yet the former Shia government of Iraq.  Not anyone that I can see in either Egypt or Libya.  And Iran is hardly a model of democratic liberal values.I don't recall the US ever backing the Khmer Rouge.  And the US stopped backing Saddam long before the French and the Russians did.  Speaking of the Russians, they're up to their armpits in Syria, and have backed the wonderful governments of Byelorussia and Moldova, the neo-nazis in Bulgaria and Greece, and of course the ethnic cleansers in Ukraine.  Admirable.@Mitor - I think it's a bit of a stretch to say we're being surveilled mercilessly by ASIO, though I'm certainly not in favour of extending their power.  

As for the drug issue, you  might want to have a look at the drug laws in countries not aligned with the US.  I doubt that you'll find them less stringent. You might also want to consider the UN Convention on Illicit Trafficking in Drugs, and our obligations thereunder.  And in fact it is the US that is beginning to legalize pot, which is a step ahead of Australia.  As for copyright enforcement, I have no problem with that at all.  Why do you?  

I think you're stringing together a list of things you don't like, and laying the blame at America's door.  How about blaming them for the things they're really responsible for, and take responsibility ourselves for the ones we're responsible for.Well, if the Urban Dictionary is right, the new Caliphate fits exactly into Mussolini's view of the fascist state:

http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=fascism

It's authoritarian and controlling and brooks no dissent; everyone is subsumed to the greater will and direction of the state;  it is combative and expansionist; and to add to it all, there's a nice touch of ethnic and religious cleansing in the mix.I think the ISIS core, and certainly its ambitions to be a caliphate, area quite centrally controlled.  And there is ethnic as well as religious cleansing going on, which is pretty much what happened in Germany (though not so much in Italy).  

As for nationalism, if you're an extremist Sunni, you believe that all Sunnis are part of the ummah, and your job is to expand the ummah until it takes over the world.  It's nationalism on a grand scale - but with a religious rather than a geographic base for the new nation.

Yes, fascism is a point on the political spectrum.  Do you seriously think a caliphate is not also a point on that spectrum?  Theocratic governments are still governments, and theocratic states are still states.  That this one happens to be based on religion rather than Mein Kampf and aryanism doesn't change the fundamental nature of the state.The rules of war are very clear, and so are the Geneva Conventions.  When you fight a war, declared or undeclared, in uniform, you are considered to be a lawful combatant, and if you are captured, you are entitled to the legal protections of the Geneva Convention 3 as a POW.  If you are an irregular, but are wearing insignia and fighting in an organized unit, and carry your arms openly, you are likewise entitled to POW protections.  

That means, effectively, that you can't be executed or imprisoned for killing enemy soldiers or for killing civilians in the course of an attack on a legitimate military target.

If, however, you do not have insignia and do not carry arms openly, you are an unlawful combatant, entitled only to the protections of Geneva 4, which means you can be tried for murder if you kill an enemy in combat.

And regardless of whether you are a lawful or unlawful combatant, you can always be tried for war crimes and crimes against humanity.  In summarily executing captured Syrian and Iraqi soldiers, ISIS has committed war crimes.  Execution of civilians, the selling of women into bondage, those are crimes against humanity, for which ISIS fighters can also be tried.I seem to recall the Taliban assassinating the top mujaheddin leader.  I don't think that Ahmad Shah Masoud every considered the Taliban to be anything but opportunists coming in to collect the spoils after the war had ended.Sorry, which leader was that?  The Taliban didn't even exist until 14 or 15 years after the Russians invaded, and 3 or 4 years after they left.   And the last thing the Taliban would have cared to support in any case was a pro-Russian leader with no religious affiliations.Why is it wrong to regard ISIS as fascist? It seems to me to fit the bill to a T.  

"The foundation of Fascism is the conception of the State, its character, its duty, and its aim. Fascism conceives of the State as an absolute, in comparison with which all individuals or groups are relative, only to be conceived of in their relation to the State. The conception of the Liberal State is not that of a directing force, guiding the play and development, both material and spiritual, of a collective body, but merely a force limited to the function of recording results: on the other hand, the Fascist State is itself conscious and has itself a will and a personality -- thus it may be called the "ethic" State.... "

Very good description of the Caliphate, I would have thought.  And surely, if anyone knew what fascism was, it was Mussolini.@Dove - you might want to read this report from the UN.  Page 27 makes a number of references to women and children being kidnapped and sold.

http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Countries/IQ/UNAMI_OHCHR_POC_Report_FINAL_6July_10September2014.pdf@Noah's Ark - I'm not trying to associate the west with ISIS, nor, I think, is the author.

I think, though, that it is quite disingenous to argue that ISIS is a direct result of invasions, however illegal, when it is also a product of a 1000 years of Sunni- Shia rivalry, and the venom of ISIS is being directed mainly at fellow Muslims and not at the west.Yes, I have stated that ISIS is a fascist group.  And no one has yet come up with a convincing explanation of why I'm wrong.  Just saying I'm wrong isn't an argument.  So, tell me - how is ISIS not a fascist group? Its got an ideology based on massive state power over the individual, on constant warfare to expand the boundaries of the state, and of complete intolerance of dissent.  It's aggressively expansionist and it's genocidal.  Why is it not fascist?

That it doesn't yet have a defined state is no argument at all.@Coogara - I agree with your definition of fascism, though I think you might add in the resort to past glories to justify current atrocities.  But I disagree that it differs in kind from what ISIS is on about. 

 Mussolini looked to recovering the glories of the Roman Empire, Hitler created his third German Empire, both using the past as their guide for the future.  That is exactly what ISIS is doing, appealing for a restoration of the glories of the Caliphate.  Yes, they're tearing down the existing governmental structures, but the Weimar Republic didn't survive for long after the Nazis came to power, after all.  Like the Nazis and Fascisti,  the ISIS fighters are seeking to restore or resurrect their traditional lifestyle, their traditional values.  They happen to be different values than the German or Italian middle class values of the 1920s and 1930s, but they are no less traditional to the people involved.

And they are using that appeal to the past in the same way their European counterparts did - to build and expand their nation-state, and impose absolute rule over both their own citizenry and their captives.  Their contempt for the decadent west is very much in keeping with the contempt the Nazis and Fascists felt for communists and liberal democrats.  

Their "internationalism" is not true internationalism, but imperialism, the conquest and conversion of subject peoples.  Kind of like Hitler marching into Czechoslovakia or Poland, in fact.Actualy, I'd regard the anarchists as the extreme end of libertarianism, and that is very far from being a communist philosophy.  That's where it actually becomes interesting: the extreme right, and the extreme left, using similar tactics because neither believes they can trust the average citizen to do or know the right thing.  

Quite a few comments on the Drum reflect that attitude, by the way.  Hard right, hard left, not much difference to the confirmed centrist.  All authoritarian when push comes to shove.You don't have to have a state to run to be a fascist.  You have to have a state you want to run.  The Caliphate qualifies.I dispute that.  The Caliphate is exactly the kind of state both Mussolini and Hitler envisaged:  an overweening power to which all citizens surrendered their individual rights; a power which sought to constantly expand its territories through endless struggle and conquests; a power with a vision (be it ethnic, political or religious) to which all the citizenry would be subservient and whose ends and objectives all would serve.  It if walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, well then....Stalin didn't subscribe to the practice, typical of fascists, of glorifying the national past and the national character, and using that to recruit the population to an endless expansionist struggle (not until the Nazis invaded, anyway).  ISIS, on the other hand, recruits its cadres by appealing to a shared desire to restore and expand the caliphate.  Its tools are the same as those used by both Stalin and Hitler, but its goal is far closer to the latter - the endless expansion of power and control, and the subjugation of lesser peoples.  Stalin ended up doing the same things, of course, but the subjugation of eastern Europe was more self protection than aggressive expansionism.

Actually, I don't use the term "fascist" to substitute for baddie.  And nothing I've seen or read about ISIS suggests that their values are left-wing in the slightest.  Nothing remotely "means of production in the hands of the workers" that I can see about them at all.Well, to me, the subjugation of individual rights, the treatment of women as chattels to be sold or forced into marriage, the denial of any form of access to due process, and the resort to tribal and religious traditions to justify this appalling behaviour, reeks of the right rather than the left.  Even Stalin at least pretended that the USSR was out to protect the rights of the ordinary man, whereas ISIS makes it clear that people don't have rights, that only Allah has rights.  I'd call that ultra-right wing, myself.  There's certainly nothing at all about it that derives from left wing thought, be that classical liberal, communist, radical or social democratic.I'm not sure I'd say the Vikings were exactly "beaten back."  Converted, yes,  but not beaten back.  You may have heard of the Normans, who managed to rule a good part of France, England, southern Italy and swathes of what was then the Holy Land.  Or perhaps we could discuss the founders of Kyivan Rus (which became Ukraine but which also set the groundwork for Russia).  Vikings.   Oh, and the ones in Kyivan Rus weren't Catholic.Actually, ISIS has rather a lot of fighters from Jordan, Tunisia, Saudi Arabia and Chechnya.  They're not all "locals."I think that realism needs to prevail.  The kind of constitutional change which would remove either the states or the commonwealth from the game would be impossible to achieve anytime in the near future.  We couldn't even get agreement on a head of state for an existing system of governance;  convincing the public to change the system itself would, I think be unachievable in even the medium term. 

If we really believe there is an imbalance between resources and responsibilities, as seems to be the case, waiting for a constitutional change to fix it is not going to address shortfalls in health care or education for people alive now.Russel Brand wouldn't have a government.  That's the whole point.In general, I agree with Green's point (that may be a first!).  Both had their right to privacy, and any claim to there being a "public interest" in the publication of their private communications was and is tenuous, to say the least.

That said, I'm a bit appalled that a considerable amount of taxpayer money, including apparently some from indigenous organizations as well as from Athletics Australia, was used to bring an athlete to Australia for a few clinics.  It seems to me to be in the fine tradition of splashing money at aborigines, getting lots of publicity, and delivering very little in the way of meaningful, longer term outcomes.  Wouldn't it have been possible to use the money,  not to lure a foreign athlete here for 10 days, but to perhaps have a longer and more enduring program run by Australian athletes.  For example, Nova Peris?You do realize that the birth rate in Indonesia is only just above replacement rate?  That the birth rate in India is less than half what it was a few decades ago?  The birth rate in the developed world is well below replacement?

Birth rates remain high in Sub-Saharan Africa and in a few other countries like Afghanistan.  In the rest of the world, they're plummeting.You said that nothing was being done.  I've just shown you that something is being done.  And migration doesn't increase the total population, it just shifts it around a bit.As a matter of fact, the fertility rate in Egypt about 50 years was well over six births per woman;  now it's 2.8 and still dropping.  The issue is being addressed.  Better health care, better sanitation, and above all, economic growth, are the keys to reducing fertility rates.It isn't only Muslims.  Think LTTE (Hindu), Free Khalistan (Sikh), all the liberation movements in Latin America (nominally Catholic) and on and on.Well, it would seem a couple of PUPS were only elected by pretending to be sentient humans.You know what? I'd be inclined to vote for the Lib Dems over either of the others.  And certainly, far far ahead of the mental giants in the PUP.Existing laws can take care of incitement to violence quite adequately.  No doubt they can take care of conspiracy to commit criminal offences as well.  Why do we need laws for wannabee jihadists that go beyond the ones we use for drug traffickers and bikie gangsters?  As for foreign travel, if one of these jihadists commits a criminal offence while in Syria or Iraq, charge him with the offence.  If he spends his time there herding goats, leave him alone.  And leave freedom of speech and freedom of the press right where they now stand.  There is no need at all for the measure being put in place.  None.I wouldn't have said the Ukraine crisis had a great deal to do with sectarianism, actually.  It has a lot more to do with ethnicity, language and history.@Caffettierra Moka - that's not correct.  Western Ukraine, bordering on Poland, is predominantly Ukrainian Catholic.  However, much of Ukraine is Orthodox, not Catholic. The Ukrainian-speakers mainly belong to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, whose patriarch is in Kyiv, or to the much smaller Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church.  Russian speakers belong to the branch of the Orthodox Church whose patriarch is in Moscow.  So what you have today is Ukrainian Catholics and Orthodox lining up together against the Russian Orthodox whose adherence is to Moscow.  We're back to language and ethnicity.  Oh, and the Russian Orthodox Church would love to get its hands back on the property claimed by the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, including such things as the Lavra, the birthplace of both Ukrainian and Russian orthodoxy.  So add a bit of territorial self-interest on the part of the Russians as well.@caffettierra Moka - sorry, but you've got the religions wrong.  

Western Ukrainians tend to be Ukrainian Catholic, yes, but most Ukrainians are not Catholic but Eastern Orthodox.  The Orthodox Church is split, with the Ukrainian speakers following the Kyiv Patriarch (or the much smaller Ukrainian Autocephalous Church) while the Russian speakers follow the Moscow Patriarch (which used to be called the Russian Orthodox Church and is Russian today in all but name).  So, you have the Ukrainian Catholics and the Ukrainian Orthodox lined up on one side, and the Russian Orthodox on the other.  As I said, it's about language and ethnicity.   

Oh, and of course the Moscow patriarchy would love to get its hands back on Kyiv patriarchy property, things like the Lavra, because it is those properties which mark the birthplace of all of Eastern Orthodoxy.Why should anyone have to prove anything?No, the legislation is trying to protect the government from scrutiny, and law enforcement and intelligence agencies from following proper procedure.So, why aren't existing laws adequate?  If they're good enough for drug dealers, why aren't they good enough for wannabee terrorists?

THere is no public oversight.  There must be.  We have Royal Commissions up the yin-yang because government, police and other agencies have made mistakes, have ignored their duties, have engaged in corruption, have failed their constituents and the vulnerable.  Many of these shortcomings have been brought to our attention purely because of whistleblowers, investigative journalists, and all the publicity both have been able to engender thanks to a free press.Well, I conduct myself in a lawful manner, and I'm concerned.  The Senator is right:  none of these provisions will provide any more protection that effective use of existing laws would provide, and some are an outrageous violation of our rights.  Warrants after the fact?  Banning travel to certain countries, even if there's no evidence at all of wrong-doing by the individual?  Imposing draconian secrecy provisions which protect the government from legitimate scrutiny?  It's an abomination.There is a difference between not having a civil liberty because you never had it (ie the right of working men in the 17c or women in the 19thc to vote) and losing a liberty you've acquired over the centuries, and now enjoy. That's the distinction and Leyonhjelm is right to point it out.

And yes, he is saying we lose our right to privacy (your home can be invaded by the cops without your being informed), right to free speech (mention a government intel op and you're toast), right to a free press (intel ops again), right to a presumption on innocence, right to freedom of movement, right to legal counsel (if you're detained under security provisions, you will have your access to legal counsel much curtailed).  So, yes, he's exactly right.

In Australia,, we have a right to freedom of speech on political matters. The courts recognized that long ago.  It also recognized freedom of the press insofar as maintaining and preservation a democratic government was concerned.  So yes, we do have both freedom of speech and freedom of the press, at least on political matters. 

And I don't care what the rationale is for restricting divulgence of information about law enforcement activities.  The provision is wide open to abuse by governments and agencies who don't want their misdeeds or incompetence brought to light. 



Actually, matters of political discourse are quite broad.  Anything that goes into the making of public policy is fair game.

Public servants take their chances. Journalilsts and the public at large are not bound by any "official secrets act" nor should they be.

And I say again, the proposed legislation is wide open to abuse. Everything you've said amounts to "trust us, we'll take care of you."  Why on earth should I believe that?  Why on earth should you?Your entire range of arguments is based on the concept that it is the government which gives us human rights.  I reject that concept.  Human rights are natural and innate, and it is the government that places limitations on them.  Some may be justifiable limitations (free speech, but not defamatory free speech) but even that should be subject to very close examination.  When legislation deliberately limits freedom of speech, freedom of association, freedom of movement, freedom of the press, it is taking away fundamental rights, and it needs a much better excuse than its managed to come up with yet.

We don't need these laws to deal with terrorism in this country.  The laws already on the books are more than adequate.What you're saying is, you trust the cops and the intelligence agencies and the governments to do the right thing.  You are prepared to give up a number of rights, because of that trust - for example, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, the right to due process, and the right to freedom of movement.

Well, I'm not as trusting, and I'm not prepared to give up those rights.And the whole point is that his rights in law should entitle him to deny entry to the cops unless they have a warrant.  And, guess what, they do.@Phil - well, that's quite a list.  Couple of questions, though.  How are you going to deport Australians who've lived here for generations if one of their relatives decides to join the IRA or an extreme Scottish independence movement?   

How are you going to deport all those Australians who have nasty things to say about aborigines and their values, or indeed about Muslims, Hindus, Tamils or refugees from Africa.  Because sure as heck, they're inciting hatred.

As for garments hiding ID, well, let's get rid of sun glasses, beards, hats and make-up for the ladies (and good luck with that one!).

Actually, having read your comments, I think perhaps it is you who can't abide by Australian law and cultural standards.  Which leaves you with one option....Then the main parties are wrong.Badly written legislation which threatens free speech, a free press, freedom of movement, and which prevents proper public scrutiny of the authorities, and you don't see a problem?  Interesting.There were two Canadian killers, Gerard.  And yes, one of them may/may have suffered from a mental illness.  The fact is that both found in extreme Islam an outlet for their rage and dispossession, just as the two killers of Lee Rigby did. 


I don't for one minute suppose that either was part of some master ISIS plot - but terrorism of the Al Qaeda/ISIS brand does not rely on disciplined plotting, it relies on lone wolves striking at unexpected times and in unexpected places. 

We have a genuine problem with the dysfunctional rejects of society.  In the 19th century, they became anarchists; in the 20th, brownshirts, and now, Islamic extremists.  They do not represent a meaningful threat to Canadian or Australian society, but that doesn't mean they should be ignored, nor that we should pretend they don't exist.

Oh, and by the way, Canada doesn't detain asylum seekers.  Yet, someone just shot up our Parliament and murdered a soldier.   Maybe you need to think a bit more deeply about the fundamental issues involved here, and the treatment of asylum seekers is not part of those.The man may or may not have been mentally ill.  He certainly wasn't "warehoused" in any jail - he did 60 days for a drug charge years ago, and 1 day for uttering threats.  

That is neither here nor there.  It is an easy excuse to blame the lone wolf extremist on mental health issues and inadequate mental health care facilities, whether in Canada or Australia.  I agree that neither country has the best facilities. But the attraction of extremism to western-raised youths is as strong in countries with good health facilities as in those without..

You only have to look at which western countries ISIS attracts recruits from to know that the presence or absence of mental health facilities is not a determinative factor.  Per capita, Australia ranks fourth as a source of ISIS recruits, behind Belgium, Denmark and France, and just ahead of Norway.  America, which has abysmal mental health care facilities, barely registers, and is well behind such countries as the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden.  

If we want to understand why our youth go off to fight for abysmal regimes and values, we have to dig a bit deeper than a shortage of psychiatrists.You've just proven my point.   Facile.  Ignore that in places where mental health facilities are superior, as many or more fighters are heading out to fight for ISIS than in places where mental health facilities are inadequate.That's another logical fallacy.  It is manifestly obvious that not all murderers, and not all mass murderers, are terrorists.  That is not the same thing as saying no murderers are terrorists.  Some are.Gerard, you perhaps need to read up a bit on the Sunni-Shia divide, and the deaths Muslims have inflicted on each other over the centuries because of that divide.  To claim that Islam is the religion of peace is to ignore the long history of rivalry, not to mention of imperialism, expansionism and subjugation by Muslim empires.  It's no more the religion of peace than Christianity is.The thing is, with effective treatment, TB can be cured. With ebola, there's no effective treatment at all.From the Fortress:  Canada is not the US, and has reasonably tight gun laws.  The streets are not awash with firearms.Geesh, man.  You make a soldier being shot in the street sound like an every day event.  I used to live in Ottawa, and murders were actually very rare, gun murders even more so.  The city is a city of million or so people, and last year it had 8 murders, only one of which was a shooting.  

And Parliament hasn't had a shooter inside it in its 140 odd year existence.  That makes it pretty damn unusual.@lj - what part of the shooter going into Parliament and firing shots there did you miss?That's not quite the way it happened, Deb.  The man went to the Cenotaph and shot a soldier, yes, but from there it takes a bit of effort to get to the Parliament Buildings, which are several hundred yards away and up a hill across a large open lawn.  He in fact got into his car, drove to the Parliament buildings, hijacked a second car and drove at speed to the main door of the Parliament buildings, broke through security and headed down the halls.  

If he'd been trying just to get away and hide, he would not have headed for Parliament:  he would have stayed in his car and driven off, or he would have headed for one of the unguarded buildings which really are across the road from the Cenotaph - the Chateau Laurier hotel, the National Arts Centre, even the Rideau Centre shopping mall.

Deranged thought it may have been, yes, he had some sort of plan involving the Canadian Parliament building, and not as a hiding place.@Craig - I agree this is not a major incident in terms of the number of deaths. It is a sobering thought, however, that some Canadians can be so disenchanted with western society that they will drift towards extremist outfits like ISIS.   And it is doubly unfortunate that the symbol of Canadian democracy and rights, Parliament itself, should come under threat from some yahoo with a grudge against the world.And I don't agree.  There doesn't have to be a huge organized plot for something to be an act of terrorism.  A lone wolf or two is still a terrorist if his actions are driven by a particular ideology and his intention is to threaten the security and stability of the state.  Shooting up Parliament certainly fits the second half of he equation;  his motives for doing so will determine the first half.  

@Aussie Sutra - I must say, this discussion about the usage of the word, "terrorist" is getting rather tedious.  Where I come from, the word has been used at different times to describe, quite accurately, Sons of Freedom Doukhoubors, Sikh Free Kalistan activiists, the violent fringe of the Quebec separatist movement, Tamil Tigers and those bankrolling them, extreme environmentalists, and Islamofascist groups.  

The word is an accurate description of these groups, their aims and their methods - all using violence against the community and/or the state to pursue their political objectives, however loosely defined.  

Terrorism has been an accepted tool of extremists since at least the 19th c, with Nechaev and his ilk.  It exists.  Get over it.

What matters is determining how to deal with individual terrorists effectively without endangering the civil liberties of all of us.  Pretending they don't exist at all is the easy way out.  Answering hard questions about the level of risk we have to be prepared to accept in order to live in a free society is the hard one.@Blax - I'm not sure the info about the man's background is entirely correct.  His father is, I believe, an Algerian Canadian, and Bibeau spent some time in Libya, so his interest in Islam may go back further than that.  Also, although he's got a record, he only spent 60 days in jail on one drug offence, and a day in jail for uttering threats, which seems a little short for a conversion.  He does seem to have had long-term drug issues, and perhaps some mental health issues as well.  I don't know what you do with these guys, though:  our systems simply aren't designed to cope with someone who  might or might not someday present a threat.@Aussie Sutra - no, the state won't cope with the random acts of a lone mental case. It should, however, be able to cope with hate crimes, and I'd say this was one.I know of no rule or definition that says a terrorist must be someone with no mental health issues, that he must operate as part of an organized group and not independently, and that he must kill more than one person.  A terrorist is someone who uses violence to attack the community or the state.  I would certainly put a deliberate attack on the Canadian Houses of Parliament in that category.  I find it mind boggling that there is any debate on the matter.


It is simply weasel wording to argue that an act of terrorism is not terrorism if the person is mentally ill.  An act of murder by a mentally ill person is still an act of murder, even though the mental illness may mean he is not legally responsible.  The same standard would apply to a terrorist who was mentally incompetent.  But the murder is still a murder.@Aussie Sutra - actually, these things do no occur "with some regularity" in Canada.  And an active gunman inside Parliament?  That would be, I suspect, the first time that's happened in those buildings in 140 years.Well, actually, both the shooter and the fellow who killed another Canadian soldier with his car two days ago had in fact had their passports pulled.  I expect they both could have committed a lot more carnage if they'd made it to Syria or Iraq.@Dave - okay, slightly crossed wires on that.  I'm pretty unhappy with Abbott's proposals (certainly the journalist one) and I'm uneasy with a Canadian proposal to yank the citizenship of dual nationals who end up in the hot zone.  I don't regard pulling passports before people travel as being unreasonable.Personally, I think the premise of this article is wrong.  I think Canadians are every bit as aware of the dangers of the modern world as Australians are.  We've had our own terrorist plots, including several Islamist ones recently;  we saw the provincial legislature in Quebec shot up some years ago (not by a terrorist, but people died all the same);  we had Sikh extremists blowing up Air India; and of course back in the 60s and 70s we had the FLQ tossing bombs and murdering a politician. 

The difference is that, in the latter instance, the Canadian government of the day dealt with the October Crisis of 1970 by imposing swingeing restrictions on normal Canadian rights under the War Measures Act.  The measures were temporary, but their impact on the Canadian psyche still resonates after over 40 years.  For a short period, we lost rights we took for granted.

As a result,  Canadians seem to be far more aware than Australians of the danger of placing security concerns above the fundamental rights of an open democracy.  Very few Canadians who can remember those days want to see the War Measures Act, or anything resembling it, ever imposed again.  Canadians are far more wary of security agencies and of the RCMP than Australians are of their counterparts, and far less inclined to trust authority without asking some hard questions.  

From reading the comments on the Canadian websites, for every Canadian demanding tougher measures against terrorists, there are two or three warning about the loss of those freedoms.  The current PM may possibly have the votes to impose new and more intensive security measures after this, but he will not do it without having a major firefight on his hands.
Canada has had two soldiers killed in three days in Canada by people who had each had their passports pulled by the Canadian government because they were believed to be jihadists.  I doubt that either was part of any organized extremist group, but it's not unreasonable to believe they share the general aims of those extremists.And I take issue with the notion that the government just randomly denies passports to persons of Islamic persuasion.  There are well over a million Muslims living in Canada - a handful have had their passports pulled.  This man, and the fellow that ran down two soldiers two days ago, happened to be among them.

I don't suppose either of them belonged to ISIS - but I do suppose both had intentions of travelling to the region to join them.  

And as I recall quite a few Christian extremists tagged with the term "terrorist" in the US - McVee and Eric Rudolph.  Rightly so.  Someone who kills women and children is a murderer;  someone who kills  women and children, or unarmed soldiers, as a means of attacking the institutions of the state, is a terrorist.  I don't actually care whether he's a Christian attacking abortion clinics, a Sikh putting bombs on Air India planes, or a Muslim blowing up nightclubs in Bali or shooting up the Canadian parliament.@whohasthefish:  That is not my intention.  My intention is to say that terrorism exists and we need to be aware of it.  And when we see it, we need to act on it, not pretend it isn't there.  But the mechanisms in place in Canada and Australia right now are adequate to deal with these kind of isolated incidents.  We don't need to demonize Muslims or give up valued civil rights to add one more layer of protection.@whohasthefish - you didn't offend me in the least, but, having delved into other websites, including in Canada, there are a lot of people who would in fact use my posting in exactly the way you describe.  That is a sad truth.Not sure what your point is.  Australia and Canada have a lot in common in terms of language, democratic heritage, and legal systems.  That Canada doesn't have a Union Jack on its national flag any more is perhaps less important than that, like Australia, it does have a Sergeant at Arms in its Parliament.  Today, that particular bit of heritage mattered more than a flag.Most Muslims I have met in my life are perfectly happy to live beside and work beside non-Muslims.  They're not going to bite anyone's hand;  they're too busy living their lives, raising their kids, and having a barbie on the weekend.I'm reasonably sure the Slipper texts were submitted as evidence in the court case, which makes them public, not private, at that point, so I don't think there's a valid comparison with this particular incident.I think you could apply the comparison to a lot of countries besides just the UK.  France, Italy, Spain, Germany, all have electorates that are becoming increasingly disenchanted with the process.  The same malaise which infects Australia is obvious in Canada as well, and Canada is certainly not a centralised state.  The conservative government is as much on the nose there as Abbott is here, but there's very little enthusiasm for the alternatives (and Canada at least has two legitimate alternatives, not just one).  

And I would strongly dispute your contention that the parties are not detached from the electorate.  Of course they are.  They have built up their own internal structures and career progressions, and are both extremely inward looking.  There are very good reasons why  few Australians are members of parties - the parties are detached and irrelevant to the interests and beliefs of the electorate, and inherently undemocratic in their own structures.  Who would willingly get involved with an allegedly democratic party which functions like a 17th c oligarchy?  The lack of any grass roots to either of the majors is evidence enough that they have spent far too much time worrying about the party factions and not enough building up a genuine supporter base.

And while it's true that our liberties include the liberty to fail, it is the parties that are failing.  The electorate is so desperate it will even vote for the likes of the PUPs just to shake the complacency of the majors.  

And yes, I can damn well complain if politics delivers a result that displeases me. The right to grumble is a fundamental human right.  The problem, though, is that, with the current mob in Parliament and in the backrooms of the parties themselves, there is no possibility of politics delivering a result that would please me. 

Not entirely rubbish.  I don't see how it was the "will of the people" for Ricky Muir to obtain a Senate seat with 0.5% of the vote or for the PUPs to control the Senate with less than 5% of the vote and a group of Senators that appear to be there solely to serve the business interests of their boss. 

Nor do I see exactly why two parties, one representing big business and the other representing unions, but neither representing the interests of the average voter, should be considered "pretty damn good."  Personally, I think the Australian system is pretty appalling, with politicians focussed on short-term power games and not the long-term interests of the country.  And with a system in place that encourages precisely that mind-set.Ricky Muir is in the Senate on a vote of 0.5%, which means thta 99.5 % didn't vote for him, so sorry, but I don't see how his presence in the Senate represents the will of the people.

And it's the Puppies, not Muir, that hold the balance in the Senate.  And if you believe Clive's minions would vote for any legislation, however good, that affected his business interests, you have not been keeping up.Mmm.  There's room for arts in the curriculum, but it has to take second placer to literacy and numeracy.  No, kids may not become mathematicians or authors, but if they are innumerate or semi-literate, the world is not going to be their oyster.  Their choices will become very limited.  They should certainly get exposure to the fine arts, but being able to read a book outweighs being able to read music in the actual working world.How is learning to read and write effectively detrimental? I'd have thought it was critical.Oh for crying out loud.  Nigeria got a guy flying in who lied about his contacts, and managed to infect 18 healthcare workers with ebola, two of whom then infected family members.  20 cases.  And that was it. Nigeria controlled the outbreak and there hasn't been another case in weeks.  Senegal's outbreak stopped at 1.  You think Australia can't do as well?@jennajones - yes, a person in the incubation period would not be picked up.  But he also wouldn't be spreading the disease.  He would only spread the disease once he got sick.An ebola victim is not infectious until he's showing symptoms.They're not stuffing up all that badly.  From what I can see, the only stuff up has been in Dallas, sending a sick man away.  The infection there has spread to one person.  That's terrible for the one person, but it's not an epidemic.  The medical system will make the odd error, but the numbers are going to be contained. It's not going to be a threat.

And as for people fleeing - most of those in the three affected countries won't and don't have the capacity to flee anywhere.  It's not like they have passports, visas and the wherewithal to buy airline tickets.@Harvey - there are just a few problems with your theory.  The epidemic is well recognized, it will never get to critical mass in developed countries, and there is no approved vaccine.   If the vaccines now being trialed by the Americans, the Canadians and the Russians work, they will be used on those likely to be exposed to ebola - which is health care workers and family of ebola victims in Africa.  You're no more likely to need an ebola shot than you are a yellow fever shot.I really think they haven't. The Russians have, though.Oh for heavens' sakes.  We don't have a vaccine for HIV either, and you can hardly say that isn't something that has no impact on the "west."  

Yes, medical science is a commodity to some extent - so, should the money be going to ebola, which kills a few thousands, or malaria, which kills a few millions?

As for the smallpox eradication and the near eradication of polio, no, benevolence had little to do with it.  Except, of course, that smallpox was eradicated, polio is nearly gone, and measles would be gone except for brain-dead inner city types that believe playboy bunnies over virologists.True.  I know the Salk vaccine wasn't patented. Not sure about Sabin.  But the manufacturers still make money out of it (not a lot, admittedly).I'm imagining and coming up with one guy, two infections.  That's the pattern in Africa.All you have to do is look at the gear some of those health care workers are using (kitchen gloves, duct tape to hold disposable kits together after their fourth use, etc) to know that it's not surprising they have a high level of infection.@JoeBloggs - I doubt that very much, actually.  Immigrants need to have chest x-rays, but no visitor has to prove he doesn't have TB to get into Australia.  I visited many times before I became a resident, and I sure never had to travel with x-rays.  And I was living in a couple of places where TB is fairly common.You live in a country where hospitals can't cope with the common cold?  Why should they?   That's not their job.  

Much of the world drinks recycled and treated water.  Including much of the developed world.  That Australians have a phobia about it is simply habit and has nothing to do with the safety of the water.

The health workers in Africa have inadequate supplies, they have inadequate protective gear, they have inadequate disinfectants, and they're with patients full time.  Many of them are not trained to western standards.  Yet, with proper protocols in place, MSF has managed to protect almost all its staff, in spite of the risks they face in dealing with more cases than an Australian hospital is every likely to see.  

Nigeria contained an out break and kept it to 20 people.  Do you seriously think the Australian health system is less capable than the Nigerian one?The CDC issued health protocols in the US which are pretty similar to those for any serious contagious disease.  Saying those protocols were breached doesn't mean the nurse breached them;  it could have been that she was issued with incorrect equipment, or that the procedures used by the hospital to disinfect were incorrect.Joe - I was living in India at one point and came as a visitor to Australia.  No one asked me to prove I didn't have TB when I arrived in Aus.  Immigrants have to prove it, but not visitors.@MCC - if that was Gerard's point (and I'm not sure it was) I'd reject it out of hand.  Two types of societies which are very exclusionary are tribal societies (which do not welcome non tribe-members) and very small-town communities (ditto).    

Western society is generally far more fluid and mobile than many more traditional societies - think the Japanese or the Pashtuns, for example - and more willing to accept "outsiders" into the fold.  While traditional societies do take care of their own, they do not have any particular sense of extending that care beyond their own group or tribe.

As for libertarians, theirs is not an inherently exclusionary viewpoint, because that would imply a degree of social and political cohesiveness which they would reject on principle.I disagree quite a bit with that comment.  I've lived in inner city apartments, in suburbs, and in small towns, and I've not found the inner cities to be all that attractive to live, certainly not in terms of inclusivity and closeness.  They're noisy, congested, detached from nature and quite uncaring.   I got to know my neighbours in the 'burbs and in the small towns.  In the city, not so much.  Physical proximity to people does not equate to inclusiveness.

Sure, cities offer nice amenities, restaurants, cultural events, etc - but it's not really that difficult to get into a car and drive to the city to see a play or visit the museum, then go back home and have a nice backyard barbecue with family and neighbours.  Many people prefer that sort of lifestyle, and I see nothing at all wrong with it.  

PS I have a fenced off yard.  It's to keep the dog in and the wallabies out.I have no problems with trying diversionary programs to stop young men (and women) from turning into radicals.  Once they've been radicalized, and have taken part in what amount to crimes against humanity, well, I'm a little less positively inclined.

The main point, however, is that I do not accept the author's contention  that "the Australian Government therefore must accept that we have failed this section of our younger generation. "   The government is not responsible for raising children, giving them values or teaching them right from wrong.  It's high time families, educators, and proselytizers took responsibility.@Sarah - no, I don't get your message, because it doesn't address my point at all.  In an authoritarian society like Nazi Germany or the USSR, government replaces family as the arbiter of values and behaviour.  In a democratic and egalitarian society, government does nothing of the kind.  It leaves the raising of children to the parents and the community, and rightly so.This means that while it is unlikely to get a real foothold in countries with developed medical systems, it could be a real problem in Africa.  We'd better hope that one of the vaccines they're working on will work.  Then you can vaccinate on an "as needed" basis in places where it is endemic.The female doctor is back (if she's the one I'm thinking of) and is staying home for a few weeks.  That's a reasonable compromise.  Without people like her, the disease would reach catastrophic proportions in Africa, and vastly increase the risk that it would spread beyond the current three countries.

And people who survive ebola are only infectious post-disease if they are men having unprotected sex.

You have been reading the wrong data.  The smokers pay something like ten times as much in taxes on cigarettes as they cost the health system.Like what?  I read the Collins and Lapsley reports, the first of which attributed all sorts of ridiculous social costs to smoking - pain and suffering, loss of the smoker doing housework, etc etc - but in their later report, even they admitted, and I quote, that 

"Tobacco tax revenue in 2004/05 exceeded tobacco-attributable costs borne by the public sector by over $3.5 billion. Of this surplus $2.7 billion accrued to the Commonwealth and around $800 million to state government"That was the ratio in 2004/5, the year the study was done.  The problem lies with the methodology of the study, which includes not just the costs to the health care system, which are in the 400 million dollar range, but also intangible costs (pain and suffering, shortened life spans, inability to perform household tasks, etc) and "social"costs unrelated to the actual health care system in anyway.  Yet people believe that smokers cost the health care system $31 billion.  They don't, and the study doesn't say they do.
If the tax on tobacco equalled the cost of smoking to the health system, the government would lose about $5 billion in revenue.  Want to rethink that one?No, he was using figures on government websites.Go read the Collins and Lapsley report, which is frankly, a bit of a farce, but certainly not influenced in favour of big tobacco.  That report is very clear and precise about the actual costs to the health care system of smoking, but is rather nebulous when it comes to the "social" costs of smoking.  

Would the smoking tax cover the medical costs?  yes.  If I recall, the government collects something in the order of $5 billion annually from taxes and duties on cigarettes.  The additional cost to the health system is in the order of $400 million.  

So smokers, who, unlike bikie gangs, murderers and drug dealers, are engaging in a perfectly legal activity, are indeed subsidizing the non-smoking majority.  I don't object to smokers being taxed heavily, and being restricted to where they can and cannot smoke, but I do object to attempts to misrepresent their relative contributions to and demands on the public coffers.The study that said smoking costs over $31 billion included such things as pain and suffering, dead smokers not doing housework, and the like. It was, to put it gently, less than objective.

Go back and look at that actual study (or studies). Google Collins and Lapsley. See what you think.  But here's a quote from their later study:  "Tobacco tax revenue in 2004/05 exceeded tobacco-attributable costs borne by the public sector by over $3.5 billion. Of this surplus $2.7 billion accrued to the Commonwealth and around $800 million to state government"

I stand by what I said.  PS I'm not a smoker.No, the $31 billion figure includes all sorts of intangibles like pain and suffering, and loss of household work.  The real figures are nowhere near that.The study specifically refers to pain and suffering as an "intangible."

But in any case, the point is that, if you die early because of a smoking related disease, is it really legitimate to say that your inability, post-death, to do unpaid housework, is a tangible cost to society at large?  I dispute that concept.

The medical costs of your health care are obviously tangible costs to the taxpayer;  loss of productivity through absenteeism from the labour force due to smoking-related issues would be another tangible cost to society at large.  But it is highly misleading to argue that smokers cost the taxpayer $31 billion when most of that $31 billion consists of things that taxpayer doesn't pay for.Yes, that's the real figure.  If you google the Collins and Lapsley report you will find the "social costs" of smoking, many of them intangibles, but you can also see the actual costs to the medical system, and it's in that range.Being "pro choice" seems to be just fine when it comes t abortion, so why is it anathema when it comes to smoking?

Smokers have as much right to make bad choices as people that drink alcohol or eat too much bacon or gamble or don't get their kids vaccinated.  If they choose to enjoy smoking now in the knowledge that their lives are likely to be shorter than average, surely that is their decision to make, and not one that should be imposed by society upon them

Science can inform that decision but it cannot take away the right of the individual to make it.And that's why we have laws against smoking in restaurants, bars and other public places;  why parents in some states at least can't smoke in their cars if there are children with them; and why we spend millions on anti-smoking campaigns to educate people.  

Being a non-smoker myself, the risk that I will get lung cancer from second hand smoking is, to put it mildly, very very small because I simply never encounter smoking in enclosed areas.  I suspect I'm more at risk from car exhaust fumes.  And unless you're living with a smoker yourself, your risk would be the same.Terrible analogies.  Beheading is, first, a criminal offence, which smoking isn't, and second, has a direct impact on a person who is not party to the decision.  Smoking is not a criminal offence, and, given all the restrictions on where one can smoke, has no impact on anyone but the principal.

Just like laws against beheading other people, food safety regulations are about protecting innocent victims.  As for seat belts, common sense regulations, not dissimilar to preventing kids from smoking, or protecting people from second hand smoke by restricting where smokers can light up.  But if we really were determined to keep people from being killed in accidents, we'd ban driving entirely.  We don't, because people want mobility and we're prepared to accept the social risk of what they'll do behind the wheel rather than limit their freedom. Smoking is no different.  Smokers pay their way, they make choices, maybe bad ones, but they are their choices to make.Well, so far as I know, all those restrictions apply to alcohol too, but that doesn't make drinking alcohol a crime.  To compare smoking to beheading people is simply ludicrous.

And no, arguing that "smokers pay their way" is not nonsense.  The burden of smoking on the health care system is a fraction of the revenue government derives from taxing tobacco.

Now you may dislike smoking for the filthy habit it is;  you many dislike Big Tobacco, and elements of society, for making smoking appear "cool" to teenagers; you may agree with every anti-smoking ad you've ever seen, and with every restriction on smoking in public places that has been imposed in the various states and territories, and I will not argue with you.

What I will argue with is the contention that smoking, restricted and taxed as it is, still represents a threat to society at large, or that the choice of individuals to smoke, knowing the risks, should be taken from them.You were the one who introduced the analogy.  I simply called you on it.

And I do not downplay the negative costs.  I simply put them in perspective.  We are building hospitals because we have an aging population which is more prone than a younger one to cancers and cardiac disease, whether smoking-related or not, and also because we have serious obesity issues coming down the pike.  Oh, and because we have a growing population as well.  

In the long term, it will be the people who live into their 80s and 90s that are going to cost the taxpayer for medical needs, pensions and the like.  The smokers won't make it that far.  Which, by the way,  is why the author of this article says "Every time a poor smoker dies before pensionable age, somewhere in the Treasury, a bean-counter moves a bead on the national abacus into "savings" territory."

Then you should support the taxes being relaxed right now.  The smokers cost the health system in the order of $400 million a year, but pay in the order of $5 billion in taxes and duties on tobacco.  And that is exactly what Leyonhjelm is saying.Perhaps the reason the Senator did not refer to smokers costing the health care system much more than they cost in taxes, is because it is not in fact true.  A little research would show that smokers contribute far more to the government in tobacco taxes than they cost to the health care system.Actually, no.  The smokers, like it or not, pay far more in taxes than they cost the health care system.  And while they may be on welfare in their 50s, they will not be around to collect pensions for the subsequent 30 years.  And that's the whole point.  Smokers do not constitute a drain on the public purse - yes, the may well live miserable and shortened lives, but who is society to prevent them from making that choice.I'm sorry, but your understanding is incorrect.  The actual tangible costs to the health care system of smokers and smoking related disease is a tenth of the revenue the government gets from taxes on tobacco.I'm very sorry for your loss.  But you have it wrong on the cost and tax figures.  Taxes and duties from cigarettes generate far more than the cost of smoking to the health system.  That's one of the reasons government will not outlaw tobacco: it needs the revenue.Oh come now.  You haven't seen miserable smokers until you've seen them huddled outside the office block in Ottawa at minus 25.  Now that's misery (and desperation).As has been pointed out, the revenue streams the government collects from taxes and duty on tobacco far outweigh the costs smokers impose on the health care system.  So which social costs beyond the health care ones do you feel smokers ought to reimburse?@Harry T - it does, and I don't think that's necessarily a bad thing.  It also brings the PUPs into disrepute (if that's possible) and those idiotic Greens who've just sold their souls and principles to a man who's not exactly got a pristine environmental record.
