Awful news so sad"probably a tragic case off itchy trigger finger and mistaken identity. Makes you wonder about the wisdom flying over a war Zone I would have thought that was a real dangerous thing to do.I agree not a good idea to fly over a war zone but the route remains open they are not the only airline using it.

I think the general assumption now is those who pulled the trigger thought it was an enemy cargo jet either way war is about killing you call it murder they call it war your in the zone your a target.Abbott's stupid budget " I think you need a history lesson research 21% interest rates and the recession we had to have and see what you come up with.OK so labor compassion is open boarders and over a thousand deaths at sea. I like Abbott's version better.the yank: Revisit the budget your a joke the budget is less austere than anything that 21% interest rate the recession we had to have Keating dished up and your hyperventilating.I was not talking about Russia It was Australia in the eighties. 

And some have selective memories.Paul01: If you take the time to read the post. It is my assessment that the yank "stated this issue was handled well but he added that maybe now he will revisit the budget. So we have a begrudging acknowledgement on one hand and a proviso on the other. The inference being the budget is some how flawed and needs a revisit. I was pointing out this budget is not a president.  I hope that helps.Mitor the Bold: If my memory is correct you have no issue referring to the Howard years when it suites. Pot kettle Black I would say.Paul01: Sorry for the selling and grammar mistakes I left school at 14 and English was never a strength when at school most here however appear to get my drift.

If my spelling is so off putting for you perhaps you should skip my posts but keep in mind I have met great many very well educated fools on my journey.Criss: I make no assumption I just stated fact this budget is no better or worse than many before it. Hockey is accused of a president and that is simply not true.Colmery: Some on this forum has had a very good education and others are educated in the school of hard knocks I am from the latter and I just give as good as I get. Believe me you don't need the defend the yank I was just responding in kind.GregL: Look Abbott has done a great job from day one he inherited a financial nightmare no one on the left believes exists and an open boarder situation costing many lives sure one poor sole died in detention in a riot but what about over a thousand that died at sea because of really stupid labor policy.

So lets get things in perspective shall we.Bailey's Mother: Obviously your talking official interest rates some financial institutions charged much more the commercial bank of Australia was 21% on some loans.Oh here we go the left trying to justify in their minds what the rest of us always knew that with two years to a federal election the polls would turn.

The attack on Abbott and his government not by the hapless opposition but by the leftist press and lefties on social media with an army of on-line bloggers with the time and resources to bombard the internet has been relentless. 

The Hockey budget is less austere than anything the recession we had to have labor darling Keating dished up but the lefties have gone into a frenzy of negative vitriol an gloom and doom.whogoesthere: Oh dear the polls must turning and Abbott is looking good for a second term. Don't upset yourself now Abbott is a great PM.whogoesthere: I would not know or care for that matter what you are but I really don't like to see people stressed to the point of abuse. I am glad your calm now good for you.Rubbish nothing has changed with Abbott at all he is the same effective PM he has been from day one. He has done in twelve months more than labor could achieve in six horrible years. 

He has stopped the boats and probably saved many from a death at sea.rgb: Actually if you where honest you would have to say yes on all points. Any hold up is the Labor greens alliance in the senate I would say.Sir Trent Toogood: I agree in part Abbott did no more than Rudd or Gillard would have done. And yes the polls will fluctuate but the change of heart regarding Abbott is more from the left.  The rest us know Abbott is a pragmatic person with his mind in the right place that's why we voted LNP.I am always amused at the educed and their opinions and solutions for middle east peace. 
The penny never drops does it as these peoples have been killing each other over a patch of sand for centuries and the only thing that really changes are the weapons.What amuses me is many of those who wax on about banning cigarettes are in favour of legalised marijuana and safe injecting houses.I don't have a mobile phone.Only the very naive would believe that at some time Australian will not fall victim to terrorists on Australian soil.

The government of the day will then be accused of not doing enough to address the threat. Dammed if they do it appears and definitely dammed if they don't.Nothing new in any of this and nothing is going to change because the ABC decided it needed to be aired on the drum. 

I think some things are better left alone nothing to be gained in soliciting the inevitable for and against comment that is in the end irrelevant and will not change a thing.I think Turnbull should resign from the Government and join the Labor opposition as leader. That would make Turnbull feel fulfilled and give labor a decent leader.Alpo: Your attempt at a smoke screen cannot deflect the reality that was Labors six years of utter carnage even a blind fool would understand 11 months of an LNP government could not effect these numbers.

You are now seeing the folly of using borrowed money to prop up unproductive industry using the tax payers as manufacturing welfare.I think believing the taxpayer should treat manufacturing as a public service as the ALP did the car industry says it all. If you want a communist state why dont you have the courage to say so comrade.Michael likes to blame the high dollar for the Australian manufacturing and now mining woes. The truth that cannot be faced by labor and it's supporters is union dominated work places pushing for ridiculous wages has destroyed the country.

Any new labor government would be faced with two choices spend the future fund and the superannuation pot to fund welfare and public services or borrow more money.And as I look across the road three trucks a Ute and six men with a supervisor having a third attempt to get a fibre cable 50 meters to the house. My neighbours have been waiting 5 months I was lucky they got the fibre up the existing conduct.Well Brian your the exception I would say. Our NBN service is hopeless poor speed and endless micro drop outs.And Australia will pay for generations for a Stephen Conroy thought bubble FTTH in a country as sparsely populated and domesticity diverse as Australia was always insanity.

What Alan should be writing about is how some one as intellectually challenged as Stephen Conroy can be allowed a licence to ruin with no cost benefit scrutiny or a binding analysis. How can this be ????Well I would have thought FTTH would include all Australians not just those in city's.  
The same old tired defenders trot out the same old tired excuses that are no excuse at all. The NBN is a huge hopeless white elephant that will never be finished and should be scrapped.Data retention is one thing what to retain is altogether another an who pays the bill.Oh just a little bit of an overreaction Jonathan. I would have thought only those who go to inappropriate web pages or access social media and biog sites while being paid at work to do other things would have a concern.

I can see employers having browsing history as evidence of workers malingering in a wrongful dismissal cases.observer: The government has a third of people who will always vote LNP regardless and the ALP has the same. The challenge for Abbott and Shorten is to convince the other third they can do the best for them.

I vote for any party I think can do the best for my family and Australia and Shorten has not inspired me to vote Labor as Rudd did in 2007.Another generalised statement buy a dedicated Abbott hater. If you going to harp on about the budget you could at least attempt to be to subject and specific but I guess the anti government brigade do as they like on this biased forum.The point missed again is the budget is criticised by the left of politics and their supporters without specifics or alternatives.

I disagree with the PPL and you I would have thought should also have areas of the document you believe required changes and why, or your just winging.struck dumb: I am sorry if things are not great for you at this time but I don't know what pension your on there are many.

My parents where on the aged pension and sold up in their latter years and moved to the country as I remember the rates and taxes were easier for them, they always owned their house and never paid rent consequently they lived well. But I know neither of them would have spent money on an internet connection or cigarettes and mobile phones like many manage to do now on welfare.Alpo: More criticism of the government but the alternative is unthinkable. Missing in action Bill and the union gang thinking up plans to make straight for the future fund and public service superannuation to fund their new open boarders program of free entry to any economic refugee.
Alpo: I think it's painfully obvious that six years of labor ruined Australian manufacturing and mining is following these things don't go belly in a few months because we changed government. And you do not mention a 30 year debt legacy and now labor's obstruction of any attempt to address it.

The Labor and Greens alliance dismantled the working pacific solution the gave us thousands of asylum seekers and economic refugees through open boarders boats arriving on the Australian main land and WA country ports and many deaths at sea. Under any Labor and Greens government this will happen again and only a delusional fool would think otherwise.

So what you are saying Greg even though you can't see it, despite having one of the most generous welfare systems on the planet Australians still cannot live with in their means. 

And lets not forget Tobacco and Alcohol are luxury items that welfare should not be expected to provide.Drum Major: Your wrong as usual. I believe our welfare system is one of  the best in the world. What welfare system are you referring too that gives a better percentage of average weekly earnings than the Australian system.Well done, that's what happened. Gillard borrowed but could not repay and gave us debt the present government is trying to address but guess what Labor not only gave us the watch my lips surplus that turned to billions of debt they are now blocking a debt recovery budget. 

Hard to believe but it's true and you support them. LOL.Is it a sign of desire or senility.I really don't see what the fuss is about. Tony Abbott said he would stop the economic refugees DONE, Tony Abbott said he would repeal the onerous labor taxes DONE.

Tony Abbott has only been in power less than one year and Tony Abbott has achieved much more on a positive note for Australians than inward thinking labor managed in six years. 















Well James I guess Like all above you will not be voting LNP at the next federal election in 26 months and like all above you would not have voted LNP at the last election.

And Guess what ! The LNP still won. LOL.Bruce: As for the big end of town that never survived the Rudd Gillard Rudd government's. 
And as for corrupt LNP member's I think your referring to the RC into unions and that would be corrupt Labor Politicians and Union Leaders. Sorry, I forgot they are one in the same.Alpo: You keep referring to this mystical alternative government that no one ever sees or hears from. If they ever front an election campaign and full media scrutiny we will see what alternative they really are.

At present they are happy for the Greens the ABC and Fairfax to play opposition but that will not last. As Gillard said, Labor has lost there way.I agree with custard for Labor to win the next election Labor will have to come out of hiding and actually do something. So wouldn't hold my breath.I disagree Neil' a great deal has changed from WW1. Australia now command their own troops and are no longer seen as just colonial cannon fodder.OH I see Australian command could argue the merits of being used as cannon fodder but could not avoid it because they were under British overall command and there for became cannon fodder any way.Gallipoli was an English defeat colonial soldiers under British command. Now days Australia may enter a coalition of the willing under Australian command there is no comparison with Gallipoli WW1 and North Africa ww11.   

Much has changed.Well you wanted to tell us all about you war knowledge good on you" but you have missed my point entirely. Australian soldiers are now under Australian command. OK.Ian same old same you like others wringing their hand over home affordability, forget the obvious desirability over affordability.

Take the sprawling suburban waste land of Perth Suburbia Kilometre after Kilometre of 4x2 Mansions on tiny blocks bypassing many older suburbs with large lots of vacant land and older housing ripe for renovation to get to the next knew thing way out in the ever expanding wilderness. 

The cost of providing infrastructure and public transport to these places is putting and unfair cost burden on everyone. Governments need to step up and say no to endless development.Firstly I think the PPL is joke and should not go ahead. Having said that however I acknowledge the PPL scheme has also been roundly criticised by prominent women from Labor and the Greens and now Paula your critical because you can see it becoming a non event.

The truth is the PPL should have been a labor or Green initiative they had six years to do it and the thought of Gillards great misogynist presenting a PPL to assist working women have children was all too much and they are more than happy to see it disappear for now so they can resurrect it in some other form.No Labor has not got a scheme in place because they are in opposition but you can be excused for not noticing.Rusty my point being missed here is don't go into debt to the point both need to work" if you want kids one of the parents should stay home and raise them otherwise why have them to leave in child care. And don't get me started on that little money pit.Simon firstly I depute your figures any one can say 70% cycle off employment benefits within twelve months. Do these figures include those going onto other forms of welfare. Aged pension, disability pension, care leave, Student allowance, single parent allowance.

I would say 60% on unemployment benefits are long term and 50% of that total is people under 25 years of age. Prove me wrong !OH Dear Christine just forgot the big states that fund the country do so with mining. Another loony Green attack on the hand that feeds us. 

Real dumb stuff Christine watch you back young Scott would be seething.Judy Bee: Give us a break your so naive" mining workers wages alone forget the billions in royalties and thousands of workers employed by contractors in ongoing maintenance and repair.  Guess where they spend their money in a small business in their home town. 

And with the present decline these small businesses are failing daily and the silly Greens would love to speed up the decline. The Greens and their supporters are Stupid Stupid People with absolutely no foresight what so ever.
With respect Tim Australia does not really have to do a thing but mind it's own business. These middle Eastern conflicts between various middle Eastern protagonists have been ongoing for over a thousand years in one form or another the only thing that changes is the weaponry.

And to think anyone in the middle East cares one iota for an Australian opinion on their continued slaughter of each other is naive.Dove: That's my point this particular conflict and there will be lot's more nothing changes. None of our business not our war.Come on pull the other one Tim "after six years of Labor there is nothing left to feed to the sharks look around you the cupboards bare.If Malcolm Turnbull continues to perform at level he has for the last twelve months the pirates have nothing at all to be afraid of.Alpo: NO NO they have had a cabinet meeting and decided it's all too hard and they are going to hand over to Bill problem being no one can find Bill apparently missing in Action again so Sara Always Fun said she would be leader on behalf of the Greens. They are still considering.And what privacy is that Kevin"  hope you don't use a smart phone if your concerned about being tracked.Nothing new in any of this and both sides have been guilty of similar before now I just don't understand why some journalists openly expose themselves with an allegiance to a specific political party.Yep your right some one in the Labor party would have tipped them off to get in early I bet this was not the story they were hoping to run.And it's still about Tony I see.Well if you want to follow the RC into unions you wont do it on the ABC.Yeah you've got it ! It's called a thought bubble Rudd had one a day.Latham was a leader of the missing in action Labor party at some stage. I think that says it all.Alpo: Perhaps you can help how long is it until the next election give or take week or two I think it's years. What about a prediction from you I have Abbott wining easily with a reduced margin.Still underestimating Abbott it's good to see.I was wondering how long it would take for the ABC to round on Abbott again and I didn't have long to wait. Off coarse the useless labor opposition is still missing in action nearly a year after the election and has left it to the Greens to carry the flag this does no rate a mention on the leftist ABC it's still all about Tony again.Yes all correct Alpo and most super funds allow an on line investment mix for you to choose from with a capital guaranteed component of cash and bonds for troubled times. After retirement and thats any time after 55 you can opt for an allocated pension tax free after 60 and still access the investment mix at your pleasure.Just one problem haven't you overlooked the reason for superannuation and why Keating and Kelty made it compulsory. The reason being the state will eventually not be able to support the aged pension as it does now.Michael I agree it's the thin edge of the wedge and could herald yet more legislation and the first crack in an extremely attractive money pot. 

The object of superannuation was to relieve the burden of government in funding the retirement of increasing numbers with a decreasing tax base the challenge now is to keep politicians and bureaucrats from spending it.From the Fortress: Very easy to offer criticism not so easy to offer a viable solution I see.Yeah ! And you end up with neither. Then what ??Yeah your knowledge on the issue excepted that leaves a couple of questions what happens to the no hoper's as you refer to them and what would you train people with no hope to do ?

I think work for the dole is a good idea but much more needs to be explained I can't believe unemployed cannot partake in some form of trade assistant training  home maintenance or parks and garden management, traffic management S.E.S and the list goes on. 

But someone has to make a start to give these people a push and give them reason to get out of bed and have a life.Oh OK your right it's all a complete waste of time an effort let's just except there are those who will never work and doing anything to help is just wasted money. 

SURFS UP.Well I at least try to have a positive attitude and hope people aspire to a better life than scraping out a living dole payment to dole payment. 

Complaining about the system that makes them line up cap in hand and winging they do not get enough for doing nothing. But if your happy doing nothing that's all that matters I guess.would. That effects people comfortable on the dole and too lazy to travel or move to work . There I finished your sentence for you.Thank you.    English was never a strong point in a very basic 7 year education but as stated previously I have met a few well educated fools along the way.Would:    I am very sorry to hear about your father and I hope things improve for you. 

 But in all fairness I could not know about you situation. This is an open and sometimes very robust forum but I hope no one goes out with intent to hurt anyone.Clusterpod:They don't go far enough let's add: Policy to weed out the professional students on their 3rd degree and a $100.00 hecs debt. Who never intend to work.Sorry I do my best !!Lynk: It's not about your son it's about the tens of thousands of kids who have decided they don't need to work.jack: Seriously if you want to work in Australia you can get a job right now this very minute it might be scrubbing out a very dirty toilet block or picking fruit in the rain and you may have to travel a 1000 kilometers but if you want to work it's there. 

If want to be a job snob sure there is no work is there because your just waiting for the right opportunity that never seams to come does it Jack.Well Mark you need to get out more you don't see much from behind a desk do you now.Malcolm: Have you any idea how many unemployed kids between 17 and 21 there are sitting around in coastal and country towns doing nothing and not to mention city suburbs. Unemployed youth in some places is 68%.I live in a coastal town and the streets and shopping centers on any given day have large numbers of unemployed youth looking to pass the time not always with the best interests of others in mind, reason no work in a retirement mecca for kids.

My kids all travel to the city to work and one works overseas because they were encouraged to do so. However a large number of kids here have parents that have never worked either. 

So get them off their backsides and off streets doing something. GREAT IDEA.
Yes you can use stats in many ways and Greg is a master of the art of hiding what does no support his argument. He does not mention the Australian job snobs who don't want to get their hands dirty while 457 visas cover the work while they bludge on the dole.Yes Malcolm as a father of four adults and a grand father to 9 teenage grand children I know all about job snobs thanks very much. What do you need to know.I think you need to realize the treasury is not a bottomless pit and at present welfare is funded on borrowed money that needs to be paid back. And Australian cannot afford to borrow money to give to foreign owned car companies to build cars no one buys.  Think about it.Well your not even close 457 visas where introduced so farmers and small business owners could get workers for low paid dirty work the Australian job snob would not look at. OK !!!OK so they have only an Australian passport Australia is not at war and these people have killed wouldn't that be murder.Get it right Lilly it's Killing people overseas.They will just turn up in a boat and the open boarders brigade will have them ushered in or a federal court challenge will be mounted. Goodness me there are some silly people in Australia.You open your boarders this is what you give a home too and anyone who doesn't think these people will bring terror to your city is a complete idiot.

Remember Australia is not at war and no Australian should be taking arms and killing anyone you choose to do that your no longer Australian your a stateless soldier of fortune and should be considered a National threat.No not so it has nothing to do with lower class citizens its a reality check. Australia can only sustain so much we are a isolated place and every thing we do is expensive and a lot more will be on welfare next week and every week thereafter as small businesses that rely on manufacturing and mining go under. 

The dole is borrowed money Australia is in debt with a shrinking tax base have a real think about the dole and how many can it sustain.Well you don't need to be a Rhodes scholar to understand the tax base is shrinking manufacturing dead in the water and mining in decline small businesses are closing in numbers every hour.

So when do we reach a point where welfare at becomes unsustainable it's already on borrowed money. And people who post here want more immigration. Goodness me.No concern for a sustainable population I guess.Jim: The color of a persons skin is not relevant what should be relevant is how many migrants can Australia sustain before what we love about Australia is unsustainable and we become what they left behind.the egg: Different times a very different Australia and I don't understand iwhy sustainable population for this fragile land is off the Green agenda.So your happy for federal police or Australian soldiers for that matter to die in the pursuit of human remains. Just Unbelievable !!Sorry Dave but I really don't think you understand what you are suggesting it is not cowardice not to risk the death of Australians by waiting until is safe to retrieve human remains it's common sense. Any thing else is an exercise in abstract stupidity.Brian: Hang on a minute let's not forget the ABC penchant for a beat up I have not heard Abbott or bishop saying directly they want to have armed people at the crash site.

If they have said this where is Bill Shorten he should be in the media publicly calling for restraint and pointing out the dangers of such folly.Human remains are all that remain and I hope common sense rears it's head to override the emotion of the issue. Abbott and Bishop need to step back and take perspective the loss of more lives in the pursuit of human remains is unthinkable.Alpo: Ironically it's always government paid bureaucrats calling for higher taxes always complaining about several magnates getting rich conveniently forgetting that the public servants have far better working conditions a renumeration than the majority of workers.Alpo: The reality is the Bureaucratic public service operate in a 1970 -80's industrial environment with politicians of all sides too timid to tackle them. With around 700 thousand federal bureaucrats for 24 million people that is simply not sustainable just imagine at the number you would need if our population was 240 million. 

If the public service operated to same work standards and practices as the Australian private sector they could reduce numbers and associated costs by one third.Alpo: I don't think many who work for $21 an hour as permanent part time with no prospect of permanency let alone the benefit of accumulating sick leave stress leave care leave annual leave long service leave flex i days and 9 day fortnights OH I forgot study leave team building jaunts and conferences not to mention workers comp with on 45 weeks full pay then 75% until retirement at 65  Would agree with you.Goodness me ! And what renewable s would they be and who do you export them too as a replacement for coal.Stuffed Olive: OK you have all the answers with mining winding back and a reduction in royalty revenues for the states who will then want more from the Feds what do you envisage will provide an income balance. Forget increasing the GST that is just like paying one credit card off with another.This has been coming for a few years and the left of politics have not been prepared to admit it happy to pin the faith on rubbery forward estimates. 

Global mineral resources are plentiful and people are going to see just how easy it is to price yourself out of the market.

Our standard of living in Australia and wage expectations are way too generous for the income we generate and the debt we carry. Problem being some people don't know there is a hole in the roof until the ceiling falls in.In my time Abbott with Menzies,Holt,Gorton,McMahon,Whitlam,Frazer,Hawke,Keating,Howard,Rudd and Gillard preceding him has a way to go before I could have an opinion. For me It was a toss up between Howard and Keating who achieved most for the average Aussie with Rudd and McMahon equally forgettable for different reasons. 

Kim Beasley is the standout for me as the best most honest and cohesive opposition leader and Shorten has a long way to go to even carry his bag.

And the most upsetting was the way Gillard was treated by her own as well as the coalition she never had a chance and lashing out at the men she despised didn't help.

It has not been denied that the Australian government considers the ABC as negative force in international dealings due to what the government views as selective reporting.If reporters did their job with accuracy instead of garnishing the Lilly they would be far better thought of.  The modern News report particularly from the ABC is actually attempting to manufacture news by innuendo in claiming "it has not been denied" and then introducing there own scenario.Barrie I think the frustration of failing to convince labor of the absolute mess they left and then having them thwart all efforts he makes to address the issue  it would anger any reasonable person.

There is a real issue here as debt will quickly take a quarter of GDP.Well I don't no how he died and I am not interested in reading it. But I guess some people feel they need to know. I think it's the pit fall of a public person people think they have right to know all about them it's their price to pay for fame. Very Sad.As Micheal Chaney said if people keep denying Australia's rising debt problem and blocking moves to address it the debt will soon become over 20% of GDP.  

The recalcitrant senate making white noise for personal gain are 
destroying your future and so many of you here are so swept up in anti government rhetoric they can't see past the end of their nose.So your reply is tax what little we have going for us until they go some where else is it.

It's that sort of leftist mentality that gave us the mess we are in and it's becoming more obvious as the days roll by. The leftist media put up their no budget emergency smoke screen for a while but the wheels are off now as the big end of town takes to the media to push the budget.I don''t care what information anyone collects on me it makes no difference to my decision making and I commit no crimes.Depends on your generation and your values I suppose I would NOT have liked to hear my Mum god rest her sole telling all on a radio show how she liked her men Rich and well hung and I don't think Dad would have been impressed either.

I just cringed when I hear it as I tend to do every time Lambie opens her mouth and I bet her kids do too..MMM. I guess it is about having a bit of class some do some don't some know what class is and some don't.Forget banks going under the real threat is a labor government  as soon as they get back in they will head straight for the nations superannuation pot.  And that's Guaranteed.Alpo: Where does the money come from to bail out big banks when the country itself is in debt. Not the superannuation pot I hope rember Swan had his eye on until Gillard shut him up.Alpo:We can go round in circles here issuing bonds or printing money is inflationary Uganda and Greece come to mind the best solution is always simplistic just control spending reduce debt and hopefully return to surplus  so if the unthinkable should happen you can at least afford to provide welfare. 
Forget the reliance on rubbery forward estimates for debt recovery. There is no budget emergency only as long as there is no global financial emergency and at Australian debt levels combined with a recalcitrant  stonewalling senate we are in real trouble because what gave us the GFC is still with us.Steven: That's banking and how they generate their profits unfortunately in this country deregulation gave them open slather on fees as well. And as for the big four there is no collusion is there.that's not allowed.Laura: It's not criminal to use the existing regulations to exploit weakness it's called a loop hole. Negative gearing comes to mind and family trusts and self funded super and on it goes.I think your making some very bold assumptions you need to take a deep breath and understand you just don't storm into another country especially a war zone and start making accusations and threats.OH I get it so we get our transport plane I think we have one left and invade do we.I am surprised he has not been blamed for the plane being shot down he gets blamed for every thing else.So it's all Putin's fault is it so we will punish him by not letting him come to the G20. You have to be joking as if Putin would care less and after all what say would Putin have in the day to day activities of rebels in another country.

When you look at those making the most noise Campbell Newman and Christine Miline they have one thing only in common they are both desperate for a vote. 

OK and can cyclists stop treating dual purpose path ways as a race track.I don't agree that some action is better than no action at all if that action reduces the quality of life for Australians with no tangible effect on global emissions I remain vehemently opposed.Give a rest Ian the government that was obsessed with a surplus was defeated at the last election and the Mining Tax was left by that labor government for the miners to design to benefit themselves. 

If Australians want a return to the useless mining and carbon tax more debt plus an avalanche of illegal immigrants just vote labor and whoever is leading them at the time it's that easy.Well at our present rate of change all this is about 400 years away. 

The reality Tony likes to be seen to be doing something but no PM in the last hundred years has done anything but huff and puff when it comes to the bureaucracy and why would it change with Abbott.ij: That is your assessment of our Pm and in Australia you are safe to make it public. 

However I would say Tony Abbott is an honest family man with the best interests of the Country in mind. What his beliefs are regarding religion are not relevant.Peter: I like to deal in facts not grubby innuendo despite the many rumours surrounding Julia and Tims sexuality I never felt the need to try and use the innuendo to make a political point. It's just grubby.Julia Gillard was a prominent atheist PM are you insinuating that a person who has religious view must be a bigot and should be precluded from office.

That would then include the bigot that is the president of the USA and the leaders of a great many countries not to mention the tens of millions of religious people around the globe I am starting to think bigotry if that is your insinuation is more fashionable than you give credit.Alpo: I understand you desire to ignore the labor year's Rudd and Gillard both were recorded as mutterers of substantial untruths but we have moved on since then. 

Abbott said he would stop the boats and repeal the carbon and mining taxes and he has achieved all that in ten months and now he will move to address Labor's debt Legacy.

Abbott is doing a fantastic job and deserves far more support than he gets from the public service.Abbott would not expect any agreement from left of politics or the federal public service to anything that would ultimately lead to decentralization and a reduction of their power and number.

But Abbott does not go far enough as a Tasmanian politician has already mooted why not decentralize the Federal Public Service. We now have a modern NBN lets use it move entire public service departments to places like Tasmania and South Australia as a priority of decentralization of publicly funded workers. Spread the wealth.Ok what levies would they be I can think of quite a few introduced by Labor but I am really struggling to remember levies introduced by Abbott in the last 1o months.OK back to the original point I can't recall Abbott introducing a levy in the last 10 months and neither can you for that matter. The PPL scheme is a monster and Abbott will be forced to delay or back away coming soon probably as a bargaining chip in the senate for other legislation passing.Mark I would have said income tax has many levels and components and I fail to see how adding another component to an existing tax is a new tax. If you put bigger wheels on your car it's still the same car just has bigger wheels.Rabbithole: This is not a new issue the left of politics are now noisily banging on about" Negative Gearing was not discussed  during the six years of labor and now it is all Tony's fault.

I don't see how anyone can think negative gearing is good policy but it's wrong to proportion blame to the present government when there have been decades to address the issue. 

This government has two years to run and perhaps Abbott may yet surprise us.Beverly there are checks and balances already in place will more rules and regulations to add to the rules and regulations that already fail just complicates issues and adds to an already bloated bureaucracy. 

The simple fact is human nature will always throw up  dishonesty in all areas it's important that those who break the rules we have now are identified and not able to hide amongst the increasing forest of rules regulations that are unable to be adequately policed as it is.

gerard no one will legislate for the cpi on super investments if you want the $250000 gov. bank deposit guarantee and 2% interest on you dollar good on you but there are better options with associated risk. People need to learn to manage their money.Yes very good points the union movement was created to give workers strength in unity to protect the vulnerable from bullies like Palmer. 

This is what old Labor and the union movement was all about a safe and fair work place a fair days pay for a fair days work. How did it all unravel ??Waterloo Sunset: If the NBN is progress then I am definitely missing something. We had a good adsl service and home phone but were advised to connect to the nbn as copper would be cut.

Now after 4 months of missed appointments and silly instillation issues the nbn works to a point we are still having drop outs poor speed and they can't get the phone to work. So be careful what you wish for.If Bitcoin is not simple and easy no one will use it. If it is simple and easy it will be hacked. 

Internet banking saves the banks employing people so they absorb the losses inured by hacking eventually that may not be the best option.What we are really talking about here John is Honesty. The question therefore would be what do politicians consider Honest?

John Howard was called honest John yet he had core and non core promises. Julia Gillard the watch my lips surplus and no carbon tax and Tony Abbott has been as Honest as any politician he has followed into the lodge.

So no given Clive probably has his own version of Honesty"ask the Chinese, I don't think Clive will do very well dealing with political Honesty if the last week is an indicator.Paula your so right Bill and the cool gang have been in hiding rubbing their hands together as Abbott takes a beating in the polls. 

But I join many who would like to see what Australia's alternative Government has to offer and is there a real alternative under Labor or just a return to the back stabbing chaos.

Reducing debt and boarder protection and jobs for Australians are big issues for me and I want to know if I should be voting Labor.I would have thought he was basically doing what he said he would do. Stop the boats he has done a great job there and he is trying rid us of the silly labor taxes I think that will happen.

PPL scheme is his shocker that needs to go and the baby bonus needs the boot otherwise he done ok in his first twelve months.graazt: Your wrong you know I vote for the party I think can do the best for Australia and as I have said before I voted LNP for the first time in 2010. Simply because Rudd Gillard Rudd Labor was sending us broke and now new labor are joining the greens in frustrating Abbott's efforts to recover the situation.

And for labor and their green partners to bang on about no debt issues and their reliance on dodgy forward estimates is really very scary.

All the little punters here enjoy the comedy of an Government mot able to implement policy in what has become a parliamentary circus. 

if labor was to govern again in the next twelve months the only thing that has changed is the boats have stopped the debt level is increasing and the transparency of the labor folly of relying on forward estimates to recover debt is there for all to see.I think the majority of Australians would have supported the carbon tax if it actually had an effect on global emissions.

And the rubbish about Australian setting a global example is for delusional dreamers with fat incomes. The pressure of increased electricity charges on those least able to afford it for no climate gain is disgusting and anyone who supports it is a complete idiot.Chock: The carbon tax supposedly works by making everything more expensive so you consume less and thus reduce power demand and consequently emissions. 

Fantasy land stuff from dreamers who would not know global warming from the ice age.Grumpy: Point taken but Barnett at least claims to build infrastructure with his borrowings but the carbon tax component of your bill is like flushing your money down the toilet.Wrong on all counts Yank the government is being prevented  from governing by a self interest spoiler group called the Greens lets all hope the major party's get together call a DD election and target the loony leftists who are at present holding an entire country to ransom.Labor cares that's for sure but the loony zealots called greens have only self interest and political chaos as their motivator they are a scourge and should be seen for the danger to Australia they are.And why for one minute do you think Labor would be different the advice comes from the same people and is given for the same reasons. Wake up !!!!Labor is doing what oppositions do the Greens are the spoilers they will block the ALP just as the do the LNP to try and implement the extremist agenda. Pandering to them cost Labor government and ruined Gillard.I think you need to take a good look at the composition of the senate the people actually blocking legislation from the cross benches are elected on several hundred votes hardly representative of the peoples senate  I would have thought.Simon says it would be premature to say Abbott's budget lays in ruins but Simon forgets it's the Australian federal Government Budget and it effects us all.

The situation as it stands may be titillating for the Abbott's haters but the reality is Australia has another government that cannot implement the changes it was elected to office to make.

What happened to they govern for 3 years and if they don't get it right they are voted out.  Now its they don't get to govern at all.Any way who cares what Clive want's the present senate debacle with Labor and Greens stone walling everything and cross bench Senators picking and choosing the pet policy for  5 minutes fame in the media leaves Australia now 0ver 4 years without a government who can implement it's policy.

And anyone who thinks it would be different if a new labor government fell over the line are deluding themselves and down we spiral day after day.



What does the ABC and those who post here want from the Australian government with regard to our boarders.

The disseminating of the Pacific Solution under Rudd resulted in a surge in people smuggling that cost 1200 lives and there could have been more for all we know.

Now we have Sri-Lankin Tamils by passing many countries they could have sought asylum to get here does anyone really ask why. And then if this court challenge succeeds and thousands more come and more die at sea do you all then claim the government has failed. How plain stupid can this get.I think the real issue here is politicians are no different to anyone else they never think it can never happen to them or theirs.

Perhaps the aged care industry should be a public service it is really not an area private enterprise should be allowed to screw down to make a profit.

We really do need to have publicly funded an operated aged care facilities we have no trouble finding 1.5 billion for the ABC.Paul01: You would be naive to think new labor would address any of these issues.

And you don't have to be a socialist to vote labor or agree with public funding.  I am for Australia I voted LNP for the first time in 2010 because of Labor's dysfunction under Rudd and their lies and infighting.

Gillard was a good deputy just not PM material and aligned Labor with the loony greens plus blaming Abbott and men in general for her woes when Rudd was the main protagonist was just too much for me. I just think Abbott is the best of a pretty shabby offering but that can change.Ted: You will never see me defend the PPL or the baby bonus for that matter just crappy policy.Don't get too carried away, like the rest of us Alan has worked out he may need a nursing home and it's up to us to put some pressure on. 

Don Randall knows where I stand on aged care.And if you think for one minute Union lead Labor and middle of the road Bill Shorten would be any different to the present conservatives. Your dreaming !!Chris is the Campbell Newman popularity demise personal or can we attribute it to a general disenchantment in politicians of all persuasions. 

And could it be if there is a return to Labor in Queensland the new Labor premier will just as easily fall foul of media and the electorate and this aimless political round about of changing governments to frighted to act should the opinion polls fall is now the Australian political future.And your saying Bill Shorten and new Labor will be different.I don't know about that FG, I think half a million federal public servants getting the boot would send the country completely broke. 

Think of the redundancy packages they would write for themselves better of keeping them just don't replace the retiring ones.And you will probably find a change of government wont change a thing.OH dear we just can't help ourselves can we? Perhaps it should be political football not AFL in this place.Yank it: What you need to ask is a person who bypasses several countries that could offer asylum and risk life and limb on a very risky boat trip to try and enter a so called wealthy country illegally an opportunist illegal asylum seeker and an prospective economic refugee. 

Or what do you like to call them Yank a magnet for the bleeding hearts maybe.Well it's obviously on your mind Joe.I think this is more about lefty Abbott haters attacking the PM  than any real thought of the terrible toll a return to Labor and open boarders will bring. 

Is Dr Joyce Chia claiming the high court panel of judges has more power than the peoples democratically elected government.

If that's the reality here then we are in real trouble because Australia has just become a dictatorship by judicial committee.Trevor M: So your saying the people elect a parliament and the government elects a Prime minister.

So who elects the panel of judges who now rule Australia and when does the elected term expire for these new Australian rulers so the people can change them if they wish.

I don't like your idea of Judicial democracy at all.Ok so what Australian Law is the High Court ruling on in this case when the Ship is in international waters.Yes point taken but can the government of the day dismiss the high court ????Now while your in your corner waiting for the paint to dry when can they choose who is in the High court if the cannot dismiss anyone.No it's not a matter of crying foul it a matter of interference in a government implementing policy in this case the Navy operating in international waters I believe in cooperation with a foreign government about another countries citizens who are attempting to illegally enter Australia.

Now all you bush lawyers know Asylum is to be sought at the first country that can offer it you don't just go on a cruise to the country with the best welfare system. 

A few people bleating here need to work our who seeks asylum and who is an economic refugee.Your wrong on all counts really if you read the piece the inference was to comment on the separation of powers.

I am fully aware of how the Westminster System works it does not mean I think it always works and I believe the separation of powers  is a point in case and I have never been comfortable on the appointment structure for high court judges. 

But I guess labor supporters would have no issues at all with the composition of the present high court bench.



Chris the burning question is do 24 million people really need a federal senate and house of representatives duplicated in every state but Queensland who did away with their senate at no great loss to democracy.

Now added to this endless passing parade of politicians comes a bureaucracy of 1.9 million give or take a thousand here or there plus the odd consultant at a cost reported at a conservatively estimated 1.35 billion dollars just for bureaucrats no figure quoted for their political masters.  

All being paid with borrowed money and we wont mention the budget emergency.I understand the principal behind negative gearing but many residential rental properties the only capital gain is in block value as the house continues to deteriorate along with tenant standards until the house is not fit to rent and is sold at block value and returned to vacant land. 

How do yet get a profit like that and it happens more often than not around here perhaps there is no incentive to maintain a negatively geared property.Dr Stephens I presume has records of the indigenous armies their leaders the battles and most importantly the names of the lost indigenous soldiers.

The so called battle of Pinjarra was fought between local indigenous tribes attacking fortified positions after forcing settlers to defend themselves against random attacks I would not have thought it constituted a sustained or organized war.Alpo: The sensible middle ground was lost when Tony Abbott became the coalition. LOL.

The middle ground as you like to call it was lost when Kevin Rudd upped the funding of the ABC and used the ABC as a personal political tool a situation the ABC can still not regale from.People like Mark Latham talk of a dwindling political class what a joke. 

Australia has over 1.9 million public servants at a cost of 1.35 billion the majority of whom are union members who not only control the ABC with a budget of 1.5 billion but also the ALP.

The fact no government LNP or Labor will ever have the confidants or the will to address the growth of this new political juggernaut makes a mockery of Latham''s dwindling political class.No credibility ABC reports on the ABC the boat was Indian were false the boat is from Sri Lanka a totally different issue al for boarder protection.  And then we had sick children starving and without water again untrue.

The ABC supports the Australian government but that government must be Labor.Well just a load of clap trap really. Tim Dunlop does not agree with Paul Kelly no surprises there and you could guarantee Paul Kelly would not give a dam what Tim Dunlop thinks but like me he would be annoyed the ABC gave Dunlop a place to rant.

And I can also surmise new overseers of the ABC board Neil Brown and Janet Albrechtsen would like to see the ABC comment on the R.C for unions.

Ian the impression your giving me is you think some financial adviser got out of bed today and decided to give bad advice however bad advice is just that it's not a crime unless the adviser profited. 

A Royal commission in this case would achieve little the banks have worked out by now that out sourcing financial advice to save a few bucks is going to cost more than they save.

The royal commission into unions on the other hand is uncovering allegations of criminal acts two completely different things I would think.

Marko: Hang on a minute there is a huge difference between giving bad advice and actually stealing from a fellow union member. 

Now if criminal charges are laid in the financial debatable at the C.B.A i will support a call for a R.C.No criminal charges have been laid so what would a we call it the Royal Commission into bad advice. Sounds like a Monty Python skit to me and about a necessary.Again pure supposition and again not a crime how do you prove bad advice was deliberate the gaols would be full of public servants if that was the case.Alpo: I understand our attractive welfare system would attract many and I become uneasy at the prospect of open immigration for several reasons surely the question of sustainable population becomes a debate.Yes Virgil but about five years too late I would say. People need to wake up and protect their superannuation the standard investment options of most funds will see it gone if the market tanks again. 

Most funds have a Cash and Bonds option for troubled times but it's not by default.Algeron: If you think Hockey and Corman are bad you would be terrified at the opposition alternative and if your not you should be.Oh but there is no budget emergency Alan remember the forward estimates will cover Australian  debt it's only 15% of GDP after all. Oh remember you said our economy is growing at a rate of 3.5% and Hockey and Abbott should listen to a decorated economist who says spending should increase.  

SIGH !!!!And the politics of the carbon tax is it's a mill stone around Labors neck a reminder of deals done to keep the greens happy labor want it gone more than Tony does.OH !! and the reduction of global emissions over the last two years is ?????Yes your right on all counts  Mr Palmer it is alleged by his Chinese business associate has removing 12 million from a joint business venture and that amount it is also alleged was spent on his election campaign. More to come on that I would think.Jennifer it's not about whats good for Tony Abbott surely the real issue is whats good for Australian governance and the ability of a majority government to implement the changes it was voted in for.

The current position of the obstructive anything but Abbott brigade in the senate is not what the majority wanted. Whats the point of electing a majority government if minority zealots prevent governance.Judy Bee: I hear what your saying but we can't keep rushing off to an election every six months because we have changed our minds again. Let the government do it's thing we have elections every three years surely that's enough.Come on Alpo Tony Abbott made a lot of noise but Julia had the numbers oppositions dont win elections do they.Andrew: The only people with authority around here are moderators and I would have thought Abbott won the election by majority vote.Trent if they get it wrong the voters will not miss them at the next election but you have to give them a go.Mick: You used a broad brush to paint the greens one colour but that's the issue for the Greens they come in many shades and they spend most of their time arguing about what shade they should be.I don't understand what Abbott has done the Rudd or Gillard did not and anyone who thinks a carbon tax in Australia reduces global emissions is a fool. I agree with your comment on the Greens.The Green appear all over the place on most thing because the greens are a party of loosely aligned self interest groups. The parliamentary faction are ambitious and forgo more radical conservation to garner votes. 

Basically the Greens stand for nothing that's Kerno and Garrett jumped on with Labor when offered a safe seat.I can't take the greens seriously on one hand they want to lock up the forests and the coast line and then we find they are happy to open our boarders to anyone with a boat who can get here.

When the greens begin behaving like a real conservationist party instead of gratuitous senate spoilers and start talking about our sustainable population I may take an interest.In my experience as a PS Greg Metcraft would be no different to any senior public servant in a union dominated public service highly educated with a diligence to the relevant act and union agreed procedures. They are all institutionalized clones politicians really don't change much at that level if they are replaced the only thing that changes is the furniture.Yank:  No conservative government would ever regulate banking it's not in the DNA but Frazer and treasurer Howard  baulked at deregulation because of the possible consequences. 

Don't forget Rudd and Gillard and two Labor governments had a chance over six years to fix the issue and regulate banking and ignored it.Ian I don't think there is any need to throw the baby out with the bath water and what makes you think any similar organization playing a similar roll would not end up the same.

You have criticized ASIC and raised genuine concerns as any journalist doing their job should and pressure will mount if your criticism is valid. You have put it out there.Good piece David there could be many factors at play here but for me the catalyst of the new political front was rock and roll politics by Kevin Rudd.

All politicians use the media as vehicle for their message but Rudd embraced and involved the media in a way not seen before he loved the attention and the media particularly the ABC with their extra Rudd endorsed funding loved the easy news Rudd fed them. 
Surely the issue is the protection of the community in the first instance a criminal act has taken place allegedly by a person who through drug abuse is mentally impaired. Does this person present an ongoing risk to themselves or the community at large. And if so what would the community except as reasonable action by their government to protect them.

It always easy to be full of care without the responsibility of providing that care and then be the first to be critical if measures fail.All good and well but some person in a government department has to make a decision at the time. Easy to be critical sitting on the fence watching the show.

What would you do if it was your decision what to do with Rosie.Well you don't have to worry there will be plenty of rocks for you to look at because there is no new investment in Australian mining because we have taxed ourselves out of the the market.MMMM. It's not about existing contracts new investment an new projects are the real issue BHP have already laid off workers and are now looking at another 3000 jobs in the north west and the rest will fall like a pack of cards in coming months.

People in Canberra need to understand Australia does not have a monopoly on raw materials tax away the profit and the miners will walkaway in the blink of an eye.And she didn't renewable energy can never replace coal or green bio fuels are costing poor nations their food or the green war against fracking has increased the use of brown coal in Europe. Did she.What an interesting photo the politician on the left a leader of a minor party actually controls the country the politician on the right the Prime minister and leader of the majority elected government that can only pass legislation if the minor party lead by the politician on the left agrees.  Australian Democracy !!I think we need to keep perspective you can guarantee these are the ones that got caught and phone tapping and covert invasion of your privacy is happening somewhere right now. Perhaps to you.There is no budget emergency. I would have thought following Greece by borrowing money to pay public servants and fund welfare was not good. But what would I know?GJA. So a knowledgeable perhaps you could help me out by explaining where Australia will get the money to pay it's public service.

As you would know manufacturing cannot sustain itself food exports the same and mining is now reached a hiatus with no ongoing investment and major projects now nearing completion. 

Sounds like Greek to me.Theos: You need to understand the ideology. Old Labor the ones I voted for looked after you from the cradle to the grave government housing and welfare for the strugglers.

The Libs have always claimed we will create the environment for you to look after yourself with a safety net for strugglers. 

And the only thing that's changed is Labor now thinks they are middle of the road and so do the Libs. Sad really.You do know of coarse Australia has the highest corporate tax rate in the OECD at 30 % the average is 24%.Noble thoughts but the reality is we have movers and shakers and followers and you cant have one without the other.I guess everyone wants equality I think they called it communism any way it failed because people are born greedy survival of the fittest and all that stuff.

But one thing worth noting Greg forgot to mention at 30% Australia's business tax is one of the highest in the OECD.Chris the royal commission into unions has not been kind to Bill Shorten and he may deny the accusations made against him but lets remember these accusations are being made by his own union colleagues not the Liberals.

Bill shorten cannot be removed without a vote of Labor members under Rudd's law but no one can stop him from resigning more to come for Bill Shorten you will find and I wont be surprized if he is gone before 2016.Are you serious one was a GFC where Swan created the mess we are in by over borrowing the other is the lefties deliberately holding a majority government to ransom for personal gain as the government try to repair labor's  carnage. The mind BogglesDon't forget Governments loose elections If Rudd or Gillard had been half efficient instead of totally hopeless, gaff prone Abbott would not have got a look in. 

And what Labor has presently dished up as an opposition does not inspire confidence a change back to Labor would improve anything.Australia needs to mind their own business commit planes or troops to one side of a domestic religious conflict and you have committed your government and people to the conflict. 

Those on the other side who live in Australia maybe in your street will feel justified taking action here against the government and those they see as supporters of their enemy 

People need to wake up this is not a game extremists play to the death.Well Barrie nice to see you have at last acknowledged the opposition does have a roll to play and with Iron ore and coal prices set to tumble lets hope that roll is a positive one. 

I don't believe Australia has a roll to play in Syria so lets also hope the opposition feels the same way.Yes I agree we have began to treat politics as a contact sport and I also think journalists have a lot to answer for in that regard it's much easier to write in negativity than positivity. perhaps they are over paid lazy with more than a couple past the use by date.I will stand corrected here if wrong but it's my take on the Syrian there is a war between Muslim factions. If I am correct what for goodness sake has it to do with Australia or the USA for that matter.Thank you. But I don't think Abbott is any different to what went before him on the place in history bit.Well Australia has no manufacturing industry because we are told wages make us uncompetitive. Quantas has shed staff and taken work off shore because wages are too high and Air New-Zealand who pays staff at about 25% less than Quantas is paying staff bonuses from profits. If you still think our wage structure is affordable your in for the same shock Mike Steketee is going to get.We could always have socialism I suppose two bedrooms one bathroom and a Holden Kings wood for all.We all knew this was going to end in tears and another poorly managed Australian company heads for the gurgler and no one on the board lifts a finger to save themselves as the ship goes under.  
 
Air New-Zealand is totally opposite they are doing so well they just paid staff a $700.00 bonus mean while Joyce and his big fat pay check takes Quants to the cleaners.Yeah Joyce an Irishman highlights what appears to be this fixation in Australia companies that anyone from overseas knows better and it's costing Australia dearly. Before I retired from the Northwest several years ago I notice the preference was take overseas workers at about five to one.WP: Whats your point, the reality is Air New-Zealand made a profit Quatas is going under. So f your not prepared to do as they did no Quantas. What so hard to understand about that.Yes your right the board of Quatas is joke but if socialism was any good more would be doing it I guess. You can always live in China.A play on words is OK but I think it's all getting a bit too much the ABC obsession with Clive is actually making problems. if the Buffoon had not been on Q&amp;A in the first place we would not be talking about the embarrassing of Chinese people and trading partners would we. 

I don't watch Q&amp;A I find the leftist bias of Jones and his hand picked Laborite cheer squad too much to take in at that hour of the evening.Nova4avr: Thanks Jonathan for a factual article. I disagree I don''t think the article very factual at all.

You obviously have not read the Paul Kelly article describing Kevin Rudd's personality and how it lead to Labor dysfunction in the years 2008 to 2010. 

It would be great if Paul Kelly could contribute to the ABC for some much needed balance.Jonathan the system is fine. I also read the Paul Kelly article and Green is attempting to twist Kelly's description of dysfunction in labor under a personality flawed Rudd to excuse Labor driving the 2014 parliament into dysfunction.

Abbott opposed what Swan Rudd And Gillard where doing to the Australian economy and he was right. Shorten is opposing every thing out of petulant bloody mindedness with no regard for the Australian people.Suffered a similar injury in 1995 I understand any movement is painful I attended Aqua therapy and found it very beneficial I swim every day for back pain relief.
You will find drugs are only a temporary relief as consistent use will give you much more than back pain you need to try alternative measures and the prolapsed disk can be removed if you cannot take the pain.Ok sorry to hear that. Can only wish you luck.  I had several of the damaged disks removed and joints fused and I am about 75 % now days. I still have the steel supporting rods and can walk OK. Pain is always present but I get by no choice really.Drug companies like Tobacco companies are very wealthy and wield great influence. In 1994 the W.H.O decided the excepted normal Blood Pressure was 140/80 now the normal optimum measure is 120/70.  

The difference is literally billions of dollars as millions more patents are now deemed to require BP medication to reach the W.H.O targets for good health.Blood pressure in many cases is not understood for instance I have always been fit and active through out my life bar a few injury glitches and the only medication I take is for BP and I have taken BP medication since I was 25 nearly four decades. And no one can tell my why I have high BP spikes it's just not understood.Perhaps your right I will not argue however I have just purchased a new BP measuring device and I read the recommendation from this booklet compared to the old booklet and they both quote the World health organisation as their guide.As always the user has absolute and unmitigated control over their exposure to social media. Don't log on.All good and well but I can tell you from personal experience many of these people have a mobile phone use Alcohol and a large number smoke so please include all factors in your calculations otherwise your giving misleading information.I think perhaps you may have missed the point If Australia's private and public sector debt become unsustainable the government who ever it is will reach a point where it is unable to sustain even basic public services. 

In Europe several countries had reached that point but were bailed out buy the European Bank. Australia has no such luxury and I think labor is relying on forward estimates to balance the books and intern these estimates are tied to sales to China. Not good I would have thought.Alpo: Abbott was disrupting labor because the mess was getting bigger and bigger. Labor is now trying to disrupt the repair job different altogether.There is two years to turn the polls and in the absence of a creditable alternative that will not be hard but the reality is the PPL is a clanger the $7 co-payment is ridiculous and neither should have seen the light of day.

And then when you look toward the Labor opposition for an alternative the mind turns to more borrowing an increased NBN blow out and a return to boats by the hundreds.  Not good where ever you look unfortunately.Sorry Albany too many conspiracies no politician of any persuasion would go into parliament deliberately to make peoples lives miserable for goodness sake.
They all try their best we might not always agree with them but to infer that deliberately creating poverty is the governments plan is ridiculous. 

And you cant tell me Kevin Rudd budgeted for the GFC can you now.RosieA: I like to keep things very simple the revenue comes in the Government spends to provide services. 

Now if the money they take in has not been enough and they borrowed more we have a bigger problem as they now need income to fund the existing commitments and repay the loan. So if the original income before they borrowed is going down not up we have an emergency all right accumulating interest never stops.RosieA: Perhaps the government should stick to saving the Australian bottom line before attempting to save the world. What do you think good idea.Mark I am not saying the budget is a good one by any means but I just forget the budget reply.  Perhaps you can enlighten me on what labor has planned for us if they win government.MMM. Murdoch and Rinehart and as the polls begin to turn "news poll Today" I guess the majority of the voters next election.Well done Barrie a little spice in the daily ABC Abbott bash, we all know what you think of Tony Abbott but I am intrigued to find out what you think of Bill Shorten and Australia prospects with a Labor Federal Government.

For example many would not know who the Labor Ministers for defence or foreign affairs would be. I don't.OH !! Australia is going to war are they. First I have heard of that.The ABC and their cast of thousands spend much of their bagging the prime minister and the federal government. 

Yet not one piece from the likes of Jonathan Green or Barrie Cassidy on the suitability of labor to step up if a DD election was to happen.Mark James: That's true just a shame the labor government of the time did not believe the job of a government was to govern Instead of tearing each other apart. And on it goes even today.toot: I wonder if it's as bad as we read here, I see Ken Henry says most of the budget is actually passed. They should now drop PPL scheme and the $7 co-payment they are real dumb politics.stuffed olive: Statistics are like opinion polls they say what you want them to say. Read the piece in the Australian on Martin Ferguson about the lies Swan told mining bosses if you want a laugh. And to think people want them to govern again is scary.prison: If the only place you get your currant affairs is the ABC or seven you probably would think Abbott is struggling. However other than a couple of howlers like the PPl and the silly seven dollar co-payment they have actually done all they said they would and apparently 88% of the budget has passed. As the old saying goes don't believe all you read in the media especially here.Well done Greg another totally pointless piece sure to garner several hundred comments of totally meaningless anti government vitriol. 

Why not a little look at what out alternate government has to offer in these troubled times. Or is the ABC protecting them from critical scrutiny.Whats all the fuss about political donations have been happening for centuries. It is one thing to receive a donation and another to allow it to influence a decision and then prove that was the case. The whole thing is getting silly now.  
MMM. The high voter turnout is because Australia is one of the few countries who make it compulsory to vote. With a population now approaching 25 million it's time to do away with the copy and paste of robotic compulsory voting.You trumpet on about growth but with no idea how to achieve it and you appear to favour public ownership even though history tell us that this ends in bloat and loss making inefficiencies. 

The point we are at now has been spoken about for a decade six years of that under labor propping up inefficient industry with borrowed money the Taxpayer has to repay. And people here are falling over themselves to go back to that. Goodness me !!The point I was making is propping up union dominated manufacturing, the car industry for example has resulted in borrowed fund lost overseas and these industries closing and the debt remaining. There is no prospect of growth under these conditions.

It's pointless blaming Abbott he didn't create the bloated and overpaid manifesting industry that priced itself out of a job. And Abbott didn't remove import tariffs without negotiating a reduction in tariffs paid by Australians exporting.Come Barry is this ant Abbott tripe all you have sing at the ABC to get your supper. I was hoping to see some comment from one of Australia's senior political commentators on the ramifications of the PUP machinations but alas you remain tied to appeasing the lefties with meaningless anti Abbott fodder.

Now we get the same old lefties who make up the majority of the ABC 10%. saying the same thing about Abbott they said yesterday and the day before. I think those of us that are not Abbott haters deserve more from the ABC than this don't you ?I support the comment of John G whole heartedly you should read it. And as a Taxpayer and a person who does not draw money in wages or welfare from the Government I believe I have every right to have my opinions posted here. 

The point being if you don't like what I write you also have the right to say so within the rules and the same courtesy should apply to me however that is not always the case here although it is improving.Don't you think jumping on anything Abbott says in the hope of scoring points for labor is an annoyance the election is two years away. 

There is a serious fracture in the political party that holds the senate sway and you would rather have one of Australia's premier political commentators talking about what you call a loose remark from Tony Abbott.I am still Laughing.  On one hand your outraged by the use of a throw away line like shirt front then you launch into an unbridled denigration of English migrants who came to Australia for a Ten pound fare.

The fact that Abbott as with Gillard came from another country as  children and managed to rise to this Countries highest office should be seen as testament to their character and determination not a point of derision.Goodness me what's so wrong with loving all things British when my great grandfather came here as a cabin boy on a sailing ship he came to a British colony. 

So now we are supposed to embrace multiculturalism and even except the Burqa as part of Australian life and yet those of us of British decent are to turn up our nose at our British ancestry. Well I am with Abbott, being of British decent holds no shame for me.I think the hysteria Dr Carr refers regarding the Arrival of the Russian Navy is more about the Australian media than it is about Australians in general.

 Emotive headlines and general beat up by commercial media in an attempt to attract custom is regrettable but understandable.  The taxpayer funded ABC has no excuse at allI am sorry I don't follow the point your trying to make. If you are insinuating the ABC does not use emotive content I would have thought the reference to the Russian Navy as a shirt front to Australia is emotive enough I would not have though humour was the ABC editors intent even though most of the News item content and context was laughable..Well if it makes you feel any better Bill Shorten and Labor would be doing the same thing because there is a price to pay for American friendship. 

My very naive ex pat friend.You wouldn't happen to be journalist by any chance a lot of hyperactivity in that quarter these days.Do you really think Labor and Shorten would handle things any differently. Bill has already backed Abbott regarding he loss of life on the shot down airliner. I think all Australians have every right to be as angry as Abbott and Shorten over the firing of the Russian missile and the needless loss of life.  You can make light of these things if you like but I don't find any of it funny.Yes but don't forget high growth is high loss as well it goes both ways and I believe the default option is far too aggressive for these times as the market bounces along the bottom.You could have just said I agree. Your last paragraph reinforces my point. The default option is not the place to be especially if your contemplating retirement any time soon.Alan no one knows better than you that there is no such thing as sure thing on the stock market and those with superannuation and the ability to be hands on soon realise the default investment option of most funds is the wrong option in these volatile share market times.

The CBA has stated they were caught out by the GFC and slow to react well very little has changed like many others who invest others money in the market the default option is still too risky.Yes your right and to think the premier environmental political party in Australia the Greens with 10% of the vote do not have a policy on sustainable population for Australia.You have my full support.From what you know world population will plateau and then slowly drop. Sorry the worlds population is 7,273,773,486 and increasing by 4 a second unless the death rate increases exponentially  there is no foreseeable equilibrium.Ann: It's predicted by who ? Sure a nuclear holocaust would reduce the number but the reality is poor people still have very large families to support them in old age. What's going to change?Garry: More energy than the volcanic age. I don't think so imagine thousands of volcanos vomiting sulphur and ash as high as the stratosphere and a dozen Krakatoa's a year over millions of years into the planets atmosphere. And we talk about reducing emissions we don't understand what emission's are.Greg it's been said here so many times but it still does not sink in that Australia is a very small country and to expect Australia to be seen as a world leader in anything is wishful thinking as Kevin Rudd was to find. 

The big change on global emissions need to come from the biggest emitters not little countries like Australia the awful reality is even if  Australia could cease all emissions now it would provide no tangible effect on global emission out put.Well so what.  The science is in the science is out you say the evidence is irrefutable others say your wrong and you can jump up and down all you like but it won't change a thing with regard to global emissions.Clarke: I am not educated enough to debate science but I do know from life experience no manufacturing country making money on global markets is going to walk away from dirty cheap brown coal. 

Sorry but that is the politics of human nature it's called greed and really there is nothing anyone is going to do about it.Goodness me do you think Australia is the only country with dirty brown coal. If we don't supply it they get it somewhere else and the same goes for all our roar material exports. They only get from Australia because it's handy people need to wake up we need them they don't need us.Solar panels are not as efficient in Australia as they are in cooler climates because the panels quickly reduce in capacity as the temp rises. They are at their best at about 17 to 22 degrees and that's the panel not ambient air temp. A sunny winters day in Tasmania.Your on the money some people do water cool them I believe but doesn't that diminish the original purpose unless the water can be reused.If this is the best Darrin Barnett, Julia Gillards former press secretary can come up he needs to give thanks to the ABC and the loyal but dwindling 10% media market share as no one else would bother with such stuff.

Abbotts biggest failure is to maintain the obscene ABC budget while cutting important services he deserves to be removed for that alone forget the rest.Alpo: Be serious I agree there is so much about the coalition government that I find very disappointing that's for sure. But the alternative really doesn't enter the equation.  Public Service  Super would be the first thing to disappear under labor to be paid back by forward estimates I can just see it now.EM Laidly: Thank you for making an effort to reply. 

I have no idea of your circumstance. However I am a taxpayer and a self funded retiree I am very proud of the fact I draw nothing from Government. 
Therefor as a tax payer and part owner of the ABC I have every right to comment here and as long as I follow the rules everything I say should be posted without being censored for political preference. It has nothing to with guts.

Zorak: On the strength of your remark I would assume you believe Rudd and Swan shaped Australia to be what it is today only to watch Abbott tear it all down in a few short months of incompetence and Shorten will come along and fix every thing.I have a real laugh at people calling others Cowards when their own post is anonymous. I think it says more about them than anyone they may refer too.You raise a good point. But the what I don't understand if Abbott is so bad and most here conclude he is why is he prime minister how did he get the job. I will tell you why its because the other lot are a dam site worse. Simple as that.Nothing to see here. Australia is free if someone wants to protest they can in the day of the street debate I am sure there would have been plenty said openly on this issue.

The premise that sex worker protesting against a single issue with the Greens candidate could effect the outcome of the seat is exaggerated.Chris I would venture to say the system of lobbying or graft and corruption anything you like to call it has been in place since time began and nothing is going to change. 

And it works in the main because those who think they are missing out always make a lot of noise.So Paul thinks a royal commission into corporate wrong doing is also warranted and who pays for all these silly royal commissions that provide a feast for public servants, lawyers and old judges the tax payer of coarse.

The royal commission into unions is ridiculous who cares if unionists rip each other off only a fool would join a union in the first place and if your silly enough to do that you get what you deserve to be ripped off.rabbie: Only sixteen percent of workers are in unions and 75% of those are public servants. What more can I say.Oh I see, and what harm has the bank done ?No sorry it may have been the case 100 years ago your very but the majority of change comes from the cost of insurance if a company does not provide a safe work place and adhere to OH$S legislation they have a hard time getting insurance. Have you got you high visibility clothing on ?I think the decision on ADF wages is done by a board and who sits on this board and what power the government of the day has to override this board may be an issue. Abbott my not have the power to override the board as in politicians pay rises. 

Perhaps you know how these things work Alpo you appear we informed on the ways of Public Servants and Government.I support Senator Lambie the military should never suffer a reduction in pay. I remember how it was for those returning from Vietnam and I think Australia learnt a lesson there. 

Abbott needs to step in and fix this at once failure to do so will not be forgiven.MMMM. I remember the paperless office and the three day working week and the new world cyber currency the bit coin and now algorithms what ever they are. I wont let it spoil my day.I wondered how long it would take for Abbott to get the blame he really knows how to get under the  labor voters skin if the booing labor bogans at Gough Whitlam's memorial is any guide. Talk about a labor cringe. factor.Whitlam had many years in opposition forming his fine agenda of reform.  While Hawke and Keating in labors golden period were responsible for 18% interest rates deregulation of banking removal of tariff protection and the amalgamation of unions and workers pay rises and small business profits going into superannuation to be played on the stock market.

As we see now with manufacturing dead banks making obscene profits and the union movement virtually desecrated it's not all been good.Yeah I agree about self funded retirees jumping into real-estate but many are setting up with interest only loans and negative gearing and there are just too many variables to make this a positive long term strategy. It will end in tears for many.Gee I hope you don't use a smart phone and clear your history and disable cookies not to mention hidden browser apts on your PC.Well if that's the case you can bet they have been tracking you for decades and that maybe the concern for many who are complaining here I guess. Especially if they are online posting here when they should be working.Yeah and too bad the bureaucrats can't remember who they work for either especially at the ABC.Didn't Victoria have a Labor Government one term ago. What happened to them.The revolving door of Australian politics the only thing you get with a new government is who they get to blame for all the new increases and one off levies that never come off. It's always someone else's fault.rabbie: Colin Barnett made the same mistake Rudd, Giilard, and Swan made and that is borrow heavily and base your commitment on projected returns and forward estimates and they all do it.

You go into a bank and ask for a loan that you will repay on what you have forecast you may earn and see how you get on.Gee sorry to disappoint those hoping for GST increase it will never happen. The states will never agree and the senate would not pass any new legislation. Perhaps Mungo could write something on Labors next PM in waiting and it's not Bill.Maybe you could write to Malcom and ask him to join the labor party he would have a much better chance of being leader there because he has no chance where he is now I can assure you.No one ever lets the truth get in the way of the story here. LOLYes but wasn't that mobile phone chatter as opposed to internet scanning. Apparently internet use is easily hidden by using something called a proxy.I don't know what the fuss is about after reading earlier posts on this legislation I have been informed in several replies that internet use is easily masked by those in the know rendering the legislation a waste of time. 

So why the fuss if lts pointless legislation and will not catch anyone for anything and is destined to end collecting dust in some file with a lot of other useless legislation. Apparently !MMM. What if they called themselves Tom and Jane.No I would say theft has not been seen as an issue it's inappropriate use of a political position to influence a decision that is under question.Just reading some of the comments on Nova Peris. I was wondering if she would be getting the same support if she were a liberal Senator instead of Julia's captains pick. People can be a little biased here.Well perhaps if there was no welfare system you could make a case for concern but I don't see armies of organised Australian youth taking to the streets.

The real problem is the wages people want to pay unskilled is commiserate to welfare so the unwashed youth prefer Xbox and PlayStation or the internet to working so we have to have foreigners on 457 visas picking fruit and collecting shopping trollies.Benny: No government ever really makes cuts at the ABC the LNP sometimes forgoes increases no real cuts. ABC journalist are the highest paid in the country the ABC has the biggest budget 1.4 billion all this for a poultry 10% market share.

And if you think Abbott is going to change it your going to be very disappointed.I think the point your missing is the Australian Kids just wouldn't do the work they have been brain washed by labor politicians and leftist educators into thinking they are special and they should all have university aspirations no to dirty manual labour or care for the old or the sick. Yuk the leftist elite don't do those things.van: I may be getting on in years but I am not blind thank goodness and when I visit my very elderly Aunt who is in care many of the people working there are not Australian. I have asked so your wrong. Sorry.Forget the $7 the whole system is a mess. The mix of public and private health is a farce the gap payment is ridiculous.

The system should be totally revamped public health means tested and those who can pay should be paying. For 20 years now successive governments have just tinkered and added to the mess.What rubbish public servants doing things efficiently your a comedian. 

Scrap the whole mess drop the Medicare levy and means test a safety net programme and every one else pays full price with tax deductible private health fees. Too many fingers in the till as it is now.It's a bad tax it gives politicians another avenue to get into your pocket how long before it doubles or triples stupid move by Abbott he can kiss a second term goodbye.Well despite the empty rhetoric of the bleaters over the last twelve months this is Abbotts first real blunder. He presented a budget to address the economy and spiralling debt only to have it rejected by a hostile Senate.

The crash in opinion polls should have warned the LNP Australians wont respond to austerity and Abbott could have gone to the next election rightly blaming Labor and the Greens for the current malaise.  That is now lost it was always going to be hard for unpopular Abbott to get a second term and after this impossible.sidlaw: MMM. After the next election we will be able to watch Labor fix their mess. LOL.

Gee I hope they don't start he boats up again. Sigh !!Good to see some one is awake.  To answer your question after the last seven years of shoot from the hip governments I would venture $2.75 a litre.For the LNP this should be all bad. And guess what it is all bad.The reason they sold power off is they couldn't control the feather bedding public servants. No government would go back public ownership of anything they have managed to get off the public service gravy train list.Here we go slow news week and back on the climate band wagon. But the fundamentals never change 24 million people on the edge of the southern ocean will not make any dent in global emissions. China, India with most developing Asian countries to follow are building coal fired power stations at an alarming rate. 

So forget Australia and the useless RET.The sixties and early seventies  Kids running round with assault rifles was called Vietnam. Not much difference in 17 or 19 same thing different place.In my day it was called conscription.That's interesting you have admitted you don't understand the impact of the security bills but you believe Senator Leyonhjelm does. I bet Senator Lambie has an opinion just watch this space.Here we go another one who thinks that 24 million Australians will change the world. Abbott is not dragging his feet on anything he has delivered on all his election promises and he just happens to have a realistic view of Australia's place on the global stage. 

Unlike many of the lefty wannabes here who really need to wake up a be aware of what is going on around them.Come on Chris give us a break if these people were clever enough to understand what is in the bills they would never stand for parliament. And we can't have them out thinking public servants can we now.Stephen I could be wrong but it is my understanding with regard to the GST Abbott could consider a rise all he likes but he must get all the states to agree. And good luck with that the states have never agreed on anything since federation.Very sorry stuff when we academic's questioning the government motives on the ethics of fear. Brad Alphinstone has chosen the ignore the escalation of terror attacks in recent times against a parliament and police.

Goes to demonstrate academia and basic common sense don't necessarily go hand in hand.So what are you saying Mungo the politics of hate was a labor creation started with a shifty Senate move and not as Johnathan Green supposes a result of the dismissal. Interesting indeed.MMM. Public Servants have had a checkered career as politicos Rudd comes to mind perhaps things are as they are for a reason.Paula you missed one pertinent point the biased political journalist you know the ones their employer displays a latent bias and the is reflected in the nature of the content.

Some would say Murdoch and their employees are biased toward conservatism and Fairfax and the ABC the other way the elephant in the room being the tax payer funded and supposedly A-Political ABC.There is no tea part in Australia but there are communists.Yeah your right to a point but get it wrong too often and a media outlet will soon loose credibility and customers. I can say with confidence the ABC only survives because it's publicly funded and they get it wrong so often only 10% bother to use the ABC.So now your implying the owner controls the media that's a joke the government owns the ABC and they are under no government control.I think it's wrong I believe to compare a Gough Whitlam government in 1975 to any government now as too many things have changed internally and externally.

Whitlam was wrongfully dismissed by Kerr and I believed that in 1975 and I still believe that now.  However Rudd was dismissed by his own party as was Gillard only to be replaced by Rudd. The Australian voter in frustration at Labors continual infighting gave up and took the only real option and voted LNP.OH give us a break! Now you are going to argue over the maths. Look the price of oil and Global inflation increased substantially between 1972 and 75 and Gough Whitlam was removed for supposedly not having a handle on the economy. 

History has show it was wrong to dismiss him and Johnathan Green is right it was the beginning of politics of hate. But we can turn that around.It goes with out saying countries lining up against the IS in Syria is causing a ramp in domestic terrorism but could it be these loonies would act anyway over time.

And what would happen in Syria if nothing was done and everyone just sat back and watched the slaughter as prime time TV.Look I didn't say Australia or anyone else for that matter should be involved. I personally don't see the point if these people want to kill each other it's nothing to do with me but that all changes if they start their nonsense here. 

The question was what would happen if we just sat back and watched. Point being would it make ay difference here.Perhaps it's silly to stop them going far more important to stop them coming back. I would have thought.Apparently this guy wanted to leave Canada to join the IS and was stopped. Not a very clever thing to do, he became frustrated and held his own Jihad. Let them go and don't let the back problem solved.Ever conceder the burden of rates and taxes on a pensioner. 

That's why many sell the family home downsize to little unit or a park home because the council rates are more than the entire aged pension.Australia is a free country last time I looked and Spurr is entitled to his view. The point missed here is Spurr's views were not aired by him in public. He naively thought them private and in reality his views have been stolen and publicised to deliberately create concern and controversy. And that is as wrong as I believe his views to be. 

The real issue here is the publication of a personal opinion without permission or confirmation.Hang on if he passed them on for humours publication why is he outraged. And lets not forget Spurr thought the intended recipient would find the remarks humorous and that is another issue again.I would have thought his views are private unless he puts them out there. He did not put his views in the press New Matilda did. I think he has every right to be outraged for all Matilda knew he may have rethought those views. They should have asked.Agreed !!Your overlooking that social reform costs it's not free and could it just be coincidence that the LNP appear to find the coffers empty when they are elected and that is why they get elected in the first place.

There is a very good chance Abbott like Whitlam will be one term and Labor will get their monetary problems back for a change.Abbott is surviving because there is no election imminent. And what do you think will happen when the spot light falls on Labor in the election run up. Abbott is the most unpopular PM in living memory land still leads Shorten in the popularity stakes. Abbott is surviving because the opposition is a leaderless rabble in hiding trying to reduce the target I would say.I agree with all of that yet we had the dismissal and in the election that followed the idiot Frazer walked in. I still don't understand why.Could it be that power at all cost politics is just a reflection of a media sodden populace totally subservient to advertising and after all politicians are just Australian citizens like you and me. 

Gough Whitlam was a remarkable person and a reformist cometh the hour cometh the man but the reality is he spent more time in opposition than in power.

No that's rubbish it does not matter who pays for your email service they have no right to read your personal stuff. Next you will be saying it's ok for your ISP to read your mail. The line in the sand must drawn.I would like to see a court to rule on the definitions of Public and national interest. It always been my belief the ABC defines a version of national interest to suite their political agenda and surely the same must be said for New Matilda with regard to their version public interest.Ok point taken but what is national interest who decides. Look your national interest may offend mine. See the conundrum.Batting at test level compared to domestic cricket is akin to running the city to surf or walking the distance. They all get a mention.I don't imagine Robert is seriously comparing the Greens to a Whitlam Labor government. 

As I am sure for one Mr Whitlam would have had a view on sustainable population for Australia a subject the so called environmentally conscious Greens avoid like the plague how can environmentalists be taken seriously without a sustainable population policy.Oh here we go again it's all about Abbott. Jericho knows full well Tony Abbott can not control coal mining just as he cannot tell a farmer what to grow. But I guess the outrage of the ABC 10% will garner 250 posts in reply. SIGH !! and my taxes are spent on this.Paula: I presume your referring to mining benefitting so few and I hope your not serious sure we have a hand full of wealth mining magnates but the two most wealthy states are W.A and Queensland and in GST alone W.A contributes 68 cents in every dollar to the weaker states.

And lets not forget the knock on effect of the tens of millions spent on construction engineering and site maintenance with wages spent throughout Australia. Except it or not the fact is Australians cannot maintain the living standards they demand without mining.Your right fossil fuel will run out the oceans will again wash the continents and mankind will disappear. But the planet will rejuvenate and carry on. There you go and there is nothing we can actually do about it but pretend to be conservative with feel good token efforts .

Sorry but the truth can be very brutal enjoy your life don't worry about what you cant change.Perhaps it should be noted by his critics despite any failing he may have had Gough Whitlam was a fiercely patriotic Australian with a passion for Australians much of what he is criticised for was his dream of having Australia owned by Australians.

Those who criticise him need to have a look at who owns our country now.  RIP. Gough Whitlam GREAT AUSTRALIAN.Bad timing Alpo petty politics on the day a labor hero passes sounds disrespectful and immature. If you have nothing positive to say please do us a favour and say nothing.The girly-boy. Really who cares If there was ever a clearer demonstration of how Labor and the Greens have become bogged down in irrelevance I don't know what it could be. 

The faux outrage over a silly throw away line has be seen to be believed if there are no more important issues to express indignation over it demonstrates that Tony Abbott is really doing very well indeed.Sorry only the delusional would believe Labor could win an election tomorrow. They would not come within ten seats but it's no going to happen tomorrow is it.Hang on a minute I am not defending Cormann because there is nothing to defend. my concern is the alternative Labor government is no alternative because they cannot find an issue to score a point on.If you look closely you will find domestic housing is being gobbled up by self funded retirees and their self managed super funds because shares are not paying. If the housing sector drops off there will be a lot of people looking to top up with the pension. Just more people being lent money who probably should not be.Mr Abbott tried to explain that you cant order health care workers to risk death in an unstable environment like West Africa. Health workers are not Soldiers.You have missed the point entirely people here cannot grasp the government cannot order health workers to go to Africa. Sure people can volunteer but they run the risk of not being able to come home again this is not a measles out break it's a death sentence with no way out.rabbie: Banks are in the business of selling money in the form of loans and no one has a gun held to there head to borrow and fools expect the bank to say no you cant afford to buy.

Its an educational thing people are educated by advertising to be gratified by goods the cargo cult. You can't blame banks or their workers for selling their money it's a job. Two years no repayments and interest free !!!!It's all starting to sound a bit Greek to me. With only 13 million tax payers and those contribution's already spoken for it's getting scary.Oh so the folly banks awash with foreign cash handing out loans to all and sundry has finally got scary and they want a tax payer back up. 

And with the Australian Super pot hopelessly exposed to the gambling on the share market, perhaps there is a budget crisis after all.Look your low paid battlers were lent money they cant pay back and now the M.B wants those loans backed by the tax payer. 
Your sick and needy with heaps of kids and your old retired people "unless they are self funded retirees" already have their hand in the taxpayers pot and given the 300 billion labor debt legacy no one here admits to. It's getting scary.Yeah your right there is a difference but also a similarity both are out of control.So the government bailed out the banks during the GFC did they?  MMMM. First I heard of that.Rae: That only applies if the banks had kept the money. But people spent up their $900 at the casino and retired bills or bought TV's the money was spent in total waste now we have the debt plus interest. How dumb could it get under Labor and people want them back for goodness sake.Wake up Ann if banks sell money to people who can't repay it who goes broke in the end.Australians love blaming institutions for there own short comings. No one holds a gun to your head and says borrow our money.You have to love the Greens all huff and puff on global warming but no talk of sustainable population. What frauds they are and idiots vote for them.Well if he did live he was talented bloke rising from death after 3 days was very clever. I don't think it has ever been repeated.Yes Barrie and lets hope one of the digressions is a robust discussion on how all can assist with the Ebola epidemic.Our system allows any citizen to stand for parliament and the includes the ABCs always unhappy small percentage. If your not happy with those who make decisions for you stand for parliament. Tony Jones is only happy with negatives.Goodness me I can't agree with any of that stuff I was a child  in the southwest of WA in 1957 and the majority in our community were Italians with good number from Western European countries Anglo Saxon Australians were not the majority at all when I went to primary school.Jonathan. it's a T-Shirt mate, I have a barbeque apron with women's breasts on it this stuff is not meant to be a serious insight into how people think for goodness sake.

When I read a piece like this from an ABC staffer I understand why only 10% of Australians bother with the ABC and out of that 10% 95% would support Labor or the Greens. How any government justifies a 1.4 billion dollar ABC budget on the strength of journalism like totally escapes me.Sara your on the ABC and only 10% of Australians use the ABC and most of them vote labor or Greens and they hate everything and anything. Those who post here are such a small representation they don't count for anything even though they think they are important.Nothing new in this really, anyone who watches their superannuation being invested on the market has seen the volatility of global markets in recent years. 

The fundamentals of the GFC have never been addressed globally too many countries and too many people owe too much money Australia and Australian public and private debt is just part of a global slide.I am sorry but the relevance of you meanderings to the article escapes me.Australia has a very good level of welfare and there are families in this country who through several generations have lived exclusively on welfare. Welfare was however instituted to provide subsistence for those who could not provide for themselves and an aged pension for workers at the end of their working life. 

Welfare was never intended to provide the luxuries of life it's there feed and clothe you not to buy Alcohol Tobacco and a seat at the Casino.And what Greg decides as poor may not actually be what these people consider poor. My parents would have been cindered poor by Greggs account but they owned their little home and lived very happily on the aged pension.

One budget does not make poverty it's a life time of personal decisions that no government can be responsible for and then we move into the debate of how people spend welfare.Easy to see why the government is concerned as fossil fuel will be in use for many decades to come and what amounts to an investment protest by the ANU will only achieve a loss of investment income. And to think the people who run universities are supposed to be clever.Wealthy people are wealthy because the are risk takers the same opportunities are open to all Australians.  

Perhaps Woods and Lewis should for a new Australian communist party and stand for parliament. There are a few who post here would put their hands up.Australia has a population of over 24 million and you base your reply on on person. What would you have Gina do close down her operation and hand her wealth to the state so you can have another ten dollars in welfare.So what do you think the CEO of your bank should be paid to put the governance in place to look after your money.I agree Australia is overpopulated as it is now and the Green won't even discuss sustainable population and they are supposedly the environment party.Wouldn't you think those who choose to deliberately ignore immigration protocol's and pay people smugglers and those who deliberately country shop for their asylum have abrogated the right to make demands on the Australian people and their government.I agree but lets remember your talking about Anglo Saxon Australia of the middle of last century. Australia is a vastly different place now.We keep going around in circles on this issue but the fundamentals will never change. If a person wants to emigrate to Australia there is a process to follow. If oppressed people feel they need to seek asylum they should go to the first place to offer it not fly to Indonesia and pay people smugglers  to brink them to Australia as illegal immigrants or sail a boat past twenty countries to get here. 

Why are these very simple realities so hard for some Australians to comprehend is it because it does not suit their political agenda to understand many illegals come here and not all by boat simply because of our way of life and our welfare system.How many channels and radio stations not to mention web sites does a public broadcaster need. The ABC is a 1.4 billion dollar conglomerate of self serving public service greed it should be closed down and the budget spent on health and welfare.Despite the negativity of the ABC and other leftist media outlets it has been very hard for Shorten simply because Abbott has done what he said he would do and what he was elected to do. 

Despite his penchant for the odd brainless comment he is actually doing a good job although that will never be acknowledged at the ABC.If Abbott is so bad and Shorten still can't land a punch. What does that say about the alternative government. 

I will tell you what is says there isn't one.Mungo I note the name Abbott again mentioned more than any other as if Tony Abbott in your mind is now the reason to loose faith in democracy for goodness sake. Those who understand communism will know the so called communist utopia of equality for all is pure fantasy one only has to look at the corruption in the Australian union movement and the Australian Labor party to get the real drift on communism.Oh come on now Ian another piece to gather the troops. There can be many reasons why a set of numbers are inaccurate from the process of correlation to the competence of those empowered with the task.  

But what we will get here is a blame game along party lines that does no one any service at all. One side will ignore the last two Labor governments and hark back to Howard and the other side will blame Labor and public service incompetence. Yawn !rabbie: Lets be clear here.  Do you mean the public service version of excepting responsibility you would know the counseling and supervision version of acceptance? Or the real world version that actually leaves you unemployed.

I just never know how people who live a protected public service life and have never been accountable for anything view these things.Yes and I am one of them. Howard would never have overreacted to the GFC and Costello would never have borrows billions to be spent on pokies and color TV's. Wake up!!!The problem for labor and Australian workers is there are not enough trade unions or union members. Hawke,Keating and Kelty gave us the super union buy forcing amalgamation. Those elected to run these unions are too few number and way too powerful within labor and these super unions have become irrelevant to many workers.

The Australian worker needs more relevant unions and the labor party needs more members to give a bigger selection pool. 
The Labor party is a WORKERS PARTY and should remain that way labor people just need to remember their roots.Sadly we only remember what suits us. The reality is the ABC put out a story that the government had not ruled out a war tax the fact the government never mentioned a war tax did not worry the ABC. The Prime Minister responded that there would not be a war tax. OK !No wrong again tell the truth there will be no tax not like there will be no carbon tax under any government I lead. Totally different.Yes Jonathan all media not just commercial media has been whipping the Syrian thing into disproportion and have created unease with the use of volatile rhetoric. 

Commercial media in the main for financial gain but lets not step away from the negative campaign of the public broadcaster and many of the blog sites where many see this as an opportunity to score political points against the government.You need to understand the government is in Syria with opposition support.History should judge the Parliamentary Labor party harshly she was undermined from day one. They destroyed their own woman PM she was not troubled by Abbott at all.Gillard would have been a good PM if not for her own back stabbing Labor party. She never had a chance. From day one her labor enemies were circling.Very well summed up and your not alone in your criticism of the anti Australian government ABC.  Some of the rubbish they come up with here to appease the labor bleaters would be called treason in other counties.Thanks for your comment but remember Malcolm Frazer was a Liberal PM and no longer supports the party and in my opinion the piece by Paula was unnecessary and demeaned Julia Bishop and was condescending toward Western Australians and I am a very proud Western Australian.Stuffed Olive: Thanks very much but I had noted the author of the piece and your comment highlights my point in that the editors choose what is posted and their choice of content is usually biased against the government. Can you recall one positive piece regarding any LNP politician State or Federal.Thank you, however the point being the LNP won the last election and in over twelve months you found one piece on Scott Morrison and cant remember the other. Sort of proves my point don't you think?Can you prove that, or is this just another wild claim under cover of anonymity.Evan: Just as I though wild accusation under privilege of anonymity. You have no Idea what Julia Bishop advised or even if she was on that case.One thing the Australian people can be assured, Julia Bishop will not be holding clandestine meetings late at night counting the numbers to stab a sitting prime minister in the back. 

Unlike Labor who love disposing of their own prime ministers before elections the  LNP supports the elected prime minister despite opinion polls.Tony Abbott will win the next election easily perhaps with an increased majority given there is no Rudd factor to muddy the water.You have made several of these claims here today and I think your sprouting absolute Rubbish. You have absolutely no idea if Julia Bishop played any roll in the James Hardy case your just having an anonymous character assassination.No. No. cannibalizing each other what next. They don't over produce at all they supply a negotiated contract if the new contract is for less they wind down production and lay of staff. 
If they can't sell at all like nickel for instance they close down, all their infrastructure is paid for and written off.About wars. No matter who is in government LNP or Labor will support the USA that's a given and the Greens would not, but the Greens will never be in government will they.Who knows with the markets Ian bit like picking a winner in the Melbourne Cup. The unfortunate thing compulsory super contributions are tied to the markets and most super companies default option is very high risk international and Australian shares.

It could be good by super and hello aged pension if there is any money left to fund the aged pension that is..I think if people spent their time on other things instead of just banging on over how bad one government is over the other they would all be much happier. 
What really see here is the down side of blog sites for example I have voted Labor and Liberal and would do so again without issue.

We are very lucky as in the main the politicians rely on the career public servant for continuity and advice on the pet projects and the next Labor government wont be dramatically different from the last as Abbott is not so much different to Howard. I think we should give thanks that it just all works.I know things change incrementally as times change and it probably takes the wind out of your sails to acknowledge that. But there really is very little difference between Labor and Liberal governments in their delivery of basic services.

 How can there be difference they all get their advice from the same place and if you don't think Labor would not be in Syria now or would not have police conducting raids on home soil your very naive.If your referring to Julia Gillard. Her biggest issue was her own party they were bitterly divided that's why they are in opposition now.  Gillard could have been a very good PM.Who really gives a dam what they do behind closed doors as long as they run the country, if you worried about the back room deals and back stabbers in the Labor party they would never get elected at all.

Our bloated over representative political system works for us and  perhaps we should question the motives those who are continually critical of a working system of government.Yeah only one vote majority for Abbott and they all rally together and now they are the government. If Rudd had been half the man Turbull is and the Labor party had stood behind Gillard as the liberals have with Abbott. 

Julia Gillard would still be PM and Australia would still be back in Syria so not much changes.No matter how we twist and tern it we always come back to the beginning and that is easy money has given Australia far too much personal debt. Other than capitalized foreign investment Australians are heavily geared in bricks and mortar, most with gargantuan structures far beyond their real needs . 

Negative gearing should be seen for what it is Banks investing in depreciating assets that demand property values increase to realize a profit it's just not sustainable. I fear for self managed superannuates sucked in by the latest investment spiel.Jonathan perhaps there is a real possibility the  Labor opposition supports the Government in it's endeavors regarding homeland security is because they happen to be privy to information your sources are not able to disclose to you.

To include mister Walker and his hypothesized t alternative example regarding the East Timorese should be seen as nothing more than an attempt at mischief making . It certainly proves no point.
