Read a newspaper.  Please.  Your assumptions are unsupported by facts continuing to emerge.He's done a good job with this, as much as can be expected.  Media spin shouldn't detract from that.  Condemn the spin, but give the man his due when he deserves it.Blaming the victims seems uncalled for.Russia does have accountability in this.  They've supported the separatists, armed them, and even if the SAM used in this instance wasn't directly provided, appears to have been Russian in origin.  They've got a lot of explaining to do, and more.  I think in personal injury and such it's called joint and several liability.  The principle appears to apply here.That's not unsensible.  Deport them all, regardless of how they arrive, if they don't have a visa in hand.  But let them arrive safely at least.  First, however, you'll have to get rid of that pesky treaty.

The duty of care is the duty undertaken, as the legal aphorism goes.  Whether we stop them offshore or onshore, we have a duty of care, because we undertook to process them.  Do the job properly.Certainly Morrison believes "we can do whatever we please" as he's already indicated he means to ignore any High Court decisions against him.  Rule of law means nothing to the born-to-rule.Oh, yes, the "compassionate conservatism" of GWB, in the US, that saw tax cuts for billionaires and disenfranchisement for the poor.  Abbott's certainly got that playbook committed to memory.Not if Hockey's got anything to say about it.  And more ticker than Costello ever did.There is a distinction to be made between national and international politics and statesmanship.  To say of Abbott and his team in regard to the latter that his performance is improved in the former is wishful thinking.  It may improve his standing among his supporters and those inclined to swing to the LNP, but the rest, will continue to take a wait-and-see approach.  Since nothing has changed in his policies or the Hockey budget, and there's no indication of any inclination to negotiate or take any approach to governance other than born-to-rule, it's unlikely his preferred PM status is going to change significantly.Tracks toward a surplus by punishing the poor, the sick, and the elderly.  Tracks toward a surplus by cutting revenue, too, it seems, a remarkable achievement in mathematics.

A policy on asylum seekers - not immigration, where policy still prefers importing workers over the ones we've got here - where silence and obfuscation and an abrogation of the duty of care is touted by the fearful as 'humane'.

Heartfelt, sure, if your heart is dry, black, and withered.You need to learn how distinguish between personal attacks and political.The "mythical poor"?  Now we see how the Liberal mind actually works.  No such think as poor.  Only them and us.Whatever in your life engendered such hate, I sincerely recommend seeking out a good therapist.Not as a "direct result", and there was no "willful neglect".  But stamp your feet and hold your breath and pretend otherwise if it helps you.Cold blooded murder isn't an accident at sea, is it?12 months since September already?  Amazing.  Not quite accurate, but perhaps you reckon time the way Hockey does maths.

I agree, though, that nothing has changed in Abbott.  He is still a hidebound, Lucky Country ideologue who hates the poor, the sick, the elderly, university students, and Labor, not necessarily in that order.

Like many Liberals, hate is at his core, as you so amply demonstrate here regularly.They didn't kill him though, did they?Yes, quite, keep up the Lucky Country thinking and keep on electing Lucky Country politicians.  Good job.Harm any person, or harm any class of persons?  Because Abbott's budget has set out to harm the poor, the sick, students, and the elderly, to benefit the wealthy.And yet here is this article, and here is your response to it, clearly demonstrating that whatever appears on the ABC, you're against it.One death by murder, many by accident, but murder palls in comparison?We don't know - to a much greater extent, given the Abbott-Morrison policy of silence - what's happening "on water" now.  But "unobserved" is different when it's also unreported, eh?  At least for some.I think it's more the tough talk about Russia and the Ukraine separatists that's got people fawning over Abbott, more than the heart-on-sleeve stuff.Unfortunately, every policy that falls under your description of "mean spirited cowardice" remains and will not be revised one iota to reflect any display of principle and statesmanship exhibited in response to events in Ukraine.It is cowardice at best that turns the entire population into suspects.  What else drives this lot of fascists?  Hate.

These are the people who "hate our freedom", to paraphrase slightly GWB and his chickenhawk mates.

We know that we can help other nations improve their levels of freedom and that this can do more for peace than war does.  Yet every time we have a Howard, a Bush, an Abbott can power, they do everything they can to reduce the civil liberties enjoyed for generations, too often empowered to do so by the opposition parties we should be able to rely on otherwise.  

This is just more of the "tough on crime" crap every politician has to flex to for single-issue cowardly and ignorant voters.  It's more of "stop the boats", more of "working families", more isolationism, and more fascism.Facebook, and to a lesser degree Google, the SMH, the ABC, can gather information specific to your account with them, but most sites allow you to remain anonymous.  You can call yourself "slothskin" or "GJA" and it means nothing.  You provide an email address on some that isn't stored, or nothing at all, and all the metadata obtained is how many unique visits were recorded and the duration of each visit, statistics used to justify advertising prices.  Facebook has much greater reach into your identity, but that's not "metadata".  ISP's storing my metadata means even my anonymous and innocuous searches are logged and accessible to law enforcement - without a warrant or even "reasonable suspicion".  If ASIO, the AFP, whomever in government, decides, for example, after reading a blog post critical of some official, that I'm some kind of undesirable, they have my IP address, my name, my email, and every Google search, online news article, blog, etc. I've ever visited.  From this they can construct whatever they please, regardless of anything I've actually "done".  It is a violation of privacy and of free association.  Yes, I know, these are not freedoms enshrined in law in Australia, but this is supposed to be a "free country".  Why we insist on acting otherwise, especially when we get Liberal governments, I can't understand, except that it seems Liberals believe the citizens serve the state, instead of the other way around.  There's a name for that.Abbott's treatment of refugees, his failed attempt to legislate in favour of bigotry and his latest effort to reverse the burden of proof in regard to who is or isn't a terrorist, as well as his warrantless trolling through internet metadata that classifies every Australian as a suspect are all part of why Australia has a problem with prejudice.  He demonises supposedly unspecified outsiders and keeps the population fearful.  This is divide-and-rule, and the Liberals love it.  We exist to serve them and their masters and they are born to rule us.  Abbott fosters fear and hate.  And what do we hear from their sycophantic supporters?  Nothing to fear if nothing to hide and other twenty-year-old culture war nonsense.  Anyone can be subjected to government abuse if government power is not subject to the same rule-of-law limits imposed on everyone else, and don't be fooled: they'll use the power on anyone, not just the ones you're afraid of, but you, too, if they think they need to to ensure you don't rise above the station in life to which they believe you belong.Evidence? None.  Unsupported assertions? Endless.  Lickspittle."The catalyst for the insults thrown by drunken youths at Jewish students" isn't Gaza, it's their parents.  There isn't any "coded reference" to the ethnicity of the "youths".    Drunk or not, they engaged in despicable behaviour.  Anglo heritage or not, their words and actions are worthy of unreserved condemnation.  Persecuted Christians or not - and it isn't the topic at hand - the words and actions of racists in this country do not warrant excuses or deflection.That's called blaming the victim. Deflecting this woman's disgusting act of anti-social behaviour on the excuse that nobody gave her a seat is just making excuses for  the inexcusable.  Young people aren't "required by law" to give up their seats to any adult.  Students are expected, under the terms of their transport pass, to do so, but it's more manners than legislation.  Why didn't you give up your seat to that pregnant woman?  Or another adult passenger?  Perhaps leading by example would be an option.Laws can't stop racism, sure.  Can't stop stealing, either.  They can ensure our society knows its unacceptable and subject to appropriate retribution.Support for reversing the burden of proof can only be on the basis of pure cowardice.Rehashing Howard?  More like Thatcher-Reagan.  This is the true politics of envy.  They envy every dollar they don't have in their own hands.I know who the "leaners" are: They're the strong-armers and hit squads of the rich, leaning on the poor, squeezing them for every cent they can.  There's a reason we're experiencing greater disparity in wealth and income and why the lion's share falls to fewer and fewer: greed.  And it's fed by the rhetoric employed by Liberals to frighten an unthinking public.  There isn't one of them, the avowedly Christian included, who would do one damn thing to help someone else, unless they could enrich themselves in the process.Competition is a positive force in the market, unless it's cable.Even if that were true, Liberals don't believe the top jobs should be awarded based on competence but on whose "turn" it is or will be next.  The position currently held by Hockey is so because, although he thought it was his turn to be leader of the party, Abbott won the job, so Abbott gave him the position for when he's done being PM.  Then Hockey will rise to power.  This is, of course, the same scenario that gave us Howard-Costello, although in that case Howard never seriously considered a transition.  It's entirely likely that Abbott is the same.The media has much to answer for.  In the last government, whenever a headline story reported a new policy announcement, the commentary was always provided by an opposition member.  We didn't get much out of Labor on air or in the press before we were deluged with the LNP's statements in opposition.  Now the Liberals are in power, but we're getting very little from Labor.  I don't believe they're that quiet.  I think they're just not getting the airtime.  This is the true "media bias".Increase revenue, then, which doesn't have to mean "[taking] every penny off the top 2%".  It could mean fixing the mining tax instead of repealing it.  It could mean keeping the ETS.  There are also other ways to save than punishing the poor, the sick, and the elderly.  Medicare savings could be achieved by improving health care delivery, instead of trying to get people to stop using it.  There are lots of smart things to be done.  Preferring second-rate Howard-era leftovers to do the job just ensures we're still playing Lucky Country politics.You could read the rest of the article.Sorry, but those aren't facts.  Anyone with half a brain and basic literacy and numeracy skills wouldn't need convincing from anyone but the authors of the budget just how cruel it is and exactly how little it does to address the deficit in the near- or long-term.Name one, and then please outline why they haven't stepped up already.  When will the time be ripe enough?I'm not going to disagree, but there are more women leaving the Liberals than joining, it seems; qualified women, anyway.Sorry, but I think the attitude problem is yours, since you clearly believe that the poor must be punished for their condition instead of helped out of it; that the old will have to work until they die unless they can fund their own retirement fully; and that the sick should suffer rather than seek care.  You "don't like the budget" but don't care what it does.  That may not be "resentment", but it's certainly contempt.  Hardly a good basis for governance.Howard's tax cuts did more substantial and long-term damage to the nation's finances than deficit spending under Labor.There was never a crisis.  It's a confection Abbott and Hockey served up to sweeten the bitter pill they intended to force down the throats of the poor.That's a bit of recent remembrance trumping actual events.  The carbon price was always going to transition to an ETS.  As they were getting flogged by the Liberals over the "tax" they opted to accelerate the transition.  Not quite the same thing as "badly [wanting] to repeal it".

Unfortunately we'll never know what they might have attempted in the way of budget repair, although I have my doubts it would be all that ingenious.  Instead we're getting the wealthy to lean on the poor, measures I sincerely hope Labor would not have instituted, but only ever expected from this lot of second-raters.

But let me ask: when Abbott and company were talking down the economy even as Labor oversaw our credit rating achieve triple-A status, did you object to his negativity?  Or just swallow as much Kool-Aid as he served up?You're just making excuses to limit the help we provide.Liberals want to punish the poor.  They believe the provision of health care creates a "moral hazard".  The elderly are a burden.  I'm not sure why they hate university students; perhaps it's that election Tony Abbott lost all those years ago  that had him punching walls.

What's almost amazing is that the party avowedly of "small government" will spend anything, create whatever bureaucracies they need, to punish the poor and limit the benefits of the state for anyone but themselves and their wealthy masters.  I say "almost" because it's a lie.  They love government, so long as they're running it, and will build it up in the most intrusive ways they can, so long as it benefits them.

Liberals are dishonest.  You cannot believe what they say, so believe what they do.They are in our care, therefore we have the duty of care.

Otherwise, vote in a nice fascist dictatorship that doesn't abide by the rule of law . . . .Voting in a government does not mean that government can simply ignore its responsibilities under law.But we are under an obligation to ensure they are properly cared for while they are in our custody, regardless of whether we outsource custody to a third party.The court simply applied the law.  It's not the courts.  It's the politicians enacting such laws.Yeah, much better to subsidize the Cadbury factory, isn't it?Only "unknowable" if you persist in ignorance.Is there a problem with the Federal government getting a cut?You may wish to check the details.  The constitution permits states to legislate regarding minerals but that doesn't necessarily mean the federation has ceded its interests entirely.Competitiveness with whom?  Each other?  Because the big mining companies are already global.

If it's small miners and small farmers who need assistance to be competitive with the big, global companies, subsidize them.

But it's easier to be critical of those you hate on simplistic caricatures, isn't it?That must be why Israel is bombing schools and hospitals and killing children.  In your world, that's o.k., is it?The Security Council should be abolished.  It is a Cold War relic that impedes the work the UN might otherwise accomplish.  No more vetoes.Indeed, they have been clear.  They have been clear in ensuring there are limits on food and fresh water and transit into and out of the occupied territories.  They have been clear that commitments regarding settlements are merely rhetorical.  They have been clear that they will not seriously negotiate or abide by the terms they agree to ever.  They operate as a rogue state and should be treated accordingly.You forgot to use the word "temporarily".  Israel has temporarily stopped settlements.  There, fixed it for you.It isn't cowardly at all.  Cowardice would be to play the bully.It's "right" to bomb schools? Hospitals?  When did that happen?Marriage, and its history, isn't what you think it is just because you think it is.  Maybe try studying the issue.  There is nothing "inherent" to marriage.  It is a social construct, and nowhere near as old as you think.Then also poll 1,000 people outside your "cultural clubs" (whatever that's supposed to be - the local bowlo?) and churches.  The community clubs, if that's different from your cultural clubs, may actually surprise you.  Go ahead, conduct a poll.  We'll wait.Procreation is not precluded by same-sex marriage.  You can still breed, if that's your thing.

International trade is not precluded by same-sex marriage either.  The countries we trade with will buy our stuff and happily sell us theirs regardless.

Your arguments are groundless.I thought he promised two million jobs.  Of course, in the accompanying video, he was holding up five fingers, so maybe it's just he can't count any more than he can keep a promise.Oh, good, a generation of Australia 'Okies'.

Grapes of Wrath, here we come.How stupid.  If there are five jobs and twenty-five applicants, when the five jobs are filled, you still have twenty unemployed and no more jobs.  But you seem to think those five jobs are like the loaves and the fishes and will miraculous multiply themselves until all twenty-five applicants have a job.  Logic is not a strong point for you.The coalition do not want people working for themselves and their families, but you're correct to say they want everyone working for the economy.  The  Liberals confuse the economy and society, when they even admit society exists.  This government's Thatcherite behaviour clearly indicates "there's no such thing as society" in their minds, just the economy.  Work or die.  The new Liberal motto.They are indeed that vindictive.  It is what drives every element of their policies.  And Peter Martin is right to bring up Whitlam, because it is Abbott's intention to drive back every social change instituted by Labor from that point forward.

We are just facing a resurgence of Thatcherism.  This is the new feudalism.  It's no wonder Abbott has by fiat re-established Knights and Dames.  Look next for Lords and Ladies.  While Hayek warned of the road to serfdom, it turns out that didn't mean what he thought it did.  We are on that road now, and Abbott will not be satisfied until everyone of us tugs the forelock as he and his master pass by.

They can't pass fast enough."Apparently on 457 visas"? Do they wear their visa's on their foreheads?

Dolt.One of Abbott's early proposals was to give rebates to long-term unemployed who get work and stay for six plus months.  But this is the wrong end.  Give business an incentive to hire long-term unemployed instead.  These are people applying for job after job and getting knocked back because of the gap in their employment history, extending the period and making the gap worse.  If employers had a reason to discount the gap, they might.  But for Abbott and Liberals generally, the fault is in the unemployed person exclusively, never in the decisions made by employers, even though any honest employer will acknowledge that they prefer to hire younger and hire from among those currently holding jobs.  This government doesn't actually know how businesses operate or the institutional prejudices they have.Except the Liberals have responded to the obvious choice of spam job applications by saying they'll cut you off for applying for 40 jobs as well as for not applying for 40 jobs.

They should just kill New Start altogether.  That's what they really want anyway.Apparently you're someone who's never been on the dole.  It is already humiliating.  It is especially humiliating to have to explain yourself to prospective employers, who are inherently distrustful of employment gaps.

Work for the dole is slavery.  If there is work, hire the worker and pay him or her properly.It's the miracle of the loaves and the fishes, except this time it's jobs.

Mythical then, mythical now.Didn't we just have a hearing that determined overseas IP retailers are charging prices in Australia well above those they apply elsewhere?  It's not like there's local labour they have to account for, and since they fiddle their accounts it can't be tax, either.  So Malcolm's just set his sails to the wind the US blows, and its blowing up our collective clacker at that.

A second-rate politician determined to ensure national second-rate status.

Oh, what a Lucky Country, to have such governance in it.Not that I take much Latham says seriously, especially lately, but his ideas are better than the march into feudalism the Liberals have embarked upon, and their attempts to establish the super-rich as a new royalty over us.  They like a constitutional monarchy and seem to figure Queen Gina is a shoo-in after Betty Windsor gives up the ghost.It would be a furphy if it wasn't true, but sadly, these second raters seem to get no further than sentence fragments and we get Lucky Country governance.Bit of a feedback loop going on: journalism has long ago reduced most reportage to sound bites, so politicians have responded by reducing their discourse to what will fit into as short a grab as they can.  Sadly, this seems to have corresponded to a similar reduction in actual policy development, and a reduction in the public's attention span.  Voters have been reduced to "what have you done for me lately" and politicians have been reduced to sloganeering over persuasion.  Television, radio, and even print journalism are happy because they can get more advertising in front of us; politicians are happy because the public can be left uninformed; the public, well, it doesn't seem we're happy, but we're increasingly fractured, which serves Thatcherite politicians, as then they have to do nothing to benefit the society they don't believe in.You mean "when" the stock market crashes, as it does periodically, not "if".Then eliminate New Start altogether, Other John, that's what you really want, isn't it?  No more dole at all?  No old age pension, no Medicare . . . just kill all the social safety net programs.  Well, you elected the right government for the job, although they're doing it dishonestly.As a taxpayer, I want my government to invest in its people, not punish them.Facts are bothersome things, aren't they, though?  Why are the long-term unemployed unemployed over the long-term?  Some proportion of them may have issues with their previous employment that makes them less than viable candidates, but in other cases, as has long been known and as many business people will attest, a long gap in employment is in itself suspicious, despite qualifications and positive referrals, if it even gets to the point where someone hiring gets to checking those.  It becomes a feedback loop, and hard to break free.  Accepting "any work available" doesn't help, because now, in addition to having a gap in your history, you've either got a job completely irrelevant to what was your career, or a continued gap because having that job on your resume screams "unsuitable candidate".

Programs to assist people back into careers help.  These may include providing incentives to employers to hire from among the long-term unemployed or subsidies to persons seeking or services providing retraining.  Forcing people into picking up trash along the highways isn't help. It's slavery, and it exacerbates the conditions of long-term unemployment.

Government can invest in its people or it can punish them.  This government has opted for punishments.  But then, they are Liberals, after all.Most people who "remain unemployed" for long periods do not do so by choice.  Punishing them isn't the answer.Unions want a fair wage for work.  If the work is worth doing, it's worth paying for.

The government is clearly acting on gut feelings, but their feelings consist of disgust for anyone poor, anyone sick, anyone old.  Their feelings are greed and selfishness.

Their "crude methods" consist of beating down those already down on their luck and ensuring they can't ever get back up.Businesses used to invest in their workers.  "Experience required" wasn't always the first condition of employment, and even now many businesses make it harder to gain additional or higher qualifications because it's an up-front expense they can't immediately recoup.  We don't need work for the dole.  We need incentives for businesses to be part of society instead of just milking it dry.  That might mean a slightly lower profit margin and a few less dollars our 1% can leave as an inheritance for their children.  Instead we get a government that views the height of economics to be feudalism and intent upon building a new class of royals, mostly among themselves.More stupid.

Investment ensures future gain.  Non-investment can only ensure short-term performance.

You really have to stop thinking that everything you don't understand  is "us vs. them".We have a government that, despite the experiences around the world during and following the GFC of 2008, still believe in the Chicago school of economics, or worse, the Austrian school.  They believe that wages will fall because unemployment will result in businesses saying to their workers, accept these lower wages or we'll hire those job seekers out there for less, and that this will subsequently result, not only in lower wages, and thus higher "productivity" (i.e., more work for less money), but ultimately lower unemployment, too, as businesses can afford to hire more staff.  This is, however, disproved in reality.  Businesses don't offer lower wages.  They cut staff.  Unemployment rises, as well as productivity, but not because of more work for less money, but more work for fewer workers.

Anecdotal evidence isn't, and the anecdotes are lies anyway.     These are second-rate, Lucky Country politicians who couldn't cut it selling you a car, let alone selling a policy, because they don't care, don't believe it anyway, and don't have a clue otherwise.

Anyone voting Liberal on the basis of economic management is a self-deluded fool.  The Liberals hate everyone but themselves and their wealthy masters and will do everything in their power to prove it, day after day, year after year, election after election.Luckily for everyone who objects to the harm the Liberals want to do to this country, there isn't even one LNP minister who can (a) keep his mouth shut or (b) not make their harsh policies actually draconian.  Every day presents a new offering from these second-rate Lucky Country stooges to ensure we know precisely how much they hate the poor, the sick, the elderly, and anyone who isn't them or their wealthy masters.Quite.  Businesses with legitimate staffing needs (as well as those with none) will be inundated to the point where the effort required to find a viable candidate will exceed the benefit of hiring one.And yet your beloved Liberals have stated that this is the policy.  If you cannot document 40 job applications per month, you will be cut off.  But of course then you'll have more time for the slave labour you'll be required to perform.

Elitist, selfish, prejudiced . . . only describes Liberals and their ignorant, hate-fueled sycophants.It's true.  I haven't been on New Start for over nine years now. I'm out of touch with the current protocol. 

Nevertheless, despite your stupid insults, Centrelink retains as part of its function checking compliance.

Now, get a job, jerk.Because you must periodically attend a Centrelink office and present your documentation.  If you've never been on New Start, you may not be aware of this, but that's part of how the system works.Work for the dole is slave labour.  If there was a job, let the unemployed be hired into it and be paid properly.

This is just yet another attempt by the Liberals to punish those they hate, the poor, in this instance.  They hate the poor because every dollar a poor person has is a dollar a Liberal doesn't have, and every dollar is there's by right.

They hate the poor because it may be that a poor person is able to rise out of poverty and into the middle class, and every person in the middle class may yet rise one day into the ranks of the wealthy, and in so doing deprive the wealthy today of accumulating more money to donate to their children's inheritances.

They hate the poor because their health is affected by their conditions and health care is universally provided but still must be paid for, depriving a wealthy Liberal of more money that is theirs by right.

The hate the poor because public education still has to be paid for and deprives a private school of more public money.

The age of entitlement is only over for everyone but wealthy Liberals and the politicians who serve them.

Every act of bastardry attempted by this government should be opposed, vigorously and unrelentingly.Rorting the system is indeed stealing, but I don't see anyone, left or right, claiming otherwise.  Just you making unsubstantiated accusations.  Typical Liberal stooge.

How many are "rorting the system, stooge? And how many are legitimately in need?

Sounds like you just hate everyone.I agree, yet Liberals and their sycophants are here regularly lumping every person attempting to arrive by boat as all the same thing.  There are probably more illegals in a batch of Euro backpackers, ready to overstay their visas, than any boat out of Sri Lanka or Indonesia, desperate to escape oppression.Perhaps your in-laws need to re-examine their objections, and their own experiences.All refugees are "self-selected".  On what basis do you decided which ones are "most in danger"?Poor Freddie, can only argue the points he wants, not the ones made.  It doesn't matter if Australia takes in a refugee or turns them back, the refugee is the person declaring their status and is thus "self-selected".  Immigration and UNHCR may be best positioned to decide whether someone is or is not a refugee, but among refugees, who is "most in need" and who is not, and how is that the basis for determining their status?It's stupid to claim ABC bias because it publishes free-lance opinions, just as it is to claim bias when it publishes a nuanced editorial and the freighted language rubs up against whatever prejudices it may.

I suspect there are so few articles supporting the anti-refugee position because those who would write them can't or can't be bothered to articulate their opposition, based as it often is on prejudice and fear.

However, insofar as it is evident the ABC does publish free-lance work, perhaps you should seek a commission to produce such an essay and see where it leads.Where are all the stories on deportations of European tourists?  How many actual illegal immigrants are there?  Or does it only count if they're from Africa or Asia?Envy engenders greed, exhibited by selfishness, as amply demonstrated by Liberal policy and the twisted logic of their sycophants.  The born-to-rule mentality of Liberal politicians is only matched by their wealth-by-right destruction of social opportunity and the principles of egalitarian democracy.The remains that have been recovered have been moved out of Ukraine.  The AFP is there to conduct an investigation of what happened to the airplane.  There may already be sufficient evidence to say it was a missile strike, but not to say where the missile came from, but in the latter case it may already be too late to be sure, as the site has been thoroughly contaminated.  An active war zone is a difficult place to conduct a criminal investigation.  It may be something that has to wait until the shooting stops.Your "compassion" seems to direct that we go in armed.  Perhaps you'd prefer to send in a full complement of troops.Julie Bishop wants to arm the AFP in Ukraine.  Does that conform with your expectations, too?  Joining someone else's war?Street gangs aren't usually armed with surface-to-air missiles or tanks, among other things.There may be some human remains yet to be recovered, but there is also the wreckage itself, and more even than the black boxes this is what will provide physical evidence of what happened to the plane and who may be at fault.  This is a criminal investigation in the middle of a battlefield in a larger war zone.  It will be nearly impossible to gather evidence under the present conditions, especially as the site has been thoroughly contaminated.  Cooler heads and wiser choices seem warranted indeed.It's plainly evident that Abbott hates the poor, hates the sick, hates the elderly, hates students, and - especially - hates Labor.

I suspect he hates students because some of them didn't vote for him when he was in university politics.  I suspect he hates the poor because they get money that he'd prefer was held by the wealthy for their children's inheritance.  I suspect he hates the sick on a similar basis, insofar as they get health care, which would be better provided to the wealthy to keep them alive forever.  I suspect he hates the elderly because they are as old or older than John Howard, whose existence prior to 2007 meant Abbott couldn't aspire to be PM.

The reason he hate Labor is plain: they don't hate the poor, sick, or the old.

So the best thing he can do now that he has the power is to wind back every social advance achieved by Labor and re-establish the Menzies caliphate and the supremacy of Markets.Hockey has been quoted as to his belief that his bid for the leadership was on the basis that it was "his turn".  Apparently not, but that doesn't invalidate the evident fact that he does not believe in qualifications, just seniority.  Abbott is no different.  This is a born-to-rule mentality that has no place in a democratic and egalitarian society.  Seems they don't believe in either of those, either.No one even knows we exist?  Read more international news from sources other the the local rags.They are indeed a "tired, out-of-ideas bunch".  A bunch of second-rate Howard leftovers, with no new ideas, no plans, and no notable ability.  Lucky Country bullies and blowhards, every last one of them.That must be why there's Federal money for chaplains, from the right religious dogmas, but not for ethics independent of religion.  Less a strawman, perhaps, than the author protests."Disgusting"?  You're easily offended.Didn't read, wasn't' in receipt of Slipper's texts.  Can't say anything about them.  Abbott's wink wasn't disgusting, it was sleazy.

There's a difference between sexism, as Abbott regularly exhibits, and sexuality, which is more in line with Slipper, howsoever much the latter may have risen to the level of harassment.Sexism is not the same thing as sexuality.There are sexist components, such as the matter of not talking and having money, but the context is such that it is more in line with sexuality, and meant to be humourous, even if it failed in the latter case."Foul-mouthed"?  What expletives did she use?  Derogatory?  To whom?That's just stupid.  Abbott treats gender as a qualification, or lack thereof, for public office.  Lambie is addressing matters of sexual preference.  Take a deep breath.There is such a thing as context.I'd stop at inappropriate, but so was the question asked to elicit the response.I prefer discretion to class.  We get enough classism as it is.That's flat-out not true.  If any person engaged in a pattern of unwelcome advances to any other person he or she would rightly be disciplined for it, but it isn't a matter of man to woman, let alone older man to younger woman.  Get over your fear of women.I, for one, don't care.  However, if - and, in fact, when - male politicians speak frankly about sexual attraction, they're lambasted as sexist, sometimes wrongly.

I don't mean to excuse the egregiously sexist remarks of certain politicians, which have been not about attraction but about attractiveness as a qualification.

Keep it off the airwaves, folks, and don't scare the horses.  Or the voters.Just because you can't distinguish between sexuality and sexism doesn't mean everything's "hypocritical".  Get a dictionary; it's a start toward a whole new outlook.Oh, good, bring on the double dissolution.

We might get a better outcome than last time in the lower house, too.Quite right.  Even with conservative independents, Abbott's policies go too far.  That's because Abbott isn't a conservative.  He's a wrecker.There's another, more important difference than the one you're claiming: Labor was able to successfully negotiate its policies through the Senate.  Abbott's making a bit of a hash of that so far.There's nothing wrong with a bailout per se.  Rewarding risk is part of how the economy works.  A bailout that effectively rewards unwarranted risk is questionable, certainly, but treating such actions as a precedent is itself a kind of unwarranted risk, ensuring more of the same.  Regulation and oversight are the only measures available to insure against unwarranted risk-taking.  That's not going to go over very well with many who claim to be libertarians, but too bad for their sensitivities.  The rest of us live here, too.

There's nothing wrong with governments going into debt, either, in pursuit of keeping society stable.  Mistaking keeping the economy stable, or keeping productivity growing, for the society is were we run into trouble.  We stop dealing with people and only the "too big to fail" banks benefit, short- or long-term.  Sometimes you've got to spend some money.  Even the banks know that, let alone the Lucky Country politicians who think the economy and society are the same.  That doesn't mean they care.

Maybe Chris Berg is right, and there's nothing to be done.  That doesn't mean we shouldn't try.Let him come.  Let him hear about it from those who consider his actions to be wrongful.  He can be ignored or castigated, or not, by the participants.  If he objects to those who decide on the former course, he can go home.Is Mugabe invited?  Is the current US regime the same administration?

Nevertheless, why shouldn't they be held to account and chastised?

Or do you approve of Putin's actions?  Sounds like.If it was a mistake, time will tell.  The US deliberately shot down that Iranian airliner.  They paid compensation for it, too, although without admitting fault.It's possible.  The US did, however, still compensate the victims.Nixon "ran" from Vietnam.  He was a Republican.

Your knowledge of history, let alone current events, is deficient. 

Study, then comment.The "Balkanisation of the Middle East" occurred prior to and following World War I, long before Israel was established as a modern state.  I'm sure the West is very happy to have had imperialistic control then and fractious states now, at least so long as it ensures access to oil and to the profits available from extracting it, shipping it, and refining it, but "for Israel's benefit" is a stretch.There will be an immediate call here for cyclists to be licensed, possibly also for them to carry insurance, making them equivalent to motorised vehicles, and I'm pretty o.k. with that, although I think the licensing fee should be pro rated, as bicycles don't contribute to the wear and tear on roads to anything like the same extent and cars and trucks.  Insurance would alleviate some of the costs of who's being a dickhead, too.  Face it, there are plenty of cyclists who flout the rules governing them.

Cycleways aren't a panacea either.  I work across the street from one, and for every dozen cyclists using it, there are one or two who can't be bothered.  There are also those who will mount the curb and travel on the sidewalk.  There are also those who feel the need for speed and treat any limitation on their progress and velocity as a personal affront.

Sydney drivers are, however, terrifically aggressive.  Especially, it seems to me, when driving conditions are reduced.  A little rain and everyone seems to speed up.  Approaching a pedestrian crossing seems to be an excuse to accelerate, especially if there's any sign of a pedestrian nearby.  What is this, Sydney, Death Race 20[14]?

We all have responsibilities.  I'd be very happy to see everyone living up to them.If Howard's ETS had gone up, or if Hockey had the guts to take a stand and had been made leader of the opposition, you'd sing a different song.Including all the ones he's broken?  Remarkable how you can compartmentalise.I expect he broke his promises because he never intended to keep them.

Making excuses for this tool don't help anyone but Abbott.

As for Hewson, clearly Australia prefers Lucky Country politicians, except perhaps in hindsight.Please pick up a copy of today's newspaper.  The 17-year myth is just that.South Korea's ETS is scheduled to start in 2015.Which jobs would those be?  The ones in the fossil fuel industries?  Because it seems to me there are lots of jobs that could be created by transitioning to renewables.  The idea that putting a price on carbon or instituting an ETS destroys jobs is as false as the tale that there is no climate change.  It's the same story polluters told when clean air laws came in.  False then, false now.And yet natural gas prices are set to skyrocket, even without the carbon price.

I don't think you understand the energy market nearly as much as you think you do.Reduce emissions.  Significantly.  This can be done by imposing laws that require it or by creating incentives under law.  Like a carbon tax or ETS.  Even Abbott - and Hockey and Hunt and Howard - advocated for such measures.  Until Labor took government and actually did something about it.  Then they swung around to oppose it.  Childish, really.Abbott repealed the carbon tax and thereby ended global warming.

Now there's a remarkable claim.It's a baseless assertion.  Climate change is happening.  Denial doesn't change that.  Neither will the costly direct action policy.  Which political persuasion is peddling that nonsense?Your "life giving gas" is only such at certain levels.  Increase those levels and it is not, and for more than one reason.  Anything can be pollution.  Even too much oxygen can be bad for you.

Try science.  It's good for what ails you.We should have a superprofits tax on the banks, too.Sure, but financial services, such as hedge funds, often aren't investing.Unemployment is rising, productivity is falling.  I don't expect you to get any information from the ABC, because you're clearly not paying attention anyway.A false narrative.  Liberals don't care about or support small- to medium-sized businesses in preference to large enterprises.  They preference the wealthy over everyone else.

Big businesses, however, don't care which side of politics is in government, until that government tries to regulate or tax them.  Then they care a lot, and act accordingly.

But you keep believing whatever false libertarian fantasy you prefer.  We know it's all about a no-tax Thatcherite utopia.You're not wrong, but it isn't about undoing everything accomplished by the previous government. They mean to undo everything ever accomplished by Labor back to Whitlam.  They hate anything that smacks of progress, especially if it's got Labor stamped on it.Fair enough; the middle isn't the middle at all, because it depends on who's laying claim to it, and it certainly isn't sensible.  Being too much of the middle means nothing gets done.  But being reactionary means too much gets undone.  And this is where the issue over what's the middle, what's moderate, gets us into trouble.  Our leftwing has moved to the right, to the point where, on too many issues, they're nearly indistinguishable from what the rightwing used to be.  They, of course, have shifted further right, to maintain the distinction, to the point of pure reactionary politics.  They seek more and more to undo what progress has achieved, further and further to the past, desperate to return to some imaginary glorious past.  It was glorious then, because that was then.

The sensible middle takes a stance to the left of the actual middle.  It stands for progress and enlightenment and achieving advances on the present, rather than clutching to what little gain has been brought about as if there was no more possible.  There's always more.

It's a monkey trap.  We can get so much more if we let go of too much.There's a good idea: anyone who signs onto a shonky retirement home deal should be sent to prison.  Good one!Don't forget debtor's prisons.Snark isn't called for, but as a bloc, the baby boom population can be effective in bringing about change beneficial to subsequent generations, such as on issues like this.  Too bad we mainly get retro movies and television instead.  But, of course, boomers aren't a bloc.  They as diverse as any other generational segment, if aging.  Why shouldn't society deal with that, or do you prefer the old ice-floe method?There was an article in the Australian today that says the wealthy will bear the brunt of the fuel excise tax, if it goes through, because they spend more on fuel than the poor.  It mentions that the rich have more cars than the poor, but it doesn't mention that the cars they have tend to be less fuel-efficient or in better repair.  It also doesn't mention that their fuel costs as a proportion of disposable income, or income generally, is less than it is for the poor.  So what is the truth?

I trust your ideological blinders more than your analytic abilities, but equally with the ability for the Australian public to be provided with only enough information to suit those who would manipulate them.  Barnum's dictum holds.I have no objection to well-drafted sunshine laws.  Full disclosure should be no barrier to good government, but too often it's treated so.

Regarding the practicalities of public vs. private finance, a good measure of the problem falls on the use of media by politicians or on their behalf.  While there is nothing to be done, or that should be done, to restrict the right of free speech by private persons, the government licenses the airwaves and could very easily require a fully equitable share to parties and candidates, especially during election campaigns, and likewise limit how much time and bandwidth can be purchased beyond that to the same shared proportions.  There'd have to be a mechanism to control for a purchaser of advertising not linked to a specific candidate or party, but if we can eliminate the need to raise funds to get the message out, we can perhaps limit the influence of the source of funding.A hundred years ago, in the US, at least, according to James Weinstein, an historian, business worked with government and unions on progressive reforms - instituting workmen's compensation, anti-child labour laws, and even pushing for increased regulation.  The belief at the time was that the economy would be strong if the society was, and this depended on a fair distribution of the benefits of the economy to the society.  Even through LBJ's Great Society, business interests supported government in improving social outcomes and managing the economy, including tax increases when necessary.

So what's changed?  For one thing, the threat of a viable communist system is gone, so what recourse can society's workers have other than to do as they're told?  Unions aren't what they were, even when they were any good, let alone after they sank into bouts of corruption, as we have to acknowledge.

For another, however, and perhaps more importantly, the accumulation of wealth no longer depends on the domestic market.  Society doesn't need to be cohesive because the market exists globally, both for the buying and selling of goods as well as for the supply of labour.  In addition, there's more wealth to be made outside of industry than in it, i.e., financial services, where the wealthy themselves are their own best customers.

Wealth doesn't need us.  Those who serve wealth despise us.  Government should seek to balance against this, but we are often contending with governments in thrall to wealth, such as today.

We need brave people willing to fight the power, fight the system, and wrest back what it means to be progressive.There is no merit.  The system depends on self-interest.  The wealthy have no interest in how society operates, just the economy, which is the primary engine by which they continue to accrue and accumulate more wealth.  There is no threat to them and their ability to amass wealth other than government, and government serves wealth, more often than not, rather than society, as it should.  Our politicians do not come from society, they come from wealth, so that's where their interests lie.  We let this happen and it will never get any better until we assert the primacy of our society over that of our economy.I agree: it was contempt that led the Liberals to lie before the election.  What was gutless was the budget they then came up with, a budget that failed to do any "heavy lifting", instead relying on the usual tricks and diversions to punish those already in strife and reward those already doing well.

The author states that "There isn't $50 billion being rorted by the poor or extorted by the rich or hidden in chimeric tax expenditures", but then tries to pretend that "There are just too many people getting too much from the government and paying too little", without specifying either how that works or just who these people are and what they're getting beyond what they pay for.  He says the government has contradicted itself trying to sell this message, but does so himself.

He says "co-payments are common in our health system", but that's not accurate.  Private cover excess is common, for those with private cover, and who seek care outside of the public system, but that doesn't excuse the government's pretense at addressing increased health spending by introducing a co-pay.  Increases in health spending can be addressed by changing how health care is delivered and the schedule of services on which it is paid.  The Medical Research Future Fund is misdirection and does nothing to improve the provision of health care.

Liberals always punish the poor and put the bulk of the burden on them and the middle class.  The 2% deficit tax on income above $180,000 is a sop, limited in duration, and won't touch the sides of what they say they need.

Smarter programs, including in regard to defense, and better designed tax programs - an improvement of the mining tax comes to mind, rather than its repeal - would be politically difficult, but actually courageous. But, as you say, that's not the government we have.  Labor didn't go nearly far enough, as if the LNP and their sycophants would let them, but we're not going anywhere now, except down.

Welcome to the recession we didn't have to have.It's all lies from this mob so far.  Greg Hunt's argument that "we accepted the amendments" only means the amendments weren't in the bill, and never would be, if the bill had been passed as-is.  Disingenuous is one thing, a double-cross another.It's one thing to forgive, another to forget, especially to forget so far as to insult those grievously harmed.Learning from history does not entail forgetting it.Hardly excuses the Japanese, though, does it?  Or Abbott.Hatred for Abbott? Hardly. Contempt at his every public utterance and his despicable behaviour towards the poor, sick, and elderly?  Sure.Legal clarification will be welcome.  Operational transparency would also be welcome.  Regardless of whether the actions of the government are legal, behaving in a dictatorial manner does them no favours.Try again.  I said "behave in a dictatorial manner".  That is, without transparency, without regard to due process, without regard to treaties or other binding laws and agreements.  The first is certain, the other two may be clarified in the High Court.  But it is nevertheless the behavior more associated with dictatorships than with democracies.Then hold them all to account, not just the side you don't like.  Aged care didn't come in in the last six years, did it?  Might as well blame Howard, Keating, Hawke, Fraser . . . .

This isn't just another partisan political issue.  It cuts across society.  Oh, but Liberals don't believe in society, do they, or was that just the UK's Thatcher?It's already been presented on the 7:30 Report.It probably won't happen to the politicians.  They're better paid than most and have excellent super and pensions.  Not to mention all the lovely opportunities many of them seem to have for graft.

Surprising to hear a call for federal funding from the likes of you, though.  Where's the "personal responsibility"?  What about the "nanny state"?This mob isn't going to do anything about retirement homes.  They already want you to have to sell up to fund your retirement when you've got a home.Is that the best strategy the Liberals have: pain for the years before calling an election, then handing out presents just ahead?  The electorate are played for dopes.  How about some actual leadership?  This short-term crap is getting pretty old.Rubio is an empty suit.  Clinton would eat him alive.Oh, yes, very clever of her to get the US into Iraq on the basis of falsehoods.Her vote on Iraq was wrong, as she has acknowledged.And those of the soldiers killed in Iraq?  Those of the Iraqis killed?

Very selective.The Republicans have been running on the repeal of Obamacare since it was signed into law.  You clearly haven't been paying attention to politics there.  Stick to Australian issues, not that you present much better form there.Ridiculous.  The US has no presence in Syria or Ukraine.  Blood seems to be flowing anyway.Read the profile.  Not a journalist, not employed by the ABC.Kerry had his shot.  Way too old now.It's just White Australia all over again, after all, except now Italians and Greeks and Eastern Europeans who have been here since the last world war are accepted, largely, as "white".  (God help the more recent arrivals.)

Yes, Australians are immensely self-important, grandly and openly selfish, and not a little racist.

How else could they let themselves think "Lucky Country" is a positive appellation or elect such a blatant batch of second raters to run their government?They are appointed by the politicians we elect.  Sometimes it's called "court stacking", when the appointments are driven by political considerations.  I suspect you would call it that when the decisions don't come down in accordance with your prejudices.Nonsense.  Australia is a common law country.  Judges review the actions of government under the law for compliance with it and whether laws are compatible with constitutional restrictions.

You may not like the ruling, but Parliament has the power to then revise legislation to ensure laws and actions will pass judicial review.

That's how the system works.  You seem to prefer a different basis for dictatorship, one without judicial review.  Maybe only when Liberals are in government?That's why the appointments should be made objectively, on the basis of qualification.  If not, you can end up with bad decisions, such as those we're seeing lately in the US Supreme Court.  I suppose you'll cry foul if the High Court rejects the government's arguments in this case regardless.Who is arguing for open borders?  That's a furphy.  We may prefer an orderly process, but this isn't orderly and it may not be lawful.  Processing refugees should be both.I have no objection to legal suicide.  It's certainly better than enforced suffering or the messy alternatives people employ in despair.Are the Liberal senators not there to do the bidding of the PM?  Are the Labor senators not there to do the bidding of the leader of the opposition?  You may not like it, but Palmer formed a party, put up candidates, and the PUP got seats.

And "born to rule", if that's what you were trying to type, has always been the principle under which the Liberals have addressed politics.  Too bad if there's a comeuppance for you now.This whole insider/outsider business is not terribly useful.  "Real life" experience has little to do with the requirements of running a country.  Having a family, running a business . . . these aren't qualifications for public office.Insofar as our ancestors dispossessed the indigenous inhabitants of the land and benefited thereby, so that their descendants and the country they established prospered according to their desires, we owe our prosperity to those indigenous people and their descendants thereby.I can't agree that this is new from when Abbott was elevated to be the leader of the Liberals.  Abbott, after all, is well-known to have been an extremist and a bully from his very early days, in student politics.  His elevation merely recapitulates how the Liberals see their best chances to obtain and secure power.

I don't see a turning point coming soon, either.  There are no political giants looming on the horizon, no great intellects, and the media reflects this.  Much as I wish we could have the grand ideas and soaring rhetoric to carry it, we are ever fighting a rearguard action against the reactionaries, the fear-filled (and fueled) politicians of the far right.  These are no longer "conservatives", except in how they prefer to label themselves.  They conserve nothing.  And our liberals? I don't seem many of them left, either.You might need to pay more attention yourself.  Only Gillard had to form a minority government.  When Rudd was re-installed there was no new election to form a new government.Are you also wearing footy shorts (or a miniskirt)?  Because then it doesn't matter who made your Uggs.You don't know whether there have been any such deaths at sea or not.  Morrison certainly won't tell you.  But that suits you fine, doesn't it?  If you don't know it, it must not be happening, so you don't have to care.You've made a poor job of "pulling up" the yank.  But you don't have the same point of comparison he does, so have to rely on unsubstantiated assertions.  Maybe you need to go ride a train and pick on children.  That seems more your level of argumentation lately.Perhaps what we need is a class action against CBA.  A Royal Commission having been effectively if not explicitly ruled out, depending on shonky financial advisers to regulate themselves, well after the fact at that, isn't going to get anyone but a few loud, well-heeled dissenters anywhere.  The majority are going to get screwed over a second time.Talent? Skill, maybe.  He never offered anything of artistic note or lasting worth.  Personally, he was creepy even before we heard about his molestations.  He should have disappeared long ago.Indeed, or the entries generally.I think you have misrepresented the yank's criticism of the LNP.  In opposition they denied there was a reason to act to offset the effects of the GFC, pretending there was no threat to Australia, a narrative you evidently believe in.  Saccharine fairy tales.  Now that they're in government, they believe that only full-on austerity, at the expense of the poor and the middle class, especially those who are sick or old, is the only remedy to restoring the country to the conditions that existing in the lead-up to the GFC, inviting yet another massive downturn in the economy they purport to be so adept at managing.  A darker fairy story for the selfish and fearful.  Believe what you want, but don't fail to hold those now in power responsible if our economy takes the hit we avoided six years ago.There are very likely more effective measures for adjusting the balance sheets than simply cutting spending on health care, education, pensions, etc., especially insofar as nothing effective is being done on the revenue side.  The deficit tax is short-term and meager.  The medical consultation co-pay is just a way to stop poor people from accessing health care and doesn't offset spending.  Pension cuts just pushes the problem off on the states, if they take it up, and punishes the old for being old.  Education cuts just ensures fewer young people can access higher education, perhaps so they'll all move to Queensland or WA to gets jobs involving shovels while there's still digging to be done.  No investment in industries where we might otherwise be able to expect job growth.  The federal government has plenty of room to move in ways to address actual structural problems with its budget, but the Liberals are too intent on rolling back any Labor initiatives back to 1970 to bother with anything else.

Lucky country second-rate leftovers from twenty years ago aren't the best and the brightest for the job at hand.Sorry, but it gets worse.  All your savings for retirement, outside of the family home, are stuck in the stock market.  We've been setting ourselves up to a major problem for at least the last fifty years, and super has only made it worse.We are indeed fortunate.  And we should be striving to keep it that way, instead of attempting to cut out the very things that are exceptional in our society.  But instead the government is trying to kill Medicare, reduce access to higher education, and turn their backs on the elderly.Tightening the belt around the necks of the poor, old, and sick is the wrong place to apply the austerity tourniquet.  Put the belt where it belongs.I know of instances where staff in wheelchairs have been carried down the stairwell, along with their equipment, by their colleagues, including at least one reported instance occurring in the World Trade Center attack of 1993, over one hundred floors.  In Australia, I believe this used to be called something like 'mateship'.  It transcends OH&amp;S.Under- and over-qualified as reasons for rejection have a rational, if sometimes short-sighted basis.  A lack of "recent experience" is certainly a poor reason.  Personality issues are subjective, until they're not, but inevitable.  Rejecting someone for being "too old" is discriminatory.  So is rejecting someone on the basis of accommodation being "too hard".

Address the topic itself, not your excuses for not "getting it".I won't ask the government to set up programs to employ me or anyone else suffering from discrimination.  I will ask them to ensure that I have legal protections and recourse if I suffer from such discrimination and that the barriers to such recourse are reasonably, equitably set.  Spending on programs to support such protections shouldn't be unreasonable to ask, and if Gina and her peers can contribute more to that, they should.All we ask is that reform should be done intelligently, compassionately, and effectively.  Instead we get slash-and-burn.

Just because you don't understand Stella's point doesn't mean she doesn't have one.  Try rereading the article.  With an open mind next time.Carbon price or ETS, our environment benefits, our economy actually can benefit.  This is an investment in the future, something Lucky Country politicians and their supporters don't understand or accept.  The Liberals are always "what have you done for me lately?"  We can do better than that.How will they pay for the move?  Perhaps you expect them to pack up a shopping trolley and walk.It's supposed to support you under circumstances where you need the help to get to a position to support yourself.  It's not a "top-up".  But if it isn't enough for long enough so that you can get that new or first job, it will push you further into poverty, extend the duration of your struggle to extricate yourself.  Guess you've been lucky, but I know what it's like and what can be lost.They promulgated their reasons.  No need to be "privy".  They went to the UN, they went to the newspapers, they went to the public.  The war was to punish Hussein for his involvement in 9/11 - when there wasn't any - and to disarm him of WMD - when there weren't any.  They lied.  You bought it.  And now you're changing the tune to suit the fact you can't own up to being wrong, just like the war criminals.I don't think Israel want failed states on their borders.  States too intent on bickering among and between themselves, sure, but not failed outright.  Too much instability isn't good for business.Meanwhile, outside of academic research, increasing the minimum wage helps people out of poverty, giving cash incentives instead of targeted vouchers helps people out of poverty . . . . oh, but "helps people out of poverty" may be the part that you disagree with?But that is what was voted for: a Senate composition in balance to the lower house.  If the electorate wanted Abbott to have an unobstructed Senate, they would have voted accordingly.  The electorate, however, prefer that Abbott can't simply slot home the horrors he has planned.  That's part of how the system works, whether you like it or not.Well, he didn't write it down, did he?  Aren't we supposed to get in writing before we believe him?There does seem to be a bit of dissent, but I think what we may really be seeing is premature announcements.  Take Christopher Pyne (please), for example, and his announcement of collecting HECS from the dead.  Abbott knocked it back, but I won't be surprised if, like Work Choices, it rises from the grave, in mildly altered form and name, when the time is more suited to it.  Abbott's got enough to do with getting his horror budget through in as few small pieces as he can, without having to pile on additional unpopular efforts to punish Australia.  There are more budgets to come, and each one of these proposals have been floated purposefully, softening up the electorate to accept the pain the Liberals intend to inflict on all but their wealthy masters.They do.  It's a limited market, though, as most dealers won't handle them.1. But when those few are in government, their actions 2. include revisions to those legislated protections.  3. You may have not learned to read sentences containing serial commas.The Liberals hate environmental protection because they are short-sighted Lucky Country second-raters who see such measures only as a cost to business instead of seeing the potential business opportunities.  If they can cut it down, dig it out, or use it up, they see no value in it.If you are under 30, you will experience days where the heat and humidity are so high that your body will not be able to stay cool enough to survive.  Doing nothing, doing worse than nothing, as this government intends, is foolhardy.You're wrong.  It's called the Humid Heat Stroke Index.  And when it hits 95 it doesn't matter how you're dressed or how much water you drink: if you're out in it, you will die.  The desperation of those who want not to believe climate change is a problem simply ignores everything that doesn't suit the preferred narrative.  That doesn't mean advocates of reduced emissions are engaging in "hysteria".  It means we take the problem seriously and you don't.If the head of the US postal service is only getting half a million, there's no way to justify paying the head of Australia post nearly five million.Facebook has turned into an advertisement delivery service, but only because its users have decided to add corporations as "friends" and "like" their content.  It can be more effective than television, because users believe they're interacting with the content.  Keep it friends and family, if you must use it, and hope they do, too.Doing nothing on climate change, reversing progress on renewables . . . this isn't a government of "conservatives".  They are reactionaries.  Worse, they're Lucky Country reactionaries, second-raters without any concept of investment or vision for the future.Square-up?  More like what I always expected from Palmer.  He's going to roll over on a lot more than this.  He should have stayed in Queensland, back on the dinosaur farm.  Politics isn't his game.I'd rather a three-way balance between the LNP, Labor, and the Greens, than having to depend on the PUP mob, from whom I have no better expectation than they will try to make side deals with the LNP, and when that fails, roll over.Perhaps a more dangerous idea is that ethics trumps morality, but often enough that seems to be how human societies operate, such as in the case of torture, where powerful attorneys for the Bush administration, for example, in the US were able to construct a legal justification to allow it.  Can we say absolutely that taking human life is morally wrong and still argue that ethically it is not?  We need to start then from the premise that taking human life is an absolute moral wrong.

Honour killings are, according to the ethical system I strive to adhere to, morally wrong, but I cannot say that the morality underlying these ethics can, upon examination, absolutely uphold this principle.  Insofar as the moral system I was raised in allows judicial execution, war, abortion, euthenasia, etc., then it is flawed and my ethics can be said to override my morals.  There are arguments to be made, therefore, in opposition to my ethics, and we shouldn't be afraid to do so, or neither ethics nor morals can be improved to the betterment of myself or others.Where does the law come from?  It isn't consensus.  It's judgment.It's the law in one jurisdiction not to sell liquor on Sundays, in another not to sell on Sundays before noon, in another there is no restriction, and each of these may neighbour one another.  It's the law some places that adulterers should be stoned to death and that thieves should have their hands cut off.  The law, as the saying goes, is an ass, but it certainly isn't always ethical, and it is also sometimes not moral (although it sometimes pretends otherwise).  Legislation cannot trump what is right, and even in religion, where what is right is supposed to be absolute, individual ethical considerations may be accepted as superior.  The proscriptions you assert are dangerous.He can't.  That's not how the budget actually works.  Promising to spend the money received from the excise tax on a specific program of road building is simply false.  The money goes into the same place as all the other tax revenue.  He'll end up spending the money elsewhere and claiming someone else is to blame.  Assuming he gets the tax through.Recent studies have shown that increasing the number of lanes actually encourages more traffic and more congestion, but reducing lanes does not.

Planning makes the difference, I think, not just slapping down new roads and highways to please the easily gulled.That's it?  Everything's already screwed, so screw it?  That's your solution?  Please at least try to do better than that.  Pathetic.Face it, improved access to public transport and improved public transport service in regard to frequency and carrying capacity means even buses could use existing infrastructure and reduce the reliance on private vehicles.  You don't need flying cars.  I get the impression your own blatant hypocrisy forces you to denigrate anything offered by the Greens, opposition or not, simply because they are the Greens.  Get over it.  You're not managing to score any points.Abbott's stated intention is to use the money for roads.  More roads.  Therefore more cars, more congestion, more pollution.  If he stated his intention was to develop mass transit, Milne would not have an objection to the tax increase.  Get your story straight.There's already a fuel excise tax.  This is a tax increase.He did also promised lower taxes, too, though.  Still a broken promise.Indeed, what would you know?  Very little, it seems.  Greece may have had a spending problem, but it had a much larger revenue problem.  Abbott seems to think we only have the former, whereas it's quite clear the issue is more largely the latter.  But that doesn't suit your narrative, or his, does it?Revenue - heard of it?Improving the economy is not the goal of this government.  Their goal is simply to punish the poor for being poor, charge the sick for being ill, strip away any protections our elderly have when they can no longer work, and suppress the middle class to benefit the wealthy.  The only effort they will make at economic "improvement" will be to remove any environmental protection barriers reducing the ability of business to clear-cut and strip-mine their way to their owners' prosperity.  They sell their program with false slogans and hysteria.The Liberals' claims are based on the centrality of selfishness rather than society.  They have always been extremists.Keep in mind that Workchoices failed.  The GST imposed greater costs on the lower spectrum of Australian society, as did the increases in the private cover requirements, and while income may rise, the growth in expenses suppresses the ability of the poor to advance.  It's not a false narrative to say the Liberals are at war with the poor.  Every penny that doesn't fall into the hands of the wealthy is, to them, a penny lost.A dollar of disposable income is not the same as a hundred dollars of disposable income if both the person with the former spends his dollar and the person with the latter spends a dollar.  The cost to the former is greater in its effect than to the latter.  Workchoices: where is it now?  Failed.  And where are real wages?The TPP and the TISA are two parts of a whole, wherein Australia sells out its own interests to those of the US, itself beholden to the banks, the oil industry.  The world is on a Road to Serfdom.  Tony will lead us there.  Wikileaks and Edward Snowden may be the best thing to happen to us in a long time.  Long live the whistleblowers!  Fight the power!  End the Abbott government!It's a lot scarier listening to Abbott declare himself a conservationist, while attempting to cut down Tasmania, a friend of workers, while trying to create a permanent underclass to reduce wages, and on and on.Yes, it's one thing for the Opposition to oppose, and I certainly expect that.  Labor needs to stand up against the Abbott government's attempts to destroy the environment and enrich the wealthy at  the expense of the poor, the government's ideological hatred of the sick and elderly, their despicable treatment of the middle class and students.  But they also need to communicate positively, and for that they need to have policies to spruik.  

Asylum seekers are going to be a problem for Labor; either they remain intent upon the heartless course they undertook and that Abbott has enhanced, or they come up with a better solution that doesn't result in large numbers of boat arrivals.  

Debt is easy to make promises on, harder to execute, because it depends on externals that government doesn't control.  GFC spending, among other factors, kept us out of trouble, but that doesn't mean there isn't more trouble to come, and who knows when.  Preaching fiscal restraint is fine, but the public needs to believe it's possible to have manageable debt and that it will be managed.  Swan's performance failed on promises he shouldn't have made, more a communications issue than anything else.

The climate killed Kevin 07, saw Gillard labelled with a scarlet L, and Rudd Redux couldn't get us to an ETS fast enough; too late by then, we'd bought the line that our bills were all skyrocketing and out of control on carbon taxation.  (My power company just upped its rates; ahead of the promise of a carbon tax repeal reduction - if they go back down, Abbott gets to say it was him; if they don't, well, there'll be another story.)I do not believe this government will accept the decision.  I expect them to authorise logging regardless.  They will do so because they are beholden to logging interests in Tasmania, and because someone will get rich(er) at the expense of the rest of the country.  The love of money is the root of all evil, but our present government only learned half of that aphorism.Too bad, then, that your Liberals aren't doing anything about it.  But debt isn't really why you voted for them, is it?  You just like the convenience of debt as an excuse for the real agenda: the destruction of the middle class.Yes, indeed, "buddy", they do, by fear and ignorance, but that doesn't mean their policies aren't designed to kill it.  You may prefer an elitist ruling class, but there are some of us who still value a free, egalitarian, and progressive society.How is a global agreement to be achieved if everyone waits for someone else to start?  You're just making Lucky Country, she'll be right excuses.Shorten's right, but so is Lines.  We've gone far enough with the fear of terrorism, such as all of Howard's anti-free society laws following Bali.  We don't need an Australian equivalent of the USA Patriot Act, neither in one go nor incrementally.  But trust Abbott to take us further down that path.How does that make a difference?

If the cafe owner had declined to hire the barista because he was over 50, would that be o.k., so long as nobody ever heard about it?

What about if the barista was a woman, but everybody stayed quiet?

If we are not open and do not confront prejudice and discrimination, we cannot hope to do better, and we clearly need to.  The cafe owner learned his prejudice - and the idea it would be acceptable - somewhere, and not likely back in China.Some people will retain their prejudices, but others will learn better.  Giving up is not an option.  It's an excuse.I'd just like dividend reinvestment.  I know there are some companies that allow it, but it doesn't seem to be a common enough option.  I would happily plow my dividends back into the company.  They benefit and so do I.  Why isn't there more of this?No, Other John, budget cuts don't mean slugging the poor and elderly, at least so long as you're not a one-eyed Liberal ideologue.  There are lots of opportunities for the government to adjust the budget without having to be cruel, stingy, or to resort to lies and obfuscations.  Medicare isn't helped by a co-pay that doesn't go to Medicare, but it would be by implementing structural reforms in health care delivery.  Education isn't helped by making it unavailable to any but the children of the wealthy, and neither is society overall, especially as those manufacturing jobs disappear and a more highly educated workforce becomes increasingly the basis of our economy.

Being smart about the budget is what's asked for in the first place.  And then all that's left is not to be deliberately cruel.

Too bad we don't get either from this lot.Please at least try to use "reform" correctly.  We're not getting any from this government, although it's clearly necessary, and we weren't getting any under the previous government.  At least we used to have a carbon price.  Eliminating that isn't reform, however, it's mere regression to form.  The Liberal ideologues now running the country aren't actually capable of real reform, not like their conservative brethren in days gone by (by which I mean well before Howard).   They're just a bunch of second-rate Howard leftovers with Lucky Country mentalities, much like their supporters.  It's sad, really, but we can hope they continue to be frustrated in their race to destroy Medicare, higher education, the pension . . . .Patient confidentiality is important.  Setting up a electronic record so that a third party can monitor prescriptions and usage is essentially treating patients as criminals.  Where is the burden of proof, the probable cause?  If a physician is shown to be overprescribing, that's a different issue than if a patient is having trouble managing pain relief.This isn't the blind leading the blind, it's the leaderships turning a blind eye to what their fellows are doing.  Apparently it's also those being led disregarding the crimes of their leaders.  The Church leadership cannot claim moral authority if they do not exercise it.  The body of the Church cannot claim there isn't a problem if they're ignoring it.  Believe what you want about whatever supernatural beings you choose, but the Church and its leadership should be held to account for their actions and evidently deliberate inaction.The Nationals are Liberals who [purport to] live in bush communities.  They have no interests that diverge from those of their fellow Liberals, i.e., big business, just a different name.  They will talk a good game and sometimes wear a hat, (but even Howard knew enough to do that much; the sun's harsh).Stuff still ships by post, and it has to be processed and delivered accurately.  Although there are now plenty of alternative parcel services - and honestly, we are moving past cards and letters, aren't we? - the centralised service of Australia Post, like its counterparts elsewhere in the world, serves a valuable function in providing a price point control on them.

The post office itself is merely a pick-up and drop-off point.  I sincerely doubt its function as any sort of community centre.  If bills and letters persist, the post office will have to, too, so shape it accordingly.The problem with the budget isn't framing, it's the budget.  The budget slashes revenue and then slugs the poor, the elderly, and students.  The increases in taxation don't go where they help the budget.  Look at the so-called Medicare co-pay.  It doesn't go to Medicare but to a whole new spending program.  You can't frame that for "budget emergency" or anything other than "we want to destroy Medicare; next will be adding GP visits to private cover".  It's lie after lie with this mob, all prettily dressed up, or framed, in emperor's new clothes, transparent at best.  Every excuse offered by the media is just letting Hockey and Abbott off the hook, and there's no reason they should be allowed a free pass.  Call it for what it is: divisive and destructive, ideologically hidebound and intransigent.  Keep the bastards honest at least.If you start from anecdotes and false assumptions, your conclusions will be wrong.I seem to recall it was Abbott who pledged not to negotiate.  He's doing a fine job of it, isn't he?Oh, thank goodness, Abbott was only talking about sports.  That clears that up.Can we stop calling it a Medicare co-pay?  None of the money goes to Medicare.  There is no funding of Medicare in it.The unions maybe not, but the business interests?  It's there.  Look again.It's a simple idea, all right.  It's simply that the Liberals want society fractured so they can pit different groups against one another as a distraction while they pick it apart.You didn't actually read the statistics very well.59% believe the Liberals represent large corporate and financial interests above "working families" and the middle class, but 37% think this means they're better at handling the economy overall.  There's a huge disconnect here, especially when the components of the economy overall - small businesses, the middle class, "people like you" are broken down and the percentages shrink further.  And yet "people like you" are the ones voting them in.  This seems to be based on the delusion that mere hard work will see you get ahead of the pack, in among the Rinehardts etc.  The false narrative of the Liberals is the Kool-Aid Australia has swallowed, but it is a poisoned chalice.The statistics are what they are. Don't like them? Don't blame the report.  Blame yourself.Your one-eyed analysis is lacking in depth.  Religion serves merely as a tool in power relationships.

At least the author's religion motivates him to use his power to benefit others, something too many religionists do not.North Korea seems to frequently come to your mind.  Perhaps you should seek help with that.

The US, while established by deists, was established with a clear separation of church and state, so that the latter could operate without interference from or in obedience to the former.It isn't about religion, it's about power.  It's always been about power.  Religion is just a tool in power relationships.  God or no god, humans crave power over one another and will employ whatever means suits their purpose.Robbing Peter to pay Paul isn't a stimulus plan.  Taking with one hand and giving back with another just means the wrong parties are out-of-pocket at the wrong time.That's a change of subject."Islamic"? I don't think that word means what you think it does, if you're going to separate the Kurds from it.This particular group does seem to be a problem in the region.  Assad's not going to do anything; he's busy.  Lebanon has other more intractable problems.  Iraq, however, may wish to take action.  They are under the most significant threat.  If they want, I'm sure an international peacekeeping force could be dispatched under a UN resolution.  (I don't think even Russia would object, as they would if the target was Syria.)  That way we get a nice legal little war, without having to cobble together a new Coalition of the Willing (and easily deceived), and the major players from the previous debacle can contribute to cleaning up their mess.PUP and Labor do not need to negotiate at all.  It is up to the Liberals to negotiate.  Their intransigence on objectionable policies is what's preventing their bills from getting through.It isn't in the "national interest" to kill Medicare or to make a university education unaffordable.  It's not in Labor's interest to see such signature programs gutted, either.That is a false narrative.  Having the budget balanced or in surplus is not it itself an inherent good.  Sometimes debt is better, such as when the economy is in danger, such as in 2008.Speaking of damage, the Liberals intend to allow the GBR to be buried in toxic sludge and to clear-cut Tasmania.  But there are those who don't give a rat's.The purpose of a conservative government isn't to halt progress but to ensure it is achieved without resorting to potentially damaging expedients.  This conservative government doesn't understand that.  It believes its purpose is to reverse progress, about fifty years' worth.  Labor, which is more centre than centre-left and therefore more conservative than it's credited with being, understands progress and is more likely to achieve it.  They don't need to "respect the vote of the Australian people"; they need to respect the voters who continued to support them.  The Liberals don't hold all the seats, after all, in either house.The Guardian has a liberal charter.  It isn't "leftish".  It's left.  The NY Times supported Gulf War 2, rather undercutting claims of left-wing bias, as does much else in its reportage.  The BBC doesn't strike me as particularly biased either.  I think you read into what you read the way you want, or perhaps the way you've been told.And here we have proof of the Murdoch press' influence.  When they said "vote for Rudd", debunker filled in the ballot accordingly.  When they said "vote for Abbott", debunker followed the party line.  The party being Newscorp, apparently.It is also effectively a monopoly, only threatened by the internet.  So what's Newcorp's position on the NBN?  Oh, yes, it is bad.  Bad for them.That was reported in all the papers.  Except in the Murdoch press is was dressed up in analysis, so perhaps you missed it.Police routinely carry semi-automatic weapons.  Very easy to fire multiple shots without even trying. Of course, some do anyway.Irrelevant.Overreaction by police happens.  Racial profiling happens.  We don't yet have enough facts to understand the initial incident.  What information has come through has tended to attempt to present Michael Brown as a criminal and a thug, but there are also accounts that the officer acted wrongly.  Until all the facts are public any assessment is judgmental.

The subsequent public protests and the response by the local police, however, tells a story we can interpret.  The police are heavily armed and respond with force to a protest.  They harrass, intimidate, threaten and apply force to journalists, taking special exception to foreign and out-of-town press.  The situation becomes inflamed.  And why wouldn't it?

A militarized police is effectively an occupation, foreign, too, insofar as it bears little demographic resemblence to the area residents.

Historically a part of the country where racial prejudices are at their worst, it shouldn't be outside our calculations that this would be a contributor to the situation.

And still there are those here blaming the victims.Policing is not martial law.  Here are Robert Peel's nine principles.  Read them, and perhaps you'll understand the difference between what the police have been allowed to become and just how far different the situation is Missouri is from police work.

1. To prevent crime and disorder, as an alternative to their repression by military force and severity of legal punishment.

2. To recognise always that the power of the police to fulfil their functions and duties is dependent on public approval of their existence, actions and behaviour, and on their ability to secure and maintain public respect.

3. To recognise always that to secure and maintain the respect and approval of the public means also the securing of the willing co-operation of the public in the task of securing observance of laws.

4. To recognise always that the extent to which the co-operation of the public can be secured diminishes proportionately the necessity of the use of physical force and compulsion for achieving police objectives.

5. To seek and preserve public favour, not by pandering to public opinion, but by constantly demonstrating absolutely impartial service to law, in complete independence of policy, and without regard to the justice or injustice of the substance of individual laws, by ready offering of individual service and friendship to all members of the public without regard to their wealth or social standing, by ready exercise of courtesy and friendly good humour, and by ready offering of individual sacrifice in protecting and preserving life.

6. To use physical force only when the exercise of persuasion, advice and warning is found to be insufficient to obtain public co-operation to an extent necessary to secure observance of law or to restore order, and to use only the minimum degree of physical force which is necessary on any particular occasion for achieving a police objective.

7. To maintain at all times a relationship with the public that gives reality to the historic tradition that the police are the public and that the public are the police, the police being only members of the public who are paid to give full-time attention to duties which are incumbent on every citizen in the interests of community welfare and existence.

8. To recognise always the need for strict adherence to police-executive functions, and to refrain from even seeming to usurp the powers of the judiciary of avenging individuals or the State, and of authoritatively judging guilt and punishing the guilty.

9. To recognise always that the test of police efficiency is the absence of crime and disorder, and not the visible evidence of police action in dealing with them.

Or you can just give up any idea of civil rights and live in the fascist state you seem to prefer.All excellent points, Baz.

Also, at least historically, police are drawn from the same strata of society (in this case less so, at least regarding ethnicity) of the people they are employed, by politicians intent on proving their "law and order" bona fides, to oppress.

"To protect and serve" is just words on a car door, too often.No, it's a week when the opposition leader was cleared of allegations.  What's your agenda?Or it means there wasn't evidence, just an allegation, whereas you seem intent on assuming there was evidence.  It doesn't necessarily have anything to do with cross-examination.  It might mean no evidence was obtainable in an investigation."A few more jobs"? They promised two million jobs.  But unemployment is up.Medicare isn't free.  It's paid for from a tax on earnings.  The co-pay is a stealth tax, and doesn't go to Medicare anyway.

Deal with the truth.So all you can offer is more of the same?It's outside NATO's remit.  It's against US interests domestically.  What you're asking for is a new Coalition of the Willing.  Good luck with that.NATO has no interest, unless Turkey gets involved and invokes mutual defense.  The UN might, if it suited Russia, but as their client, Syria, is involved they might prefer to veto any threat of arms.  Besides which, the UN are meant to be deployed as peace-keepers, not to conduct warfare.

Iraq, Lebanon, Syria might go cap in hand to the US or others and request assistance, but they are unlikely to do so.

Repeating the errors of Bush/Blair/Howard isn't going to help.You're not getting a wage increase and it's Labor blocking it?  Are you a Liberal sockpuppet paid off a line item in one of the budget bills not being passed?From a biological perspective, perhaps especially with the advances being made in genetics and the personalised treatments under development, such as yesterday's announcement regarding a Lupus patient, having access to the donor parent's genome seem important.  There are so many other genetic elements adding weight to the argument for access.  But if a donation is taken under conditions of anonymity, that should be preserved, as far and as long as possible.  Nature may get you a kidney or help identify or direct a course of treatment, but nurture got you your family, which knowing the donor won't.  Surely the law could be developed to maintain the rights and support the needs of everyone involved.Which, unfortunately, it isn't.

Developers are not being held to anything more than a municiple planner's minimum assumption, which is often pretty fanciful.  Unit blocks go up with half the number of car spaces, or less, than units, let alone a reasonably anticipatable occupancy per unit.

Blocks of land get built up with no more connection to the city centre or otherwise far from employers than a on-ramp to the motorway, no public transport planning until well after the fact.

It's been happening for far longer than we know can be sustainable, but somebody's making money, so it keeps going.I disagree with that assessment.  It is more likely a response by politicians, for whom being 'tough on crime' is a posture adopted to garner votes.  It's the same posture that has led to Ferguson Missouri and the general militarisation of police in countries other than tyrannies.They'll earn more, from all the appeals.The imposition of mandatory sentencing laws in the US has resulted in decades of low-level crime arrests resulting in long-term incaceration.  Judicial discretion may sometimes appear to fail the public interest, but it can more often ensure a just application of the law.  Headed down the US rabbithole is the wrong direction, but we seem to do it all too often.And hopefully the stale Howard leftovers with them.Doubt it, but a double-dissolution might prove it.  Let's give it a go.If only.  It's a persistent mythology, though, even in the US, where 'everybody knows' the Republicans are better at managing the economy.  'Everybody knows' appears to mean something different from anything involving actual knowledge.The progressive income tax is fair.  Capital gains, when treated is a way to redefine income as something else and tax it at a lower rate, is not, and has been a significant contributor to the widening economic gap between the wealthy and the rest.Try again. If I arrange your compensation so that your taxable wage is effectively zero and your income is based solely on capital gains, your tax rate bypasses the progressive tax rate that would be otherwise applied, as it is for the vast majority, and you pay less tax.  This becomes especially true when you start in with tax-deferred stock options and such.That must be why all those overpaid CEO's are claiming more capital gains than wages and paying more taxes.  Or, as we said in the 80's: not.The sale of assets held is separate from the issue of compensating individuals with assets in place of wages for the purpose of avoiding the progressive income tax.Capital gains is taxed a different rate from wages.Politics used to be the "art of the possible".  You appear to believe it is now the "art of the impossible".  Too bad, because a good idea is a good idea. Anyone can have it, anyone can be persuaded.  Maybe there's some trade-offs, but that shouldn't mean we can't do better than we are currently.

We are, in fact, a wealthy nation.  Time we remembered the "nation" part and treated the wealth accordingly.I can support these.  Especially if Medicare is expanded to include dental.

Also, expenditures should be reviewed for results.  If something isn't working, it's not worth spending on.  Like that fighter jet we're getting from the US.When Rudd was PM we got plenty of thought bubbles from him.  Now we have a different leadership model: the leader popping the thought bubbles of various ministers within and outside the portfolios.  Mostly it's been Pyne, but there have been plenty of others putting up this or that policy only to have Fearless Leader say no after the general public expresses its appalled dismay and the lunacy.  I'm just waiting for the PPL to get the same treatment, if only because of the speed at which Abbott's head will have to spin to contradict himself.

Howard-lite second-raters, all of 'em.The excerpts reported from the recent biography of Hockey suggest he is indeed just that petulant.  Don't expect much more the bullying and bluster from him, when he isn't sulking.  He's even rescinded his recent apology, evidently false to begin with.  Insincere, elitist, callous . . . all excellect descriptors of the Abbott government generally.Well that's nice, an incompetent politician who isn't (also) corrupt.  Of course, we expect our politicians not to be corrupt and to be competent, so it's small comfort she manages only half the equation.  Perhaps she will yet rise to the occassion of her responsibilities as she has to the standard of behaviour required.I do not accept Lucky Country excuses.I do not accept that as evidence.  I believe there are honest politicians trying to make a difference.Here we are, one of the best-positioned places on earth to leverage solar, at a minimum, and yet even with the existing technology our energy providers do nothing.  A few years ago a large new substation went up in Surry Hills in Sydney, with a very nice little park alongside it.  All that open space to the west gave the blank brick wall ideal exposure to hours of sunlight it could have been converting an feeding into the grid, except there were no panels to collect the energy.  How hard would that have been?

Office buildings going up all around, apartment blocks, too, and no panels, no windmills on one them.  And yet they can be small and unobtrusive while still adding to capacity cheaply.

Luxury homes scattered along the harbour, lots of pools, no solar.  Even the rich pay for electricity, but I guess they don't care; they don't have to.

We are short-sighted, Lucky Country fools, and the energy companies know it, rely on it, and are enabled by our second-rate politicians."Why worry?"  Because waiting isn't getting the job done.

Germany is increasing the proportion of its energy supply from renewables, faster than anyone else in the EU, but other countries there are doing so, too.  We can do better and benefit thereby, except for ignorance and ideological blinders.  Oh, and stupid, too.  There's lots of stupid going around.Problem is, it's less of a myth than you want it to be.  Renewables accounted for 27% of energy production last year, in increase of 3% from the prior year, with solar and wind being 17%.  Total solar production increased 28%.  Brown coal energy production is down 4%, and nuclear is down 2%.Not a substantive argument to my proposition, which didn't even mention global warming, but what else to expect from someone whose entire concern is focused on money.  Selfishness is no excuse for ignorance."Personally"?  What an odd thing to say.  What politicians "personally" pay for any public initiative?Just wait until the TPP comes through, and it's the US multinational bringing suits.The City of Sydney is not comprised solely by the CBD.  That resident of Glebe whom you despise is also served by the Council.  Perhaps being so narrow-minded you lost track of that."Pays very little in rates"?  A lie.Still pays, though, elitist canards notwithstanding.  You may hate the poor, but doesn't change the fact that they participate in the system and deserve their say.  What is it with you Liberals?If you are paying rates and receiving services from the council, you should have a vote.  Why should you have two?Electoral redistricting is performed by the party holding the governor's office in each state.  33 states have Republican Governors.  If you don't believe they engaged in gerrymandering, you're delusional.  And if you don't believe there's been a concerted effort by the Republicans to restrict voting among those they regard as skewing Democratic you must have been dropped on your head as an infant.For many years now, the State government has been trying to rid itself of a politician it regards as inimical to its interests: Clover Moore.  They tried to do it by amalgamating the City of Sydney with South Sydney Council, but that didn't work.  They tried to do it by banning anyone from holding both State and local government offices, and that further entrenched Ms. Moore in the city.  Now they reckon that by giving two votes to business owners, including non-residents, they will have the leverage they need.  I sincerely hope not.  Clover Moore has done an excellent job, despite the endless Murdoch-driven carping over Christmas decorations, bike lanes, etc., State overrides, and snide innuendo over her appearance.  Labor hated her for being independent, and the Liberals hate her for not being Liberal, and the Greens hate her because she doesn't retire and let them get more of a look-in on running the council.  Non-resident business owners and business owners generally should not have more power than residents.There isn't a lot online that I worry over too much in regard to sttorage.  I am no bettter and no worse, no doubt, than the majority in regard to ensuring strong and unique passwords and user names, but while data breaches are common, in the vast majority of cases the limited use I make of online services means I have more to fear from how my data is used, more so than when.  And in that regard I have more to fear from the government and police than I do from businesses or from hackers.  Businesses will use my data to try to sell me things, hackers to buy things, both are motivationally mercenary, and both can be managed.  Government and police, however, can more thoroughly harm me and do so from error or malice.There will be nothing done on global climate issues.  Action would require the First World nations not only to act in concert but to have the cooperation of India and China and to assist Third World emerging nations with a transition away from fossil fuels.  There is some hope that simply moving away from coal, as the primary emissions source, would help, but that's not going to happen soon, especially when some exporters insist "coal is the future".

Action will be taken unilaterally, and it's going to get messy.  There are dangers beyond climate change in China taking actions that negatively affect India, for example.  And imagine when some billionaire decides that a little geo-engineering will prevent his property from being adversely affected and seeds the atmosphere with reflective particles, which will eventually come back to earth, and which will have to be renewed from time-to-time.

Groups like the G20 could take up the climate change agenda and reach an accord, but won't.  It's going to get worse and may never get better.Like many bullies, he talks big, but when faced with standing up to his words, slinks into the background.  He's much more comfortable oppressing those without the power to face him down.The Cold War is supposed to be over, but it isn't, not by a long shot.  The Soviet Union may be gone, but Russia isn't, and neither is China, and both, along with the US insist on continuing the same imperialist policies as they inherited from the Europeans after World War 2.If "Women of the right are mothers too, and they want to see their daughters have prosperous and fulfilling lives", perhaps the difference between embracing progressive principles and rejecting them comes down to the former seeking prosperous and fulfilling lives for all women and the latter seeking this only for only themselves and their progeny.Why not just eliminate taxes altogether?  Parliament House could be sold to developers and turned into condos.You call it "argumentum ad absurdum", I call it mockery.  And deserved.There's no such thing as the welfare state.  The commonwealth, on the other hand, accepts it has a responsibility to its citizens that includes their welfare.This does nothing to reduce the problem of what is in effect public shaming and harrasment.  It remains a problem, whether the video is representative of the lives of women generally in New York or elsewhere and regardless of whether the persons making the clip used scientifically valid research methods.  It is, quite simply, a video meant to raise the subject.  That you somehow believe that catcalling isn't harrasment, isn't public shaming, and isn't a problem when it happens wherever it happens is ignorant.It appears that Lambie has made the same mistake as many, possibly all, those who voted PUP: Palmer is not truly an independent.  He is a Liberal.  He's just mad at the party leadership and going out of his way to cause them grief without actually doing anything substantive.  He will always roll over and vote with the Liberals, after he's had his few grams of flesh in meagre concessions.  The Liberals know it, too, which is why they'll make those concessions.  Their policies are unchanged in the larger part.  Palmer gets his jollies.  When he's had enough, he'll leave, PUP will disappear, and Lambie, if she's still in politics, will be left wondering what happened and where to go.So why pay them at all? They get clothes, housing, meals - they don't need money, too, do they?

Except they do often have families to support, just like anyone else.

Perhaps it's less of a media beat-up than you'd like to believe.Read the sentence, and the article, all the way through: " those vulnerable to its destructive message".  See how that works?You might try reading more widely than you evidently do.Read more than the headline and you might get an idea.The police will always serve the interests of power over the general population, and they will be granted power in return to do so.  Whenever the interests of power and people are at odds, power will prevail.  The more freedoms we relinquish, the more true this is, and the police will be happy it is so, as will the powerful.Footage shot by an onlooker and obtained by an ABC news program.  A preference not to know is a preference for ignorance.  It is in the public interest to know exactly how terrible the cost of horse racing is to the horses.  And this is only one highly dramatic example of the cruelty we inflict to enrich a few bookies and Packerites.There is one root cause common to both horses: horse racing.There was a time when gladitatorial contests were considered a "great . . . spectacle".  We know better, a little, now.Tony Abbott must sell coal.  He must sell as much coal as he can, now, because he is beholden to the interests of the coal miners and other fossil fuel and related industries.  Not that he or any Liberal would ever admit as much.  No, coal is the "future", now and forever, or at least until such time as it isn't or the Liberals aren't in power.  It doesn't matter that there are jobs to be had by investing in alternative energy research and development, because there are family fortunes and stockholder portfolios that require protection.  It doesn't matter that the environment is degraded, so long as somebody voting Liberal can make a buck off it.  And it doesn't matter if future generations cook or freeze, so long as up until then the Liberals' masters can increase their wealth at the expense of everyone else now and forever.  Greed, for lack of a better word, and to paraphrase Gordon Gekko, is the Liberals' motivation, first and foremost.While I don't doubt that Labor might do similarly in regard to ensuring the continued sale of coal, they were the party that implemented the price on carbon and the transition to an ETS, schemes Howard couldn't accomplish, and that the Liberals, under Abbott, abhor.  Jobs are Labor's business, but for Liberals, it seems only the accumulation of wealth in the hands of ever-diminishing numbers is the point of business.Unfortunately, the Republicans fighting the so-called tea party candidates tend to do so by trying to out-extreme the opposition, at least until they actually want to get some work done, which, it appears from their performance over the last four years, they do not.  DC is Club Med for GOP politicians.Yes, you are missing something.  Quite a lot, in fact.  But from your final comments, you're clearly predisposed to miss as much as might provide you with anything approaching understanding.  Prejudice seems a congenital condition for Liberals, even when pretending to examine extranational politics.Your perspective is flawed.  Obama has brought down the deficit.  His efforts have finally started to turn the economy around (see the reduction recently announced by Janet Yellen regarding quantitative easing).  The failure of acknowledgement has been by those in opposition, who refuse to admit anything good accomplished by this President, and yet continue to deny any effort to further progress on the issues you'd rather ignore.The deficit is down significantly.  As for the debt, who started two wars and couldn't finish them?  Who had oversight of a collapsing economy and gave out more tax cuts?  Debt cowardice isn't going to fix any of that.I wouldn't have said "no we can't". It's more like "oh, no you won't".It may well take more than two terms of holding the White House for anyone to reverse the damage done under GWB, but at least the rate has been slowed substantially and an upturn can be anticipated.  Until tomorrow.  A Republican Senate will be a train wreck.The potential for abuse is severe.  Reassurances by Brandis are meaningless.  All it takes is getting on the wrong side of somebody in or near the government, and they can mess with you badly.  You may or may not avoid prison and confiscation of goods and assets, you may even eventually be fully vindicated, but meanwhile, and for years, the damage will be extensive and, in effect, irrevocable.  Unfortunately, laws like these are already subject to abuse, so it will only get worse.

Even if Brandis can be taken at his word, which I an skeptical of, he is not Attorney-General-for-Life.

And yet here are so many Liberal "small government" advocates clamouring to allow these and other reductions of our civil liberties.Who informs the horse?Go ahead and name all those who participated today.Free market proponents only care about "free markets" when it suits them.  They are also very quick to conflate the economy and the society.Journalists trying to hold politicians to the question may appear rude, but it's nevertheless responsible.  Politicians answering the question they want to rather than the one asked, not that's rude.I have no objection to a spending review, but how is it that whenever the Liberals are in power, the spending that gets reviewed and cut is "welfare spending on the poor" first?Stop euphemising.  "Broader base" in the context of GST means taxing fresh food.  This is, of course, what Abbott wants in his "mature debate", which won't be a debate, discussion, or anything less than a demand.  And why?  Because it will punish the poor for trying to eat better.  Fresh food is expensive enough in this country.

As for fuel excise and an ETS: go for it.  Anything we do to reduce pollution is beneficial.  Encourage industries to move away from fossil fuels and we'll have an automatic jobs program and technological innovations to improve our society and our economy.  It's smart, forward-thinking policy.

Too bad our Lucky Country politicians (especially the second rate Howard-era leftovers currently running the country [down]) don't think past the next election and our population focusses on what-have-you-done-for-me-lately outcomes.That's the surface of the excuse offered for it, accompanied by a ridiculous carrot of using the money to pay for something that isn't Medicare.  The demand the Liberals seek to reduce, however, is from the poor.  They regard the poor as morally incompetent, and actively evil when they get ill.  It's a sickness.Not a counter argument, though.  Pay attention.  Does the co-pay pay for Medicare?  No, it pays for something else.  Why a co-pay, then? To reduce demand, but from whom?  Who uses public, bulk bill services more, the rich or the poor?

Ignorance is not an excuse.  The evidence is plentiful and plain.The Liberals are well aware of the demographics.  They don't care and rely on stupid to get by.  There's plenty of that demonstrated whenever their policies are criticised.Fixing the system doesn't require any more means testing than the tax itself.  The system isn't just money in/money out.  It's how health care itself is managed.  Smarter care means the money is managed better and hollows out all Hockey's claims of unsustainability.  It's eminently sustainable, but that requires politicians to stop tinkering around the edges and panicing over taxes.  They have to think about and implement real change.  Won't happen with this lot.Keep telling yourself lies and making excuses, if that makes you feel better.  Public health care is being stripped away, so your ignorance may be all that's left to help you.Call it for what it is: revenge.  Whitlam left this country with a lot of very positive and progressive programs.  The Liberals hate him for it and have never forgiven Labor for the success.  Howard did what he dared, now Abbott is trying to finish the job, and finish Labor, back to 1975.

No vision of the future is complete for this batch of Lucky Country second-rate Howard leftovers if it doesn't look backwards to Menzies.I really don't worry about government debt, certainly not as much as Hockey and his ilk want me to.  But worse, all he can think of is money.  What about the legacy of the despoiled environment he means to deliberately leave?  It's o.k. to turn the country into a wasteland so long as the government has a balanced budget?

It's all about "me" with this lot, and "now".Self-styled "small government" conservatives never actually shrink government.  They usually increase its size.  They may, however, reduce regulations, but solely for the purpose of benefiting big business and their wealthy mates.  They will, inevitably, do so at the expense of the poor and middle class, but most particularly by punishing the poor as much as they can.  This is due to their philosophy, which considers being poor to be a moral failing.

And that's how we get to changes in the GST, and probably to the GST in the first place.  By increasing the GST, or, more likely, by expanding it to include fresh food, the poor are disadvantaged.  To the Liberal mind, it is only what they deserve.

And the "adult discussion": it will consist of putting forward their changes, holding firm to them until they cannot, then offering minor adjustments that fail to address the substance of any objection.

This is how they operate.  They are bullies and they hate you.These laws don't have "the potential to erode civil liberties".  But their enactment they already do.  Denmark offers a fine example of what a true liberal democracy can do for situations like this.Not on the list, not to be trusted.  On the list . . . well, now, that depends on the content of the register.  Will it identify those receiving commissions from the products they tout?  What level of disclosure will be present to assist consumers in shopping for the best deal?

Or is this just more and meaningless red tape?Terrorism? I guess.  The apparent motive had at least something to do with Islamic political hate, as may also have been the case with the previous hit-and-run incident - which didn't seem to raise the threat level, at least not to the Canadians - but we'll never know, both perpetrators are dead, and nobody credible, so far, is taking responsibility, a hallmark of every other actual terrorist incident you can name.

Perhaps you're all too young to remember the days when there seemed to be an airliner highjacking regularly, but most of those weren't terrorism, just criminals and crazy people, even when they claimed to espouse some cause.  It took a long time to get airport security to the point where it was prior to 2001, and now look where we are, all from one set of incidents, some underwear and an attempt to blow up a pair of sneakers.  Now that there are shootings in Ottawa, are we intending to turn our Parliament into an armed fortress? Abandon the liberties our society fought to create and protect from every previous threat, foreign and domestic?

We give more power to the actual terrorists by doing so.  And we encourage the crazies.  Instead of stooping to their level - and reacting to insanity as if it was something more than it is, and turning our society into a model of what the real enemy both accuses us of being and embodies, that's what we're doing - let's stand up to them by strengthening our resolve to be, as the US Constitution puts it, "more perfect" in our unity.

We don't have to be cowards or bullies or afraid of those who are.  We can always do better, so let's.There's pretty much no such thing as "private email".  Especially if you are not using your personal email account.If Whitlam's election represented anything it was the desire of the country to move into the future instead of remaining mired in the past.  At the time there was a vast future to be part of, but we've allowed that to slip away.  No grand schemes or visions drive anyone, it seems.

But they could.  Global warming is certainly a challenge, and we could embrace it, lead the world toward solutions.  We'll need to have someone step up and take on the deniers, though.  Still waiting.Whose phone was Slipper using?  Whose email account was Spurr using?  If the employer's equipment or service was being used, then the employer has a right to require usage to be in line with its policies and the right of privacy is unlikely to adhere to the user, especially if a violation of policy has occured.Everybody dies.  Cause of death, however, is a very modern concept and does not enjoy a universal, systemic definition or method of determination.On point 1, you can, in fact, "catch cancer" and lung or heart disease, from a smoker, if you allow for passive smoking, a risk vector in many places and some industries.

Ebola doesn't spread "exponentially".  It's spread can be contained, or not, and if not can still not be widespread.  Fearfulness over viruses like Ebola seems to spread wider and faster than the disease itself.

Dallas is quite a large city, yet infections there - and elsewhere the persons involved have travelled, well beyond the state of Texas itself - have been well below even "minimal".

Imaging the consequences is why our public health services have the protocols that have contained the virus in the US and Spain - and in Brisbane, where the infection was shown not to have occurred.  Hysteria won't do anything more than cause Newscorp hyperventilation and loss of sleep in those prone to it.

The controls exist.  Stay calm.Yes, emissions controls have been imposed, over the strident opposition of the industry, and now we know even more about the emissions that continue, yet do nothing, all to stupid remarks like "go hunting for your tucker" and "live in the dark".And the "welfare" to the petrochemicals industry?  That's o.k., is it?Nodding your head while people talk to you and waving off the flies for less than a week isn't doing anything for anyone, no matter who pays for it.It always comes down to money for some stupid skniflints, but universal health care, access to tertiary education on qualifications, and all the rest of what Whitlam accomplished in two years - that Liberal governments have been trying to strip away for the last 30+ years, transformed this country from a backwater to a world-class nation, worthy of respect and emulation.A poor analysis.  His economic judgment? Or cabinet management?  Go deeper, and maybe you'd see more clearly.  As if Liberals ever could.Whitlam did so much more than return from the wilderness, he transformed our society.  Labor does have challenges, but they should be greater than returning to office, or mere economic well-being.

I, for one, want a society that does not ignore science, but embraces it, advances it, leverages it.  I want a society that refuses to ignore its less fortunate and less able members, assisting them in contributing to the whole. I want a society that reaches out to the world instead of looking for the quick buck and selling out its interests, standing up for itself without playing the bully.

We can have real leaders, giants among men, like Whitlam, if we remember to stand by our best convictions, without resorting to special interests."DIM" is appropriate.  Try analysing more than just days in office.  Try examining accomplishments.  Whitlam, whom you so disrespectfully call a "shyster", transformed this nation for the benefit of all.Don't forget every Liberal leader after him, too.Excuses.  If taxes were lower, those positioned to leverage methods to avoid paying would continue to do so.While the author does not offer an alternative to our current political system, he does offer a prescription for change: demand more.

Your analysis elsewhere is similarly flawed.  Drawing on the analysis of British and European pundits is not to compare the Australian system to that of the UK.  It simply recapitulates the argument in the context of the Australian system, which you can reject or accept, but should do so on the merits of the argument itself.

Party membership does not mean political parties aren't detached from the electorate as a whole, certainly not without a better analysis than that participation is not "restricted".  I think you may find that being a member of one party precludes membership in another.  That we vote doesn't mean the parties care for anything more than obtaining a majority, and they are manifestly all too happy to promise the world to do so and renege upon entering government.

And I don't think you much understand the author's argument regarding the perpetuation of a party duopoly, since you cite the Senate when the reference was clearly made in regard to the lower house.Hamstringing the legislature via public referendum has not done California any favours.Good question, but Proposition 8, which gutted financing for education, wasn't trivial.The squeaky wheel theory of politics, but you've got to have enough squeak.  It's a bit easy to be drowned out.I haven't read the two Americans entries, although Ferris is on my list to get to - his first novel was very good and the reviews of this one highly positive - but the Booker is always controversial, by tradition, seemingly, so whatever US authors make the list from time to time are only adding to the inevitable outrage over the winner.  We're all very happy when it's an Australian, in Australia, but there will be carping and moaning elsewhere in the Commonwealth, perhaps muted this year for fending off the American cousins, always.

Since the Nobel committee has effectively decided that no American can ever win their literary prize again, publicly stating that US authors are "too provincial", my ex-pat gene is glad of a new international prize of distinction being available.It's not so much "if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear", as spurious as that argument is anyway, because even if truly have nothing to hide, the powers granted under these laws can still be used against you, if the government feels it has any advantage to gain in so doing.  There are already enough legal abuses available to the government, and that they use, to punish any opposition, so don't think it won't happen under these laws.  Howard's post-Bali reductcion of civil liberties were bad enough.  Abbott's gone well beyond and already shown just how much of a bully he enjoys being.Why is anyone still listening to these second-rate, Howard-era leftovers, especially the ones relegated to making their livings writing Liberal cheersquad puff pieces in the MSM?  How is it that they can continue to cling so desperately to the long-discredited trickle-down economic voodoo of thirty years ago?  Do they never learn?You're surprised?  Tony Abbott hates Medicare.  He always has.  In fact, it is deeply embedded in Liberal Party ideology that poor people do not deserve the same level of health care as anyone else.  Similarly it is a heartfelt belief that any program implemented by Labor, no matter how successful, no matter how generalyy beneficial, is per se wrong, because Labor, and must therefore be eliminated.

Tony Abbott is intent upon pushing all internal social policies back to pre-Whitlam.  As for anything like foreign policy, well, the more bluster he gets to exhibit, the better, as his party's national constituency seems to like nothing better than a bully.The price on carbon actually did work, even if you didn't like it, but if your memory only goes back as far as that, you're ignoring what Abbott is doing and what Howard started before him.

I think the most comparable political party historically to the Liberals must be the Know-Nothings.I'll accept "logic", but I think it would be a better answer to say "critical reasoning".

What may be more important is not so much an examination of the curriculum, but of pedagogical approach.  What really works?  Is it more memorisation of "Judeo-Christian heritage" or making sure teachers are not only able but have the opportunity to improve their methods.

And before we get into tying teacher remuneration (and employment) to test results and bagging the profession for its ostensible hours, let's remember that it's damn hard work already and goes well beyond hours in a classroom and days in a school year.

If, as Sara Mosle in a recent Atlantic Monthly writes, we judged lawyers only by their performance and time in a courtroom before a judge, we'd be underestimating their work significantly, but we're all too happy to pick on teachers on an equivalent basis.

There may be no more important job than teaching.  We can do better to support education than political curriculum reviews.That's what they came up with?  More ghost stories?  Does Judeo-Christian heritage include Greco-Roman?  Dumbing-down the curriculumn for parents?  

And they get paid for this?There's money to be made in a cure, but not enough, yet, so long as the majority of cases remain in Africa, and this is one of the central reasons we don't already have a vaccine.  We have allowed medicine to be commodised, and so long as the market decides when and what drugs get developed, then we live at the pleasure of Pfizer et al.  Another failure of policy enacted on behalf of the economy over society.Years of denial followed by years of dismissal of HIV as a "gay" plague, only followed by years of activism spurred any advances in medical research towards treatment, further activism in the Third World, including access to generics, has pushed treatment further.  But look - treatment is more lucrative than a cure! Remarkable, isn't it?

If we don't treat health as a public good, we don't get public health achievements on the scale of the eradication of polio and smallpox.  If we allow anti-vaxers to derail the issue, we lose even the gains against whooping cough, measles, mumps, etc.

It's not "benevolence".  It's treating society as being more important than the economy, especially more important than a single segment of the economy.It is simply false that "progressives" co-opt the issue of sexism on behalf of Gillard, or as an issue exclusive to "progressives".  However, so long as women align themselves with the politics where sexism is entrenched, they will garner less sympathy for the sexism they endure, and especially in such instances as in this, where you pretend otherwise and try to lay blame where it is less deserved.Better get a new model government, then.  Voters only get to rid themselves of a PM by voting in his or her electorate, as happened to Howard.  Otherwise we are stuck relying on the party room to do the job, with no input from anyone else.Don't forget the ministers not held to account, AWB, "Work choices" . . . .Cuts and changes to revenues aren't themselves problems.  Smart is.  It isn't smart to cut staff indiscriminately.  Neither is it smart to design revenue-gathering mechanisms that doen't generate revenue, such as the MRRT.  The kind of cuts we get under a Liberal government are stupid, ham-fisted, and typical Lucky Country mechanisms.  What we really want (or should want, but don't underestimate how easily led the public is) ios sustainable spending, and that means smarter programs.  If spending on a program isn't delivering results, find out why and make the required changes - including elimnating spending, if the program is designed that badly or the benefit cannot be achieved.  Sometimes more money may be needed, in the right place at the right time.  That's why budgets include forecasting.  And for that, you'll need capable personnel, keeping in mind that the CFO doesn't do the bookkeeping.  Which raises another point: executive compensation inflation.  Too often we pay our executives not on the basis of performance but on the basis of what they're paid elsewhere, for the prestige.  Now that's stupid.Take US Steel for example.  They cut away unprofitable lines of business and improved their bottom line, until small start-ups who took over the cut business lines started eating their lunch.  This has happened, and continues to happen, in other industries.  It depends, I think, on how you want to define "greatness".  If you mean short-term or even mid-term, cutting makes sense, but if you want long-term success, smarter is better than smaller.

Too bad for Liberals it's always "what have you done for me lately?"I think that's a bit unfair.  The nations where the outbreak has occurred have certainly experienced outbreaks previously.  It should be well-known by now how infectious and how deadly such viruses are and there should be the infrastructure and processes in place to address it when incidents occur.  Ebola is not naturally occuring in the US or Europe, and foreign aid only goes so far, once it's actually paid, especially in countries where bribery is systemic.  The US and European nations could have stepped up aid, but they can't just invade and take over.  Local authorities have responsibility for their citizenry.  A sluggish response doesn't help, but without "first responders" no response, sluggish or not, is going to solve the problem.Yes, they are, and there's also endemic corruption  A lot of money spent goes to all the wrong places.  Compassion is fine, but accountability is required.Ebola is not nearly as scary as dengue fever and malaria, at least not around here, but we do insist on expanding into habitat in ways to increase exposure.  Unfortunately the only true "limits to growth" are those that kill us, rather than being rational about such matters.  Prevention isn't going to help us, but protocols to address outbreaks may reduce the damage, whether to us or by us.You mean like UK backpackers overstaying their holidays?It appears the Liberals can't help lying.  Tony Abbott says he requested a "rethink", Bishop says not.  One or both is a liar.  Even money.It might be interesting to know what happens in these meetings, but the current pattern appears to be that Abbott sends his minions out to float ideas and then bats them down when the reaction suggests they are too extreme.  The Pyne proposal to collect HECS from the dead comes to mind (and other Pyne proposals; he's the gift that keeps on giving).  Up pops a minister to say they'll do x, followed close on by the PM to say they won't, never thought to.  Even the Speaker's burqua lunacy is playing out similarly.  So in Cabinet meetings, do they get assignments?

Yeah, probably not.

The appearance of cohesion is one of the Liberals' selling points.  It calms the electorate, keeping any underlying turmoil from causing public distress, even while their policies get so many people offside.The fearful and ignorant have made this an issue.  Some may yet rise above their fear and ignorance to decide being afraid of clothing and ignorant of a custom not common to themselves. Too bad they are so few, and too bad the rest of us have to contend with the remainder, over and over again.In a free society, one of the rules is to allow people to practice their religion, or not, without regulation by government.

If you don't like the rules, you know what to do.It isn't religion.  It's politics.  And religion, as shown in your quotations from Paul, is politics dressed up in superstition.  It is always about who has power and who doesn't.  ISIS wants power.  It is foolish to pretend differently, and the fooled will do some very stupid things."[P]lantiff"?  Plaintive!  Don't you have an editor?

So long as the carbon tax is gone and the MMRT is gone and the boats have stopped and we're at war with Terror, the Liberals are happy.  Well, complacent.  Their bills are slightly reduced, the rich are getting richer, no scary refugees are clambering onto the continent and invading our beaches, and we have lots of spying and police in riot gear at the footy so we're all safe: it's all good!2 out 3 of your supplemental queries are in regard to money.  Perhaps you never heard the aphorism that the love of money is the root of all evil.  Nevertheless, if most of your concern over an issue is simply monetary, it shows a stunning degree of ego and selfishess.No, but you've clearly conflated "economy" and society".First, it's about being "tough".  Politicians have to show they are "tough on crime", and that they are "tough negotiators", and tough in regard to international relations.  This is true anywhere.  Even tyrants flex their political muscles to ensure their constituents retain the impression their rulers are indeed strong, too strong to challenge.  You will never see a successful politician who, faced with an opponent who speaks of "lenient sentences" or "activist judges" or "more police", will then say anything different; more likely it will be more echo-chamber rhetoric.

We have a hideous situation in the Middle East, that we're a party to, and threats of criminal actions against us domestically, and a response is required.  If our politicians say the threat is not realistic or not immediate and something happens, however less in degree or kind than was threatened, they will appear weak.  It doesn't matter that we say we prize the rule of law, and that our police agencies should rightly be held to account for their actions, including the requirement to obtain a warrant for demonstrable reasons.  So we get new laws to expand their powers and reduce our civil liberties.

The second reason we have such expansions is power.  The more power a government can accrue to itself, the better.  These powers can be used to entrench policies and to accrue yet more power.  It doesn't matter that, eventually, a new party will take over government at an election, because no government will ever relinquish power accrued to it, even if only by virtue of now holding the majority.

Civil liberties only ever decrease, except when they are suddenly increased, such as occurs from time to time in revolutions, and they are, more usually, failures in that respect, too."Regions" don't have "clear, violent, antagonism towards Australia".  A government might, particularly a national government, but Syria, Iraq, etc. have made no such "clear" delaration of violent intent or antagonistic attitudes towards Australia, although they may, notably in regard to Syria and its allies, such as Russia, object to us conducting military actions in their territory.

Nobody's going to Syria, to stay with that example, without a visa, and nobody's getting a visa without Syrian governmental approval, so increasing the burden of proof and putting the onus on travellers is a restriction of freedoms we once could have counted upon as natural to our country's respect for the rule of law.They still aren't the government, and still don't issue visas.  Once they've gone to Syria, what expectation do you have, beyond simplistic rhetoric, to control the movements of individuals?  Assuming any of them actually return, instead of getting shot or blown up, will you ask them if they've got any fruits or vegetables or visited a farm or joined a militia?

You may be happy to give up your freedom to travel, your freedom to associate . . . seemingly all your freedom, to be "safe" from terrorists half a world away, but there are already laws in place to address the problems you so badly attempt to address, laws you seem ignorant of, although they've been promoted throughout the media for the last year at least.  I'm sure the government would be happy to have you voluntarily added to their secret no-fly lists and send the police to periodically search your home, tap your phone and internet without a warrant and no judicial oversight.

For some of us, living in a police state is not so attractive as it is for others.Again, the measures required are already in place.  No special pleading is required, and no additional restrictions on the books.  You give up too easily the rights you enjoy, because of fear.  Giving up our freedom does not ensure defeat of those who would, if they ever could, violently strip it away.  But they can't, so why let the government do it for them?It's an idea.  I'd want to know more about the whys and wherefores.Pity the poor Liberals, who are so ideologically hidebound they cannot hear sense anymore, all from the delusion that "socially acceptable values" cannot change.  Well, their political masters will continue to try to ensure this is forever true, at least so long as they can profit by it.
