I tend to agree.  The good the previous Govt may have been capable of was ruined by the Rudd psychodrama and running after the Greens. The fundamental thing this Govt was elected to do (stabilise the damn budget) is now being side-tracked by their own nutty side-issues (18c etc) and, as you say, their failure to realise that getting in was only the first third of the job.

Playing hard-ball politics prior to the election negates any play for sympathy they might try, and the DD option leaves us at the mercy of an electorate that thinks the Palmeroids are an amusing treat or even (heaven help us) some sort of solution.

Turnbull is the obvious solution, but I don't think the nuttier Libs could cope mentally.I think it tells you just what a hopelessly unrealistic idea a sustainable population policy is, that even the Greens won't touch it.

When you put a number on something (refugees per year, total population, budget deficit, whatever) you have to say what you will do when that number is exceeded. A commitment the squibbing of which by the hand-wringers has not gone unnoticed.

And I will match you rant for rant.
In those days there was an attitude of go out there build it, dig it, clear it and farm it. Rural nurses &amp; teachers lived in dodgy billets &amp; road crews lived under canvas and swung shovels. There was SFA welfare, and factories employed armies of non &amp; low skilled workers in grubby unsafe conditions. Classes had 40-50 kids and if one got sick you paid full whack for the doctor and the medicines. Talk to some of those migrants about the hostels and camps they lived in &amp; where they were sent.

If you want to recall the 40's &amp; 50's let's have the rough with the smooth please.

We have built for ourselves a nice, squeaky clean, safe,  environmentally friendly and bureaucratic Australia where building a road attracts high-court injunctions and if you whinge hard enough the council will tell your neighbours what colour their gateposts can be. Please ask the people who think this was a good idea what THEY would do with hundreds of thousands more eager migrants. 

Personally and sincerely, I would be happy to see a bustling Australia with unlimited migrants doing what migrants do: working hard and building good lives. But the two pictures don't fit together.I love it when someone saying something you can agree with is "speaking genuinely from the heart - should happen more often". Yet when the same person, with just as much belief, says something you disagree with, it's all cynicism, spin and manipulation. Does it not dawn perhaps that "the budget needs fixing" is a simple statement of equally genuinely held belief? 

Idiots blowing up a plane is a universal bad: saying so is what we expect of our Govt. Jonathon G gives credit where it is due. A few other lemon-suckers could manage that at least.Respectfully, let us consider the State bastions of the Catholic and Protestant faiths at the height of the Religious wars of the 17th C. Did they unite into a peaceful whole at the sight of some upstart group?  Nope, they just kept at it until better navigation and colonialism gave them something else to do.Well, we will see what they do won't we? My comment was not to claim superiority for our culture at all. We are managing plenty of racism and sexism still. My point was people are people, and history suggests people in the middle of a religious war do not emerge easily, and that an emergent third player seems an unlikely agent for change. We can live in hope though.Partisan snipings on this of all issues simply flag those opinionistas whose views should be set aside on matters more debatable.Fascinating. Compelled by a burning rage in your heart. At what? A PM you dislike using strong rhetoric, apparently. As opposed to "burning rages in the heart". 

I wonder what you would feel about, say, people firing missiles at unidentified airliners?

The outrage you are feeling is cognitive dissonance. You have erected a mental image: Australia - a pipsqueak nation so stupid as to elect PM a marionette in red speedos, from whom the world averts its eyes in embarrassment at [insert cause here]. But that image just went pop before your eyes. 

It is possible for a someone of whom you disapprove to get something half-right, or even quarter-right. The sooner we get past the red mist the quicker we mend our polity.Actually Annabel does a pretty good job of balance, hence the bagging she gets pretty equally from both sides. She makes the "error" of treating pollies as human beings, thus earning the ire of the frothing ideologues.There are few things in the world harder to feel sorry for than cigarette companies.The outcome is definitely anti-democratic. I agree. The balance of power being held by Palmer stooges is the worst event in Aust politics in 40 years. 

It could be said that no-one voted with a gun to their head, and the choice to vote above-the-line and play into the hands of the preference-whispers was exercised voluntarily by the people.  The right of people to be idiots is hard to make laws against, but we need to get rid of those loopholes pronto. We can not afford a BerlusconiA subsidy is when someone gives you cash to do something. Offroad use of fuel is taxed less than onroad use. No cash goes the other way. You believing it is the same thing doesn't make it true. I don't pay tobacco excise 'cause I don't smoke. Should I pay an invented non-smokers-catch-up-tax?

Yes, you could extract money from off-road fuel use, yes it would come off the bottom line of mining companies (and farmers and fishermen, but who cares about them right?). Less profitable industries pay less tax, a few would close so less wages and less royalties, and you would be left right back where you started, but with higher unemployment and more bankrupt farmers.

Not even Ken Henry came up with killing the diesel fuel rebate. Why? because it would be a massive input tax to our two biggest exporter earners. Economic suicide. 

If dividends going overseas bothers you that much buy some shares in Rio or BHP, you can you know.I'm sure in the old days the nice ladies who plugged through phone calls in country towns Australia-wide knew exactly who was calling who, when and with whose husband out of town."knowing that someone might be watching makes us act as if someone is watching"

yes, of course.

Generally when something bad happens, the first response is "why wasn't someone watching?". This leads me to the view that people expect someone to be watching.  We don't trust other people's consciences. 

Unless we are prepared to put up with the actions of un-watched people, we will be watched to some degree. Most people have accepted that years ago.OK guys, we've proven Poe's Law enough now, we can stop.Nothing like a good old moral panic to sweep away tedious obstacles. Both sides do it all the time.  Working out compromises and how to pay for things is soooo boring. Much better get carried along in a tide of righteousness, or defend what you fondly imagine are the last bastions of civilisation.

Meanwhile nearly a billion a month out the door &amp; we excite ourselves worrying about whether Andrew Bolt's desire to be a nuisance trumps someone else's desire to be shot at by hotheads.and how would you "guarantee" employment - except by abandoning both the minimum wage and the dole? Do you really think that the government could employ everybody on a comfortable wage forever?I taught my children that under certain very very specific conditions scratching, biting, eye-gouging and a swift knee to the goolies is OK.

Our knees don't reach all the goolies in the world. Having a standing option on a mate's stepladder is not a bad plan.Gosh, I don't know. Their cute Pandas? Actually I'd say is was the third largest military in the world, 2.5 million man army and a hydrogen bomb or two. I'd think twice anyway.Personally it strikes me as revolting; FGM of the mind. Hopefully we will get some comments from women who grew up in this world and can give us the inside story.People reacted against all that too, for all the same reasons.  I agree that it is up to parents. You can blame the shops or the shows if the parent buy into it. 

The difference is how much is driven by the kid wanting to play and how much is the kid being obliged by the parent. Could the kid decide -today mum I'd rather make mud pies- and the parent put the same effort into the mud as into the sequins?Yes, your last sentence, in neon lights please.London is not the capital of a country with a GDP less than its shoe size.In our media-saturated world, all war (short of some nuclear Armageddon), is a propaganda war. In this it is Israel that has brought the knife to the gun fight. We can blame the media for not seeing x, or not showing y, but in the end media displays what is served up most compellingly: dead children. 

This is a textbook asymmetric conflict and like in Vietnam and so many others the pen is mightier than the sword.Yes, it is all physics, no, it's not hard to work out. So why are you so wrong?

Australia mines 425 million tonnes of coal per year. Coal has about 25 GJ/tonne contained energy. so, with our shoes and socks off we can calculate 12,750 million GJ of contained energy. 

Australia's TOTAL energy consumption, every single thing toasters to airplanes, is 5,950 million GJ (2010 figures both times). The amount used to mine the coal is a small fraction of that, say 4%. (total mine usage is 9% but the iron ore boys use more than half)

So, coal mining produces about 50 times more energy than it uses. Build in some inefficiencies and it is still 20-30 times.

Now I could have just said "why would anyone try to sell energy that takes more to produce than you make" but you probably wouldn't have believed me.

All rubbish of course, but it plays well to the gallery. You have learned well the golden rule of Australian politics

 - what others get is always stolen and what others pay is too little - 

So, I predict a bright future for you. A some point in your plan for us please let us know if the goal is a new Tasmania, or the full Venezuela. Some of us might like to back-load on the boats and set up shop somewhere in the first world.All rubbish of course, but it plays well to the gallery. You have learned well the golden rule of Australian politics

 - what others get is always stolen and what others pay is too little - 

So, I predict a bright future for you. A some point in your plan for us please let us know if the goal is a new Tasmania, or the full Venezuela. Some of us might like to back-load on the boats and set up shop somewhere in the first world.Quit with the settlements, quit with the rockets &amp; tunnels. I known complex problems don't have simple answers, but wouldn't that be a start?I am not absolving Hamas. My point is that Israel has to win the propaganda war more than it has to win some 10-day exchange of artillery. The rockets-in-schools tactic prevents Hamas from getting victim status unchallenged (except by idiots of course), but rightly or wrongly the Israeli settlement zealots are a very bad look. The govts efforts to suppress them are see as half-hearted at best and fraudulent at worst.

100 or 200 thousand is peanuts for people playing the long game in land where life has not been easy for a long time, and the grassroots population has no experience of exercising choice to their own advantage.Because each Israeli retaliation and Palestinian death is a victory in the propaganda war that is running parallel to the regular kind.Some will go one way and some another, but there are two possibilities here:

1. There is something fundamental to human nature about man/woman pairings that goes beyond sexual orientation and gender identification.
2. There isn't, and we can make this all up to suit ourselves.

If SSM is adopted, yet 1 is true, we will see the appearance of marriage 2.0 to re-fulfil the fundamental role. Apart from a few people going "told ya so" I can't see a problem.

If SSM is adopted and 2 is true, there never was a problem and we can all move on.

In short, while I'm old enough and straight enough to lean towards 1 out of habit, I'm struggling to see the harm in SSM if that's what people truly want.  

I also think that SS couples should just get on with it: get married and let the law catch up later. That is what folks coming out did in the 60s &amp; 70s. It isn't comfortable but it is the only thing that will head off demands for some voted-for outcome. If you really believe that having your wishes voted on is wrong you will need to be brave and be out in front, like the stonewall generation were.

If someone has found a cure for "Aorta do something"  it should be concentrated and put in the water supply immediately.This whole idea of backgrounding "off the record" is dodgy. If someone newsworthy says something interesting, that's news. Trying to say "but don't tell anyone I said it" is p1ssweak.

The whole sorry Rudd saga would never have happened if game-playing political leakers had been denied the anonymity they patently didn't deserve.And yet over on the next page Mr green is complaining that our politics is all slick glib and packaged up in 3 word slogans.

You can't have both. We either have people who are prepared to say what they think even if it is not slick and polished, or you get spin. To want some leader to come forth with everything perfect, calm, fair, detailed just enough, no losers only winners, is to want a Messiah. Good luck with that.The "voodoo" that destroyed manufacturing was that shipping got cheaper while manufacturing didn't. End of story.

The crumbling plants closing today are testament that renewing plant X in Aust was a bad deal and building plant Y somewhere else wasn't. Pretending some industrial policy would change that is just paying people to make unsaleable goods. 

The equivalent of the UK coal board in the 70s paying miners to struggle and die in 3ft high 19thC coal mines "for the dignity of labour" when their product cost more than it could be sold for. (Partly because of new efficient mines in Aust).

If a CBA had been constrained to loan to only 'worthy" local industries (or whatever the ghost of Jim Cairns might direct) you'd just doom yet more of Australian's savings to a dead duck. State development banks all went broke if you recall.  

The belief that 2 + 2 = 4 is optional is why the very good ideas of the left:  expanding opportunity, unwinding privilege, fairer education, &amp; personal rights and liberty, medicares and NDISs, run onto the rocks so depressingly often, unless someone numerate (like Hawke, Keating, Walsh or Tanner) is running the show.The flaw in all these arguments is that it treats commerce and economics as something alien to human activity when it is just a way of describing one aspect of how humans naturally behave. The first person who said I'll skin the deer while you start the fire was engaged in commerce and the first person who thought about that deal was doing economics. 

The idea that ambitions to leave our descendants a better world is restricted to the left is laughably wrong and blatantly arrogant. It has obviously never occurred to this author that "a better world for our children" might just perhaps contain things he doesn't apparently like, and that reasonable minimisation of politically-imposed sanction on basic human activities might be one of them.Wow. Common sense on the Drum. It'll never catch on mate!Yes, like Mungo, a fond reminder of the 70s. One can admire the creativity (and the perseverance), but in the end it's a wail that the world is run by practical people with little time for wailing.Lindsay Tanner said all there is to say on this. We say we do not want politics like this, but all our behaviours drive it in that direction.Agreed. A convoy of the inconsequential every bit as bone-headed as the original one.What was it Keating used to talk about? Oh yes, "The Nattering Nabobs of Negativism", and I reckon PJK might be up on his von Clausewitz too.

Of course " International politics makes no such promises." Who said anything about promises? Nothing ventured nothing gained, and if they are taking time and being careful to keep people away from falling shells, I'm sure everyone is very happy about that.  Noongs waxing clever after 3 days with the "this is never gunna work" should reflect on the times when "this" actually does work, in face of certain problems, with a little resolve and perseverance.This is unfortunately true. Nothing focusses the mind like owing more to the bank than the asset is worth.Michael Janda has nailed this fairly and squarely. The last thing the residential property market needs is a blast of yet more money. Residential property is a sacred cow; another avenue of worship will only make it worse. 

Apply CGT to all growth after CPI, discounted 50% to jive with  other long-term investments. Bubble&gt;gorn.

We badly need the vast &amp; growing bucket of super to be applied to other productive Australian industries, along strictly commercial and prudential lines: no fantasies and social engineering, no sacred cows. The banks already loan plenty to the property industry.The basic input to housing, land &amp; materials, are not naturally limited in Australia. One therefore looks to market distortions to explain ludicrous house prices. Planning regs, work practices &amp; IR, State taxes and financial boondoggles all queue up to extract rents from this most fundamental of exchanges. To paraphrase Mark Latham: a conga line of ticket-clippers. 

The prize (tax free capital gain) needs to be made less attractive and the supply needs freeing up (IR reform and planning de-nimbyfication). This will make the ticket clippers look for other tickets to clip. 

Quite agree. State land taxes one of the hidden costs of everything we do.All sounds very sensible, in other words the exact opposite of sport, which is enjoyed for its systematised silliness. Good luck!Undeveloped mining and petroleum exploration leases go back to the government regular as clockwork every 5-6 years. If the government wanted to be in the mining business it has, over the years, had the entire Australian continent to play in many times over.  Possession of the lease is not the issue, money to do the work, and the risk of failure is. 

If you proposed tomorrow that the government spend 30 billion dollars developing some mine somewhere, who would be the first to scream? The people who want hospitals, schools and NDISs, that's who. 

Let's say you won the argument and went ahead, but the price collapsed, or it turns out some rare frog lives in a sacred waterhole right there. What would you do then - with 30 bill taxpayers $ in the hole? 

This why investors invest and governments regulate: the alternative is too messy for words. Google Baku oil fields if you want some images of what happens when the rule-makers are in the business themselves.That's rich HPH, Baku was developed in the soviet era mate. I don't think Stalin was a US puppet, do you?Ian is a clever fellow and like many clever people before him believes that someone orta be planning all this out ahead of time, like maybe in 5 Year Plans. Good luck with that.

The resources game has always been about short unpredictable price peaks dragging in enthusiastic new money, then a long slow washing out of inefficient and higher-cost producers as prices decline again.

A fact that Ian never seems to acknowledge is that none of this risk falls on the taxpayer. The original mining tax would have seen the taxpayer refunding 40% of mining company losses. If you think losses are unlikely you know nothing about the resources game. 

The tide is falling, and those swimming without their shorts will soon be exposed. Linking recurrent spending to income as volatile as a mining profits tax puts all of us in the pool.

As I and others have said before: participation in the funfair ride of mining investment is freely open to all, with your own money. If the sums wasted on scratchies, pokies &amp; geegees over the years had gone into productive investment we would not now be bleating about foreigners owning our stuff.He was also not helped by his boss foolishly promising no cuts to anything anytime, when the election was a good as won anyway. 

If abbot had stuck to the "rule nothing in or out" line it would have avoided the whole lies &amp; more lies accusation, and Hockey's budget would have provided less ammunition for the inevitable reaction.If they can blow 10% GST into a deficit they could blow 12.5% and 15%.  Negative gearing is an unlovely thing, and I would cheer its demise, but I doubt that would be a silver bullet solution to a country that costs way too much to run and whose population will seek any alternative but pay for it.

Bulk billing is pretty much a myth for anyone except the poor right now. There is already a progressive threshold for a $30 - $40 co-payment, managed unofficially by GPs deciding who to bulk bill and who not to. The $7 co-payment will make this somewhat less progressive than it was. The capping of the co-payment ameliorates this somewhat as does, inevitably, GPs eating the co-payments when sick-but-broke patients turn up with empty pockets. A selective tax on two strata of society: people not quite broke enough to dodge the co-payment with a straight face, and sympathetic doctors. All very messy.

Perhaps the fairer system would be a variable co-payment rate based on your tax assessment and attached to your medicare number.The upshot seems to be that we hate the thought of rich people getting richer, even if we ourselves are richer than we used to be. I would prefer that we cared whether the poor can get out of poverty before worrying about how rich the rich might be.Our best defence is of course our cultured reason.

So says someone who isn't held responsible if something bad happens.  How exactly sure , Jonathon Green, are you that some nut (not just most, but every single one) with a head full of passion and BS will be swayed by "cultured reason".

We have built a culture whereby blame is demanded; for every mishap, slight and injustice someone must be made to pay. This makes government of both stripes highly risk averse. I don't think even a green govt would like to find itself accused,  if some nutjob (amazingly!) misses the lecture on cultured reason and blows somebody up.  

So: Govts take steps that nervous nellies worry about, right up until the nellies demand they shoulda done more, but sooner.Agreed. The trends are all poor and the rising cost of doing things here will not help.Once you invent a medical procedure some will use it and some will not.  Life, and particularly child-bearing, is enough of a lottery without disallowing some fragment of foreknowledge for those who might need it. People should mind their own business.Exactly. Or use shoppadockets &amp; coupons. 

Offer a tiny discount, a fleeting moment of extra convenience or some pretend privilege and the bozos all line up &amp; fight to have their metadata scooped up for commerce.Well gee, I guess if you tried hard you could find someone in the Greens or the ALP holding a view that a panel of  journalists could demolish or mock easily enough. Tackle Bob Ellis on Feminism one day if you like, or that Shoppies bloke on gay marriage,  or SHJ on viable alternatives. ALP legend Barry Jones was mocked for spaghetti &amp; meatballs. Getting mocked is easy.

Abetz found himself up a creek without a paddle, &amp; should have known better. Won't be the last. 

I don't know how a rational and intelligent person could support the unfundable wish-list the previous govt foist on an already blown budget, or that the party that gave us Hawke and Keating could serve up Rudd/Gillard/Rudd and allow that soap opera to destroy whatever good they might have been capable of.  Thought bubbles are not exclusive to one side of politics.

The ABC had footage of bits of the plane with obvious small fragment damage. I would not know an SA-whatever from a dodgy souvlaki, but those were not bullet holes. 

Bullets make round holes. These were irregular slots and cuts in a dense spray.

Unless you figure the ABC was filming in some CIA studio(y'know, like the moon landing) that plane was hit by something that produced a mass of small high-speed fragments.umm, because however nice a few ruby-saltbush berries might look on your emu-egg omelette, they don't sell by the millions of tonnes mate. People like the idea of deep aboriginal spirituality, but don't write cheques for it.

We sell overseas pretty much everything that people will buy. Why do you imagine that there are other things that we could be selling, if only some mythical "they" would get with the program? If there was a dollar in it, people would be doing it by now, &amp; someone would be accusing them of "turning us into a cultural quarry" or some such BS. It is you that is in the ivory tower.Because it very easy for them to "demand" one thing for PR purposes and do the exact opposite out the back door. People accuse governments of stuff like that all the time - even ones w/ the press to deal with. Why on earth do you imagine that Putin is somehow less likely to be lying than any other government?Russians are ex-Vikings who ran an empire from Kiev for hundreds of years. For the average Russian, Ukrainian independence is like England letting Essex joining the French - too silly for words.  

The only way they could understand it is as an example of the devious west undermining (once again!) noble Russia. So Putin gets points at home for hanging tough.

Russians are extremely cynical about Putin, but they like being on the losing side even less.Point of order Mr Speaker. 

The practice of free trade may indeed be often turned on its head for political &amp; diplomatic purposes - or more truthfully - never exist in a pure form. This has no impact on the truth or otherwise of the theory.  One could say the same about free speech, liberty, or other good idea that is constrained in practice.

Where enough of the principles of free trade do exist wealth does tend to increase. That those places are depressingly rare is not the fault of the theory.Seems an oddly tangential approach. There might have been previous debates, religious or otherwise, about euthanasia; but so too have there been about capital punishment, slavery, &amp; (probably) school milk.

The issue before the court now, m'lud, is what do we want our doctors doing today.  If Helen Andrews thinks a rule change would make the world worse, she should build her case on those grounds.I take this opportunity to thank the Qld State Primary School RI program from which, by sitting it out weekly 1966-1973 in the library with one or two other weirdo atheists &amp; other ranks in teacher-free bliss, I became both more literate and unbeatable at noughts and crosses.Somewhere between a joke and embarrassment I think, or a try at a comeback that didn't sound wowserish.  None of it a hanging offence I would have thought.  

The hysterical response to this will just cement the Palmeroids rep as "genuine" so-called non-politicians, and make it that much harder to stop whatever actual damage they may do later.I would say that this fuss, and that over the wink, and lots of stuff that people go ooh-aah at, is trivial: schoolyard putdowns that reduce our political discourse to grade 3.  

Ms Lambie is unlikely to ever get my vote, but making a mountain out of this molehill (either way!) is ridiculous.we could wish...seems they were just working up a good mouth-froth.This is true of course, but the more fuss gets made the more the PUP can play up the salt-of-earth BS that is their  camouflage.So, your preferred statement would be:
"Umm arr, while we continue to labour under collective guilt for invading Iraq, umm, please go ahead firing missiles at airliners &amp; destroying the evidence, arrr."Unreconstructed mediaeval theocracies &amp; dictatorships should be allowed to supress their populations and murder each other in peace. 

Unless you actually accept that statement the argument against the neocon Iraq experiment is not one of ethics but of competence. Which they demonstrably failed of course, in a hubristic implosion that leaves them hard to sympathise with.

But we await the outcome of other methods with interest. Solving the worlds problems is hard, and averting one's eye is not altogether moral either.Well, as 35 year car driver and 40 year bike rider here is my recipe:
1. collective punishment is wrong: yes, a driver/rider did a bad thing, no that does not blacken the entire breed.
2. take responsibility: you opened the door, you rode without lights, you got impatient, you treated the red light as optional. Why should others reform while we transgress?
3. Skip the sanctimony: the world does not care if you are "one less car", nor yet does the world care if you are 8 seconds late to some job. Ambulances excepted, no-one's mode of travel is more or less, important than anybody else's.
4. Make you own effort to make one other person's day more pleasant. Karma goes by both modes of transport.

If renewables were better for the market we would not be having the debate. The entire issue is that coal is cheap and plentiful. 

It, and gas etc) are becoming more expensive as they get scarcer. Renewables are getting cheaper as batteries and technology improve.  This is (eventually) a self-solving problem (give or take a baseload nuke or two) but it is not happening fast enough for the committed AGW folk.

They also will have to confront the fact that Big Wind and Big Whatever will be just a much profit-munching corporations as Big Coal, and their dreams of skipping along gaily in abundant free energy will remain just that.This is like the Romans and the Aqueduct. You repeat "basically for free" as if the billions of dollars in tax and royalties is somehow invisible. 20 - 30 billion per year roughly. You can say "too little" if you want, but free it isn't. 

Every mine, like every dress shop, paper shop and boot factory runs on a margin. Tax goes up, margin comes down. When the margin goes down the least profitable close and a new one doesn't start. Any Tax is in equilibrium with its industry.  Yes we need tax revenues, but the idea that any industry can just be taxed more without consequence is simply wrong.The PRRT is well-designed, drawing revenue from cash generating production without snuffing out new ventures. The industry expected a MRRT along similar lines, and the shock when a very different beast was revealed was a big part of the hostile response. The original MRRT imagined that all mining ventures are risk-free cash-machines when in reality the lucrative ones you read about are the tip of the iceberg. 

The original design imagined that people would still invest in initially risky ventures even though any eventual profit would be taxed back to bank-interest levels. In short, it perpetuated the lie that Australia's mineral wealth is just lying around and is trivially easy to produce by digging holes anywhere. 

Participation in the development and exploitation of Australia's mineral wealth is as accessible to everyone as your nearest stockbroker, and has always been so. Unfortunately for our economy and politics, moaning about foreign ownership is cheaper, easier and less risky.Ann
Yes, The original MRRT had a facility whereby some (40% I recall) of the investment in an ultimately unsuccessful venture could be claimed back from the taxpayer. I invite you to contemplate how long that would last in the face of:
 1. public opposition "why are we putting millions into failed mines instead of hospitals (etc)"
2. the inevitable exposure of some fraud claiming faked expenses on the public purse.

It would last about 10 minutes.

If the government would like 40% investment in mining developments the way is open to form a national minerals corp and invest money upfront, take 40% of the risk and get 40% of the profit, as well as all the existing royalties on the undeveloped mineral and company tax etc. That is honest business, many countries have one. 

CheersSo, the ABC Arts editor comes up with "my 3yo could paint that",  the Foreign Affairs editor declares treaties and summits are malevolent plots against our sovereignty, and ABC Grandstand decides Australia's sporting obsession is a disaster and we should all read more books. 

None of these opinions are particularly unique; you'd find supporters under every rock, and even a stray fact or two in favour. They just sit oddly coming from someone paid to understand the subject, is all.

Is folk-Marxism as bad as folk-dancing? I know it goes in drafty halls, like John Pilger lectures, so I guess all they have to do is move those arse-busting stackable chairs to one side and fire up the squeezebox.I doubt the world will mourn greatly as and when wicked campers are seen no more. To hasten that rapturous day the vocally outraged should pool their resources and launch "Morally Uplifting Campers", to provide a clean alternative to the travelling young.Blam! That was Hewson's credibility imploding.The reason we still do it is that no-one yet has found a can that can safely and easily can quite as much pure energy as a petroleum can can.1. Yes, there is
2. No, it hasn't.
3. Yes, there are. 
4. No, there isn't. 
5. No, they don't.
five : nil so far Wally. Got any others for us?So, what should Malthus have done? Put cyanide in the water? There are more people eating well today than ever existed during Malthus' time, too. 

Starvation has more to do with governance than resources. China now feeds more humans well than ever existed while Mao was starving them to make a point. Starvation in Africa would be rare but for their sorry history of colonial and post colonial abuse. Modern agriculture in the world's grain belts is already feeding most of the world several times over.

Hyperbolic growth can't last forever, but prosperity is the world's best contraceptive. Bring it on.Wailing about the influence of money in policy debates is about as useful as wailing "won't someone think of the kiddies" in some arts debate. Effectiveness is what is required, and money is the scorekeeper.

1. Fossil fuels are cheaper than others, therefore:
2. Using others will cost somebody money.

The debate is how much and who pays. Duck shoving ensues.

A public auction for direct funding of CO2 reduction is no more economically dodgy than forcing a value arbitrarily onto  inherently valueless waste.  Both are interventions to force outcomes that economics alone will not.  Like seatbelt laws, if it works it works.  

The carbon tax though was a tiny price signal lost in larger things: the poles &amp; wires overinvestment, global prices, dollar fluctuations, etc. In the end it's just a tax, and a poor one:  income to govt chewed up in compensations to consumers, CO2 benefits invisible, an unlovable white elephant. ETSs risk becoming a paper-shuffling exercise to the benefit of the trading firms.

TA's direct action is also a cobbled together response, but at least someone paid to build a lower-emission process has to account for the money &amp; show what CO2 they have avoided. 

The Libs are surely on AGW, but this could be more effective than is claimed by folks who demand a "market mechanism" but would never trust one with any other bit of social policy..surely mockable on AGW...missed that crucial word!There are 125 different taxes in Australia. Some folks pay one sort of tax, others pay something else.  Road users pay a fuel tax, nonroad users do not. Some people pay capital gains tax. I don't. Are they subsidising me? No, I pay income tax.

If you are a net contributor to general revenue you are not being subsidised. If you are not then you are. 

How much tax a particular industry should pay is debatable. The resource industries pay tax &amp; royalties of $25 billion per annum (2013 figures) that we would not otherwise get. You can think the number is too small if you like, but it is not negative.

I don't know how much net tax the renewable folks pay. I know that the taxpayer underwrites people's solar panels &amp; windfarms, and requires consumers to buy their products at a higher price, so I sure hope it's a lot.Ram That is just total rubbish. My immigrant parents worked their way up from a flat dead zero to home-owning security, retirement with dignity and health costs covered. Many many others did the same or better &amp; own businesses etc. Most of my bog-standard state school contemporaries have decent jobs, or a least a fair crack at them, and many now have high paying ones, investments etc. Yes there is good and bad luck, yes there is inherited wealth and entrenched poverty, but to w_nk on about fascism tells me you know absolutely nothing about it. Attempts to improve your life might be difficult, but nobody shoots at you for trying. Get a grip.He will mess with Abbott until a DD is unavoidable then splurge more money to make himself the "People's Friend". 

Folks, We have our very own Berlusconi. Just remember, when we are invited to the bungbunga party it is us getting bungabunga'dApplaudanum you  judge correctly. The parties that like to think of themselves as serious could agree on bills and render the minor parties irrelevant. But would they? The have too much pride and history vested in their positions. 

If the childish behaviour could be ramped down a notch I don't see how a moderate budget rescue plan could not be negotiated. Basically, start at opposite ends and drop stuff off in turn until you meet in the middle. 

IN my view whatever damage they might suffer to their reps is mild in comparison to what Palmer could inflict on the country by playing these games.So a showman-capitalist buys himself a position of influence, and this is somehow a blow against "corporations". What do you think Palmer is - a charity?1. Buys an obsolete nickel refinery then spits the dummy because his donations to the LNP did not buy him a free pass on its pollution.
2. Buys into the Coolum resort then runs it down to scare off the other owners, get the lot &amp; redevelop cheap.
3. plays funny games with his mining investors and tries to pass it off as patriotism.
4. spouts rubbish about titanics and dinosaurs to feed the chooks.

I'm waiting for the integrity.

I get that you want Abbot out. You are not alone. Please don't think that there is no price too high to pay for that.
There is definitely a need for a museum recording as much as is known about exactly what happened, who, where and when. 

The detail of how this is done and the terms in which it is coached will be a bunfight.Yes, welcome to the bunfight.  

But just because someone wants to abuse what facts do exist should not stop us from recording &amp; preserving them.

If you have ever visited China you will have seen that all their museums have a whoppin' great gap between all the safely "old" stuff - dynasties, bronzes, terracotta warriors etc, and the "new" stuff - China re-emerges blah blah blah. In the gap is the mistakes and stuff-ups of the warlord era, the KMT Vs PLA, and Mao's excesses &amp; disasters. It's just off-limits and no-one is game to go there.

In short, a thin bit of wallpaper is stretched over their most formative years.  

Unless we want to be open to the same accusation, we should have the guts to put out there what is known and documentable, good bad or in-between. I for one would be quite interested in Reynolds V Windschuttle laid out in hard documents, letters home, diaries, oral histories, objects, old photos and all the real stuff that (good) museums do well.

I accept that maybe the war memorial is not the right place for this...but why not? why shouldn't it be somewhere highly significant &amp; visible?Yes indeed. And in reality the pay per click online world is not that different from the ranty pamphlets that appeared everywhere in the 17th century. Todays moral outrage over X is yesterday's Popish Plot. Somehow we survived that and I suspect we will survive this.Nonprofits have to report audited accounts annually. I know because one I was involved with was late with returns and copped a fine as a result. 

Not all non-profits are tax deductible. Most clubs &amp; societies are non-profit but are not tax-deductible. Their revenue does not deprive the taxpayer of one cent.

Absolutely, tax-deductible groups activity's must be genuinely something that would otherwise fall to the taxpayer (foreign aid, hospitals, charities &amp; schools etc), and if we need audits so be it, otherwise it is really the members and/or contributors business. Fraudulent acts by officers is already addressable under criminal and civil law.I agree totally, but many of the good arguments for immigration are economic, and dare I say it, rational economics ones. Once you get past nice food interesting clothes, the argument is down to: they work hard, they spend money, they expect much of their children, and they will do jobs our precious children will not do in places they will not go.

Getting progressives to understand and use language like that will take more than a desire to re-engage the community with multiculturalism, however necessary we believe that to be.Excellent! Couldn't be happier.Amen, and long may it continueThe first thing that happened was our State governments gave up building stuff to support a growing population (e.g. Carr's reverse field of dreams- don't build it and they won't come), making us feel crowded in the biggest space on earth. 

The other thing that happened is the enviro/ZPG crowd convinced us our land was too fragile to support another human being. 

We thus endure stupidities like Rudd's 35 mill comment, a simple projection from existing demographics, being exploded into the worst thing in the world, and any attempt by governments to redress the first problem being placarded and protested until they give up and spend the money elsewhere. 

All meanwhile the racists can claim that multiculturalism and immigration was the problem all along.

He was talented: the extent is ever debatable, and opinion will ebb and flow with time: Wagner raises blood pressure even now,  Picasso was a gold-plated rat. Harris will be hung, and played, at some point in the future whatever we think of him now. Hopefully not to his benefit.

The question that matters, that will help stop the next one is, "Why does acclaim hide and facilitate crime? Witnesses often say that they thought x was  "untouchable", even when perhaps enough fuss at the time might have been effective.

It is every person's responsibility to behave ethically, but ignoring the early misdeeds of celebrities is our choice as much as theirs. Becoming increasingly a sh1t, while everyone is patting you on the head, is really just learned behaviour. Biting dogs need putting down, but their masters have to look to their own behaviour too.There are two points here.
First there is the issue of the issue of the abuse by adults of their power over children of which sex is only one aspect. All perpetrators should be reported to the police even if the victim does not at that time wish to proceed with legal action.
Second is the problem of the judgement of art. It would seem that much in the art world is valued by the name of the artist not by its intrinsic quality. Harris' crimes do not affect the intrinsic quality of his art just as his previous fame should not have affected its worth.Can someone dig in the archives and find the article where John demands the Greens support the original CPRS that people elected Rudd for in 2007? He did write one right?Well, as plenty of those overruns, costs &amp; downtime will be due to protests, unions and lawyers that's a bit of a self-fulfilling prophecy isn't it? 

AS for the rest, yes, the community benefits from having electricity around so the community pays for whatever downsides exist. Whether its modest or catastrophic AGW, big or small nuclear risks, or the large or small economic drag of diffuse renewables, it's all cost and we'll all pay it one way or another. 

The problem is the theological nature of the assessment of those costs.Not often we agree mate, but on this we certainly do.The deeply unelectable love an issue with popular support. It can be ridden to power and bent to different goals.  Known as entryism this has a long history replete with names like Trotsky but also the Christian Right in the US.

Greybeards from nuclear disarmament days will remember the Trots discovering that people's sensible wish to not glow in the dark was a useful shill for perpetual revolution, guided (of course!) by them. 

Paula telling us the Greens should be using budget grumpiness to promote AGW and themselves will simply reinforce the view that this is all about power: who cares what the issue is - just use it!Coal's cheapness in the problem, not its expense. Coal is free undiscovered in the ground. Wind is free uncaptured blowing around. To turn either into hot tea you need non-free land, machinery, wires, maintenance and replacement.

The answer to your question "what can be cheaper" comes when you have added up those costs and is, in order, coal, then gas &amp; hydro, then nuclear. If this was not so we would be doing all the other things already. 

When you say time &amp; effort you are totally correct. Time and effort are not bottomless, and must be diverted from other things. When the time, effort and sacrifice of rebuilding the energy system of a modern economy with a more costly one is contemplated, it is unsurprising that the too-hard basket beckons.

The obvious response is "we can't afford not to!". To which I reply: OK, maybe so, but nothing is ever so bad that it can't be made worse by a bad decision. Let's see the numbers, without use of the word "free" if possible. 

The notion that this is easy and we are only held back by a few evil chuckling coal barons (bwahaha!) is an obstacle to credibility in this debate.Logic seems to be: voters are angry about X so advocacy groups should be able to use this to promote Y. Not sure I follow that logic.Accountants weep quietly across the nation. 

An asset returns more than it costs. A liability is the reverse. A liability may be a fine, necessary, wonderful liability (like parks) but a liability it remains. Part of our public finance problem is our chronic inability to be honest with ourselves about what makes money, what costs money and how much of one we need to cover the other.If you ban donations the only pollies to win will be the already rich ones. Is that what you want?

I get it that what you probably want is to end the -influence- that donations bring. No argument there, but outright bans are not the answer.Lindsay Tanner belled this cat in his book "Sideshow".  Media &amp; Politics is the ultimate reward-driven system. The reward is attention and money. Whose? Ours ultimately. 

At the moment we are rewarding a fellow who - to judge by those with prior experience like the Coolum resort co-owners and his Chinese partners - is likely to disappoint. However, showmen and charlatans are not new. The histrionics of our more established leaders have opened the space for this one. But they were not born histrionic...(well hopefully not)

If  "our"  preferred leader ever said "OK, this idea of theirs is not too bad, we can work with it" would our reaction be joy or yet more confected outrage? Would the leader granted unexpected bipartisanship be rewarded for being quietly grateful - or would be required by his barrackers to rub salt into the wound?Which pitiful situation is that? 

No global war for nearly three generations. The two most populous nations emerging from centuries of poverty. Innocent death from exposure to whacko-, klepto- and religio-dictatorships down from tens of millions to (shamefully, still) tens of thousands. Food surpluses in most countries that can (with care and organisation) be distributed to those without, and a life-expectancy (and quality-of-life expectancy for those in the industrialised countries) that is beyond the wildest dream of our grandparents. International travel at the wave of a credit card.

Is this the pitiful situation those terrible fossil fuel have brought us too? Gee, I hope nothing actually, like, bad ever happens.OK, I'll ask, who's Vince?ahh, I hear the rumble of "historical forces" at work.How about " A Festival of Ideas that provide an exciting frisson in our underwear by extending our own fond imaginings into new areas, or breathlessly contemplating their acceptance by the ignorant masses, without requiring us to change any of them ourselves".There is a good quote from George Orwell along the lines of "that idea is so dumb only an intellectual could believe it."Rail is lovely but has less impact across the general economy of product distribution, tradies getting to jobs, and point to point freight &amp; commuting that realistically will never be on a rail corridor. Rural produce &amp; farm supplies inward are fine example of these.

Unsurprisingly, we have some of both modes, and ideally we'd have new construction of both. The world is not ideal tho, and I don't think it is unreasonable for a Government looking at productivity barriers, and the time it takes to get projects up, to decide a few new roads will spruce the place up &amp; start earning the money for the next phase of rediscovering public infrastructure.

In short, anything is better than the current nothing, and if it's to be road, I can live with it.This is quite true. Abbott seems to believe that his modus operandi in opposition would be simply forgotten by his opponents; who would see his election as "a fair cop, guv'nor" and treat him with the legitimacy he refused to accord JG.

No objective observer could imagine this occurring. 

Believing in one's own propaganda is always dangerous, and may cost him the chance to do the other half of what he was most elected for: sorting out the nation's finances.well, at least we still produce our own aluminium. We'll be OK for tinfoil hats for a while.NATO only existed because the Russians occupied the nations they went through on the way to Germany in WWII. Everyone else went home, they didn't. Nobody trusts them because of it. Talk to eastern European migrants sometime about what they got up to. By their very actions the Russians demonstrate that the need for NATO has never gone away.Companies raise funds in many ways beside the initial float, and many of those depend directly or indirectly on their share price. You buying up shares on the market helps that, and anyway, once you are a shareholder they will soon hit you up w/ a rights issue:)This is true. Time to tell kick the sacred cow to move on.Alan may right about the current addiction of fundies to uber-yields, but in the longer term we do need investors to reward good fundamentals as well as this moment's growth story. Equities are a way of funding good business, as well as a casino, but the casino aspect sits too high in the public view.hear hearPeople seem to have an inherent need to believe stuff, and to come together in clumps to reinforce belief. Hierarchies develop, pathways to power develop, and so it goes.  The Catholic Church just happens to be one of the more long-lasting examples. People in uncritically examined positions of power, from wobble-board artistes to archbishops will occasionally need dealing with.   Like Kings, these people only have power because we give it to them, and new age gurus and rockstars all trade in the same coin of tribal adoration.Especially the trams. I miss the way the tramways union used to strike and block the street with the public's assets to screw the government for yet more money.Exactly right. Apparently only true believers are allowed to talk about mo(o)ving forwards to a light on the hill.
It is to avoid the dire circumstances that require &amp; produce Thatcherite overreactions that budgets should be (mostly) made to balance, and that borrowing to fund recurrent expenditure avoided.

You will recall the condition of Britain prior to the emergence of Thatcher: 3 day week, garbage uncollected, Pound tanking, inflation out of control, and everyone on strike. 

The theatrical pretence that the budget is even close to capital "A" Austerity is absurd. 40c for petrol and a max of $70 per year for doctors - an almost invisible portion of what Aussies waste on tattslotto. 

I suppose describing 40c a week as draconian is about the same level of overreaction as equating a mildly jingoistic remark with declaring war on Argentina, so I shouldn't be surprised.I don't recall anyone defining who was in and who was out. If you want to make up a definition that you think excludes someone then go ahead, but don't blame that on anyone else.You are 100% correct that a budget surplus is simply a tool. 

A tool for ensuring that over the long term we do not accumulate more debt than the economy can service, while doing all the good stuff we need; stuff you have listed yourself. 

I think that tool is a useful one, don't you?  The budget does not slash everything at once and attempt a surplus in one year, that probably would be destructive, but it does start to head in a direction where stuff like NDISs might be affordable, as opposed to out-the-window unfundable, which is the current state of affairs.Here we go. Damned if you do and damned if you don't.I'm all for personal responsibility, but in team sport  it would take an awfully brave kid to say, "umm, no thanks, I don't think I will", when everyone is told to truck along for their shot.  

meanwhile, the degeneration of this inquiry into who said what to whom afterwards is a disgrace.  

Some person took dodgy needles to other human beings.   Without medical grounds, medical qualification and informed consent, that is more than a breach of a some sporting code.Agreed. We have medical boards, we have people with medical degrees. That system exists for a purpose. 

IF it ain't prescribed by someone allowed to write prescriptions, it don't go in. End of story.There is a saying that goes: "for each complex problem there will an answer that is simple, and wrong." Respectfully, I think PUP fills that niche in Australian democracy.At the dawn of Westminster democracy: the end of rule by divine right and the beginning of the primacy of parliament, the "press" was a mad bunch of single-issue scandal sheets, muckrakers, ranting pamphleteers and religious nutjobs all hopping on board the brand new medium of print. (sound familiar?)

The idea that democracy depends on some God-like fair and balanced press serving out pure information is BS. 

Democracy survives by the governed accepting that however bad they may be, a government you can chuck out is better than one that you can't.Agreed of course, and besides it might improve the weak green lefty's sales, which they'd hate, money being evil, n all.He conflates Leela the dr who character with that princess from starwars with the weird hairstyle. - or possibly Xena.Because it is an ongoing social experiment by into how long an elite with employment options on the mainland can keep a human population as underfed pets on their hobby farm.Interestingly the number of PUP voters is greater than the number of functional illiterates. I wonder what the literate ones' excuse is?Well, it would be if that is what Abbot said, but it wasn't. Classic verballing. If JG projects what he dislikes into an utterance, well, he's going to dislike it, isn't he? A pleasantly information-free, hermetically-sealed feedback loop of self-reinforcing dislike.

May as well go "I hate cats, that cat is looking at me funny". The cat has no idea what you are on about.

This country has had almost exactly equal time since Gough run by the left and by the right side of politics. There is plenty of blame to go round both sides.Well, you seem nice, so I guess that's one less than everybody.Let me guess. It's never been tried properly. Is that the theory?  How many more millions would have made the experiment thorough enough for you?  Go ask a few Poles or Romanians or Red guard victims if they felt their oppressors were holding back a little.Beware corporals with grander plans.So it's the Chinese company that shoots its own people, not the government, it that what he meant? Did they only start shooting people after they dared to ask how he was spending their $12 million? 

I'm sure it all very unfortunate that the nasty journalist tripped up poor Clive and made him rant on telly. After all it's not like thoughtless statements are held against other politicians is it?

True dat.Cool story bro, but you missed the bit where they rub their hands and go "bwa-ha-ha". I always liked that bit.Are the silly roads the ones nobody uses? You know, the empty ones. Which are they again?  I delight in imagining you calling for a plumber or ordering a book from Amazon with the proviso "don't come by any silly old roads now, train only, y'hear".When asked why their 6 years in power did not result in the Land of Milk &amp; Honey, the usual ALP excuse is "that nasty Mr Abbot stopped us doing what we wanted".  It is obviously a fine &amp; effective political strategy to return that favour now, but don't expect anyone to believe you on the economics.@Tiresias, thanks for considered reply. I do not make much of the BER etc:- they were not all as bad as they were made out to be and are not the issue. The PPL is just silly and I won't waste your time defending it.
 
The issue is solely the programming of unfunded future spending out the whazzoo, and the timing of these raised expectations to neatly coincide with the time the ALP knew they would not be responsible for achieving them. It was breathtaking is its cynicism and deeply wrong for the inheritors of the Hawke-Keating-Walsh legacy to have done so. Enabling the Palmeroids to play populist sillybuggers compounds that error.

One means of funding these ambitious plans is the returns to the treasury from exports. If we want the NBN from string or platinum, and the NDIS, we have to sell something. We would all be happy if we had a more diverse economy, but murdering the successes we have right now is not the answer.

A AAA credit rating is akin to the banks upping our credit card limit; only a fool rushes out and spends up to the new limit - AAA becomes C- awful quick. This is effectively what the advocates of maintaining spending are suggesting. 

I wish the budget had hopped deeper into middle-class welfare. I also wish that Abbot had not made foolish off-the-cuff promises. That Abbot got in is your true measure of how bad the previous must have been. 

But none of this addresses our fundamental problem that we expect more from our governments than we are prepared to fund, so we grasp around for imaginary deep pockets to magic away our problems.  You ask where is the economic management? it resides in the fact that until ALP remembers what it once knew the baton will reside with the other guys - regardless of their many and colourful failings.

Twelve submarines were Rudd's idea btw - I hate to think how much coal will be sold to afford them. 

Ports, railways and water are charged for, thank you very much, as is all supplies, employment and contractors, electricity, interest and depreciation on the machinery. In fact you conveniently left out most of the expenses of running a mine. Your calculation is pure BS.You put the cost of raw materials at the value of the royalty, thus treating the provided material as effectively ready-to-go. You generously then allow processing and cost of sales. 

Nowhere do you provide for the cost of turning the material purchased for the royalty (i.e. in the ground, undiscovered, undeveloped, unmined, and not yet transported to the processing plant) into a processable product at the plant gate. I therefore pointed out that these were by no means free and must be added to the royalty as being the cost of the raw material. With the exception of purchase of machinery most of that expenditure stays in Aust btw, as wages, supplies &amp; contractor payments and bank interest.

You say these are included in expenses somewhere but did not quote any mining industry figure for expenses, profit or taxable income, from deloitte or from anyone else, nor did you quote the minerals council calculation of effective tax rate - which is higher than 14% btw. If you want to quote MCA figures it might be more honest if you cited all of them, not just the ones that suit your argument hmm?

The deductions you rail against have equivalents for pretty much any other industrial or agricultural industry that uses heavy equipment. 

If all this is too hard, you could just add up all the tax paid(with or without the rebates, I really don't care) and ask yourself this: how else are we going to get money like that...and if there was such a means...what is stopping us from doing it now, as well as the mining? The world is awash in capital, if you have a more lucrative plan nothing on earth is standing in your way.Exactly what would become of a Tax commission: it made recommendations that were politically impossible so it was ignored. 

Independent commissions do lots of great things, but they can't magic away the responsibility of citizens to engage with the problems of the country and give elected leaders of either stripe scope to make decisions.Of course it would. "Take the politics out" is code for "shut up and do it my way".  We have any number of commissions, and people respond to their findings according to their political views....and can we have a special fund for remedial education in the use of capital letters and apostrophes, and the avoidance of brain-frying recreational chemicals.I love how the folk cheering Yeah! Go Dr Hewson! would have been first in the queue to bag his own effort at a detailed technical solution to economic problems, which is what fightback was intended to be.

People love technocrats when they suit their ideas and scream "Undemocratic!" when they don't.I don't know either, but I hear the theme from Gigantor when I read it.question 1 is easy: deficits are borrowed money on which we pay interest. Borrowing money to build stuff is one thing, borrowing to pay last years expenses is another.
Question 2 is always going to be political, because it directly affects people's lives and futures.The capacity of our civilisation to provide stuff like airtravel, and warm brightly lit hospitals 24/7 somewhere nearby, that petrol-powered ambulance could take us to, if we happened to need that, is an externality too. Somehow it is always only the negative ones that get mentioned. 

A quick drive in the real world will acquaint you with the fact that power stations are built as close as possible to the coal mine. A short rail loop or a conveyor belt ride and right into the furnace it goes. The cost of this is trivial in the overall cost of supplying you electricity and it is covered in the price per kw/hr.

The coal freight you might see going longer distance is export coal, for which Australian rail operators charge a very handy sum underwriting their other operations, and which is paid for by the export price.We can pay once for power, or twice. We can pay twice by having renewable energy with a fossil-fuelled a backup system, or pay once by running one or the other. Either choice has consequences we can elect to put up with, but pretending that the backup system will stay there running reliably in the background for free, to swing in when needed at the same old price, is just a fantasy. 

The price of power used to be averaged out across uncomplicated high volumes and growing use.  For all sorts of good-sounding reasons we have put a bomb under that assumption.  Unwinding it has costs all down the line. If you want to avoid the costs of running a backup system then buy it out and shut it down, but otherwise please stop whinging.Indeed. My impression was of a barnacle on a Sydney ferry; penning an article on the Opera House using the big words it overhears from the passengers.Well, the one thing growth does do is pay off debt splurges. We are occasionally told that the Govt debt is no problem, not large in world terms, AAA rating, Govt should not be afraid to borrow for important stuff, etc, etc.  

Even if the stuff Govts borrow for is 100% effective and fantastic, the only thing that pays it off (in time for the next spurge anyway) is the growth that it creates. Wanting this "Ponzi scheme" to stop, the first thing you'll be advocating is reduced government spending and no more grand schemes beginning with the letter "N" to be paid off in the never-never. 

Funny, never took you for a right-winger.Absolutely. The US will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by allowing gas to replace older coal plants.  China will partly do so as well. We on the other hand have thrown logs across the path of this most obvious of reforms. We run around making terrified squawks (Fracking! GasLand!) while other countries move ahead with the natural advantages they have. Of course people will laugh. Wouldn't you?A point that is worth making when someone is banging on to you about externalities. Externalities can be positive too, and the invention of powered flight is one of them.I'm confused: is it the railways that are knitting? or the oil companies? 

Anyway, oil companies love railways. Oil is often freighted by rail thus making a remote area more attractive for exploration.  Rail promotes regional growth and people in the regions farm and drive cars. For every train there are twenty trucks delivering stuff at each end &amp; I have never once heard a shill for the oil companies claim that building rail is bad.  You could quadruple the Australian rail network and the oil business in Australia would grow not shrink.Basing a business on what a government may or may not do is always hairy and most people avoid it for that reason: a stroke of a ministers pen and you are gone. 
However
Given terms like rent-seeker, subsidy, rebate, externality, stranded asset and most other words in the finance lexicon get bandied about ignorantly I don't see why sovereign risk should be immune. As the business model for some of the renewables is taxpayer transfer they are just a bit more susceptible to governmental mind-changes, that's all.Asteroid mining would require vast amounts of energy. If we did invent something capable of generating that much energy, there are processes that could refine the entire periodic table of elements from rock lying around here already, and extract fresh water from the ocean in vast volumes.Landing probes on comets is fun, uplifting to the spirit, and expands the wealth of human knowledge at very little individual cost. Being told Repent! The end of the world is nigh! is dull, diminishing to the spirit, demands sacrifice, and has been proven untrue enough times previously to be easily dismissed by those with a mind to do so.

Note I make no comment about its truth or otherwise, just it's effect on the human psyche.lucky bleedersI for one am happy to see super invested conservatively. I can take my own risks If I want to but I want my super to actually be there exactly when I need it. Fees and commissions, and the costs of running this behemoth need scrutiny absolutely but don't let's demand they go off chasing silly returns, or for that matter trying to right world's ills.Absolutely! Voting in ways you don't like is at least comparable with trashing neighbouring countries and giving yobbos surface to air missiles...maybe even worse! Only when we are truly penitent we will understand that a KGB hardman with wealthy mates is the true friend of the oppressed.

God, I love the smell of face-palm in the morning.But Greg you miss the point. If you have an economic summit AND a climate change summit you get two jolly trips, two lots of TA (the good sort), two lots of lovely media, two opportunities for exciting street theatre and protests, two excuses for breast-beating and shocked articles in the Drum. Why would you waste all that by cramming them together?I disagree. The Greens talk about freedom and human rights. It is not often that their behavior (minding other people's business on behalf of nebulous stakeholders and a society composed of like-thinking people) is contrasted with their lofty statements.  Voluntary sex workers are small business people. They have a right to disagree when some group promoting apparently worthy policies put up someone whose policies could have unintended and harmful consequences.The lib vote in the affected electorates will be somewhat lower as a result of anti-tunnel sentiment being mobilised. Thus it will be (even more than usual) a Green v ALP contest, so expect a lot of "you're not as cool as you think you are" articles. 

This author however appears to be more interested in feminism than party politics. The "there's more to sex workers than victimhood" angle appears in other stuff by her that does not run down the Greens, or any other politics specifically. 

This candidate's views seems to have got up her nose, basically.Would be interesting to see if sex workers or their clients favour any particular side of politics. I'm sure there is a great diversity of opinion as in all other walks of life.

I can think of certain premises near either end of the east-west tunnel that would benefit from higher traffic flows!Sorry, that's logically absurd. Consent is consent, not a statement of enjoyment. I don't enjoy root-canal work, and I'm sure my dentist prefers other pass-times than staring into my gob, but it's all perfectly consensual. 

In your and my perfect world prostitution might not exist, but maybe in somebody else's perfect world it's a normal part of everyday life, balancing out uneven levels of sexual desire in the population: who knows?

Sexual exploitation, along with all other kinds, IS a problem, SHOULD be stamped out, and I'm sure certain people in the industry are not squeaky-clean, but driving the consensual parts of the business underground is not the way to fix that.I'd like to think so too. But what if "the ideas" are ones we don't want circulating? Nationalism, antisemitism, paranoia and xenophobia are all ideas. The anti-vaccination crowd have done a fair job of promulgating one of the dumbest ideas on record.I agree it's very old fashioned. It hasn't been the Ukraine since at least when the real old bolshis starved 6 million of 'em to death in the 1930s.Add up the state and federal welfare budgets. Add up the number of homeless and rice, bread and blanket-less folks. That money could find homes, rice and blankets 1,000 times over.  Why are the poor always with us? This 2,000 year-old question does not have a simple answer, not even "because the rich stole all the money".

It does not require one to be General Pinochet to ask the simple question: if the largest item of expenditure within a public sector that has grown each year, in a country that is richer each year still cannot provide a bed, rice, bread and a blanket, what will?Thank you for an honest account from the coalface. Good luckI am not unsympathetic either. If (A) it works, and (B) everything else is seriously tried first I suggest a co-payment-type sharing of the cost is not unreasonable. We do not want our health system to be a moralistic punishment regime for the less-than-perfect-according-to-somebody. 

I do worry that the claim "it will save health money in other areas" is rarely actually tested. Until it is showing clear benefits the co-payment could be set high enough to make people try very hard at the alternatives first. 

Does an evil have to be unique before we work to get rid of it? Many anti-social behaviours are not unique, worst-in-class, or overwhelmingly prevalent yet we try to get rid of them.Very sad to hear about Wayne Goss. A good bloke all round. One of the last of the pollies that treated the job as something other than win at all costs. A victim of petty internal ALP politics and NIMBY activism about some road. Net result: the Borbridge Nat govt. Good work guys, I'm sure the koalas everywhere clapped that one.Evatt, in gratitude that a bullet was dodged.
Gorton, in ribald speculation about Ainsley Gotto
Holt, in mirth at his antics
McMahon, in general bemusement at his existence.
Hawkeating, in this: come back son, all is forgiven, even the terry-towelling robe.
Rudd, in relief at his passing
Gillard, in honest recognition that she was up the well-known creek from the outset.Both Gough the person and Gough the political legacy deserve reasonable analysis: both respect and criticism where justified. Snark and mindless barracking denigrate the credibility of arguments on either side of that debate.  

Mungo highlights Gough's ability to treat people with dignity.  I wonder if a Gough today could maintain that approach in the face of the bitter snark that is thrown in politician's faces even before they have opened their mouths?Hewson did that &amp; Keating destroyed it. Lesson learned.Single people can make a difference, but they have to pick their moment on the tide of human affairs. Gough arrived in a moment of pent up frustration in Australia that everyone else was getting a "sixties" and we were not.

The tide for Libertarianism is yet to arrive. People value protection above opportunities. Why? From one individual's perspective it plays out like this: 

1. A libertarian regime offers opportunities for everyone, but "everyone " is a lot of people and I am just me. I don't want to be outnumbered by an everyone unencumbered by rules. 
Fear leans me toward distrust of the libertarian position. 

2. Lobbying &amp; crying for special rules risks nothing, but taking a shot at an opportunity does: thus I think I can benefit from the proliferation of rules more painlessly than I benefit from a proliferation of opportunity. I can nobble my neighbour without having to compete on open terms. 
Greed leans me away from the libertarian position

In short: you are up against both fear and greed. You're stuffed.Actually democracy in Europe grew from Aristocrats and landowners to protecting their interests from the King (Magna Carta etc). Greek democracy was not about the working class, slaves, women or anybody except landowners. The founders of the US constitution were well-off merchants and landowners protesting taxation and the garrisoning of troops on their land and their dime. 

Remind me again where Marx, Lenin &amp; Mao came from the lower classes? Children of wealthy parents to a man, and it was the working classes who starved &amp; died in their famines.Politics economics and law are the results, not the drivers. Human systems are made by humans, (who else?). If leadership is a factor in human affairs it did not get there by accident.  I would love that sociability and commonsense could usher in a world of autonomous utopian pure democracy, but the actual history of the human race is that such systems are immediately dominated by someone who doesn't follow the script.  People do not need Kings and emperors, but they prosper when there are non-arbitrary laws, organisers - and most importantly - a means of kicking out bad ones, and a means of concentrating, trading and applying effort. in short: law politics and economics. No-one promised they'd be perfect and the onus is on us to improve them.It is indeed what they did when they had the chance that matters.   I'm sure they had all the correct ideas but did any of them ever actually serve the people (Ukraine? Tibet?)  more than say a Churchill a Truman or a Roosevelt served their people according to boring old western democracy?Which is why competition is so important. No-one claims business is run by angels. Better that the devils fight each other to supply the customers needs than have time to sit around dreaming up ways to soak the taxpayer.If that were true it would have happened, done, finished game-over millenia ago. Humanity is inventive, new ways disrupt old ways, so the battle is evergreen. The trick is to encourage it, and to capture the benefit. Better to let your wannabe plutocrats battle to sell you burgers and iphones than battle to hold dynastic spots in an aristocracy, or chairs at the politburo table.Allowing banks to fail is a bit like population control. Everyone agrees it must happen sometime, just not me &amp; not yet.

Amid a forest of more contestable statements there is one reasonable truth in Ian's article: the moral hazard of allowing someone to believe their losses are covered by the deep pockets of the taxpayer. 

Ask yourself though, who would be screaming if a bank failed: millions of depositors, small and large businesses, mortgagees, retirees etc, i.e. voters, that's who.  Rudd and Swann did not offer a bank guarantee because they love bankers dearly, but because a collapse would be catastrophic for ordinary people. Allowing firms to fail is from the libertarian play-book, not the social democrat one.

How our comfy cradle-to-grave welfare state (yes, including corporate and middle-class) perpetuates moral hazard and hides the consequences is a very worthy topic for discussion, and I look forward to the next installment from Ian V.No. My point was that anytime you seek to protect people from risk you are in certain cases unavoidably protecting them from the consequences of their own actions.   You can't have a welfare system or a health system without helping the foolish was well as the unfortunate. You can't protect a bank's depositors and pensioners funds without also at least partly shielding the bank's executives and shareholders, because it is all the same animal.  
And so (as I said elsewhere, mods permitting) indeed it was. Charged by the RBA at a percentage but never used, the guarantee MADE $5.5 Billion for the taxpayer at no cost.

I really fail to see how this timely and appropriate Govt backing of our financial system has somehow been conflated with wholesale bailouts of bankrupt companies. No money changed hands, none. An emergency facility was established, never used, and the cover was paid for at a reasonable rate.You undersell the skill level in our resource industries. If you think it is just "shovelling dirt" I invite you to have a go.  The resources industries employ highly skilled tradespeople and many engineering and science graduates. They do not wield shovels I can assure you. 

Manufacturing in Australia is being lost daily. This is not an either-or situation. Traducing our surviving high tech industry will not assist manufacturing to recover. The high costs and small markets that damage manufacturing and prevent further value-adding to mineral exports are created by other factors not our proficiency in mining. If someone wanted to re-develop (for instance) steel making here, are they somehow prevented by us also being good at mining the ore &amp; the coal? 

I share the sentiment believe me. That we used to do it in the past is even more frustrating. Setting up something here - an industrial process - is 2.5 times dearer than the US. Our construction and our waterfront is such that an entire enterprise will survive or fail by whether it can AVOID using Australian ships and fabrication, and any attempt to build anything attracts stupid green triangles saying No [whatever] anyway. It's enough to make a person weep.
The point was the skill in operation and knowing where &amp; how to dig, but I'll play: is it the miners fault that an Australian-made dragline is too expensive? Will running down the mining industry suddenly sell more Australian-made draglines - or less do you think?  
Fact is significant parts of the supply chain are extraordinarily high-tech, mostly designed here, and wherever possible supplied here. If "where possible" could be even greater it would be fantastic. If someone would like to engage seriously with the productivity logjams that bedevil Australian industry it won't be the mining industry screaming no! no! anything but productivity! evil bad productivity! Make it go away! 
Foolking: who will stump up the money?   Australians have had plenty of opportunity to invest in Australian enterprises of all descriptions, in a small way maybe, but it adds up. I don't see lotto &amp; the nags scratching for pennies. The idea that investment is what other people should do is one of our real ball &amp; chains. 

We can develop anything we want. Expertise is not the problem The Japanese wanted to rebuild after the War, so they did what it takes. "what it takes" for us is an attitude shift of monumental proportions. Automation, and most other innovations was resisted tooth and nail in the industry we used to have. 
Where do think banks came from in the first place?  The egg &amp; banana farmers needed a way of borrowing, saving and exchanging wealth. "Bank" the word is from Banco, or trading bench, in middle-ages Venice.Needless to say they did pay for it. The guarantee (which was never used once btw, no Govt money ever went to a bank) was charged for by the reserve Bank and made the Australian government a cool $5.5 Billion outright. The RBA is not in the habit of giving stuff away.

That this article and all the comments carry on like this was a European-style bailout of risky loans by long-suffering governments just shows the level of ignorance and cant our political debate suffers from. 

The bank guarantee was a good and necessary idea done well, beneficial to all concerned, and agreed as such by anyone on either side of politics with a brain in their head.Did you miss the bit where I said they paid good money for it? Who else would they buy default insurance from at that time? 

The Australian banks had not indulged in the silly loans &amp; CFDs etc, they HAD acted relatively responsibly...there was limited actual risk but a strong perception of risk because of the global panic. The guarantee propped up the perception and turned a quid for the Govt.

I acknowledge the whole moral hazard thing: I do not LIKE propping up enterprises w/ taxpayer money. I recognize in this particular instance that the harm of a collapse would have hit ordinary Aussies harder than the bankers, and the support was tacit rather than actual handout, and it was not given away free. Best of a bad situation. THat's all.Was there ever any reason to believe that's what he was?Oh FFS. We need less busybody laws not more. Do people not understand that every time you write some law to moderate someone else's behaviour, someone else demands a law to moderate yours?  Yes, some people are too stupid, addicted, unprepared or just plain unlucky to be great parents when they need to be. Is some law really going to change that? Really?

All this, as well as this being a cunning bit of camouflage for the anti-abortion brigade.

Basically, you have 9 months while a woman: good, bad, rich, poor, smart, dim, lucky or not, is your 100% lifeline. No, you don't get to choose, or blame, or backtrack. Most do a decent job. Good luck, with accent on the word luck.Rising national incomes? Silly boy! Never ever ever suggest anyone is doing OK. We hate that!If we all just react to one or two disputed lines in an opinion piece we are all guilty. I disagree often enough with our Mr Green.  Here he plays the ball and not the man, and for that he gets a tick.A good article from Jonathon today. Pearson's speech was indeed excellent, and excellently non-partisan. Everyone claims to hate the current situation - so why are we perpetuating it here in the comments? We see the US lurching from unhappy right to left to unhappy right again more out of frustration than choice. Do we want to end up like that?

AS seen in rare moments (for which plaudits for Annabelle Crabbs' work), many of our pollies are actually quite decent people.  I am dismayed when efforts to humanise people making difficult decisions get accused of being too lightweight, partisan etc. The reason politics has become a blood sport is the crowd baying for blood.I'm both. I find talking to myself a sure bet for a mature debate, actually.Muzz, we went through this on the last Whitlam article. Australia was 80% self sufficient in oil in the seventies abd eighties.  Yes there was a world downturn, simply underlining the fact that you shouldn't base big current spending increases on vague promises of future revenue. Even if we give Gough a conceded pass, what was Wayne's excuse?Wannabe Goughs are thick on the ground. I would swap all of 'em for few more Haydens, Walshs &amp; Tanners. People who can count to 20 without taking their shoes and socks off.If the public can't (apparently) be trusted to elect a government every three years why on earth do you think they can be trusted to vote on every little thing? If the corrupt MSM, shady lobbyists, International banking conspiracies and the whole tinfoil-hat panoply have screwed old-school democracy what will stop them from screwing your happy little online plebiscites? 

I suspect the first online plebiscite goes the "wrong" way and you'll be screaming corruption, hacking and manipulation.Yes, I wondered myself what all the bankrupted tradies from the Casino build, and dudded small shareholders might be thinking, when I saw Dan the man cosying up to the main focus of their disillusionment.For the record I doubt this exercise is about anything more than marketing for Virgin inc. However, I guess without risk-taking egotistical madmen we wouldn't have had Columbus, Nelson, or Tony Stark so there you go... as long as it is all voluntary &amp; his PL is paid up I'm happy.Two reasons, one immediate and one more dire in the long term:
1. If the Greens had supported it outright the deal with the libs would never have been necessary. Two liberals were missing in action in the vote and that would have swung it.

2. The general population, told this was the "greatest issue of our time" saw the very group that should have been supporting it go against it. Their natural reaction was to say "Oh OK, so your not serious then? Call us when you're ready".  

This is the status quo: a population who sees each whack of this political football as one more proof that there is nothing to see here, move along.You can relax mate. Ian V's entire output to date suggests he doesn't believe it either.Resources are only resources because a human invented a use for them. Red dirt was just that until someone smelted iron from it. As new uses are invented new raw material become resources, and the old ones get a rest. Nobody boils down whales for oil any more, or cuts down trees for charcoal to smelt that iron ore. Yes, there are physical limits to the world, but at 0.01% of the biomass of the earth we are a long way from reaching them. Well intentioned attempts to second-guess the future have a poor track record.Things can be rational without being necessarily agreeable.

Howard's debt-fuelled housing boom produced thousands of(paper) millionaires who then voted for Howard in gratitude. 100% rational.

Inequality has many causes: growth-sapping regulatory overload, sclerotic IR, and education that produces indoctrinated unemployables are three of them. Polices to demolish them would seem rational but attract adverse  reaction (rational from their perspective) from those entrenched in those systems.  Punitive redistributive policies (ala 60's and 70's Britain) produced dire outcomes and are options only in the minds of aging Ken Loach fans and the terminally unobservant; but there are enough of these that you don't want to stir ?m up.  War is a another social leveller that even Picketty acknowledged. Keen? No, neither am I. Hence: do nothing and attract minimum hate-mail. 100% rational.

Being seen to address atmospheric CO2, without causing painful lifestyle change or the appearance of those white domes and cooling towers Greenpeace like to graffiti on,  to voters who have been deceived into believing this is possible: 100% rational. 

The "problem" in all cases is an electorate that has been pavlov-trained to demand but not to pay, to bellow "Science" without knowing a GWh from a Kardashian, and above all to believe that the squeaky clean safe and gilded world we live in can be legislated into perpetuity.
I watched the video. It was not harassment. Most of the time the woman was being complimented. Indeed, seeing as she was dressed in skin tight jeans anda top, is it any wonder the men wanted to catch her attention ? If these "harasment" nazis keep on like this, soon men will be afraid to even make eye contact with a woman. Infact, I have seen this fear in politically correct Scandinavia and also Australia. Big Up New York, keep up the friendly greetings and celebrate the gender difference !hear hearDeclaring why the population voted one way or the other is simply a statement of opinion. The model was non-radical, therefore modest by definition. It was unsuccessful, therefore rejected. Proper democratic expression here seems to mean "what Craig More thinks it should be".

The proponents and supporters of a Republic (off which I was and am still) had an narrow window of opportunity to get the idea up. We muffed it through disunity starry-eyed idealism and now imagine that if only the window had been wider all would have been different.

In what way does facilitating people to reject all available options help? Any decision in any sphere will disadvantage somebody, so government is almost by definition the pursuit of the least worst option. Dummy-spits and "non of the above" is childish.Geothermal energy had a good run for a while. Martin Ferguson handed out a few $7 million freebies for test wells. Geodynamics (now worth a mighty 4c a share on the ASX) spent several hundred million shareholder dollars trying to prove up a pilot plant and Tim Flannery is still waiting for a cup of hot tea out of it. Other attempts have simply folded the tents and given up.

If you have to spend millions to get free energy, it ain't free. 

Shallow geothermal is great for small-scale space-heating of  homes and this should be in every architects toolbox, but the high-tech run-a-city stuff has failed in Australia. Works fine if you have volcanoes like NZ, but we don't.when the point is made that the fuel excise is for roads (so non road users shouldn't pay it) the Greens are very quick to tell us that "it all goes into general revenue, so its just a tax, and the non-road-users are getting a subsidy". They cannot now say that they don't support the fuel excise because "it's going to roads" That would be ridiculous and make them look like tools, wouldn't it?And thus a carefully balanced, well-written article is dismissed with a facile comment. People care about animal cruelty AND fairness to people whose lives and honest businesses have been ruined by this. I don't recall anyone in the article making "a lot of money" - or enough anyway for you to decide on a whim they can do without it.We do export a lot of butchered meat - to countries that will pay the extra of our relatively high industrial costs, and who can handle large volumes of refrigerated meat. Indonesia and many other Asian countries can't do either of those things at the moment, but as the middle classes in those countries grow they buy stuff like fridges. Our problem is that as with all manufacturing it is expensive to do in Australia, and we find it hard to compete.Yes definitely. That was the original deal no question. The States later reneged on getting rid of some of those old taxes.  Whatever happens now, those other taxes have to go.OK, subtract "payroll" - happy to be corrected. There were others, No?Ah yes, the old essential versus nonessential discussion. (adopts fake Stalin accent): Tractors comrade, we need many tractors to achieve 5 year plan.

You'll recall Meg Lees getting the GST off lentils but leaving it on Maccas &amp; meat pies.  People have different views of what "essential" means to the people they are trying to assist.

Mate, tax isn't about punishing one group to the benefit of another (although it's accused of that often enough) it's about funding stuff everybody needs as evenly and fairly as possible. You can tax caviar and BMWs until no-one ever buys them, but it won't build a single hospital.Oh dear. Logic. You'll never get on around here mate, coming up with stuff like that!Getting rid of a government outside of by election is a bad look, period. The elections of 75 and 77 should have cauterised the wound but obviously they didn't, as also happened to JG in 2010. People don't vote oppositions in they vote governments out, and a vacuum is left when that opportunity is denied.Thanks Mungo. I knew you would be cooking up your take on EGW and I'm not disappointed.  It fits my recollection of events more or less.  That EGW played the events with a straight bat helped keep the flame alive in the minds of the faithful, if nowhere else. You are correct on both the dismissal, and in avoiding the usual apologia/hagiography for his economic and social program. People made their own judgement years ago, both positive and negative, and all the words of the last few days have washed out to sea with little impact. EGW was many things to many people, and will now be made into more by others. Important that those who saw him in action get a few facts down on paper.Well at the moment we have the large disengaged group and a small noisy group. The noisy group want to second guess everything, and imagine anyone ignoring their minute-by-minute opinions is "undemocratic". I'm with Keith. I disagreed with the attempts to de-legitimise everything Gillard tried to do and I disagree similarly with the current pay-back on Abbot, however much he did to deserve it. It's counterproductive of the very long-term decisions that always say that we want but never reward when we see.Putting a view on current events is what we all do - be it at the pub or in the forums. Go for your life mate! You might find me agreeing with you. My issue is with people who claim the actions of one voted-for government is somehow less democratic than the actions of another simply because they dislike one and not the other...and the reason is that there are always people who see the issue (whatever it is) as a pathway to power. There were/are grey areas in all of the big issues you list, but discussing these rationally or looking for some sort of logical consistency in position does not help those wanting to stir up and ride a wave of public concern into a position of power.  For these people the folks who focus on the issue and not the power are "useful idiots".Very open minded really: I believe a motion to denounce the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution might get up at Conference this year, and I've even seen Trots invited to the same wedding as the anarcho-syndicalists!I believe the culture of leaks and backgrounding has become counter-productive. Every journo thinks they are both Woodward AND Bernstein. This reached its nadir w/ the Ruddites anti-Gillard blabbing, and no-one calling them on it by name.  In their excitement at being part of grand political intrigue too many journos helped create the story instead of reporting it.  

What where when and WHO, please people.This is the thing. Election by election we train our politicians like dogs: give us stuff and shut up, nice doggy, have a biscuit; Count the cost and wind back stuff: bad dog! whack with newspaper. What do we think will happen?  

Giving us stuff on the never-never has (so far) luckily been redeemed by  growth as a youngish country develops its resources. The very people who advocate government largesse are quick to decry the growth-promoting measures that might provide for them.

If Chinese banks are so attractive ask yourself why wealthy Chinese are putting their money into Australia.Oil production from Bass strait came on in early 70s. We went from importing almost 100% of our oil to less than 25% by 1977.  Large power projects in Hunter &amp; Latrobe Valleys had also driven down power costs: 1974 - 1980 was a historic low in power prices. 

Unlike other western countries energy costs did not bugger our balance of trade and kept us in the relative black. Individual acts of various governments had very little to do with it.Fascinating how respect for the sacred democratic views of the people disappear when they differ from the views of the politically sophisticated. Obviously they are being hoovered up ("easily") by sinister forces (bwahaha).  Mate, scare campaigns have been around forever: both pot &amp; kettle are jet black.The private sector does occasionally, even often, make &amp; distribute profits. It also, not infrequently, makes a loss. Check out the "mining and oil" section of the share prices: rows and rows of moribund 1 &amp; 2c corpses of once-optimistic companies that have lost their capital on unsuccessful ventures.  When you are ready for that to happen to public funds let me know.

State banks one after the other went bust on various fine-sounding projects. Why did they not all return vast profits to the public shareholder? Badly run by governments? surely not!

Our country should be awash, in your words, with 39 years of risk-free wages, royalties and company tax from the resources industry. That it has been spent with little (in your mind) to show for it is a issue you can take up with those that spent it.  Mostly, it is paying the interest on debts run up to fund recurrent expenditure: a sure way to bankrupt even the most profitable venture, mining or otherwise.China's banks are owned by the government "for the benefit of the people". That's why they all buy apartments in Sydney instead.umm,  approvals for windfarms are state and/or council affairs, not federal. Try again.I'm not arguing the concept of AGW I'm pointing out who is in charge of approving windfarms in SA, and it ain't Tony Abbot.Indeed they are. They are getting rid the old Mao-era stuff and building new efficient ones that use low-sulphur, low-ash coal like we export. All coal produces CO2, but the smog is highly controllable with good coal and good technology. Acid rain (that bugbear of the 70s) is no longer such a deal - better coal tech is why. 

Paco: If you "Forgot Climate Change" you would use coal until it runs out:  no substance packs more energy in such a small volume, and the other issues are relative child's play technologically. The only reason this whole thing is a deal is AGW.I accept everything here as perfectly fair and interesting comment but I worry about the use of "so &amp; so remains dead" as part of the argument.  A 30 year sentence will not make her less dead. Did he received a just sentence? I don't know - maybe not - make a case if that is your view - but make it in reference to the crime not the victim.  "so &amp; so remains dead" nods toward eye-for-an-eye retribution which first world justice has learned to avoid.All true. It is not phantoms of the air that consume stupid media and vote like the turkeys for Christmas. It is, apparently, us.Would you be happier if the Human Rights Commissioner came out *against* respectful treatment of transgender issues?Progress toward what though? I'm sure Pinochet was in favour of progress.Dear Greg, people obviously don't understand how important this is. Please show a graph detailing the expected decrease in global temperature as Australia's CO2 emission decreases to zero.OK, change "decrease" to "change in slope" or "reduction in rate of increase" or  f''(x). I really don't mind. I was asking how successful our attempt could possibly be under even ideal conditions of zero emissions.The free marketplace of idea mate. Let a hundred flowers bloom.Paying people for not doing things was one of its more foolish aspects. The queue of people in the world who would love to be paid to not do things is endless. 

"Look at me not mining coal...send me money...and now I'm not mining even more coal...send me more!"

However, as you do note, the absence of China, and India, and Brazil from the charts is telling. Its about guilt not CO2.I don't feel particularly bound to anything.  Unlike the various quasi-religious adherences of the green left the Australian economy's reliance on coal, like to wheat, beef or iron ore, is simply practical. They want it, we have it, they'll pay, we like the dough, done deal. 
 
Contrast this with say steel, cars, clothing, whitegoods, movies, call centres, essays on cultural theory, or anything else where our priced-out-of-reach lala-land economy makes us uncompetitive.  

The accusation that this is an act of "adherence" says a lot about the mindset of those making it. Projection, in other words. Our problem is not attachment *to* anything, it's our inability to match other output with what a customer will pay for.

You can have full ownership of resource projects now: all you have to do is front up taxpayer cash for the exploration and development. That involves risk though, and when a project goes down the tubes with a few billion taxpayers dollars onboard the tune changes. There are quite a few coal and iron ore companies losing money at current prices: more the fool them we say, but would we be happy if that was our money?Ask yourself what would have been the reaction if the government had sent people in only to find that they could not be brought home safely - and somebody died or brought Ebola into Australia. The howls of grandstanding and reckless endangerment would be long and loud. When you ask why must everything be seen through a political lens the answer is because people are a nuisance that way.  

Being seen to help out, do the right thing, do our bit, wave the flag. All of that is a politician's meat and potatoes. If there was not a good reason we would have sent people already, with full media coverage and tearful goodbyes at the airport on live TV.AS do I, as far as the need goes, and the worthiness of the cause. Of course Australia must help. But when things are done quickly according to need and something goes wrong, I wonder if the people screaming for action will be sympathetic, or critical?  Appeals to keep the politics out are naive.It must be relaxing, really, to be able to cast the world into villains and the pure. To be able to see all the works of one side as undiluted evil and the works of the other as the strivings of the forever pure-hearted.  No lesser-of-two evils choices, no worrying about consequences intended or otherwise - just up with the banner of light and purity and off we go.

This screed is located somewhere between the yay! hiss-boo! of children's pantomime (from whence Bill Shorten gets voice-coaching it seems) and the call to prayer in a sacred monastery of perpetual disappointment.I seem to remember it was baddies and baddies... At least that allows two shades of grey...but I'll accept it's a fine line.  How would you sum up Syria in a 10 second grab for TV?You and Moi above have rebuilt my faith that commonsense still exists hereabouts.Sounds complicated. I'm no expert but I would have thought we should start with something simple like childcare and flexible hours before we leap into running fertility clinics out of the office fridge.Which is what ANU should have said to whoever bullied them into this in the first place.Fine, except the decision seems to have been based on lobbying of the ANU council by activist students facilitated by sympathetic investment advisers keen to show off their powers in this area: "we are the ethical investment gatekeepers".  (Typically, neither will bear any responsibility when this goes pear-shaped.)

It was then compounded with a gratuitous public statement denouncing the companies for "doing social harm" without any opportunity for redress or response. This is not the act of an investor minding his or her own business.

A financial decision taken for financial reasons does not require contentious and possibly actionable public statements.  People buy &amp; sell shares every day for a thousand reasons that are their business alone. ANU chose to make this a moralistic issue in public and will cop the blowback from that choice.See here's the thing. 

Somebody can spend years and years, as I know one of these companies has, buying into the whole "social license" ideal: dealing respectfully with aboriginal people and landholders including taking no for an answer, building an employee safety record that is far better than even people's homes, changing practices throughout the entire business to reduce impact, cleaning up messes left by prior operators, patient consultation in the face of rank personal abuse of employees, and funding any amount of community stuff with real money. 

Yet all of this is dismissed airily as green-washing, and they are still "dodgy", "socially harmful" and "paying massive inducements" according to people who have not the first clue except repeated hearsay.  Which "massive inducement" pray tell? Name and date please.

To anyone who actually understands these industries this is simply spiteful, and unproductive of the improvements we should all be encouraging.We bemoan being a quarry with foreign owners, and then bully local owners into selling out. Nice one. After a bit of grandstanding the net result is less Australian ownership of Australian resource production.The shadowy entities you speak off will make the same money no matter how many "little, hardly noticeable" tariffs you impose. The net result of the tariffs is the people at the bottom pay tax on top of their purchases and are worse off. This before you kick off a trade war and nobody can buy, sell or  afford anything.

Honestly, this debate was all done and dusted when it was shown that the Gt Depression was made far worse by trade barriers.Yes, they were a reaction, that made it worse. Reactions often make things worse. It's called unintended consequences and they are not uncommon. A global trade war, sparked off by some idiots in the southwest pacific believing they can re-make 18th century mercantilism in their favour, is really not what you want even if you think it will help.OK, Syria and North Korea are bastions of cultural freedom. I think I'll just tiptoe away and leave you to it.No producing coal or gas reserve is going to be a stranded asset anytime soon. These companies are not blue-sky AAAClivePalmerMagic. They have reserves and sales contracts that responsible analysts can look at for the full period of any normal investment.  

This is an attempt to artificially raise the appearance of risk by jawboning. aka market manipulation. That ANU fell for it is a reflection on them. Sure, it's legal and they are within their rights to mix their politics with their finances if they wish, but it ain't financial prudence as normally defined.We all love stuff for nothing: Public schools, Public hospitals, the ABC. Take it away at your peril.Whoever made up "Attila the Hen" has answered that question for you already. Try also reading anything by Bob Ellis. This was brought nicely up to date recently by the vapid titters of the Q&amp;Asters at Humphreys "Gina's Hole" remarks. Bottom line is women who take a non-left view are traitors to the cause and so become fair game.I don't know about his politics...he tends to keep schtumm about that, but he sure knows his audience. He was either playing to the gallery or he was setting them up for an own goal. Some pre-show hospitality may has assisted matters, not sure what Aunty's grog cupboard stock levels are these days. Either way it was instructive.Which bit of the public? the bit that listens to Alan Jones? The bit that reads Green Left Weekly? The bit that knows more about Kardashians than how to reverse park a car? Why do you assume a majority of these will see clearly the blinding intelligence of your own particular views in a direct model when they obviously don't in the current model?No, Democracy is when they trust they can throw out bad leaders on schedule, without resorting to Molotov cocktails. The only real faith an elected leader must keep is to leave without bloodshed. Just that is a noble advance on 10,000 years of history. The rest is up to us. 

The leaders we have are a perfect reflection of ourselves in aggregate. If we don't like the view it is ourselves that needs the make over. If honest ordinary people of reasonable intelligence thought that we would vote for them I think a few more would run.Neither did anyone achieve greatness by frittering effort away. 

No-one disputes that there is important work best done centrally by a government. Statistics is a prime example.  Yet the public sector is bigger than it has ever been in peacetime: nearly 40% of the entire economy.  We can afford a statistician or two. 

So why are these core functions suffering? Because everyone has their hand up. Programs for this, grants for that, allowances for the other, and the pollies can't say no when the outraged screams of the disappointed will fill the airwaves. The problem is not one of resourcing, but resource allocation, and our distressing tendency to pretend that choices need never be made.
Always happy to receive a supportive comment, but I see this problem operating on both sides of politics. If Hockey et al had hopped more visibly into the Howard-era middle-class welfare,  this argument would be a lot easier to carry. On the other hand I guess it just would have made even more screaming rent-seekers.As someone worked out recently, it costs more to fix a city street in Melbourne than it does in Paris. We have built ourselves a squeaky clean, nice n green world that costs more than we want to pay. This is true for commerce and industry who can go overseas, and it is true for government work, which is outsourced and done badly. We indulge ourselves in fantasies that there is a "them" who should pay more and expect less than an "us". The politically ambitious egg us on in these beliefs, and we get crankier and crankier that our expectations are not met.The overwhelming impression of the HSU is that of two teams of  rats are fighting over the spoils, these being the members fees, a bit of industrial blackmail on the QT, and the power inside the ALP their delegates bring them. Noice.Yes. The folly is that instead of letting the green/left go to The Greens the ALP insists or trying to entice them back with greenLite policies they don't like anyway.Calling it an illness was supposed to prevent the stigma, remember? Before that it was madness or imbecility.Don't feel bad. There is a small industry of people quoting George Orwell in support of opinions he would not agree with. You are close to the intent even if you forgot the source.Right on. Who would pay for anything: home renovations, legal advice, medical diagnosis, while there are people are prepared to offer it for free.Everything is paid for somehow, ads, clicks, influence, tax, your email address in some database, or cash upfront in a willing exchange.  Most people equate all except the latter to "free", in media, and pretty much everything else too. Fine, as long as you know what's going on.Never was a truer word spoken. If the ALP was the choice of ordinary people as it could and should be the current situation would never have happened.I agree w/ Mungo on this one. A stupid distraction and a red rag to both the ultra-right idiots and the knee-jerk Anti-Anything-Abbotists. 

A few people and their clothes will not determine Australia's future, but in fighting over such stuff, we allow to drift the stuff that will. This should not have happened and the authors of it need a slap.

 

These people have opinions, or jobs that you don't like. Fair enough: think what you like. Spare a thought though, while you throw around terms like nasty, despicable, indecent, dishonest etc, that don't actually know any of these people, that while their presence on earth undoubtedly offends your delicate sensibilities, you would be hard-pressed to find any actual harm they have done you to match the libel you have unleashed here. You might need to save some ammunition for people who actually, y'know, eat puppies or something. Sheesh. Are you auditioning for Alan Jones' job?Some quiet, sensible &amp; private process, at high security sites, for ensuring that ID and security measures can be fulfilled would seem both fair and worthwhile. All the rest is posturing and should be ignored. People are entitled to display their cultural affiliations as they choose.This is clearly the case. That any of the other parties would assist Palmer in this obvious move just for a bit of temporary spite at an opponent is embarrassing.Flip-flopping extremes are part of the problem. The Spanish colonial days saw all land &amp; money held by an aristocracy. In Aust that never got so entrenched (despite attempts to establish a "bunyip" aristocracy).  An understandable reaction to that feudalism brought in policies much more left-wing than we have ever seen. Reaction to THAT brought in a Junta. Reaction to THAT has brought in this mushy Peron/Chavez - lite opportunism. 

In other words Argentina has suffered the more of the problems that each extreme of politics brings, and less of the benefits that moderate paths bring.  Boring is good sometimes...it saves on shop window glass.That certainly is the message. But all our colleagues are divided on which path is leading us to the cliff and which map will steer us away. I claim no great expertise in Argentine politics and economics, but winding up in hock to a bunch of overseas bankers seems to be a bad idea.The clearest example of projection I believe I have ever witnessed. What serum, doctor, has vaccinated your planet-sized brain and superior morality from the failings of us shrivelled-spirited dullards in the general public? 

Might the thought penetrate such a well-armoured brain that your entire post is a denial of the validity of a view alternate to your own?
