Wasn't it Biden himself who acknowledged that, as the world's biggest arms manufacturer, admitting moral culpabality for actually manufacturing and supplying arms to conflict zones would leave the US without a moral leg to stand on?

It also seems that the separatists have being acting semi-independently from Kremlin.

We'll never know if Putin personally ordered that the flight be shot down. But I doubt it given there's so little benefit in his doing so from a "geo-political" perspective.You feel the same way about ex-CIA director Bush Snr?
The LNP can call a DD election. A confident leader would do such a thing. It's been done before with success.

What happened to the government of no excuses? Just another election lie I guess.Yeah, Hockey forgoes a pay-rise for a year. Big business forgoes a tax-cut for a year (except for the Carbon tax). Women of calibre get their foreshadowed welfare lowered a little.

Unemployed youth get cut off if they don't earn or learn. Despite earning depending on the existence of jobs that aren't there. And learning being subject to retrospective price hikes.

People get a regressive sickness tax (not because of any budget emergency mind you).

That might be a fair go if you went through an elite private school and surrounded yourself with like-minded toffs. But that's not "everyone doing the heavy lifting".Gee, an Abbott spin-doctor praising Abbott's ability to do his job for once.

More left-wing ABC bias.

We've had the attack dog, the man of the people, the Prime Minsterial potestas. And now this incarnation. Reckon it's a keeper do you?

Btw personal charisma means bugger-all policy-wise. Stalin had a lot of charm to. I get it's all about appearance and not substance in your noble profession... which seems to have the end-goal of cheapening democracy.Very utilitarian. For a bunch of "small-government" advocates, you seem to think it's our government's fault if people hop on leaky boats in Indonesia and elsewhere?

No scope for individual choice in that logic. But the LNP doesn't really believe in individual choice. Except when it comes to shopping.The death of an innocent in our care is not morally equivalent to the death of those who risked the high seas. Both are deplorable. But to draw an equivalence is chilling.
"Abbott's demonstrated Churchill-like character"

Churchill was a great wartime leader. He didn't fare too well in peace-time.

Perhaps that's why we're at war with everything now? Operation "park the car" and jingoism all around.

Geez, reporting something the government doesn't like makes you un-Australian now.Abbott called his manifesto Battlelines for a reason."They see and respect genuine concern and generosity of soul."

Well it's certainly apparent that soul-worthiness rates high in the democracy stakes.


They both got voted out.Plenty of Hawks in the Democrats as well. Look no further than Hillary Clinton.

Neo-conservatism is bipartisan in the US, as it is here.Indeed. Which is why the "goodies vs baddies" thing is such a dangerous conceptual framework from within which to operate.Honestly, he can spend all his time in Canadia if that spares us his domestic agenda. Everyone's happy then!
"Your right to privacy on the internet wasn't given to you by someone who fought for it."

It needn't be. Freedom is the default state. It is always taken away. Sometimes for good reason (your freedom to murder deprives another the freedom to live, for example). And often for bad reasons (to eliminate political opposition to a particular regime, for example).
There's more muslims in Indonesia than the middle-east and the overwhelming majority of them are freedom-loving peachful people.

You're talking about 1 billion people here APM!Logically, from that perspective, the government may as well have the right to listen in on your phone calls, go and obtain your digital content without a warrant, and read your snail-mail.

But you're right, it is about choice. Or sovereignity. A form of property right over the degree to which an individual is entitled to control their information.

And yes, we can still choose not to use the internet. Or use it more discerningly. But that's a bit of a shame.

Apparently the KGB still make heavy use of type-writers... :)Under the existing laws, how many Australians have become victims of terrorism?

How many would have been saved with these measures?

How much will it cost, not just in terms of liberty, but raw dollars, to implement and retain these measures? Is that money better elsewhere?

I understand the past is not necessarily the best predictor of the future, but was has changed in the last 30 years that warrants these measures now? Are these measures going to be sufficient, or will we find ourselves being asked to give up more liberty for more security in the coming years?

What oversight is being proposed to ensure ASIO is accountable to the Australian people?

Are these measures temporary; until we've won the "War on Terror"? Or permanent fixtures for our liberal democracy? If the former, how are we going to win this "war on terror"?On Australian soil, I think only 2 dead and 11 injured in the Sydney Hilton bombing? 

Which some alleged was done by ASIO incidentally.There's plenty of Condazeela Rice's out there. And Margaret Thatchers...

You could be onto something. I'm just not convinced women are considered the fairer gender due to something intrisinc, or merely due to a lack of opportunity to be otherwise.For how long? Will you get it back when you ask for it back?After the opt-out, oops opt-in internet filter we heard about 1 day before campaign lights out, Mr Turnbull seems to be assiduously MIA. It was enough he had to partially blame Australia for being the pirates they are.Well said @MD. As an addendum, that's the standard they demanded for Australia's upgrade to its end of the internet itself.Didn't the CIA recently hack into the computer of a member of the Senate Oversight Committee looking into the various torture techniques the CIA had been engaging in?

ffs... have we forgotten Iran-Contra? The Fitzgerald Inquiry? Roger Rogerson was in the news recently...

What sort of Realist are you? One who trust politicians and the government?

You do appreciate the next Conroy potentially gets the juice as well right?Any work product regarding a document can also be considered metadata. And is potentially privileged.

Regardless, there's some very sophisticated software out there that lets you easily infer a great deal about an individual given enough metadata.

Not the least of which is that you can quickly build a picture of an individuals network and contacts without any need for content; depending on how metadata gets defined.

Part of the proposed legislation also involves lowering the requirements for obtaining warrants for content. So the distinction may not be that important in the long run.The LNP support high levels of immigration and multi-culturalism as well @Tory Boy.

Not that it's at all relevant to the article.I'm hoping lots of people stop voting for the LNP and Labor. Might shake those arrogant, out-of-touch mobs up a bit! :)"Unless we are prepared to put up with the actions of un-watched people, we will be watched to some degree. Most people have accepted that years ago."

It's the degree which is concerning. You might expect a CCTV camera at a train station. You don't expect one in your home.

What does the tough-on-crime, who cares about privacy crowd, think is the end-game here? A Ministry of Information consuming 70% of GDP (props to Brazil)? 

And who watches the watchers?Blatant social engineering? 

Is this the PPL for the women of calibre? Or the tax-payer funded marriage-guidance counselling? Or the chaplaincy program? Taxpayer rewards for holding down a job? The carrots and sticks for using private health insurance? Revisiting the national curriculum? Calls for national unity? Un-Australian reporting? Work for the dole? The Green Army? The spies trawling through your emails?

The most communist person in Australia is Abbott. Although his commune has more discriminating membership criteria..Privacy is a form of freedom, and has utility beyond the 4 points you've listed. 

Many people like to have a door to their bathroom, for example."But liberty to expose those availing themselves to racially based benefits is denied."

Those people who were falsely vilified should have gone after Bolt in the equity courts for slander.
I'm not sure what the utility of statutory anti-racial vilification laws is. But generally my view is that repulsive things are better off said and dealt with in society, and that punitive legislation is a crude and often counter-productive measure for achieving certain outcomes. I doubt we're a less racist nation because of the great Bolt human rights violation.

It should have played out in the equity courts.

These blanket surveillance measures pose a far greater threat to liberal democracies imho. Worst case with the former, a free speech martyr coughs up some rubles for being a provocative demagogue.

Worst case with what the so-called JS Mill fans in government are on their way to achieving (with imminent endorsement from the opposition) is a society where government tells people where they can go and who they can talk to. I expect Hawkie's identity card is on its way back and we'll all have a hukou soon enough.Good post @Dapsta. 

The difference with the appalling level of data-mining going on with private enterprise is they can't throw you in jail. Only the state gets to legitimately use force.

Which is why we should be a little more cautious with respect to the powers that the state gets vested with.

"Shouldn't the debate be whether or not the additional capabilities are worth the apparent loss of privacy for the community?"

Sure. And how much it costs. And importantly, what evidence is there that these additional capabilities achieve the stated results anyway.@Realist - Even those who can protect their information might not want to pay extra taxes and service charges so that the need to do so becomes more acute.

Do you reckon your average terrorist plotters are taking precautions btw ala "Why Terrorist Should Buy Life Insurance" by those Freakonomics guys?

Just saw Abbott on the news talking about 150-odd Australians fighting Jihad overseas. Is this why we're looking to pre-emtively surveil 25 million Australians?

@Dapsta - a sunset clause would be welcome. For what little it would be worth.
Brazil wrote a habeus data provision into their Bill of Rights. Citizens are entitled to know what data of theirs the government has procured "on their behalf".

Knowing what of your data the government stores is probably a "national security" matter here. Hell, even bits of the Federal budget are "commercial-in-confidence" apparently.

Ironic when they bang on about piracy...You're of course aware Frank that pretty much the whole front bench have law degrees?  And certainly aren't above "messing with people's minds".

It's not the fault of the legal fraternity that this government seems inept in prosecuting its anti-Australian agenda.It's not civil libertarians who are to blame for allowing corporations to use information against us. You'd think in the interests of serving the citizenry, it might those highly-paid folk in parliament who are tasked to represent our interests.

Yet, they're too busy plundering our own privacy to do anything. Except collude with the odd industry to enhance both their efforts.

Now if we'd collectively voted for some civil libertarians instead of these fascists you might have a point."If this is not moderated through wider socialisation and personal experiences, it creates fertile soil for poisonous seeds to be sown."

Probably should get rid of all those "private" schools that cater to particular value systems then. Could be contributing to home-grown terrorism?Right... so you don't care about privacy; for yourself and apparently on behalf of everyone else @Alfie. 

But what about that budget emergency? What about all that red tape? I thought we hated public servants and big government?
"That ios because the only party with any respect for individuals is the Liberal Democratic Party and nobody votes for them...except me."

Lots of LNP people allegedly voted for the LDP accidentally.

I must say, Leyonhjelm is coming across well. Consistent, straight-talking and reasonable. 

Should give Brandis some tips on "how to do liberalism". Seems something big got lost in translation from those hefty tombs Brandis likes to read.I'm amazed all the so-called freedom-lovers want the government to spy on everyone and seem to hate the expression of views that dissent from their own.

All the totalitarians should reflect on what so many Australians fought 2 world wars to stop.If you don't understand the difference between privacy for citizens from the state, and the need for a democratic state to be transparent for its citizens then you need something for you case of false equivalency.

What's the difference when the NKVD spies on it's citizens and when ASIO does it?Real wars have defined victory goals.

When are we going to have a war against stupidity?

The ability for the state to view their citizens 'metadata for the last 2 years is a power grab. Couple it with the increasing turgidity in the way the government reports back to the people and you see a concerted effort to change the relationship between the people and the state.

The have a whole circuit of "national security" courts in the USA now. No doubt many on the Victorian Bar are waiting in anticipation for a similar opportunity to play grown-ups here while the plebs watch sport outside the tent of government and pay for everyone's salaries and shiny new toys.

Can't let the plebs in. Some of them are home-grown terrorists! Doing things like advertising policy to the people-smugglers like Tony Abbott used to. 

Of course we can keep a lot of those idle hands busy working under minimum wage for the dole. But you can never be too careful in the war against terror. And the end definitely always justifies the means.So, you've got no idea on how to win the War against Terror then? Had, what, 11 years to at least come up with a plan. Are we still all milling around after the first blitzreig or something?

And you want to take more of my money so Big Brother can more easily surveil me.

With a sales pitch like that, think I'll pass. Torture, regime change, secret government: that's what's been going on. Tax-payer funded, but not tax-payer mandated.

Prism ain't no Bletchley Park. And the Enigma guys were fighting the fascists, not being them.

Basic rights that can't be taken away by some government of the day sound pretty good to me. Some people are already more equal than others.

Won't stop all the neo-cons from expanding the scope of government, but it might at least make it harder for them.

But never fear, you won't get a federal bill of rights from tweedle-dee or tweedle-dum. They both like big government too much.

"With a Bill of Rights, we have only the rights included in the Bill of Rights. All other rights are deemed proscribed."

That's nonsenscial. Everything is legal, or non-legal, until it's proscribed; with a Bill of Rights or without. That's the rule of law.

The citizens of the USA have just as much right to climb a tree as we do (probably more). And you'll not see such things in their Bill of Rights.What do you mean, if challenged? :)

If parliament passed a law making tree-climbing illegal, you'd be in the same situation here as in the USA.The conservatives should be wondering why a principle that served our judicial system for so many centuries is being unwound by Big Brother now.

Did you even read the article?

Our liberalism is being unwound bit-by-bit; by both sides of the house, and to what end? Guilty until proven innocence, no habeus corpus, no right to legal representation, no privacy, an internet filter in due course no doubt.

You neo-cons have a funny idea of what freedom means.Perhaps, perhaps not. 

What they haven't been proposing to my knowledge, is that guilty until proven innocent is good way to administer justice.

Seems between Newman, Baird and Brandis, you can be guilty of crimes just for hanging out with what the government deems the wrong people, or going to what the government deems the wrong place. And if you're lucky enough to get a trial, you'll be sitting in prison while you wait for it. 

Howard's anti-terror laws are still on the books as well.
"If a person in such a situation is innocent, he should be able to prove it easily under interrogation by ASIO."

How do you prove you're innocent in this situation? It's almost like proving a negative isn't it?
I imagine the assumption has arisen because ASIO and the Feds have recently lobbied to have these changes implemented. Do you imagine they'll be unhappy with the position the AG has adopted?
Indeed, true enough. All summary offences though.

On the other hand, anything terrorism-related is capital crime territory. The stakes are much higher. I don't think Brandis is proposing on-the-spot fines and that sort of thing for terrorism suspects.

Seem to remember "The Crucible" is also a germaine example; no less relevant now than during McCarthyism.@ahlb - Hockey wants to repeal means-testing on the private health insurance rebate. And Abbott wants to introduce a multi-billion dollar welfare entitlement called PPL that increases the less you need it.
Might backfire though. 

With so many job applications done online - it could just highlight the need for a better internet.IP law has become too large in scope and undermines its own purported social benefit of fostering creativity. 

In this post-modern world where everything is derivative, it seems Happy Birthday is still owned by Time Warner (soon to be bought out by Fox?) and the word UGG is trademarked by an American company.

And now ISPs and tax-payers are supposed to enforce all this? The Liberal party ain't liberal at all. A bunch of crony capitalists who'll take away freedoms and privacy to help their mates' bottom lines.It was strange, in commenting on the impact of his budget, he thought tabling the very concept of the welfare state was somehow the starting point of the conversation. We do understand the principle behind progressive taxation Hockey - having had it for a hundred years or so.

He seems to have forgotten, in looking to blame the poor (always blaming other people) that there were to be no cuts to health and education according to his leader.

There was also that one about open and transparent government. How is it bits of his budget get withheld from the public anyway?

Hockey has got to go. Out of his depth, and clearly has little respect for the institutions that have helped make this nation great.Are we still talking about Labor?A PPL on steroids, work for the dole, income management, disappearing people, un-Australian reporting and ASIO snooping through your metadata.

Mao would be proud."It might be interesting to see what the world according to the experts would look like should all of their demands come through."

The experts probably should have been consulted beforehand. A bit of evidence-based policy might have headed of so many of these problems at the pass.

How does Abbott's PPL improve productivity again?
Luckily the adults are in charge now and are going to balance the Federal books by repealing taxes and introducing middle-class welfare.

Liberal party arithmetic.Not Abbott's PPL; which uncoincidentally cops most of the flack from the author.You forgot the latte-sippers and petite bourgeoisie @Tory Boy. Know your enemy."To counter that, we should note that the Australian Bureau of Stats data show there are now about 146,000 job vacancies, and unemployment is about 700,000."

Whose point are you are refuting @Tator? Quoting current figures is perfectly legitimate and doesn't in itself imply such figures must be fixed for any length of time.
The Sydney Institute has been over-powered by the American big guns. 

And of course there's tons of right-wing think tanks. But not all of them are tasked with manufacturing the consent of the plebs.Forrest writing unemployment policy.

Shepherd writing the budget.

Donnelly writing the curriculum.

Zwitkowski running the not-NBN.

Murdoch to be running the country's international new service?

Open for business indeed!

Perhaps Reinhart can run Direct Action. Or the ABC or something.

And we can get Joyce to oversee planning for the second Sydney airport.They know it won't reduce unemployment. They know throwing cash about might sit strangely with voters who still remember all the talk about the budget emergency.

So why do they do it?

I guess because many Australians are quite happy to have their taxes spent in a great, symbolic finger-pointing and finger-wagging exercise. Presumably all the while whinging about how the government is too big and wastes too much money.
And spending a wad of taxpayers cash on this program achieves what exactly @Pagey?

Lower unemployment?

Remember when something with some pretty obvious benefits like the NBN got screeched down; there was talk of cost/benefits etc. But a world-class medical research fund, Direct Action, ramped up PPL and all manner of thought-bubbles just get waved through.

Remember the budget emergency?The authoritarian parent approach to dealing with the citizenry also has the added benefit of making the kids forget that the parents are employees and should be accountable as such.
Private utility involves artificially segmenting markets based on artificial scarcity arising from obsolete distribution methods to abuse market power and profiteer.

Don't you love in this globalised planet where your job can go offshore in the interests of profits, but you can't buy content on the internet at the same price other people can on their internet?

If there was no trade-off in public utility with respect to IP law, then patents would never expire.Seems that many who consider they are paying too much for something, just pirate it instead of your more laborious suggestions. Which I imagine will instigate more rapid change in seeing that the Australian marketplace for content overcomes the artificial tyranny of distance that the internet made obsolete.

If your moral arguments were going to work, they would have already. We've been hearing this stuff from MIPI and ors for decades. Back when the double-tape player was the technology of choice.









Where in the constitutional are copyright property rights guaranteed in the form they are?

It's all legislative, and can be changed by "society"; at least in a proper democracy where society deems that to be the correct course of action. There is a balance to be struck in these matters.

You've assiduously avoided dealing with why copyright expires at all (and patents). If not for society then what? 

If you accept why such rights should (unlike your car) we're just arguing about what the right balance between those that risk and profit, and the speed and degree to which the rest of us can benefit from the work regardless of our means.

And I suppose the methods by which people are allowed to redress the balance. Reckon I'll get a private audience with Brandis to make my case? Perhaps Abbott will drop by and visit when he's in the neighbourhood?
"The mere fact that such protections lapse after a period of time does not justify circumventing such protections in their entirety by simply availing ones self of another's property without paying for it."

Regardless of the period of time, the nature of the protections and every other factor at play presumably. And why? Because the state decrees it so?"If you think it is too expensive dont buy it. - the prices will come down."

How's that moral argument working out for you? It's just like stealing some milk isn't it? Every torrent is a lost sale and all that?

A record number of Australians disagree. Don't our political classes hold any responsibility for an approach that doesn't rely solely upon punishing them?

At least Turnbull's tacking in the breeze. But then again he's probably less beholden to certain monopolists due to the way he's been treated by them.The Whig version of the Tories Master and Commander.  Drys vs wets?Ah a strawman with a strawman.

The car is taken for evidence. The car owner isn't held liable for the armed robbery.

Rather than not sharing your car (and presumably ensuring it can't be broken into) could just be easier to lobby against stupid laws and not vote for anyone who supports them.
The facebook generation are right there with you @OUB. As are the "you've got nothing to hide if you do nothing wrong crowd".

It's perhaps inevitable - big brother. Just wonder if our grandkids will be gazing down on some people who stayed off the grid somewhere; wistfully contemplating the freedom with which they live their lives. Well, Brave New World is best case. Could well be more of a 1984 thing of course... :)

But, with respect, if you're a bit old to care about the state of play in a couple of decades, you might at least not stand in the way of the younger folk who have more of a stake (if there are any who care about digital freedom and privacy); given you don't care and all that?The distributors are also getting it from the content side. As some content creators distribute direct to the customer.

Probably not a coincidence Fox are looking to expand content production with the acquisition of Time (and HBO) rather than stakes in various telcos.So in the brave new world of crony capitalism, it's up to governments to foster innovation rather than business people now. Business is there to capitalise when it pays off of course. Realising the wonderful synergies of the Keiretsu corporate approach to democracy.

And then we have more risk management via measures like the mooted TPP where businesses get compensated if their earning potential is adversely affected by legislative change. Absolved from sovereign risk as well.

Love the asset recycling scheme. Which expects tax-payers to invest in getting projects off the ground, and then they're sold off when they're profitable, and otherwise we wear the losses. All that lazy capital sitting around earning a return, or delivering vital social services without any executive to get share options from.

Throw in a few laws to "incentivise people" towards using particular services (private health insurance and superfunds) and there you have a nice corporatocracy.

Privatise the profits socialise the losses.
Both parties do it. Large swathes of our current government's policy position is "arrived at" through recommendations made by various external committees as well.

The commission of audit, the Ziggy NBN, Renewable energy by a coal guy, school curriculum by an industry activist, royal commissions into this and that.

So still following the sage Appleby advice of not holding enquiries you don't already know the answer to.
Nailed it @Fred. Nice oneIn economics I thought neo-liberalism (the Chicago School) was a sub-form of neo-classicism; exemplified by the likes of Hayek.Norway's SWF funds 2% of their recurrent expenditure (social programs) on just the interest from the fund.

And of course with such a big fund, they don't have to bend over as far for foreign capital.Hockey and Abbott say all sorts of stuff. Much of it contradictory.

Cynical post-modernists with an army of spin-doctors, who know impressions count for more than facts when it comes to getting and keeping power.Why? Because in his arrogance and hubris he misread the value that Australians hold for a fair-go. Social equity is anathema to his Thatcherite ideology, and he thought he could tear at it under cover of the budget emergency lie.

You approve of Direct Action? Repealing means-testing on private health insurance rebates? Funding a medical research fund from a sickness tax? Repealing a mining tax? Repealing the Carbon tax?

It doesn't add up.There's a nice program in the land of liberty where chain-gangs housed in privatised prisons get tendered to work on "community projects".

It we don't have a similar program here in the next 10 years I'll be surprised.

Full employment is a pipe-dream in an automated, (post)-modern economy. Forget about it. And forget about billion dollar public programs that don't have any evidence to support their efficacy.

It's insane.@Peter - you are correct, but "removing negative gearing" is really just short-hand for removing the ability to offset a loss against another income stream.

Unless you've got a catchier, more accurate term, perhaps we can just go on using this as short-hand; as we have been for the last 2 decades?"Once money is spent, it is gone, and the beginnings of a super fund is the basis of it earnings potential."

But investing it real-estate can provide far better returns than with some lacklustre super-fund.One creates an income stream; but for practical purposes, only when the investment becomes positively geared.

The other saves the most significant cost (for most people) subtracted from their income stream.

Both are an identical asset. If it's politically impossible to include the primary residence in means-testing for the pension now, that's probably no different to how it was politically impossible to abolish free tertiary education back in Joe Hockey's day.

I'm sure people looking for a first-home would support the measure. And if it inflates prices a little more in this so-called bubble which hasn't popped for 20 years, the landed classes would also benefit.

So who loses? Except possibly the treasurer in 30 years time. First home buyers without super?"Super is not there to be a source of investment and speculation into the present or near future"

Yes it is @Alpo. It's an industry valued at over $1.5 trillion dollars. Why do professional spivs, or those with the means to set up an SMSF, get to gamble with your money, but you can't yourself?

Many first home buyers would be far better off investing in a residence than having someone punt their money on the sharemarket for them. Many existing home-owners would be as well; given the average rate of return has been lower than the equivalent interest rate on mortages for a number of funds in the past years.

It might have an inflationary effect on house-prices; but so does foreign investment, asset-rich empty-nesters, middle-class welfare, a big immigration policy and negative gearing.
But I'm not arguing against compulsory super; merely advocating that the owner of that capital has more leeway over how to invest it.

If they invest it poorly; how is that any different to a fund manager doing the same. What's the difference between a real-estate market crash compared to a stock-market crash when it's time to cash in?
"Very easy to offer criticism not so easy to offer a viable solution I see."

Isn't that the government's job? Can't pull something out of their glossy brochure of "Real Solutions"?

Nah, just waste another wad of taxpayer's hard-earneds on a program proven not to obtain results.

So sanctimonious gits can feel good about themselves.Even by "doing nothing", they're putting downwards pressure of wage inflation. The economy requires a pool of unemployed workers or wages will over-heat.

Quite frankly, doing nothing is better than spending buckets of cash to achieve the same outcome.
"Taxpayers are starting to think they have greater needs for their tax dollars than the likes of you. Sound fair?"

Yeah, like paying people to breed; and improve their productivity by paying them to stay out of the office. lol

Socialism for the rich only works when enough people think they can be rich.Is it reasonable to spend tons of tax-payer's hard-earneds on a program that's been demonstrated to not generate any useful outcomes elsewhere?

Or expect the state to undertake evidence-based policy rather than letting people's moral certitude and ideologies waste our taxes to fulfill their sanctimony?

Our unemployment rate is lower than the USA; which has far lower unemployment entitlements. It's low by world standards. Look to the evidence if you want to be reasonable.There are structural problems in our modern economy that you didn't experience in the 80s.

I know you like blaming individuals for systemic problems when it suits you, but you've substituted ideology for an evidence-based public policy position.

"Back in my day..." blah blah blah. It's patheticIt's "earn OR learn" @gbe. Do keep upAh the ubermensch - got time to post bile on websites as well. 

If they're raising children they probably get more welfare than any unemployed person does.

But nothing like self-righteousness and downwards envy to the "deserving poor" is there?You sound like a commie @The Other John. One that's happy to waste piles of taxpayer cash, in a "budget emergency" no less, on a program that's been shown not to work.

All for ideology.Wouldn't it be nice to rely upon evidence-based policy instead of people's principles though?

Work for the dole does nothing except cost the tax-payer money.
So... if there's a job worth doing, someone will be making a quid from it in the private sector. If it's not worth doing, then the taxpayer gets to underwrite it under a "work for the dole" program.

Big government and red tape. That's the LNP."Those on the extreme left are fine with hands going into anyone else's pocket apart from their own"

That sounds like pretty much everyone. Didn't know the extreme left was doing so well these days.Is that true? The minimum wage is much lower in the USA and their unemployment rate is just as high.More red tape.

So there's carrots for one class of Australians to improve their workforce participation and sticks for the rest.

So much for small government; the LNP does social engineering like the best of them.Expatriate Party in Perth eh? For every kiwi you'll get 10 ex-South Africans."More carrot and less stick. and we all know that carrots are good for you."

It's strange thinking of all the carrots to be thrown at mothers to get them return to the workforce. And yet it's all sticks for the unemployed.
"Then again perhaps they are more comfortable with someone obviously fumbling to present an impeccable media facade than an outright liar claiming time and time again that we were heading for a surplus."

For someone having a go at the cult of personality, you think it's the presentation that matters instead? Hockey has been telling his own outright lies.

Do you think the proposed budget is a good one @Aaron?"to help thoes who are dumped there with the price of living, then lower it later on to promt thoes who just want to float"

Because if you're long term unemployed it's because you want to be. Never mind all the evidence to the contrary."The Australian public are being told to be outraged at having to spend an extra $0.40 cents a week on petrol."

Carbon tax is economy destroying but fuel excise is all hunky-dory. It's these kinds of contradictions that make it difficult.Hockey thinks being fair means giving everyone an equal amount to carry, regardless of how strong they are.

It's not the way that tribal species tend to operate.Still going on about the Carbon tax? 

Most LNP supporters have stopped talking about broken election promises lately. It invites some brutal comparisons.
And yet you mention the one lie that's not affecting us rather than the many that are.We have very low levels of wages growth; except for CEO wages of course.

Very high levels of corporate profits.

But it's never enough is it."Absent Abbott seems to be out of incommunicado at present"

He must be getting near Rudd's tally of frequent flier miles.Too many conflicting narratives.

We were called upon to sacrifice in order to rectify the fiscal position. Called upon to wind back middle-class welfare.

But the massive PPL scheme undermined this. The proceeds of the sickness tax wasn't going to rebalance the books. And for every little cut to the CSIRO, ABC, clean energy finance corporation etct here was a ballet company or chaplaincy program or some other ideologically approved project that got waved through.

The progressive measures were all strictly temporary (pollie pay freeze, deficit levy, deferred company tax cuts) but the regressive ones were permanent (everything else).

Seeing the government high-fiving whilst repealing taxes also conflicts with the budget emergency rhetoric.

And when Joe gets questioned about such things, there's either outrageous porkies or resentment.

No doubt he'll be back in the role of Santa, promising everything, in the election budget. He can come back.There's a nice side to all of them. The one thing politicians have is charisma; even the ones that don't come off too well in some situations.

Who gives a stuff? Stalin was a charming guy to by many accounts.

It's the policies he inflicts upon us that matter. 

But you're right, he'll be handing out the Chrissie presents in election year as we get moved from the naughty to nice category. And will be redeemed in the eyes of many for doing so."They threw away $18 billion worth of carbon tax as it wasn't doing anything "

Wasn't it raising $18 billion dollars?Isn't that what the GST does?Good article.

What's changed in the last year? Some fundamentalist muslims might topple Iraq seems to be the sum of it. Iraq ia a long way from Australia...

Something ironic about an ex-Australian and a boat person from England talking up Team Australia.

I guess at least we won't be invading Russia now which is something.Wouldn't they be arrested at the airport? And charged with terrorism offences?

What are you talking about?I think most agree that these people are dangerous and should be brought to justice. 

The objections to the methods raised to do this aren't about protecting them, but rather potentially innocent Australians being victimised by the misapplication and abuse of these methods.

Just because there's violent ideologues out there doesn't mean our government is trustworthy. To give the latter too much power will not help us in the long run.That devil quote cuts two ways. Bit of torture OK as a means to an end in standing up for our values?

Secret government?

How does one stand up for liberalism by sacrificing it exactly?I agree that the perfectability of humanity is a dangerous utopianism. And that the application of reason, cultured or not, is just as capable of inflicting horrors as well as leading to the good.

But why does it follow I should give my "leader", who is likewise not fundamentally good, power over me to combat others. Baddies vs baddies and all that?

An analysis of the risk to my way of life and things I hold dear, has my leader posing the biggest threat. And perhaps that's where the call for "cultured" reason becomes important. Assessing the risk, rather than being dog-whistled into agreeing with something not ultimately in your best interests.

It's an interesting post @jimbob

It was funny he actually pointed out he was relying upon facts."compensating eligible Australians for 12 co-paid services per year - even if they don't use that many."

But isn't that a signal to incentivise Australians to make use of them all? Because Australians enjoy going to the GP so much..

What's missing from the "strategic vision", is why private health insurance rebates is the largest growing area of the health spend; and produces such questionable health outcomes.

How can any "strategic plan" discuss the sustainability of health funding whilst omitting such a huge part of it from the terms of reference?The biggest growth in health care costs is in private health insurance rebates. If there is over-use (and the people alleging this should be establishing it), probably make sense to look there first.That's what they do in emergency departments in the USA? Wallet triage instead of medical triage?
Yes you are right. 

Hospitals in the USA are mandated to provide emergency treatment irrespective of the patients facility to pay (not completely private hospitals though). 

Clauses in the act include mandating that the patient is fed a sufficient quantity of food and that any financial disputes or outstanding bills with the hospital don't constitute grounds for refusing or diminishing treatment.

I stand corrected.


sarcasm? It's hard to tellBetter to slip a plan through without buy-in then? No matter how bad it might be? Just for the sake of getting something done?

Great idea. It's almost like the whole post-election agenda that 's been dumped on us wasn't an outcome of that precise approach.Not everyone's job involves communicating public policy initiatives to the public though.

What's your beef with social media? It's not nicely editorialised for public consumption?

I would have thought you'd love a bit of free speech?
Got any evidence for your rant Ben? 

Or is this just a bit of induction substituting for an actual evidence-based argument assessing the behaviour and outcomes of complex systems?

So, based on this "evidence" user-pays health systems are more cost-effective?It's actually pretty complex.

Lemonade stand economics isn't germaine at all.

We're not just talking about simple consumables though. And you wouldn't keep eating cupcakes anyway (you'd get sick). :)

Health care provision also has element of investment about it. To some extent, it's a wealth enabler, in the same way that other social infrastructure is.

A healthy worker is more productive than a sickly one, by way of one example. They can earn more, and pay more taxes etc...

It's fundamentally an insurance scheme that realises economies of scale to minimise risk in what's an essentially a natural monopoly. Not everyone likes cupcakes. But pretty much everyone likes being healthy.

Yes, there's supply and demand. But "price signals" implies that resources are best targeted to those with the means to pay the price. Rather than those for whom the dollar-spend is most efficacious.

Really. All that red tape? 40 million years of logs files being retained "just in case".

Isn't the burden of proof supposed to lie with those pushing for a change? Why is it a good idea again? Just because?It is being collected, but not necessarily retained. Some ISPs have complained about the financial impact of complying with this regulatory burden.

There are proxy providers who frequently wash their log files to help provide anonymity.

Did we complain when phone tower dumps were used to situate the location of a murder suspect? No, but we did when a local council did a similar thing for a different purpose.

Apparently 319,000 telecommunications records were accessed in FY 12/13. With an additional 2400 records accessed for non-criminal investigations.

Do you really believe the primary purpose of these measures are to aid counter-terrorism efforts when less than 10% of access is undertaken by the AFP, ASIO, ASIS etc
Exactly! 

Whilst it's incredible there are voters who still trust Abbott incorporated, it's more incredible yet that they can't see the ramifications on how this will play out for them when Conroy, or someone like him, gets the reins back again."This debate is not about privacy, it is about self interest rather than community interest."

No, it's about privacy. Community interest, like un-Australian reporting, and Team Australia, are too easily conflated with the interests of the government of the day.

The government should be more actively regulating the sort of data-mining that goes on by private interests. Trying to protect their constituents from the worst abuses.

Instead of colluding with them and trying to emulate their behaviour instead.

It's not just the LNP. Labor are just as bad. A duopoly of big government, control freaks.Guns are designed to kill people.

Using the internet isn't.

A better analogy is a proposal to retain the metadata of all snail mail and analogue phone calls for every citizen for 2 years (presumably digital phone calls are caught up in the aegis of this proposal already). 

Why not?

What happened to the budget emergency?

btw the only domestic terrorist event was the Sydney Hilton bombing, which many believe was done by ASIO.
Yeap, a terrorist plot foiled without any need for 48 million years of metadata to be stored on file.

And indeed, the IPA have plenty of objectionable policies on their 75 point list. But at least they're consistent in the application of their libertarian outlook. 

Unlike the "Liberal" party with theirs.The conflation was done by Abbott, when he said the purpose of the measures were to fight general crime.

And yes, you're right, the UK promptly ensured their facility to spy on the citizenry would not be compromised by the EU's invocation of privacy rights.

So... all the Western nations except the UK and USA then?The Chinese leadership are aware that they will need the judiciary to become more independent as a means of enhancing the rule of law.

They are in the midst of a massive anti-corruption drive (which admittedly has hooked more senior people who aren't the presidents camp than are in).

The sheer mass of people affords people some liberty and privacy from the government; provided you don't criticize the Communists too much of course. There's a burgeoning middle class in China while at the same time social mobility in the USA declines, and their middle class with it.

The USA are of course miles ahead in terms of transparency, rule of law, freedom of the press etc. But it's interesting to see them apparently going backwards in some things (as are we) whilst the Chinese are beginning to turn their minds from the liberalisation of their economy to their political economy.

I wonder when, and if, the two countries will meet on the way past each other. Be decades away, if ever of course.Anonymous do that all the time.And when Apple, Google, Facebook (Coles and Woolies) can legally send thugs in the night, we should be even more afraid.So, prove Snowden wrong. Who was put at risk by his disclosures?
Sure, you need to manufacture consent to a larger extent in any political system where simply disappearing people is not an option.

At least until you've manufactured sufficient consent to justify the act of disappearing people...

You might well say the same thing about the Nationals and the Liberal Party. Awkward ideological partners; apart from their shared social authoritarianism.

Seems like a double-standard.The LNP have a DD trigger which they can use. Why not take their real agenda to the people; like they should have done during the last election campaign?
"As far as percentages go, the Greens and Labor have obstructed more legislation than the LNP ever did in the past 7 years."

Does the quality of the proposed legislation factor into what's deemed an acceptable measure of obstructionism? Or are the ALP, Greens et al supposed to just start waving stuff through, regardless of how terrible it is, at some point in your view?

There is an in-built remedy within our political system - Abbott can always elect to call a double-dissolution. Get a mandate for the people for some of the measures he failed to mention in the last election campaign.Fair point @Nogoodnamesleft - Putting the party interests against the broader nation's is an ongoing problem with all parties.

On the other hand, some of the bipartisanship we get with the same goal is also a problem. With privatisation of profitable state assets being a big one that no-one seems to like. 
And again, in his bizarre way, he's using budget doom-sayer rhetoric as the justification.

Despite the proceeds allegedly being directed into a medical research fund anyway (and thus presumably being budget-neutral).

Is this approach working? We've had denial, bullying, blame and fact-free justification so far. Am waiting for other stages of grief to kick in.So... what you're saying is it's always been an issue, and therefore couldn't be more of an issue now due to our extended lifespans; never-mind the increasingly prevalance conditions that arise both due to those extended life-spans and modern medicines' ability to prolong them.

The key to your refutation is that some Bill in Ohio got sunk over a hundred years ago?

"These precautions were nevertheless found to be insufficient. There was felt to be too much potential for abuse and error - by unscrupulous relatives, by doctors with imperfect judgment, and by others."

Is that really what happened? It that why Kevin Andrew unilaterally repealed the NT law? Echo's of the slippery slope; an evidence-free zone.

And you're really quite sneaky trying to downplay religious objections to voluntary euthanasia when talking about Catholic support for people to discontinue life-support and enjoy "a good death".

"It is true that deeply held religious beliefs have led many Australians to oppose the legalisation of euthanasia. However, it is equally true that religious groups have historically been staunch defenders of the right to a peaceful death."

There's no theological problem in Christianity for the latter practice as far as I'm aware. Suicide, on the other hand, is only something the Jesus gets to do. You're refutation comprises a category error, and is fallacious itself.

Hmm, you'd want to balance out the good stuff with some of atheism's worse aspects though or you'd just as bad as the evangelical Christians.

Atheists are no more enlightened than anyone else.Kind of depends on what they fill the space up with. 

Bill Maher neither believes in God nor the efficacy of vaccinations; by one of many examples.

The Chinese are generally atheists, but good luck find a floor numbered 4 in any of their buildings.

And seems people are quite capable of being jerks, regardless of what they believe in. :)Sounds like the words of Confucius in the Analects as well. Unfortunately too many Christians (and non-Christians) confuse the old with the even older.They're good questions. 

On the other hand, are you only nice to people so you can get into heaven?That sums up nihilism. Not atheism (there's various conflicting ideologies an atheist can subscribe to).Our species conquered the prairie, not so much by the triumphs of our ubermensch but rather through co-operative behaviour.

We are a tribal species.

Survival of the fittest can refer to individual genes. Or individuals. Or species. These sorts of tensions are what ethics and moral philosophy explore.

Ethics is fun eh? :)The author is advocating dogma and theology, not some empirical assessment on the contribution of Christianity to Western civilisation."For Christian SRE, it means teaching plainly that true comfort and lasting hope in this life and the next is found only in the truth that we belong body and soul to our faithful saviour Jesus Christ, and that he has paid for all our sins with his precious blood. "

Why not be content to line up with all the other sectional and corporate interests and market to the kiddies outside of that time we've allocated for education? The captive audience of minors was creepy back in my day, and is still creepy.

Religious people get to prosetylise to their own kids; for the time being at least. You keep pushing the secular framework and you can expect anti-theism as an outcome. Reap what you sow and all that.It's the religious that are breeding. 

Populations that are secular are breeding less. 

A correlation sure, but just saying...Primary school children are in the business of making informed decisions now are they?

Exposure to "world views" in quite different to indoctrination.

And what's so special about "special education" anyway? Other than special pleading and historical impetus? Can parents not have their children indoctinated at church rather than somehow doing this in what's supposed to be a secular institution on everyone's time?"Private" schools are being subsidised by tax-payers.Secularism isn't an ontological equivalent to some flavour of theism.

It's precisely the framework that allows people to explore the various flavours of metaphysics out there unhindered by others.

Your kids aren't subjected to my "world views", and yet mine should be to yours? You shall reap what you sow: tolerance is a two-way street.
You should report that teacher to the principalExcellent comment. 

And thanks for highlighting the brazen disregard for the "no proselytising rule".

Is it ethical to lie for Jesus I wonder? Sounds kind of utilitarian to me.Depending on how you define atheism, it is indeed a faith-based position. "Positive" atheism does seem to rely upon unprovable truth claims after-all.

An absence of evidence isn't evidence of absence.
Sure, which was Russell's flying teapot point. Or Dawkin's "invisible pink elephant" rip-off of the same point. Nevertheless, to definitely claim there is no god is to assert an unprovable proposition.

The burden of proof is on those that make the claim. Admittedly much harder to prove a negative. But nevertheless that claim is made by some.

To claim that the evidence doesn't indicate the presence of an interventionist god is far more reasonable. It's at least falsifiable.

It depends on how you define atheism I guess. And "religious", given how disparate so many their claims are.



Look no further than the Conservative Bible project at conservapedia to get an insight into the kind of thinking many in the Religious Right seem to have wedded themselves to.
It's an opt-out system, you don't decide to opt-in.

Are you aware of any kids getting indoctrinated in secular humanism whilst in ethics class? A strange form of projection.

It seems some theists here simply can't comprehend the different between teaching for methods rather than outcomes.

Christians invented secularism. And humanism. You can be all three at once in a way. Why not render unto Caesar and all that?Religious people can be secularlists as well. Where do you think secularlism came from?

Sad to see so many think they're mutually exclusive.

Rubbish, the Telegraph saved some of page one to get stuck into Lambie this morning. And both the Australian and the ABC have both been running frequent criticism of anything PUP-related; not without some good reasons I hasten to add.

Evidently it hasn't sunk in with many of the plebs yet. But repetition is the key. Best something catchy like Stop the PUPs!

And the double-standard works both ways."We are in more danger of getting sexist and misandric policies from women politicians .than misogynistic policies from male politicians."

Probably more of a threat when there's actually more than one woman in Cabinet. Who doesn't refer to other female politicians as "the handbag hitsquad"
Does she get any slack for apologising?yeap, learning the rules. She smoked but didn't inhale.That's an incredibly ironic post @Dapsta.Of course it's inherently unfair. As is living in a "safe seat" your whole life. As if preferential voting. The Greens get 10% of the primary vote and 1 seat in the house of reps.

Anyway, the major parties are going to "reform" the system so these anomalies won't enjoy Senate time again.

I hope that provides some comfort.Abbott asked the people to give him a majority in the Senate in the election campaign. And they didn't.

The Senate isn't running the country. They're just trying to carry out the will of their constituents like everyone else.

It's not just the government that has a mandate you know. This isn't Communist China.The double-standard cuts both ways @gregThat's 2% more than the number of voters who'd prefer Abbott as PM.Geez @damon don't go there mate. Everything will unravel.

Unless you think the senators of mainstream parties don't get a little conflicted by the party line over the interests of their respective states?I disagree, unless you mean by the "public's will" some combination of approval and disapproval for some grab-bags of policies (which may or may not be lies), personalities and an attendant "philosophy".

Plebiscites are the best way of getting the public's will. Targetted, not ambigious, and certainly not ambivalent.

Probably not a coincidence we don't get any of them.A lot of people don't understand what conflict of interest means either.Essential utilities can fund themselves.

For new infrastructure, worst case we can issue lottery tickets like we did for the Opera House (oops, the government sold that very lucrative right). Best case we can draw upon a sovereign wealth fund for the capital.

The CBA was turning a tidy profit prior to its privatisation. Sounds pretty good for the budget deficit. Medibank is doing the same.

You really think selling profitable state-owned assets and repealing taxes is the best way to solve the "budget emergency"?"Getting rid of a carbon tax that punishes business and ultimately consumers to the tune of $11m a day and does nothing is good policy."

Well it raises $11 million per day. Didn't you hear about the great budget emergency?That's the precise reason for the corporatision of our state. For every measure that's good for the citizenry, there's a bunch of shareholders who contribute to undermining it on behalf of the corporation they've invested in.

Citizens vs shareholders and people vs profits."The fact is that ALP supporters never talk about the poor when Laboor is in power."

That's not a fact. Julia Gillard copped a bit for moving single-mothers onto the Newstart allowance.

As for Liberal Party policy, why not do your own research. The regressive burden of Hockey's budget is pretty well documented.And breathing the LNP's coalI guess you missed the hyperbole. With Rudd's super-profits tax combined with the Carbon tax, the whole sector was stuffed. Iron ore, coal, anything that gets dug up.

Gina was going to pack up and take her toys to East Africa.

And let's not forget those evil Greens were dictating policy. They want us all living in caves! Haven't you heard? :)

Funny, you've got no issue with the line "grandchildren paying off Labor Debt"? When Labor tried to wean them us off just a little of Howard's middle-class welfare, we got a world-class tantie...

Did you miss the bit where the Liberal party are repealing taxes? And introducing significant spending programs like PPL and "Direct Action"."I was spouting about the unfairness of intergenerational debt years ago. That's what conservatives do."

Well it's true the conservatives spout all kinds of stuff. As do the progressives. 

Including when they've got their hands in the cookie jar (eg Hockey and free education). It's for others to do the heavy lifting it seems; for the benefits of their own grandchildren. There's no happy outcomes under Hockey-topia for the under-classes as user-pays replaces universal entitlement. Where parents' bank balances replace merit as the arbiter of opportunity.

On the subject of intergenerational debt, let's pretend there is actually some kind of budget emergency, is it not true that the conservatives have only run one or two budget surpluses in 70-odd years of governance?The preferential voting system virtually guarantees a duopoly.ffs it's not about punishing success. Why use playground psychology as a substitute for reason? Downwards envy?

It's simply a matter of the people extracting the maximum return possible for their assets. That's been delegated to a bunch of MPs who seem more concerned with maximising returns for those entities rather than us. The mining sector may as well pay their salaries.Honourable?

Yes, low sovereign risk encourages foreign capital.

That doesn't mean governments can't introduce and change taxes. Well not until the TPP gives US corporations the right to sue for damages on the back of legislative change.

Hopefully then your honour will be satisfied @OUB. Never mind that no-one voted for the Deficit Levy, nor the sickness tax. But if it's citizens, and not corporate entities, then honour doesn't come into it? Just the bleak narrative of "heavy lifting" and the end justifies the means seemingly.

As long as you conceive the "political spectrum" as merely one access between left and right, you'll invite conceptual confusion on someone's political beliefs.

There's a number of axes at play to more accurately represent someone's political beliefs including: social liberty vs social regulation, economic liberty vs economic regulation, collectivism vs individualism and and whether such views should be implemented forcibly, or through consent.

In my experience, people on the "right" tend to be into social regulation and economic liberty, and into individualism. Whereas the "left" tend to be the opposite. But as you've highlighted, being in the middle-ground on one axis doesn't imply moderation on any of the others.I consider Sinodinis morally corrupt as well. 

It has nothing to do with the rule of law; laws written by the very MPs and political party office-holders who think it acceptable to simultaneously act as treasurer for a political party that holds government whilst acting as a director for a company who's core business proposition is winning government contracts.

This perverse conflict of interest; to be normalised so, is corruption imo.

Well it seems I'm not alone. Although it's more a culture that facilitates corruption rather than something on his shoulders alone, obviously.

When the interests of business and the consituents collide, it seems our representatives are to ready to serve business.

Mr "won't be held over a moral barrel" Abbott certainly hasn't invited him back to the treasury benchs. Why do you think that is?You can thank the "productivity commission" for some of it. Water is on the hit-list now. Never mind it's a natural monopoly.

Competition makes "everything" better. And private enterprise is "always" better. To speak otherwise is heresy. Even when a majority of the citizens consistenly do just that.How tiresome. Dempster has been reporting on these matters for decades and has certainly not been an apologist for ALP corruption. It's your inference and a cheap smear.It's the Liberal Party's legislation. They agreed to Palmer's required amendments; they can re-work their bill accordingly.

It's one thing to call him Palmer arrogant and a bully; fair enough. It's quite another to hold him accountable for another party's legislation.Well I got that extremely wrong. Thanks for setting me straight.Why did the more experienced lot in the Liberal Party consent to Palmer's caveats if they are not constitutional as you say?But they didn't go through the House of Reps first. 

There was nothing in the bill prior to the morning Abbott was telling us all how the tax was about to be repealed.So was Daniel Elsberg wrong in obtaining and releasing the Pentagon Papers? He would be a criminal today had he done this now. No doubt reviled as a traitor by those who for some reason actually trust their governments.

The founders of the USA were always keen to ensure there was no government over-reach.

Where did all the small-government liberals go?It's up to Snowden. The USA has no jurisdiction in Russia. All perfectly lawful if we're substituting legalities for moral arguments.He's still talking about democracy and the people @Zing.Further to Jimmy's well-founded point, there's some notion that if something is legal then the state supports it. That's not so: things are legal by default and the proper inference to make is that the state leaves such matters to individuals and cultural norms; neither endorsing nor sanctioning them.

It's legal to bungee-jump, but that doesn't mean the government wants you to. In the same way that, when they legalise gay marriage and marijuana, that doesn't mean they'll be encouraging such things as a consequence.
What I wouldn't expect them to do is collect everyone's metadata into perpetuity on the off-chance it might be useful. But they did.Because it's a major project involving a substantial realignment between civil liberties and state power (not to mention expensive) and none of the political class happened to mention it to the citizenry; let alone trying to get a mandate for it."Journalists have never worked for "the people" in the west, they have always worked for a news outlet / corporation or worked on an ad hoc basis to earn a crust"

Not directly, unlike the intelligence services. But they've indirectly worked for the people when they've helped hold the state to account; by keeping the citizenry informed.Journalism is about both. They're not mutually exclusive propositions.The two aren't equivalent.

And not everyone opposed to big brother is on the left.

Talk about simplistic.Your suspicions are no substitute for actual facts. The left tends to favour human rights. Inalienable protections for the individual against abuses by the state.

Don't see freedom-loving Brandis, nor any of his cohorts, pushing for a Bill of Rights.Out of interest did Daniel Elsberg betray his country in your opinion? What about Oliver North?Indeed, and lying to Congress is a justifiable means to an end when you're spreading freedom about the place.

I guess no-one in the intelligence services is quite that patriotic anymore.Brandis is shaping up to be more authoritarian than even Conroy was. At least the former wasn't hypocritically waxing lyrical about liberty and liberalism.

Who do you vote for if you don't want big brother to get even bigger?Funny how all the right-wing freedom lovers want big government.

I thought the intelligence agencies were there to stop terrorists. Not people breaching "left-wing" regulations.Because he blew the whistle on a massive domestic surveillance program that no-one knew about.
"They want the challenges explained and the possible policy responses spelt out in detail."

Have the people changed since you set out the merits of the GST Mr Hewson? I think not. People want lower taxes, more government support, and a budget surplus all at the same time.

They don't want privatisation of profitable state assets, and aren't sure about high immigration. But they get them anyway.

And no, I suspect Mr Palmer hasn't got the ticker to make it last in the long run. The core policy platform seems to be Clive Palmer after-all.
Thus it ever was. Only this time it's more overt. 

A bit perverse but I'd almost prefer my conflicts out in the open rather than occasionally emerging in some corruption commission.And then proceeded to try and do a whole lot of others things instead.Abbott asked the people for a majority in the Senate during the election campaign. The people seem to have voted for PUP instead.

There's Abbott's mandate.lol @Zing - more fair to the ones that don't carry the underprivilegd as much as they were eh? 

Basically by that Hockeyesque logic, the fairest thing is the law of the jungle.

That's downwards envy for ya.It's unfair because it disproportionally hits those with the least means to bear them; whilst those with means do bugger-all "heavy lifting".

And finds room in these alleged days of fiscal austerity to throw big money at new programs like expanded PPL, Direct Action and some medical research fund. How that fits into your narrative of a budget emergency is beyond comprehension.I like Australia the way it is. A social safety net and values that include a fair-go for all.

Not a country where your opportunities are determined by the size of your parent's wallets.

Un-Australian.So they keep saying. Whilst finding cool billions for income-replacement PPL, corporate subsidies and any number of pet projects. The guys who thinks means-testing a rebate for the consumption of private services makes no fiscal sense. Who have adopted how much of Ken Henry's tax review?

Funny after 23 years of non-stop economic growth, things we could afford then are unaffordable now. A pretty crappy boom if we have to give up holding to the Australian values that served us so well now.

btw Australia is a country, not a business.You're confusing private household debt with net government debt. The former is high and the latter is low. Which is a natural outcome of fiscal policy.
Oppositions have a mandate to - they have constituents as well. All articulated by Abbott himself. Who set this precedent.

Grow up. It's not "no-excuses" Abbott's fault eh? Perhaps if he did try governing for all Australians he might get some buy in.Based on your contributions in these forums, there's no way you'd ever vote Labor @gbe. I understand how you might want the focus put anywhere but the appalling conduct of our current government though.

The whole thesis of this article is wrong. Labor have no need to build their alterative government credibility - particularly this early in the cycle. They can play the small target and submit a glossy brochure six months prior to the election like the other mob did.

People seem vote out governments; they don't vote in oppositions.Yeah, keep telling yourself that @john1. Seems the people of Australia don't agree with your ludicrous assessment.

More porkies in an election that some Carbon tax lie. A budget that reflects just how little regard these elitists toffs have for struggling Australians.

More gaffs and cognitive dissonance from a so-called liberal party that's ditching the market for something called "Direct Action" to spend billions in a "budget emergency" on a problem they don't believe in.

A Minister for the Environment wanting to delist world heritage forest and dredge up the Great Barrier Reef.

Ending Howard's middle-class welfare by using billions in these fiscally tight times to expand the PPL.

Advocating liberty for rascists whilst getting ASIO trawling through our metadata and geo-blocking the internet.

Bunch of lying hypocrites. They're certainly exemplary at that.Fair enough @gbe - my apologies for the false accusation thenWhatever the figure, it carries far more legitimacy than this current government (40-odd percent).

The one that purports to have a mandate. Election now."All action on emmisions is pointless, unless man's contribution leads to an otherwise avoidable catastrophe"

But without absolutely certainty of that outcome, your argument seems to be to do nothing. Whereas any sensible conservative would manage the risk proactively.

As if insurance is pointless unless you make a claim.

Predicting the future state of complex systems will always entail a degree of speculation and uncertainty. But we're talking about educated guesses, not wild ones.

For someone content to use the internet, it's interesting how you pick and choose which science has merit.
Who's trying to get to world power on the back of this theory?

Abbot and his buddies in Canadia and the Heartland institute?

We went from bipartisan consensus to someone who's built political capital from trashing that.lol, ask Abbott to withdraw us from the Refugees convention then.

It's all a big communist conspiracy.


Or ask the people who have more money than they need.Or the anti-intellectualism that Reagan pioneered in the USA: emulated by our mob with class-warfare rhetoric around ivory tower academics and latte-sippers.

A rejection of evidence-based sentencing in the out-of-touch judiciary for people screeching "tough on crime" whilst crime rates are historically low already.

All the post-fact truths in postmodern politics. How someone's opinion is worth as much as fact if only it's repeated enough times.

Anti-vaccination is a fringe movement. Compared to the way evolution is under assault in the USA. 

All the purview of the right-wing incidentally. The left haven't committed an assault on science on this scale since Pot went after the borgeoisie.A fascinating article.

I'm not so sure rising inequality is a problem because the conservative/right worldview doesn't care. Their philosophies are imbued with meritocratic language as you say. The deserving rich and the deserving poor. The American dream.

More that personal circumstances are far more important than mere ideologies. As long as enough people prosper from the status quo, there'll be enough political support. The decline in social mobility in the USA hasn't declined enough (yet).

it's not the owners of capital vs the serfs anymore. The middle-classes are owners of capital as well. "Landed democracies" as another one of those rock-star economists (Neill Ferguson) referred to them from memory. With our own little portfolios and own little tax rorts.

Provided there's still hope for people to rise above their station, those who aspire to can just as easily defend the benefits of inequality as those that already are enjoying them.


Again, great article. Thank you.Xinhua wasn't thrilled either. Maybe they can't be bothered to dissect whatever it is that Abbott actually meant. He's the one communicating - if it's so open to misinterpretation, better he just shut his mouth. As the author suggests.

What good could have possibly come from such comments?

Of course there were acts of both bravery and bastardry committed by the IJA. Those submariners were indeed brave men. And yes, we shouldn't hold to historical grievances. But some of the outrage from Australians posting here is not "faux" - show some respect.

And the Chinese copped it far worse than us.And a Xinhua beat-up. In other words, it's someone elses fault and definitely not "no-excuses" Abbott's.
It's not just anti-Abbott partisans in Australia. It's also many Chinese media outlets.

Everyone's misunderstood Abbott. It's everyone's fault except his. And now in the minds of some Chinese our nation is seen to be apologists for the horrors that the IJA committed upon their people.

Great outcome.

Abbott should just shut his mouth on sensitive issues; given his propensity to be misinterpreted and misunderstood.Well some of his dishonest critics are the Chinese. And I'd rather those whose views have been affected over there didn't think our nation are apologists for the IJA.

What was to be gained? Why give them, and everyone else who hates Abbott, the ammunition? For another BFF?

He should shut his mouth and let some real diplomats conduct diplomacy because he's not got the mettle for it.Wow, the cruel to be kind crowd suffering moral hubris. Does this mean you're the pesky "do-gooders" now? At least under Howard it was about good old-fashioned nationalism. But this utilitarian moral line you've got going about saving lives is grotesque.

What would Jesus do? Would he be held over a moral barrel I wonder?

And aren't asylum-seekers responsible for their own choices btw? Caveat emptor and all that? Or does that philosophy only apply to bank customers?On the face of it yes ethnicity is important. But in reality there might be more germaine factors at play.

I sure hope the merits of applications aren't actually judged this superficially.That's where the International Criminal Court is situated. Although the sorts of Human Rights breaches Mr Morrison may be committing aren't extensive enough to fall under its jurisdiction.I don't think all cultures are of equal value. Human rights are about protecting individuals from the state.

There's been plenty of work done in this area. But by all means join Brandis, and Tim Wilson and talk about Freedom of Speech and how the end justifies the means until the cows come home. Until one of your liberty-loving freedom warriors puts a Bill of Rights on the table, it's all meaningless chatter.They are less transparent than the former government was on these issues. After promising at the election to be more transparent.

And that's a mandate in your view.1. I'm curious on what business they've been more transparent about; except for Labor's failings. :)

2. Good point. But they're not required to utilise every legislative means at their disposal to maintain secrecy. That's something they are choosing to do. Which they promised us they wouldn't in the election campaign.I know, who cares about election promises right?Of course, but this is one market that the Liberal Party supporters want to see heavily regulated (and many Labor ones of course).

Want a better economic outlook and comply with the red tape - well that's the bees knees.

Want a better economic outlook but disregard the red tape and the queues etc. Well in many markets you'd be seen as a go-getting, risk-taking entreprenuerial type. But in this context you are deserving of all the cruelty bestowed upon you (and for your own good no less).It's a huge concern.

Abbott's election promise with respect to the aged care sector was to cut the red tape. It'll probably be one of those promises he actually keeps.That's interesting @Pete. Is that law that's just come into effect a federal one? Or particular states?True. Predicting the past is far simplerSeems to be money for an expanded PPL scheme? Billions for something called Direct Action? Possibly tax-payer subsidised nannies? Oh, and a world-class medical research fund.

Confused by the narrative?Ah yes, the Human Rights canard.

"Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person."

Inalienable as you say. Best we shut down all our prisons right away then. 

Perhaps that's the problem when a set of inalienable rights conflict with each other.

Here's another one for you.

"No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. "
And yet people do consider it degrading. And ironically, not giving people the discretion do make decisions over their own bodies (the most fundamental property right) degrades them further.

Euthanasia literally means the good death. Hippocrates, who you interpret in such a fastidious way, called it this also. To deny a rational human being the considered relief they seek is cruel. People dehydrating to death is cruel, when they elect another way.

Would you treat an animal this way?I believe we should treat humans at least as well as animals. Don't you?It's just a different form of compassion Zing. We both mean well, but are following different axioms.

The principle here for me is liberalism. Two consenting and rational adults doing something that harms no-one else is none of your business. I trust in individuals' capacity to make their own judgements and respect their freedom to follow their values (within limits).

To deliberately prolong someone's suffering against their will is cruelty. And to use it as a means of deterring others is chilling in its own way.

Upon what basis do you form your views? Slippery slope? The bible?The hypocrisy becomes very distinct when such people advocate user-pays health systems over universal ones. Where someone's treatment options get constrained by their financial resources.I believe it's still illegal to take your own life in the Northern Territory. And it wasn't always legal to take it elsewhere.

Suicide was illegal in Ireland until 21 years ago!We need to stop voting in Christian fundamentalists to represent us. They are proportionally over-represented in parliament.

The ones on the ALP bench will allegedly be allowed a conscience vote. Another right for the privileged denied to the rest of us.
Denying this right is part of the ACL's policy platform. It's on their website.

Yes it's true that the objections are exclusively raised by Christians, but the majority are.No, it's not a conspiracy. I should have clarified that. It's a public lobbying objective for the Australian Christian Lobby and a public policy position for the two major parties.

It's not even a matter of Christianity vs atheism. Why so many false dichotomies) - its' makes these "discussions" unnecessarily simplistic? 

I do agree, atheism is not an ideology. A minority of atheists subscribe to ideologies opposed to voluntary euthanasia as well. Are there any in parliament? Any lobby groups for them?

The majority of Australians support a voluntary euthanasia program. Whatever their metaphysical disposition happens to be. They have for a long time.

Why are they not being represented on this?"Society is worried about what euthanasia will mean for those who carry it out."

Stop anthropomorphising "society". It's a nonsensical proposition to ascribe it with some kind of sentience.

You're talking about a minority of people enforcing their views on everyone through the threat of state-enforced punishment.In theory the jury should be able to nullify. But in practice I'm not sure when the judge gets to over-ride such decisions.

Regardless, the point is, if you're a liberal, that this is a matter for individual conscience and not something the state should determine.Please take the time to learn what jury nullification is. Continental law of course doesn't have juries at all. 

It's more an aspect of citizen vs state power in the administration of criminal justice.

And doesn't bear on the rule of law.Not if there's rules to suggest they go to the bad after-life rather than the good one IF they kill themselves.It's a valid concern. There have however been studies done in places where euthanasia is legal (like Oregon and Belgium) which don't point to any alarming spike in "involuntary euthanasia".

We should be mindful that euthanasia happens in places where it's illegal as well. And we are not able to obtain data to inform our policies and safeguards in such environments.

Definitely need to err on the side of caution with respect to this sensitive issue. But the status-quo is hiding the problem; rather than providing a solution.An articulate invocation of the slippery slope argument @Dove.

You do raise the legitimate concern about individuals who make an irrevocable decision for which they would later regret if that were possible.

What you ignore is that people do commit suicide and euthanasia already. And deontology only gets us so far in the realm of evidence-based public policy (which goes to the utilitarian so quickly for good reason).

Better a robust framework that delivers for those that need it, and minimises the terrible miscarriages. The current system is really an absolution of responsibility from outcomes imho. 

Australia currently has one of the highest suicide rates in the world and it's doubtful most of those decisions were completely rational.

There's a sense of all care and no responsibility in those that so easily proscribe without offering alternatives. The existing system is not satisfactory to so many.

It's a most Socratic thing to do. :)There is an argument that people, sometimes, know what their lives and deaths mean to themselves more than you do.

"If he gets in he is going to change things and do it for Indonesia's sake not to appease the West"

That's a false dichotomy. Maybe he'll be good for the country, maybe not (if he gets in). You don't know. The national interest is so ephemeral, and so easily conflated with the interests of those that purport to represent it.

The arguments you've deployed could have just as easily be used in support of Pol Pot in his early career. And probably were.Good point. One further wonders whether the IPA's ideological man in the house; the LDP Senator Leyonhjelm would have been there had his party name appeared elsewhere on the ballot paper.

In may not matter though. We could potentially just pick Senators via a lottery, like jury duty or something, and it might not be too bad. It's good to have some variety in the house of review."The whole situation in the South China Sea between was conconcted by the Japanese side and the national broadcaster seems hell bent on portraying China as the invader."

The Japanese "side"? The Japanese don't have any claims in that particular sea. The side you refer to are at least 4 democracies concerned about some unilateral aggression on the part of a dictatorship.

China has as much legitimacy to claim the extent of the South China Sea as India does the Indian ocean.

And yet if you go to any train-station in China, you'll see the whole sea painted red. Right up to the shores of Brunei.Yesterday was the anniversary of the Marco Polo Bridge incident. The Chinese have long memories, and are fiercely patriotic.

Hopefully the Chinese leadership will be wise enough to curtail their belligerence in the South and East China seas. But like politicians elsewhere, if things start looking bad for them, there's nothing like some military adventurism to distract the people from domestic issues.

Do we get to see this free trade agreement btw? Why are these things secret anyway?No, you are wrong. Vietnam, the Philipines, Taiwan and South Korea have also expressed concerns about China's expansionism. 

It's not exclusively a big plot by the evil USA; although there's probably an element of that.
They've already unilaterally laid claims to various disputed territories. For both strategic and business reasons; as if the two are mutually exclusive or something.

Futhering business interests at the barrel of a gun in not unheard of. Just ask Halliburton.The LDP. Or the Sex Party. Depending on how much you like shooting things compared to other activities I guess... :)Which overlooks that the Liberal Party, and indeed the ALP, are comprised of different factions. The drys are more right-wing than the wets.

Conroy and Bernardi have more in common with each other than with either Turnbull or Albanese.@Todd

The ALP introduced neo-liberalism to this nation. Selling state assets (Paul Keating believed in the crowding-out effect). Floating our currency. Bringing choice and the marketplace to the delivery of government services by using private sector intermediaries.

What do you think "My Schools" is, if not neoliberal policy?

Neoliberalism isn't just fiat currency. 

And btw, even the Greens support some role for the marketplace. There's no command economists in any political party with representation in parliament. Communism is dead; and "leftist" extremism is mostly dead with it.So, more representative than mainstream media then?I don't really have a problem with voluntary voting. But it's not going to fix anything of worth. It's not like pollies only get paid proportionally to how many voters turn up on the day.

Look at the USA.This began well before the phenomena of "click-bait". The professionalisation of the political classes themselves, and the rise of the mighty spin-doctor predate the existence of digital media.

The mainstream media were into the business of manufacturing narratives, rather than holding pollies accountable, well before the internet was around. And there's certain shock-jock demagogues who may as well be paid-mouthpieces of a political party; they sure aren't journalists. It was the Sun wat dun it.

You assume the ruling class want an informed electorate with their digital utopia. Most don't. Then we'd see just what a bunch of near-identical drones most mainstream politicians actually are. And how little choice were are offered in this so-called democracy.Indeed, or any those who can forge narratives advocating nationalisation of state assets; South America style.

The Socialist Alliance chant on a TV show, and apparently that's leftist extremism for you. Some people were rude at a protest - shock horror. I don't think your average Australian would even recognise a real left-wing extremist.

Gee, even something as fundamental as a Bill of Rights; that product of classical liberalism, doesn't get a look in. America's founding fathers were apparently not fair and balanced enough for your average Joe these days.The extreme left in the USA is not a political force though. Look at the progress the Tea Party has made in co-opting the Republicans. Nothing equivalent has happened in the Democrats. Occupy Wall Street died with a whimper.

It's a contest between right and righter there - the Democrats, like our ALP, are firmly neo-liberal and neo-conservative. They likewise believe in bringing the marketplace to education and health, and investing their intelligence forces with additional powers, despite concerns raised by civil libertarians.

Merely different shades of the same thing. Perhaps that's the middle-ground people are bemoaning is being lost? Seems, with the exception of social liberalisation in some limited areas that the middle-ground is moving to the right in many ways."There is a series of very contradictory motherhood statements."

Sounds like that Real Solutions brochure everyone was waving about; before we got the real agenda post-election of course.Their policies are on their website. Perhaps you can inform yourself. Like you say, the Greens have been around for a long time...They tried. Things like means-testing the private health insurance rebate.

There were howls of outrage from the Conservatives at the time.The stick was Howard's measure as well though. It's called "heavy lifting" now in the new order btw.

But this is one of many examples.

Remember the caravan of courage and Rudd getting ditched over a mining tax?

I'm really not sure what your point is. It's a shame Labor weren't more effective in unwinding all of Howard's middle-class welfare, and implementing revenue raising measures.

Instead we have Hockey bemoaning it all, while Abbott introduces yet more middle-class welfare. Is he really going to be subsidising nannies? You a fan of that PPL scheme? What happened to the Liberal Party?
We accept over 100,000 economic migrants every year. Not including those on 457 visas. People who come to Australia for "economic betterment". Including our PM and Finance Minister.

It has bipartisan support.

You seem to think these people are bad for doing so? Why did your family come here?Excellent point. 

And then there's the bipartisan, fringe-dweller stuff. Both parties support the privatisation of profitable state assets; against the will of the majority of Australians.

And I understand the majority consistently support voluntary euthanasia and are consistenly ignored by the ALP/LNP.

Must be plenty more policy examples...What else could one want?

A fair go for all Australians; not just those with money."History tells us that one species of animal has become extinct per decade since European settlement."

The extinction rate is far higher than that. We are in the midst of the biggest extinction event since the end of the Cretaceous era.Prison populations are increasing at record numbers right now. Forget the judiciary when "Liberal" governments across the state introducing mandatory sentences and both sides insist on being "tough on crime".

Do keep up.I agree @Stuffed, this Tea Party agenda is un-Australian and the less of it that gets through the Senate, the better.

@OUB, you seem to be conflating the welfare of the nation with the agenda of your preferred political party? And whilst I would hardly call the ALP honest, their big Carbon Tax swindle seems to have paled into comparison to the series of lies the Liberals fronted up to the election with."...so what are the Sinhalese seeking refuge from?"

We'll probably never know. Not in the national interest cos Morrison says so.Glad you know the answer. Don't know why you're asking the question.

I guess none of them are genuine refugees then. That's what you're saying right?"The fact that a few thousand lefties march in the streets doesn't speak for the vast silent majority of people in this country who want firm decisive government."

It's convenient for your argument that you speak for the vast, silent majority.It's the Liberal Party drys prosecuting the Tea Party agenda. It could be Clive and his populist tendencies that saves us from the worst of it.Def sound like a fauxgan to me mateNot sure Fred. They're the ones who have to cope with the down-sides of multiculturalism after-all.
We can't be trusted with facts @Brian. Operational secrecy and all that.

You wouldn't tolerate that line from any of your other employees would you?But Morrison has unilaterally declared that he is the arbiter of the national interest. Of course it's a matter of operational secrecy just what our national interest is. 

Don't be undermining the democratic will by discussing the "legality" of our dear leader's actions. We trust him to do what is right.
The real smoking gun is that the ALP are also committed to neoliberalism.

Australians, for decades, have consistenly and overwhelmingly opposed the privatisation of state assets for example. And yet both parties plough on - knowing they've pretty much sown up the captive marketplace between them.Jimmy, there's an unresolvable ideological argument which we see day in and out on these blogs precisely because altruism exists alongside selfishness.

Both are part of our natures. Of course in varying degrees from individual to individual and in response to external forces; culture, economic fortune etc.Seems the only way to prevent such distortions in the operation of the free market and ensure true meritocracy is the imposition of 100% estate taxes. But many libertarians respect property rights too much to countenance such a proposition."A strong leader is very needed, and we have none on the horizon, sadly: simply opportunists, the lot of 'em."

We should be wary of strong leaders. Staking your fortunes on mere individuals invites risk. What is needed are strong systems and cultures of governance.Neo-conservatism is a different kettle of fish although it's fair to mix them up given they've been hybridised so effectively. It didn't have to be that way though.Subsidised by the government? You mean subsidised by the tax-payer surely.

Where did all the small-government liberals go?What, they're not being supported now? 

Bit of gratitude to the rest of the tax-payers wouldn't go amiss once in a while would it?It's really a no-brainer; well-said Tristan.

Of course that doesn't leave any room for corporate rent-seekers to profiteer from the delivery of social infrastructure.

Which is why the IPA and the productivity commission would never recommend leveraging economies of scales to deliver value for money.
""Done correctly, ending the strange double standard that exists in how the government treats formal care compared to nanny care could ease pressure on prices by allowing more supply."

You don't sound too sure of yourself? Could ease pressure on prices eh? Might not though right?

And if we're ending "double-standards" perhaps subsidies for the grandparents who tend to the children whilst the parents work as well?
Cost to output (productivity in a loose sense) is the more accurate metric. Paying someone x dollars to look after 10 kids is more cost-effective than paying the same amount to look after 1 or 2.

Disabled children without support structures is a special (welfare) case. But flexibility and convenience are a little more ephermal from a bottom line fiscal perspective.

At some point employers should really be taking some responsibility for the needs of their employees I would have thought. Flexible workplace practices; telecommuting, providing creches if they're big enough. Indeed some employers are doing this already. The free market in action?

Employers, particularly corporations, have progressively absolved themselves from any kind of responsibility for the drivers of their profitability (including training). Profits have been consistenly high in a number of sectors.

And yet their shills in the media expect tax-payers to assume these responsibilities on their behalf.People have offered a more "productive" solution above. One would be to take all these billions and invest them directly in a network of child-care centres.

As an alternative to the moral hazard and inefficiences that involves tax-payers propping up the profits of private operators with a view to leveraging competitive advantage which won't exist in practice to the "market" being a natural monopoly.

How did we ever get by without our own personal nannies before?Perhaps so, but if @jocks wants to divest from a company for ethical reasons, what's the alternative? Wait until CBA shares tank? Could be waiting a while.

Promise to give the net capital gain to charity or something?

If the motive wasn't genuine,what's to be gained from even posting here?

Seems we might need a mini-RC to get some answers...I think they'd love to dismantle the four pillars policy. So these institutions can merge and as an outcome have more global reach.

The equivalent to what's being undertaken in the tertiary education sector.

The eagles can't soar when their wings are tied up with pesky red tape.It's an interesting question.

Perhaps they don't want to get these people offside (thinking of Rudd getting the mining lobby and News Limited offside)? Perhaps they don't want the story to become about them - let the Liberals hang themselves? Perhaps they actually agree with the Liberal Party's position on this - given they are conservatives themselves? All of the above?
Realistic more like it. Attacking Bernie Banton set the standard and any struggling Australian since gets nothing but contempt from Big Business and their buddies in parliament.
Greatness to some extent exists in the eye of the beholder. 

Is moral outrage supposed to get subjected to a cost/benefit analysis?
That's a fantastic point. You seem the same thing with professional sports-people; expected to set the standards on moral virtue as an outcome of being good a moving a ball about.
The outrage arises because we expect celebrities and famous people to conform with our moral standards; to be exemplars of them even. We take their fall from grace personally because we impose these expectations on them.

Even though that's evidently not a rational thing to do; given there's no significant positive correlation between moral standards and one's ability to get famous.

And people coming under more scrutiny now just props up this edifice. Which seems like Humanism gone mad to me."Labor betrayed this nation even more than the LNP have by not winding back failed policies such as FTA's with 3rd world labour and condition countries."

Labor at least tried to keep some manufacturing onshore with the high dollar undermining competitiveness. They didn't negotiate away the PBS (is open-for-business Abbott happy to relinquish that bit of government intervention in the marketplace?)

This mob doesn't pick winners!

Labor are bad but the LNP are even worse on matters of infrastructure investment and economic nationalism.It's germaine to discuss how the various flavours of fiscal policy interact with subject of this article though: monetary policy.

It seems quite often they work against each other; dulling the efficacy of both."Not only is there still too much debt, and a global glut of savings as well"

An outcome of rising wealth inequality perhaps?Full employment, even if it was still feasible, is undesirable. It puts upwards pressure on wages and inflation. A nightmare for Business Council types and the LNP.

The desired goal is big profits at the expense of just-living wages. Preferably people juggling 2-3 part-time / casual, low-piad jobs so they're too busy to think.

Where starvation forces employees to bypass the minimum working conditions Australian workers enjoyed before 25 years of prosperity made those former standards somehow unrealistic now.And there we have it: the evidence-free rants, blaming a cross-section of society for the misdeeds of a few.

Expecting individuals to overcome systemic, structural problems that they never had to deal with themselves.

Substitute facts with hypocrisy and you get Coalition policy."to make the dole recipents appreciate that they are being paid out of the public purse "

Pity it doesn't work. And wastes precious money from the public purse."We will govern for all Australians"

"Open and transparent government"

"Real Solutions"

"A no-excuses government"

A fair (and balanced) budget

Gawd... election now?Then corporations can run chain-gangs of slaves for even more profitability as they do in the land of liberty. 

And put them in extended solitary confinement with tax-payer subsidies if they cause trouble.
Thank you for once again, basing your arguments on evidence. There's too much ideology and politics and too little evidence-based policy."Given the move in Australia towards more autonomy for schools"

With the author being a major proponent of such a move.

This humility is false indeed. On record deprecating Finland's education system and pedagogy as it doesn't align with his own ideology. Which is to establish a charter school system where parents can opt for creationism rather than evolution.China, Korea and Japan also value the role of teacher. Perhaps due to their Confucian roots. All highly competitive but with pedagogical methods that encourage group achievement; rather than leaving people behind like our individualist society does.
This line of relativism is not helping the North Korean people.
"But the High Court is doing its best too. Its recent school chaplains decisions throw a huge spanner in the workings of Australia's government, workings which all major parties have supported."

Youch. In our system with a non-active executive, I'm grateful at least some institution can hold these tools in check. It's not the pollies who are trying to protect the constitution as a number of recent decisions indicate.

There may be something good to arise out of this disorder anyway. Machiavelli came to the conclusion that highly centralised political systems could implement change faster, but were less resilient. We're a little more decentralised like Feudal France, than, say, the Persian Empire.

Just because the ALP and LNP are getting on the nose doesn't mean we're becoming ungovernable. Just that those in government are going to have to do things differently; which is good."Why, then, has the present Government's mantra that it has inherited a "budget crisis" and a "debt and deficit disaster" flopped?"

Perhaps because the multi-billion direct action program, the PPL program and a range of other proposed budgetary measures weren't consistent with this narrative?

The whole premise of your argument is wrong. As if our democracy is in trouble if we don't shop at Coles or Woolies. If we're not all meek little neo-liberals arguing on the allowed talking points? Give me a break.

There's constituents with more extreme views out there and they deserve representation as well. In a real democracy at least.@Alpo - neoliberalism is bipartisan, both here and in the US.I agree Alpo. Hawke, and to a lesser extent Rudd, understood that there was still a role for the government in tempering the inequality and volatility that markets engender; they were mindful of social equity; despite the crowding out effect.

The Liberal party also sees a role for government, but that's in social regulation; which is then preferred to be implemented by private concerns.

The economics itself has the good and the bad, but it's how it's been married up with various political ideologies that's contributes to what we have now (for example neo-conservatism).

A good example is how, under neoliberalism, illicit drugs would be legal. That's what Friedman envisaged. However governments have not done that, but rather used neoliberalism to incarcerate drug-users/dealers in privatised jails instead.

Another one is the increasing use of private defence contractors in the delivery of military policy.

For me, it's just become an orthodoxy used to justify crony capitalism. It has led to quite a selective application of what the Chicago school had in mind.That's an interesting point Dove. There was similar fear-mongering over united Communism. While China and the USSR were fighting their own cold war, the West painted them all the same shade of red.Atheism? Hardly. 

That's a void waiting to be filled. 

Most western atheists subscribe to (secular) humanism.Well Dawkins calls himself a secular humanist. It seems to be the dejour ideology for many western atheists.

Empiricism, rationalism, natural materialism are related, but not excluded systems. I imagine someone's done a lovely epistemology of it all somewhere. :)
 

Sorry I should have also addressed your misunderstanding. Most atheists find meaning in life as well. Their internal world isn't a void.

But that meaning isn't derived from atheism itself. Atheism is just the space that's created from the rejection of theism.If there was a DD, Brandis would be up for re-election wouldn't he? 

I almost want that big-government statist gone more than Abbott. Attourney-generals reducing judicial over-sight over the actions of law enforcement officials are bad news."Words cannot describe the anger I feel at the negligent electorate for not taking more of an interest in what was about to happen"

Functional democracies require involved citizens, for sure. But who could have honestly anticipated just how far the campaign promises diverged from the actual agenda? It seems remarkable on the back of all the political capital built from the Carbon tax lie.

In no other job do such egregious mispresentations only invite sanction after 3 years.I do agree that it would take something truly unusual to deny this mob a second term. A real estate market crash or something that effects people's personal fortunes.

The cracks in our economic sovereignity will be papered over by jingoism and the never-ending war on boats and terror.

And the lobbies will further entrench themselves in the governance of the nation while the have-nots are further delegitimised and disenfranchised.

It's all a bit sad. But you never know. This lot do seem to have a 3rd term level of hubris about them. Particularly Pyne. Interesting times ahead!Look over there... it's Labor.

I do recall those 6 years; where conservative tears flooded the Nullabor over the great Carbon tax swindle. You're glad for the honest and transparent government we've got now presumably.

And perhaps you don't understand the workings of our political system but we don't get to vote for who is PM. I don't think that's Labor's fault, but I don't think that's such a great idea anyway."There seems to be no bold leaders prepared to take the country in a new direction which enables all to participate given their brains not their wealth."

There's too many who benefit from the status-quo. From the many of us who are real-estate speculators to the few of us who own monopolies in the digital content delivery space.Well if there is a conflict between his business interests and those of his constituents, they're still not as extensive as that array of interests that funds the ALP and LNP.

When Clive votes to repeal the Carbon tax, well, personal fiduciary interests scream conflict. But if Abbott does it for Reinhart and ors that's perfectly legit?
"voters voted for PUPS to kick out Labor Green minority world view"

"Does anyone know what PUPs stand for"?

Well I thought you did. See above.More like a drag on any meaningful regress of the nation by the looks of things. I'm just happy the current mob didn't get a majority in the Senate that Abbott requested of the Australian people.

Anything Palmer can do to save us from that dystopia gets the thumbs up, regardless of his motives.Even when they're in government, it's still everyone elses fault. Why not just blame the electorate for not all voting for the real solutions in the first place?"The most dangerous idea is that ethics and morality trump law. "

Ironically that's quite a dangerous idea itself.

You reckon the Nuremberg defence is valid then?It refers to the principle that obeying lawful directives exonerates individuals from committing immoral acts.

If you hold that obeying laws trumps ethics and morality you're falling into divine command theory territory. Or rather ruling class command theory, which is even worse.

Millions of people murdered by the state in the Cultural revolution. All perfectly legal. And for you, that trumps ethics and morality?

Authoritarianism is dangerous. Whichever ideology or system it presumes to enforce upon us - and that includes the tyranny of the mob.And if society says it's OK for your family to kill you for their honour, you're doing the wrong thing if you resist such an act apparently. Because "society" knows better than you.It seems, without knowing the basis of his argument, you've tried to anticipate one. But if his argument isn't based on moral subjectivism then you're arguing with a strawman.

As for the Euphythro Problem, it's not necessarily a problem. Both horns of the dilemma can be rejected.

Still not sure how an omnipotent entity can create a rock she can't lift though. :)There should definitely be less Christians in parliament; particularly the pushy kind.

But the atheists-only thing is its own form of horror. Secularism is the way to go mate.Nope, they're going to build a light rail system which basically goes where the tram system did. The tram lane is dedicated to buses presently. 

Was it Askin who was responsible? Basically one of a long list of Greiners that guy.

You think anyone got to vote on in?

Ripping it up was a mistake, although unlike you I can't speak for how everyone feels about that.Any party who's got no regard for the environment, wants to drive down the minimum wage, wants to make education more expensive, wants to cut off young people from the safety net and wants to prop up housing sector unaffordability hasn't got the kiddies welfare at stake.What's wrong with protest parties? What the hell does PUP stand for?

You can take it as a legitimate measure of dissatisfaction with the Laborals. And there's nothing wrong with that.Voted Labor out more like it.Sounds like a good idea to go with MT then. For the same reasons we have preferential voting in the lower house.I suspect the Greens are just being obstructionist; and resisting the apparent trend on offer where specific levies and excises are targetted at the users of services they're supposed to fund.

Whether it be roads or health services (GP sickness tax and medical research).

And all very strange in the context of the budget emergency as none of these measures are being implemented to improve the fiscal position.

The Greens aren't buying the conflicting LNP narrative. Whether there's a backlash from their constituents we'll have to see I guess."We live in Australia where thankfully our forefathers made their choice to established that very Australia principle of 'a fair go for all'."

The forefathers of the USA held to the same principles. Sadly now subverted in practice. It's happening here also.Welfare's not a growth industry though @Forrest. At least not for the needy. Proportion of welfare spent on low income people has actually shrunk over the last decade.

It's the upwards wealth redistribution that's the problem. Both in spending and revenue measures.

Actually, it's also the proportion of profits that go to wages compared to shareholders. If you exclude CEO's where wages have skyrocketed, average wages have pretty much flat-lined.

And after 20 years of growth, we're being told that government programs we previously had are now unaffordable? What sort of growth is that?Australia has a sovereign currency. Greece doesn't.Communism is concerned with equality of outcomes. Whereas many just want to ensure equality of opportunity; a concept that actually underpins meritocracy and competition.

But real capitalists hate competition for themselves; it drives down profitability. So we have crony capitalism where the goal is to subvert political institutions with a view to having the state legislate measures that maximise the profits of the wealthy at the expense of all others."A rising tide floats all boats"

But only if the sea is calm (ie growth is distributed equitably). If things are choppy, a rising tide can sink a small boat instead.

I thought the preferred nomenclature for this theory was "trickle-down"?But we import "country shoppers" as a matter of bipartisan policy; and have for decades. Multiples more of them than we accept refugees.

How do you tell the difference?And then maybe tell Hockey. Because he seems genuinely confused as to why the people outside the limo don't seem so pleased.You're assuming that the big election issues from last year will be the same ones that feature next election. Probably the boats will be, as they always are. But the deficit? The carbon tax?

If the LNP reduces one and repeals the other, then it's a non-issue.

You may find, if the LNP succeeds into hacking further into the universality of Medicare and education, that those systems might get a look in?

These measures to transform society into a marketplace will get even less resonance if families find themselves struggling. Which may well be the case, even with modest growth, given we've the second highest cost of living in the world, and the benefits of said growth are as unevenly distributed as trends suggest they will be.

Having said that, not sure Shorten has the ticker to defy the trends in terms of his own longevity as first term opposition leader. But he's expendable, as indeed is Abbott.No it's not. It's a slippery term, but it's not a contradiction. 

Well not until someone unilaterally redefines it as a contradiction as you seem to have done.Hi @Joe,

how do the fundamentals of climate science in any way disprove creationism? By which I mean creationism as the broad proposition that Yahweh created the universe. Not the fundamentalist, literalist, Jesus-rode-a-dinosaur-to-work variety of Creationism.

You seem to be assuming @EM is a fundamentalist, which doesn't seem to be the case.To solve the great debt emergency, the LNP proposes shifting the debt to private citizens. By emulating the medical and tertiary education sectors of the USA they invite massive debts for future generations of citizens which have not burdened current generations.

Student debt in the USA is in the trillions of dollars. A major impost disproportionately carried by those with less means.

The inability to pay medical expenses is the number one cause of bankruptcy in the USA. And medical health insurance is a major expense for all household budgets.

This sleight of hand does our grandchildren no favours at all. Much like Howard's vaunted budget surplus, private household debt over the same period ballooned. And it's still, on average, multiples of government debt already.True enough. They did try on a few things, like a mining tax. And a Carbon tax. And means-testing private health insurance rebates.

And the budget emergency crowd weren't happy about any of those measures. Still aren't.

If Labor are a little more concerned about their popularity now, it could be based on some experiences such as that.
It was Howard that created so many of the middle-class welfare programs.

Private health insurance rebates continue to grow, and the LNP wants to repeal means-testing on them. So much for ending middle-class welfare. Their alternative answer is to make GP visits user pays. And then invest the proceeds in medical research?

And I'm not sure the super-PPL makes much sense in the context of what you're saying either.Sickly pensioners, or "axe-the-tax" mining barons, we get itWe have the most targetted welfare spending of any OECD nation. 

And spend less of our GDP on Medicare than the Yanks do on their dysfunctional system.
No, it's cheaper. Which is one of the reasons why it's better.

It's also more cost-effective than the "system" the LNP would like to foist on us. Which will ultimately soak up more government revenue than the present system, and burden individuals with more debt.What's fascinating is the LNP premise that everyone should pay a flat fee to fund medical research.

Proportionally, less wealthy people would pay a higher amount. And yet proportionally, everyone would presumably benefit the same; whether that be an extra year of life or whatever the outcome is.

Even the wonderful idea of medical research gets debased by the LNP reverse Robin Hood mentality.What were the figures? Something like $240 per year flow-on costs per household from the rise in fuel excise. Compared to $550 supposed savings from the repeal of the Carbon tax.

The former is just a minor budgetary measure. The latter was a major reason for the downfall of a PM.

Will half of Whyalla be wiped off the map or won't it?

The raise is excise is sensible enough. But in the context of the previous rhetoric, it again causes problems.The ultimatums indicate either a lack of imagination or a bullying nature.

I think the latter given it's a frequently deployed bit of psychological warfare.

No medical research without a sickness tax, no universal health system without user-pays, no infrastructure funding without "asset recycling", no sovereign borders without kids in detention etcI've always wondered if it's not counter-productive engineering poll results that favour your side. Wouldn't it encourage a false sense of complacency? Or, in an election year, encourage protest votes against your side?So many of "them" that Abbott refers to as migrants were born here. No choice about it.

Whereas Captain Tony himself came here on a boat from the mother-country. And I'd rather like him to go back - he can take Team Australia with him.We used to have a healthy dose of humility, self-deprecation and easy-goingness. 

Go bang a drum or something.

I don't need some boatperson from England telling me whether I'm a good Australian or not. Why do you?If you're on Team Australia you recognise your PM as your captain, not your employee.

Team Australians believe the government should have the right to snoop on your metadata, like Team Americans and Team Britainers. 

Unlike those commies in Europe who think such legislation is a disproportionate violation of citizens, sorry team-members, right to privacy.

Team Australians believe in the concept of "un-Australian" reporting.

Those Australians who knocked Hawkies identity card on the head back in the 80s wouldn't be Team Australians if Captain Abbott introduced a similar measure today.

And if you're muslim, you're a migrant whether you were born here or not. So says the Captain of Team Australia; a migrant himself."It's just going to let humans find other ways to and other excuses for their brutality."

There would however be less excuses.Well some excuses are better than others and you need buy-in from the mob for the truly terrible stuff. 

Obviously there's still a big pool of excuses out there. lol.
Indeed. Nationalism is another one of the biggies.

Interesting there doesn't seem to be a humanist amongst us. No harmonious, egalitarian Star Trek future ahead!An excellent argument against tyranny I would have thought. Class-enemy would be the best one. Not on Team Russia. etc.Those murderous atheist regimes you cite all subverted their people's religious instincts into cult of personalities (perhaps not so much Pol Pot).

It's the desire to surrender yourself to a utopian belief, and actively encourage faith rather than doubt, that leads to the horrors; whether they be secular or sacred ideologies.

If everyone was to ditch intolerant religious dogma, and not substitute it with intolerant secular dogma then the world would be a better place.

As for good and evil, they are defined within cultural norms and vary from group to group. So it's a no true Scotsman fallacy that you conclude with. Good to sacrifice humans according to some now defunct religions. Evil to be homosexual according to other, less defunct ones.

Fair enough @frangi - you've certainly made a good case.

The one caveat I'd provide is that not all ideologies are created equal. It's fair to say, I think, that you'd be hard-pressed to find many in your neighbourhood whose beliefs would justify, for them, the decapitation of innocents and that sort of thing though.

Not for the free market. Not to stop smokers. Not to save the forests.

But I suppose that thin veneer of civilisation can peel away pretty fast.Indeed, how can any value statement be made in a universe without an interventionist deity; or at least some set of noumenal exemplars?

Could just be the pragmatism of people favouring their liberty over the right to deprive others of theirs (given enough egality and resources to share around). An extension of the golden rule.


Depends how you define atheism.

How about the secular humanism that underpins liberal democracies?"Look within. That's where the root of all evil resides and that's where it needs to be confronted....there is hope..."

The problem however with much religion, and utopian secular ideologies as well, is that they can be used to justify acts of evil as acts of good. The zealous need not look within, already certain in the moral landscape that endorses their actions.

Faith is the enemy of doubt and self-reflection. Hitler probably thought he was a good guy. And the mob can sweep away the mere individual.

There is hope, but also no guarantees that things will actually get better.Well that's a lovely post @jimbob, thanks for your reply.

Would it be fair then to distinguish between the constraining faith of organisational dogma and orthodoxy, and that kind of faith that liberates us from the abyss? 

There's a marked, qualititative difference in a faith that refuses closed possibilities, and one that demands it?

Perhaps, as I think you say, both represent the ying and the yang of the same phenomena. That belief, like the language that underpins it, by necessity creates meaning through both genesis and the destruction of alternatives.

"I think we need to walk in faith on a journey of discovery"

The exercise is good for us. :)The answer is to participate in a UN resolution to intervene. It's not the anglosphere's job to unilaterally police the globe. We're terrible at it. 

Admittedly so is the UN, but that's the proper framework for these interventions.The left didn't cut billions in foreign aid.

Does it really have to be a left vs right thing?Sounds like a contradiction to me. 

Was propping up South Vietnam worthwhile or not?What's your point? You've not realised "New Labour", along with the Democrats and the ALP are right-wing?

This decision should be discussed in parliament. Wilkie is right. Discretionary war is far too significant to be left to cabinet.

"Recent history should act as a constraint on our humanitarian instincts and inform our understanding of what can be achieved in far off lands."

We neither intervened in Iraq nor Afghanistan for humanitarian reasons. That wasn't the casus belli proffered by the the neo-cons either time.

And what do you mean recent?

It's time the USA pulled it's head in, and proper UN-based multilateralism became the norm for resolving issues of this nature. The USA is incompetent at assymetric warfare and the 100-odd years it's been playing the regime-change game has, as you say, engendered much resentment against its people. For some good, but many terrible, outcomes.He's a citizen in a democracy. That makes him qualified.No-one's actually talking about how to win this "War on Terror". A war without victory conditions or a strategic plan.

Perhaps like Abbott's War on Drugs, it can't be won but can be lost.

Which should make wiser heads, who don't personally benefit from the status quo, question the whole basis of the paradigm.I know r- guilty until proven innocent. That's what we do now.They're not even that good at winning wars. Not so many runs on the board since WW2 anyway.Cooler heads prevailed; but they were US heads. Before Kerry poured cold water on the idea, our defence minister was making very hawkish noises.

Biffo and disasters are more exciting than the mundane business of preventing disease, road safety and reducing domestic violence.

As for the goodies vs baddies rhetoric for yet another foray into Iraq, if it's that morally unambiguous, the UN can get involved. This Anglosphere unilateralism, a form of neo-colonial economic imperialism, betrays what the USA used to stand for all those decades ago.

What are we doing in Afghanistan again? I seem to recall we invaded that country on the pretext Bin-Laden was there at some point. And then it morphed into some nation-building exercise somehow.
Morrison just triumphally announced we'd be taking in a bunch of Syrian refugees. Because he'd free up some places from some arbitrary (and not-legally binding) limit.

High immigration is a bipartisan policy.Drones are the way to go. Israel knows it; and you'd think they'd need to suck up to the USA more than us.Everyone cares about health. It's not a discretionary product.

We should be privatising water distribution by the same logic if you think otherwise.

"GDP grew by four per cent last year" is, in its own way, normative. Assuming normative hasn't taken on a special, contradictary meaning to its common use.

It legitimises a certain way of measuring economic progress. At the expense of other methodologies. Deconstruction 101.

And the dry economics doesn't necessarily make sense either.

As for the morality of user-pays, it's been interesting seeing the LNP get all post-modern and try and redefine the meaning of fairness. The problem being that, unlike many concepts, this one is rooted in instinct. As soon as things turn sour for the group, the instinctive meaning will reassert itself. Children know what fairness is; as do many other species of apes. And it's not what Hockey thinks it is.

No-one is an island. Some people may think they are when times are good. But it's an illusion. Even Rand found this out in the end.I agree, I think. :) It's the smooth interaction between tribalism and individualism that allows both great individuals to thrive, and groups to co-operate to build and use systems that are greater than the sum of their parts.

It's when we misapply co-operative approaches to solving problems best solved through competition and vice-versa that so many of these issues arise.

In terms of cost-effectivess, a nationalised health system provides far better outcomes; at a far cheaper cost. This is one area, like the provision of water and other essential, natural, monopolies, where a co-operative system focussed on service outcomes rather than private profit is superior.

Talk about price signals etc is just bunk. A means of co-opting language to pretend the market-place is the natural means for addressing this essential need.Agreed! And not for the last time either I'm sure. Have a good weekend.Seems relevant enough to the subject I would have thought. Credibility for those trying to justify policy through moral argument is crucial.

As for conservatives commenting here, could it be many are posting critically of this government as well? It's not just the ABC - seems to be a lot of criticism from a lot of quarters about many policy areas from people you'd identify as conservative.There's another country with those values. Which has a lower life expectancy and higher infant mortality rates, and yet spends more of both it's GDP and as individuals in an attempt to make your ideology manifest.

It's been an utter failure.And then there's the business about the billions going into private health insurance rebates which seems to have escaped any scrutiny whatsoever. 

And how all the price signals, efficacy (or lack thereof), and impact of that money might affect the sustainability of medicare; particularly with the move to repeal means-testing of these rebates.Yeap, drones all the way with Israel. They can see the writing on the wall - no-obsolete-before-it's-build joint strike fighters for them.Have you looked at a map Zing? 

If Russia and China ain't prepared to intervene in dealing with this international challenge, why would the US (and Australia).

Unless that's just a pretext for the usual reason the USA likes to meddle in the ME of course and they'd really rather the Russians and Chinese didn't get involved.My point is that if you think, as you assert, that it's our problem when our neighbours (on the other side of the world) house burns, you'd think Russia, China, India and the EU might be slightly more concerned. Given they're much closer and have bigger home-grown terrorism problems.

The EU just repealed their program to collect "limited telecommunications" metadata on their citizenry by the way.

Look at a map. Australia and the UK are acting the most threatened of everyone. Are we the most easily scared?In theory administering one system would be cheaper than the duplication involved in administering six. And there'd be more transparency as an outcome so we could better see who the crooks were.Thanks for covering this important and growing area of public policy. It's remarkable how little scope it's given in the national monologue given it does, or will, affect so many.

Based on previous commentary you've provided about the retirement industry (or elements of it), it definitely needs to be better regulated before customers turn up with wads of cash from the proceeds of the family home. Because it's pretty clear where said wads of cash would end up.Interesting analysis.

I would have to say that many of the concerns you vent could just as well apply to more mature democracies.

The Bushes and the Kennedys (and perhaps the Clintons) seem to reveal a similar preponderance for establishment figures bringing a dynastic flavour to the exercise of the democratic will.

"But this is surely not enough - elections are not just about keeping the reins of power from the worst candidates, but about the people's right and opportunity to select the leader who is the best."

That seems to be precisely what they're about here in Australia. There must be more idealism in the air over in Indo.
In other words Team America.
Seems, with home-grown terrorism growing at an allegedly alarming rate, probably makes sense not to deliberately antagonise people by cutting them out of the social safety net and preaching to them about what it means to be living in their country.

About 35% of Muslims are born in Australia. 0% of Tony Abbott was born here. Where does he get off?It says that hypocrisy knows no limits in my mind.

The last 2 out of 3 Australian PMs haven't been born here. It's time to change the law on that.Some privatisation is good. Some isn't.
Or the whole concept can be given the contempt it deserves and tossed on the scrap heap.

There's no Team China, or Team Greece. There's only Team America... and Abbott's usual exercise in reductionism.Talk is cheap. Especially from a politician. 

If he's that concerned about raising national unity, he should be acting in ways that do that. 

Rather than carry out the agenda he set out in Battlelines which explicity advocates increasing competition, breaking down public systems, and viewing differences in wealth distribution as a positive force.

Team Australia means team LNP. The guys who got reprimanded flying their party flag at a barracks in the election campaign. The guys who think there's such a thing as "un-Australian" reporting. Those guys.It's ironic that the only way Abbott might just succeed in achieving national unity by uniting everyone in their hatred for him and his un-Australian policies.False dichotomy. They're both creating division.Well said!Trying to bind us to his weird view of Australia, and exclude anyone who doesn't share that view.

This guy can't do a thing without some form of division or enemy.

Team Australia... gimme a break. Our nation is more than some game played in a corporate retreat.

And I'm guessing he's not a fan of the South Park guys, given the irony of the branding.Good point lolChristian ideology comes in a number of flavours.

And whilst mainstream Christianity is declining, the Pentacostal christians are on the rise.

They tend to have less respect for secularlism and represent the sorts of people who want Creationism in schools, abortions banned and a bible in every school-kid's hand.

A generalisation sure, but it's a different demographic from, say, the typical Anglican or Catholic.Good point. 

Would be interesting to see if the broader figures reflect the percentages in religious views held by our parliamentary representatives. I'm thinking a number of them don't belong on Team Australia....In Sydney, median house prices near railways are higher than elsewhere (perhaps not right next door to them).

Australians to some degree love cars because there's no alternative.

Public transport is incredibly cheap in China; even adjusted for the generally cheaper cost of living there. The government is trying to incentivise people to get off the road (including some fairly unsubtle measuers like issuing permits to only allow them to be driven every 2nd day in some areas).

Props to the Cold Coast for putting such a cheap light rail system in place.

Sydney on the other hand is incredibly expensive; although presumably with all the toll-roads etc, it's still not too bad. But a classic case of state governments using a monopoly to charge what the market will bear. And make deals on roads more attractive for their mates in PPPs.It's not even conservative. But a type of regressive radicalism.

We've had progressive taxation for 100 years. The ABC for 80-odd. But this mob wants to get rid of these venerable practices and institutions.

Any conservative worth their salt would do something about climate change.

Howard was conservative. Abbott's crew wants to unwind his policies (like the renewable energy target).

Says a lot.There was a big fuss made about an alleged $550 per year going to the Carbon tax. It was the major element justifying the regime change we experienced.

The projected cost of the fuel excise is $240 per year? Just under half. And yet nothing to see here.We need to stop voting in these careerist, institutionalised politicians. No amount of hand on heart bleating will lead to meaningful change within the cabal that run the ALP and LNP.

I can't think of anything more corrupt than getting a nice sinecure within an industry that you previously ministered to.

The Americans put a 10 year ban on that sort of behaviour. Think of the very generous superannuation entitlements as consideration for the extended gardening leave.

And why such a short statute of limitations - 3 years for corrupt conduct? It's 7 years for regular fraud I think; is corruption in public office not as bad as regular fraud or something?Yeah, favours in kind are a real worry. No money changes hands, but public policy is influenced.

I'm still wondering how Packer seems to have gotten a non-competitive tender and commercial-in-confidence approval to build a casino at Barangaroo. 

The commercial-in-confidence thing is a bit of a joke to.It is tainted money. A drop is the ocean of corruption these guys are engaged in.

It's out of NSW ICACs jurisdiction I believe. And without an obvious quid pro quo, probably too hard for the Federal cops.

But yes, it stinks.Estate / death taxes are inefficient. But they are wonderful for reducing the income gap; and for encouraging meritocracy.

You'd also need to tighten up trusts and private companies to stop rorting.

I think China just recently introduced a big estate tax.

By taxing spending, you encourage hoarding. And with the income progressively being funneled to the top, where it's hoarded at a higher rate, we're far more prone to low demand and recessions as an outcome.
No taxation without representation! :)We seem to be at a low-ebb with the quality of our political representation. But I'm not sure throwing them out of the process (and our democratic input) and replacing it with more technocracy is the answer.

No-one has proven that privatising natural monopolies and bringing competition to the provision of essential services is in the best long-term interests of the nation. And yet that's the orthodoxy the productivity commission keeps pushing on us. 

And you want more of these unaccountable functionaries pushing their agenda on us? I know monetary policy is administered this way, but the effectiveness of the RBA depends on its perceived independence.

There's no such requirement placed on the administration of fiscal policy.

I know you mounted a case for the GST and lost. Perhaps your esteem of the voter has accordingly taken a hit. Fair enough. But in a democracy, you make a case for change to the people and get their endorsement for it.How about introducing the Tobin Tax? 

Reduces short-term churn on markets; which adds no economic-value whatsoever. And raises revenue at the same time.Our legal system depends on everyone getting access to representation (well apart from asylum seekers apparently).

Abbott's attack on Banton, on the other hand, was truly despicable.lol - I guess they can bring Bernardi off the back-bench.Turnbull got more votes, and a bigger swing to him, in the seat of Wentworth than Abbott did in Waringah.

Thankfully for Abbott, it's the vote in the party room that matters. Good going Peter Slipper.Well said Dan. We definitely shouldn't be leading the charge of the light brigade. Play our part in the community of nations, sure, but not whatever's being going on lately.
You've been saying this for 6 months? But not the nine and a half years prior to then when she's held a ministry or shadow-ministry?

Are we getting to the shallow end of the pool?

I agree she's more articulate than the PM. By all means give her a go!

That was before the repeating crossing of their maritime borders which had the government attributing the incidents to the incompetence of our naval personnelhaha. You mean tackling climate change, building a better internet and regulating the cost of university education isn't something the "younger set" care about?

You think all those 20-somethings think governance is some crusty old conservative ideologue playing the patronising bean-counter.

And when they aspire to get a job, you think they might aspire to get a living wage? Perhaps even with which to buy a house on day?

Don't hear any noises from the LNP about housing affordability, reducing 457 visas or anything really that isn't punitive and paternalistic.Yes allegedly, a sovereign democratically-elected government might have put an oil embargo on Israel.

So obviously they had to go.

If there were no ramifications to any of these measures, then so be it. Realpolitik and all that.

But there's always cause and effect.
I suppose so. Noting Nasser actually got into a war with Israel; after having cracked down on the Brotherhood all those years ago. Being secular doesn't necessarily make regimes more friendly to "our" interests.

My point is that if political Islam is going to be properly mainstreamed; rather than kept resentful and under the thumb of military despots, they're going to need some space to try it out. Like Malaysia has been successfully doing for so long. And Turkey is now (not without a few problems).

Because if their political aspirations can't legitimately be exercised in the context of a democracy, and, more importantly, tested through the prism of the pragmatism that arises through civil governance, then it will remain an ideologically pure and dangerous rallying call for the disenfranchised.

"They weren't disenfranchised guys with socio religious political aspirations hoping to create a marvellous society via religious civil governance .... nor did they want a hug."

Many who voted for them were, and are, disenfranchised. That should hardly be surprising.

And many of those who were voted for did hold aspirations for realising a marvellous society via religious civil governance. I'm not sure why you'd think otherwise.

Agreed about Turkey - Ataturk was awesome.Like it or not, the Muslim Brotherhood had a democratic mandate. They may have not respected liberalism, secularlism, rights for minorities and other elements that many in the West pay lip-service to. Nevertheless, this party was deposed in a coup. Without a whimper from us democracy-lovers in the West.

The last time the Brotherhood were shut out of civil governance (by Nasser) and marginalised politically, they formented pan-Arabic ideology and modern terrorism. One might suggest that IS are a product of that work.

If Islamic leaders, with significant popular support, keep getting kicked out of civil and mainstream governance, what might we reasonably expect them to do instead?

And thus we'll happily see a democracy go down for a friendly dictatorship; once again. And reap the outcomes of that in 30 years; once again.
Yes, there needs to be a reformation.

No, it's not all the West's fault. Of course it isn't. Why the hyperbole?

I'm just saying that foreign intervention has ramifications; many of which aren't good. For the interveners and the intervenees.

We protect the Wahabbis against a nasty secular tyrant like Saddam. Ditch the MB for a nice secular tyrant like El-Sisi?

Are we allowed to hold the view that the merits of intervention depend on the specifics? Or is that not Team Australian?So did the Chinese. Islam poses a challenge for the Han as well. 

Don't see them spending blood and treasure in the ME. 

You actually think we're involved in whatever goes on there to fend off some civilisational existential threat?
It's interesting though because left-leaning and right-leaning bloggers didn't believe these words when they came out of the former AGs mouth. The same proposal (more or less) was ditched only two years ago.

But the same words come from Brandis, and now the right-leaning bloggers are on board? Or some of them at least.I'm intruiged by that, and do recall Abbott claiming Cabinet was the executive.

I had thought pollies were the legislature and the GG was the executive.The AFP endorsed this legislation when Labor tried to push it through as well. Perhaps they weren't doing the talk show circuit, but they nonetheless made their position known.

It's probably not fair to accuse the Coalition of politicising the ADF. The ADF have their own agenda. It's certainly fair to question their inconsistency though given they opposed this legislation when it was tabled two years ago.Not to mention that we employ the government, not the other way aroundAn excellent post. There's been many claims that the CIAs operational efficiency in the noughties was undermined by political appointments made to its management by Bush and Co.

Not to mention the empire-building jostling between the CIA, FBI, NSA and other agencies.

When ideologues occupy what should be apolitical positions (not that I'm suggesting this AFP spokesman's an ideologue), governance moves from evidence-based policy to cart-before-the-horse type policy.Gee @OUB, Big Brother or get out the type-writer eh? Some democracy.

You know the internet has been digital the whole time right? The powers-that-be trying to lock it down and oversee it is probably ienvitable but the degree to which they succeed in that isn't.

There's been laws introduced in various places to collate data about analog media as well by the way."Yet nobody cares when they sell this information to anyone with the cash."

Plenty of people care. We'd actually like our employees in parliament to do something about it. Rather than getting in on the act on behalf of their VIP constituents.Be even easier if we implant everyone with a chip and get their dna on file at birth.

There's a lot less cctv cameras in Germany than the UK and here. And yet I don't think they're more prone to train-bombing incidents as a consequence.From what little I know about the proposed TPP, it's not there to prevent laws being passed, which as you say cannot isn't valid, but rather will have provisions that corporations can invoke to sue us for any damages that the introduction of such laws might cause them. Presumably Australian companies will have requisite rights in the USA.

Companies want to be insulated from sovereign risk.

Examples of where such things might apply include the loss of sales arising from laws proscribing plain packaging for cigarettes. Or the morotorium on CSG imposed by the O'Farrell government despite the previous issuing of grants.
Nothing, hackers regularly do just that.

There's less metadata to hack however. As it's not in ISPs commercial interests to retain the ton of metadata that the government wants them to.
Spurr has taken New Matilda to the courts.

Brandis has ruled out a tort of privacy.

Forcing two years storage of metadata on every Australian citizen is hardly a "minor breach of privacy".

Why not hold the government, and "opposition", responsible for their laws? Rather than powerless people posting here? It's not like any of us got to vote on any of this.No, if New Matilda have been hacking into emails, I hope the responsible agents get prosecuted to the full extent of the law. If a recipient of those emails betrayed their trust, that's slightly different in my mind. Don't send emails to someone if they're potentially incriminating and you don't trust them!

Until New Matilda have the power to detain me without charge, and search my house without a warrant, and possibly inprison me, I'll be slightly more concerned about those that agencies that do. You won't see these calls along those lines by this author, because he represents corporations who profit by doing these things.

There should be a tort for privacy. It should be enshrined in a Bill of Rights, along with habeus data provisions.

If something's not being talked about here, that doesn't readers don't care about it.Has there ever been a "left" government in NSW? Governor Bligh perhaps. But not Bob Carr.

Conroy is right wing btw.

It was Howard government, and now Abbott, that's giving us that list of horrors you've set out.

You forgot to mention Roxon's moves to force ISPs to store 2 years of citizens' metadata when she floated that boat 2 years ago. I suppose you supported those measures back then?

Expression your dissatisfaction at the ballot box and put the anti-citizen, pro-corporate LNP/ALP last.Even better, we could just use the internet and our phones without the privilege of having to pay taxes, or extra charges, to have the government store our metadata.

Like we've been doing the last 20 years.

Or is money no object now the budget emergency got fixed and we're all flush with cash from the repeal of the Carbon Tax?I'm wondering what the NSW Libs got out of the tender-free, commercial-in-confidence deal to let Packer build a casino on public land.

Both sides stink.Good points @Iggy. 

Much better to vote Labor or Liberal. Those guys are awesome...


Without knowing the consequences of letting Hussein smack down the Emirates, or leaving the Sandanistas to run Nicaragua, or Allende to run Chile, or Mubarak to run Egypt etc it's a little hard to conclude it's a better outcome for the USA.

Many Sth American nations are firmly arrayed against USA imperial interests NOW as a consequence of moves made decades ago.

Regardless, it would be hard to suggest that the intervention of the USA on behalf of their corporate interests "worked" for the Mayan people in Guatamala. Or that support for the Muhajadeen and Saudi exports operating in Afghanistan was repercussion-free.I'll hold up such a placard.

You've never been safer. The cold war is over. Violent crime is down.
"Arguably not trustworthy"

I'd love to see someone argue this government is trustworthy.

Hockey will be playing the role of Santa in 2016, handing out presents for all the good children.By inference, members of the House of Representatives should represent their constituents and not blindly follow party lines either.
They were wedged because they opposed the fuel index hike, despite, as you say, such a thing being consistent with their fundamental ideology.

Not sure how that's the ABCs fault. You seem to be agreeing with the author's point, and simultaneously castigating him for making it?From an efficiency perspective, it really shouldn't matter how regressive the tax system is; as long as it's simple and effective. It's the spending measures that count.

Obviously taxing consumption does leave an economy more open to recessionary pressure. Adding a disincentive to spend reduces consumer's propensity to consume; rather than hoard, in bearish environments.

But you can compensate for that by indulging in a population ponzi scheme like Australia does.

Sadly though you are correct. Governments, of either flavour, can't be trusted to guarantee equity through progressive redistribution measures.

And thus, we should bring back estate taxes. One of the most inefficient taxes, and yet does wonders for reducing wealth inequality and encouraging merit and equity.People probably do expect the prospect of a consumption tax to be inevitable given we've had one for the last decade or so... :)"Agree with our proposal or the revenue raised is going to the oil companies".

Think they might all know a little about blackmail.The other difference is we don't have a Bill of Rights. There's simply some things the governmnet over there just can't do (legally).No. I am blaming the government. The opposition. And the people who support this legislation.2 years mandatory storage of your metadata by ISPs is a world of difference to the current regime.

And why you think data-mining and analytics undertaken by private corporations presents a fait-accompli for government to do the same is beyond me. The government should be regulating corporate behaviour, not trying to emulate it.

At least companies can't search your place without a warrant, or detain you without charge. Well at least not yet.

"Lets recognise that we live in an electronics age where the notion of privacy we used to believe in, no longer exist."

No. The Europeans don't accept your defeatism. Nor do many South American nations. Nor do I.Privacy is a form of freedom. 

Who voted for all this Big Brother bs? Australia said no when the Labor party tabled it two years ago.

There is no mandate for this - a pox on both sides of both houses.Good advice.

But even before the internet, lawyers were counselling the up-and-comers not to document things which might be incriminating. Even under the potential shield of privilege.

Whether in a memorandum with a quill, or via stenography.

Doesn't mean it's cool for Big Brother to read people's letters. Or what's on the envelope, or the first sentence, or whatever the regulations deem metadata to be in due course.

Nor that bad legislation shouldn't be resisted.Except that wealth inequality went to historically low levels after the introduction of the welfare state.

And now it's been unwound, wealth inequality is heading back to the levels it was at during the industrial revolution.

You should be arguing that wealth inequality is a good thing; as Abbott did in Battlelines, rather than this bizarre thing you keep trying on that contradicts the evidence.

Rising tides may float all boats, but the trickle-down effect is only ever going to trickle (best case).Despite the ongoing stories about yet more public sector cuts, and DGs being usurped by party spin doctors etc, government, in terms of the legislation it enacts, general scope etc, is very extensive.

In fact, apart from your right to choose between two different flavours of the same thing, you are more highly regulated living in Australia than even places like China.

Especially, ironically perhaps, under a "Conservative" government. Those types don't like freedom of speech, freedom of movement, freedom to protest etc. They'll raise taxes, especially levies, user-pays devices and regressive taxes, and used your hard-earned to pre-emptively spy on you, pay rich people to breed and subside the likes of Goldman Sachs to undertake medical research.Or starving to deathThey just raised the minimum wage in Washington state. And business is up. Turns out your average punter needs a bit of disposable income to buy stuff with.

Because the trillionaires out there simply can't consume enough by themselves.

Karl Marx nailed that.

As our government keenly emulates the failure of their health, education and IR systems (with Murdoch's blessing and support), it seems there's some nascent thinking over the pond about how they might reform them into something else.Whereas you seem to think that the opportunities to make money, and the affordability of education and housing etc are, somehow constants that have no bearing on the discussion.

The economy has changed. Things are more difficult now; for youths in particular. It's a problem with all developed nations. Things are more competitive now.

And we get, by way of public policy, a government that excacerbates this to improve profitability for estalished interests.

And then words of wisdom from the likes of you saying these world-wide problems arise because young people are lazier than you. Which is ironically pretty lazy.Learning is set to become more expensive. And the prospect for earning, increasingly limited in possibilities and renumeration due to the automation of much labor, and the outsourcing of much more, to poorer countires.

All policies endorsed by our current goverrnment, and supported by the Murdoch papers.

"We look after those that look after themselves" is the contradictory catch cry. Reward those with means for their efforts (or circumstances). Punish the poor. And then wonder why people cut out of the social contract might wash their hands of society.

The problem is not of Murdoch's making, but the policies he's been endorsing exacerbate it.40% of the rioters were anglos. The positive correlations were that the rioters tended to be young, poor and less educated.

Good thing our government is making education more expensive and looking to minimise wages and penalties for young people..."Theere is no real chance that professionals who work hard to repay loans will give worse service. In fact it is likely that they will give better service because they will be highly motivated people who wanted to succeed despite the cost."

Highly motivated to get some return on investment you mean. Like that doctor in the USA prescribing chemo for patients without cancer.

We've heard these self-serving arguments before. As if barriers to entry do anything other than encourage worse service. You put financial hurdles in the way of those with talent but no means, you end up protecting the privileged (who's parents absorb the cost).Equality of opportunity is superior to equality of outcomes. There's a reason communism isn't challenging the dominant paradigm anymore.May as well spend more then. And make the government less accountable.

just in case.How many Australian youths will be radicalised by IS ideology in part because they've been cut out of the social safety net after 6 months in an economy that pays no regard to rising youth unemployment?If anything, as a cause of death it's slipped since the September 11 attacks. 

And remains a drop in the ocean compared to the 10,000 odd Americans killed by Americans every year.

What is the political intent of the attacks? Do you think it's working?If the object of these attacks is to incite our intervention, and perpetuate their narrative about Islam being a victim of Western imperialism then we've been very accomodating.

If the object was for the West to ditch liberalism then, in the anglo-sphere at least, we've been very accomodating.

If the political objective was to have us treat them as the scariest thing since the Soviet Union then mission accomplished.

Perhaps you like to act precisely in the manner your enemies want you to.Give it a year or two @Craig. We've had the Brandis dusting off Roxon's metadata surveillance legislation. 

The election eve, quickly retracted, opt-out internet filter will be tabled again in oringal Conroy'esque glory; rebranded by the LNP as necessary for national security reasons.I think it happens at about the same time that vested and more proximate "constituents" persuade politicians that serving the citizenry is a means to an end, and not an end unto itself. If they haven't come to that conclusion already of course.The government wants 2 years of everyone's metadata on record as a feature of civil society into perpetuity. And you think that's proportionate.

Did you think it was proportionate in 2012 when the government of the day proposed it then? Or is it the emergence of IS that has caused you to rethink your position?

Do you think the attack on press freedom and the jailing of journalists who report on whatever matters the AG of the day deems an "SIO" is proportionate as well? Where such operations where spies are indemnified from committing illegal acts?

Do you like the attack on free speech where the government can get you thrown in jail for saying things they deem pro-terrorist? Even when they don't incite violence?

I guess you trust the government more than I do.We're going to have some nice Government-backed PPL for the mothers of the land to pay them a replacement salary while they improve their productivity by taking time off work.

And subsidise their nannies when they do go back to the office.

The Liberal Party. Smaller government, respecting your freedoms.The only correlation is the government is somehow proposing these two inconsistent measures. 

Props to you sir for rejecting that inconsistency."Have a look at the Ebola crisis for instance, not one article taking taking the commonsense road of not send people into the hotspots"

Like Iraq?Thinking these laws are disproportionate to the threat doesn't make you a terrorist apologist.

And refusing to drink the jihadi cool-aid doesn't mean you have to be happy drinking whatever those clowns in the Liberal and Labor parties are pouring down your throat.

Funny, no-one was that scared when Roxon floated some of these measures in 2012. Told her to get stuffed. But now big, bad, scary IS pops their heads up and it's illegal to report on intelligence operations. And the government wants 2 years of your metadata history on record.
"And most of all, my car has not of yet tried to force a radical ideology on me."

Are you finding that people are often trying to force their radical ideologies on you?That's a weird version of Pascal's wager. 

A one-in-a-million chance of my life for OUR liberties is a wager that I'm prepared to accept however.Yes I appreciate that. It's Pascal's wager.

It's not the costs that concern me; despite the fact that every dollar spent is a dollar not spent on kids with cancer in hospitals, supporting disenfranchised and easily radicalised youths, building sovereign wealth etc. 

But when the sanctity of protecting innocents runs up against the sanctity of the tenets of our civilisation and liberal democracy, we need to be very careful.

No-one voted for these measures. No-one has demonstrated that they're fit for purpose. It's easy to see how they're fit for abuse. It's foolish to remove oversight and transparency for our employees in government; you wouldn't do such a thing in private enterprise that's for sure.

Safety is important, but would you be prepared to sacrifice ALL our civil rights to achieve a greater measure of it? You'll never be completely safe. But you can always be made a slave of the state.
I opposed the metadata retention laws when Roxon floated them back in 2012. Did you?

What's changed since then?Terrorist incidents increased a hundred fold after two events: the casting out of the Muslim brotherhood by Nasser, and the huge windfall to OPEC after they formed the cartel (including our so-called mates in Saudi Arabia).

With the brotherhood now deposed by a coup, without a word of objection from us democracy-lovers no less, I worry to think what the outcomes of them being evicted from civil governance will lead to.

Incidentally, our involvement in Afghanistan in now our longest engagement in Australian history? I still don't even know how we ended up there. Does anyone?
If it's all so obvious, you'd think one of our overlords might actually have a strategy for how to win this War on Terror.

Tumbleweeds...You've got less chance of being murdered now than at almost anytime in our history.

There's far greater threats to your well-being out there.
Or speculating about his daughter's scholarshipYes I did. 

Apparently, for the purpose of allocating scholarships, merit there is assessed on something other than actual marks.

It stinks.Indeed, the MD is a Liberal Party donor. Nothing wrong with that, but if this private college starts getting taxpayer money under an Abbott government, there's certainly some issues of propriety there.

Time for a Federal ICAC. It's been helping in NSW. There's simply too many conflicts of interest; whether legal or not.Regressive politics of the left eh? By inference you're suggesting the right are progressive presumably?

You've got it back the front.It's not entirely fair to blame Whitlam for the stagflation crisis that OPEC inflicted on the West in the 70s.Didn't the Greens oppose the GST? The Democrats agreed to it in the end.

If you read their policies, their ideology may become clearer. Seem pretty progressive to me: social liberty and economic regulation. Not big on foreign wars either.

Doesn't seem inconsistent with what Whitlam either did or endeavored to do.

The Liberals juggle between their libertarian views and their conservative ones. Leading to some strange bits of policy dissonance. The only liberty they seem to advocate now is the liberty to make a buck. Outside that it's all swords, bibles and playing the protector.And when corporate lobby groups get that untapped market cannabis legalised, you'll see the Greens vindicated on that one also.Damned if they do, damned if they don't.

The problem with being impure now is that basically translates into policies aimed at the swinging seats and satisfying vested interests.

Must we really expect all parties to adopt this approach? The amount of bipartisan policy out there is staggering. And much of it isn't really that popular; including a commitment to a "big Australia" and the ongoing privatisation of profitable state assets.

If we're to have pluralism in the political discourse beyond the Coles/Woolies war, why not ease up a bit on your misfounded critique? No-one, including the Greens, expects them to be forming government anytime soon. They represent their constituents. They're providing some alternate narratives.

That should be enough."For mine my enemies the Greens come to a position internally and then they deny the validity of any alternative point of view."

That's a reasonable observation. But I don't see how it's not applicable to the mainstream as well; as I think you yourself allude to in the sense that those competing interests aren't really, currently, subject to public scrutiny.

Which might ironically suggest you'd support things like our intervention in Iraq being the subject of some parliamentary discussion as to the merits and lack thereof of such involvement. Rather than being merely a matter for the cabinet and shadow-cabinet to discuss amongst themselves.


If it accomplishes nothing, what's the point of our hard-earneds funding it?

And retrospective legislation is an affront to the rule of law. As it was at Nuremberg.Neither of those cited benefits concerns the rehabilitation of the offender. 

Nor have either of those things been shown to arise from this policy anyway.


Bearing in mind that most sexual assaults are done by family members.

But more generally it's that lynch mob vigilante sentiment that you've expressed which is one of the many problems with this proposal - that sort of thing shouldn't be facilitated the law of the land.
You'd think even if you didn't accept the consensus, that it might nevertheless be sensible to hedge your bets a bit given the stakes.

People buy car insurance after-all. And without even one mechanic telling them they're going to crash into something.
If a group of scientists crunched the numbers and determined with high probability that a civilisation-destroying meteor was heading Earth's way, you'd not mitigate the threat because we didn't make the meteor?Sorry but it's not un-Australian for opinionistas to question whether a politician's utterances are either correct or appropriate. 

Free speech and all that stuff that some people purportedly love; except when it doesn't suit them apparently.

ABC funding cuts - another broken election promise.Many people are already.They have user-pays in the USA. People aren't healthier there.Everyone is treated the same under many of these laws. The distinction is in your own mind.

Regardless, the point here is what's the hurry? Why not be a little more deliberate and methodological about the whole process? 

The laws are wide-ranging in scope and have a lot of potential for abuse. Isn't it worth spending a little more time to ensure they're done properly?The Senate makes our states equal in the Federation, despite their respective populations.

Undemocratic per-capita. But, given it's proportional, still more democratic than the preferential system that plagues the lower house.That shouldn't be the case. We allegedly have some individual rights in the Constitution that the mob can't take from us.

But I'd rather see them all set out unambiguously in a Bill of Rights for the avoidance of doubt.Why not proportional? Why does someone's second choice get equal weighting to someone else's first choice?That's ironic when "private schools" get to enjoy their values despite massive taxpayer subsidies. And corporations in general get human rights.

We're still a major share-holder in Qantas. And yet the PM isn't in the business of running airlines and certainly couldn't criticise Joyce's abysmal performance.

But Pyne gets a say in the governance of the ANU...$7K per student sounds like a massive subsidy to me.There is however something liberating about surrender. If you don't have choice you don't have regret.

Too much choice can be depressing.
"And I wonder about the hearts of those who seek to disabuse the simple faithful of their 'wrongheadedness'. How arrogant is that?"

In my limited observation, anti-theism is a reaction to theism. Particularly the prosetylising variety where the hearts of the believers seek to disabuse the non-believers (and other-believers) of their 'wrongheadedness".

You won't find many Australians having a go at the Buddists. But plenty who are opposed to the political agenda of the author, the ACL and the parliamentarians who assert their values over all of us, whether we like it or not.No, with respect, but that's not it. Christianity has its own strong tradition of reason with their history. Sourced in large part from Aristotle, a near contemporary of that mystic Buddha. The theodicies of St Augustine are rational. As are those of Lewis Caroll,  and Platinga more recently (among heaps of others).

It was Christian reason that built much of the Enlightenment.

The axioms, and reason derived from them, within both Buddhism and Christianity are unprovable.

The arrogance of anti-theists doesn't reject one or the other based on their inherit reasonableness. But rather on the degree to which their subscribers force their values upon others.Buddhism still makes metaphysical assertions that are equally unprovable. No-one can prove that karma, dharma etc are less illusionary than any other truth claim. :)


Except that the overwhelming majority of people involved in the movement were Christian...Yeap. Arguably the Reformation (and Counter-Reformation) made the ground fertile for the Enlightenment as well. As did geography, economics and a lot of other things.

You seem to be asserting that faith-based thinking is the antithesis of empiricism, the Scientific Method and reason. Despite all the evidence to the contrary.

Perhaps those seek answers to questions are capable of doing so in two magesteria?
"Of course it is difficult to prove conclusively instances of terrorists threats when ongoing surveillance is preventing such occurrences"

Just a little evidence would be nice though wouldn't it? Before the government treats every Australian citizen as a potential terrorist.

In what scenario do you envisage that the existing laws aren't fit for purpose anyway?
No, it's not mere semantics. We're talking about the right to control information about you. That's essentially what privacy is. It may not be because it's something you should hide; on that point the Senator is wrong.

These laws allow the state to control your information, at least unless you implement counter-measures or make sacrifices. If you're caught up as a 3rd party in a warrant, what's to stop an agency sharing your information with another one? Or a private interest?

We need a Bill of Rights. And we need habeus data to be a part of that. The Europeans and many South American nations get it. Apparently people need to be really shafted by the state before they appreciate what human rights actually are!Some of us believe in small government. And that privacy is a good thing.May as well let the government tap phones without warrants and read our snail mail while we're at it. 

Where does it stop?Thanks once again for speaking up for liberty Mr Leyonhjelm. You seem to be a lone voice in a parliament full of nanny-statists and control freaks.

As the business of government becomes less transparent, it in turn increasingly imposes upon our privacy and protections from it. This marks a steady shift of power away from the citizenry to the state. 

And with the blessings of those who trust their governments to act in their best interests no less.Not all budget measures concerned welfare payments though. It was also proposals to introduce regressive measures such as the GP Co-payment and the hike in the fuel excise levy that disproportionately affected those with the least means.Hi Freddie - for the record, the fuel excise hike is a good move. The GP co-payment not so good.

Regardless, both are regressive. The user-pays elements is a flat rate, not a proportional one. And hence its impact is disproportionately borne by those with less means. I'm aware that there were some compensation measures in place.

But quite frankly, I wouldn't trust either mob not to fiddle around with them once universal access to the gatekeepers of our health system was undermined.

Another one, which is a biggie, is the proposed indexing of HECS to the bond rate. Something that has been demonstrated to lead to the greater costs being slated back to those with the least means.

Was there any permanent budget measure that disproportionately affected the wealthy more than the less wealthy? There was a strictly temporary "deficit levy". And a strictly temporary pay-freeze on pollies' base salaries. But anything lasting?And many were born into their wealth. This is the problem when you ascribe moral virtue or lack thereof to someone's socio-economic status.I think the wealthy weren't getting their "private" health insurance rebates above a certain limit.

The LNP weren't happy. Despite the budget emergency.

That means testing is going to be repealed I believe (if it hasn't been already).Be interesting to see how the proposed $5 billion + p/a spent on the new PPL, and the additional funds spent subsidising nannies, impacts the analysis.

It's surreal that conservatives can bleat about welfare, while overseeing the ongoing expansion of middle-class welfare. 
"Would it be less biased if they were mainly pro LNP?"

Only if it's the reactionary wing of the party.

According to @Gregory above, Mark Scott, former staffer to the Greiner government, is leftist.
You'd think political parties would have a "charter to uphold" when it comes to delivering on election promises like not cutting funding to the ABC.

Seems you're picking and choosing.What's the difference between populist and popular? 

Seems many Australians like a universal medical and education system. If the LNP keep getting stuck into it, particularly when they're coughing up extra of our hard-earneds so rich people will have more babies, it doesn't matter if that dissaitsfaction leads voters to Labor or elsewhere.

A minority in the House of Reps and the Senate? Could be pretty brutal.Well said. 

Even proportional representation in the lower house would be better than this preferential nonsense that sees us swapping back-and-forth between two cabals of lawyers and their teams of spin-doctors.So trust democracy but not our representatives. Sounds like representative democracy might be the problem, not democracy itself.
Everyone talks of efficiency and not effectiveness. The journey gets more priority than the destination.
Except that there's such things as natural monopolies where competition decreases, rather than increases, efficiency.

Natural monopolies in the hands of a entity with a profit motive just leads to extortion and profiteering.

Perhaps unsurprisingly given the motive is to profit, rather than, say, deliver good service.

Do you really think it would be cheaper for example if water utilities got delivered through a private entity? Perhaps an outfit like Australian Water Holdings?You'd be surprised just how cushy and protected life can be in a big private organisation. Plenty more job security in a big bank than a government department at the moment.Seems pretty arbitrary that senators can be ministers but not prime-ministers.You didn't notice that Howard was one of the biggest redistributors of the lot?

The guy who introduced the GST. And middle-class welfare.As long as we can do the same with pollies' world-class renumeration.

Makes you wonder about CEOs as wellWell don't know about @brief but there's plenty to rail against.

I want the Press to be able to report on intelligence matters where they're in the public interest.

I don't want my metadata retained for two years on the off-chance government may want to poke around.

I don't want government employees hacking into my computer because it happens to be on the same "network" as some suspect or person of interest.

In fact, I don't want any of the big brother apparatus that the Labor and Liberal parties just foisted on us. The case wasn't made for it.

And bring back fireworks while we're at it!It was Pell that tanked the last proposal to get a Bill of Rights in place. Which might have stopped the worst excesses of the Big Brother legislation that just got dumped on us.Some kind of event is inevitable. Regardless of all the superfluous legislation that turns us bit by bit into a police state.

How much freedom are you willing to trade-off for security?There's a lot of evidence supporting the idea that gun control saves many lives. 

The same can't be said for the latest suite of anti-terrorism legislation.There's things which kill far more Australians.

And no-one really demonstrated how the latest round of laws would have prevented those cops getting stabbed in Melbourne. Or whether they add any value whatsoever to accomplishing their stated objectives."This appears to be much less about protecting children and much more about attacking the church."

The RC isn't the victim in all this. Get real.Whilst Christians like the ACL impose their political views over us all and Islam doesn't, then there's no double-standard.

MPs are Christian at a disproportionately higher rate than the community. And it affects the quality of their representation; just look at Kevin Andrews and voluntary euthanasia.

Anti-theistic backlash is the price you pay. Islam isn't forcing their views upon us, at least yet. Your mob is. Get some perspective.My values are liberal, people can freely do what they like if it doesn't cause harm to others.

Just because our mates in Saudi Arabia have a state-sanctioned dress code for their women, doesn't mean we should.The Fair-Go is increasingly becoming one as well.Fairness is a bit problematic 

Perhaps a more useful consideration is whether there's a trade-off around maximising meritocracy without discouraging the exercise of merit by punitive redistributive policies?

It's pretty hard to argue that meritocracy isn't a worthy goal. Even as a hypocrite born into the privilege afforded by first world living. :)
"I wish people like Bernardi and Lambie would find genuine issues to become involved in."

Be careful what you wish for Macolm!You needn't be confused. Our culture doesn't represent those values.Well people who segregate themselves from us are exercising their individual choice in the matter. If they're being forced into it, that's a whole different matter of course.

To the extent we're liberal (which is what I mean by "our culture") we respect individuals to make choices.

It's not causing anyone else harm is it? Is it really any of your business?
It works, but it's inelastic, due to the addictive nature of the product. Which is why the government still gets additional revenue from hiking taxes.

If prices were elastic, the government would be better off just making smoking illegal.

And then the author could get onto repressing other deleterious and self-harming activities that people engage in.What convinced you?You're over-looking the null hypothesis.

Non-smokers get sick and die as well. 

Apparently that argument is morally deprecated because the author says so, but it didn't stop non-smokers using this reasoning since they crossed from legitimate issues aaround third-party harm, to patriarchal positions around protecting people from themselves.Pro-science is irrelevant. Science is a means to an end. It informs decisions. It certainly doesn't have the authority, in itself, to prevent individuals from engaging in risky and harmful behaviours against their will.

Science likewise doesn't have anything to say about why increasingly longevity is necessarily a more important goal than allowing individuals the discretion to engage in risky and harmful behaviours.

To trivialise that sovereignity as some Objectivist flight of fancy is to trivialise what much of the Enlightenment was about.

I'm surprised how much fascist thought is going on in this supposedly free nation.Excellent point. There's nothing generous about paying taxes. It's done under compulsion!That comes down to faulty logic. The conclusion doesn't follow from the premise.Or he could just introduce an ETS like Howard, Turnbull and Abbott (at one point) thought was a good idea.Laugh away while the Liberal party continue to undermine habeus corpus, the rule of law and the separation of powers. Hobbes and Locke would I'm sure be just as amused (not).

This is a paradigm shift and you just don't get it. Which is sad for all of us.Yes I know, you learnt that in 1st year.

Preventative detention orders mean law enforcement can detain you without charge for weeks. Not just 24 hrs. Without a lawyer as well. Where's the habeus corpus there?

The AG is now in the business of issuing warrants.

The AG decrees that people can commit otherwise illegal acts at his discretion. No probs there?

Yeah, it's still fun partying. But getting a bit old for that on a school night.

This is serious stuff.

Just because you're unaware of the sort of sophisiticated monitoring and data-mining technology out there means nothing.

Now keep a straight face and tell me that the Liberal Party believe in small government and individual liberty.I despair. Our Attorney General, who's allegedly written two book on Liberalism, is going to usher in the age of Minority Report.

Doing more harm to our liberty than the Eddie Obeid ever could. And sleeping well at night not even realising...

Keep up the good fight @super - even if it is futile.
There's machines that do lawyers jobs now. I don't think you get it. We're talking Minority Report level technology here, not the satire of Brazil.

Computer programs analyze the data. It's called analytics and is a massive growth area. And for good reason: it works.

I think Brandis' proud ignorance of the technology is driving his certainties as well. That's the kindest interpretation I have for both of you anyway.What a perverse joke.

Newman answers to the people of Queensland.

The mob in Federal parliament should concern themselves with their own incompetencies. They can stay well within their jurisidiction by instituting a Federal ICAC.Whinging about whingers. Well-played sir.Argentina made the mistake of issuing their bond offering, or similar mechanism, in New York. 

Which means they're subject to US law when it comes to defaulting on these offerings."The core business of politicians should not be "winning elections" at the expense of sincerity. Their core business should be to sincerely present an option. Politicians are letting us down."

I agree, but that takes some kind of bipartisan commitment to abide by such standards. 

Wasn't Hewson the last guy to try the latter option? Look how he got rewarded for his troubles; by us, the public.
I do. But there's no effective way to sanction such behaviour given the all-or-nothing nature of bipolar politics. 

It's like the bizarre bit of theatre we get every election cycle where any trivial little bit of policy gets imbued with some "mandate", despite our democracy being "Table d'h?te" rather than "a la carte".

You'd think maybe we could have a binding plebiscite sometime? Maybe like on whether Australians favour the institution of a Federal ICAC.

Our mix of Westminster and the American approach to representative democracy is definitely under pressure. And for good reason. If there aren't some systemic changes made, I think we'll have to be content with many more independents in parliament. Which sounds better than the status quo to me at least.But we don't get to vote for policy: it's a range of promised policies - half of which get taken off the table post-election and then a whole lot of surprise offerings later on.

This is interesting, and party "discipline" over-riding an MPs duty to represent their constituents will does seem problematic. It is noteworthy though that in the USA reps frequently cross the floor against their parties position.

And yet their political system seems co-opted as well. Perhaps it's more to do with the, on average, 60 dedicated lobbyists that each member of Congress and the Senate gets assigned to work on them?Infomerical passed off as news. Embedded, native advertising. Something Media-Watch keeps returning to. They criticised the BBC and the Guardian for the same thing.

Blurring the lines between opinion and news is bad enough. Blurring it between news and advertising is even worse.

An industry-wide trend, and a concern.

But laugh away.Seeing everyone high-fiving at the repeal of two taxes sure invited some cognitive dissonance.The ABC is an institution Australians trust. Much more than they trust the ALP or the LNP.

It's been there longer than the Liberal Party. And has been a unifying cultural force for our nation and national identity over many, many decades.

I'm calling you un-Australian. Whatever that's supposed to mean.Guess that's why they're cutting taxes? Introducing middle-class welfare like PPL where the richer you are, the more you get.

Simple.We could cut 5 ABCs and almost pay for Abbott's PPL. Another 4 ABCs will get us Direct Action.
"How stupid the government would have to be to pay for the media service using the taxpayers money to embarrass our country with our neighbours"

Some of our neighbours might have been impressed by the liberty of our nation and how we can freely hold our government to account without fear or favour.

That's it's own form of soft power.Perhaps we might rethink mightly GDP growth as the one-and-only measurement of economic progress; or at least supplement it with other measurements? Even GDP-per-capita would be better.No it's not.A bill of rights sure couldn't hurt. It was advocacy by Cardinal Pell that killed it the last time it was floated.

Nevertheless, this hasn't stopped the USA becoming a militarised, surveillance state. So I'm not sure it's worth that much.Well put, but I'm not sure about survival of the fittest bit. The US, like industrialising Britain, is less egalitarian, not more.

Survival of the privileged is probably more acurate.The "left" tend to be liberal with respect to social rights and authoritarian with respect to economic rights.

The "right" are the converse.

The Liberal Party are just as authoritarian as the Labor Party; just with slightly different priorities.

Those who are liberal in both domains are sadly under-represented. Perhaps that will change with time. That LDP guy got in on a misunderstanding. But hopefully his conduct with garner more support for his position!Of course the government itself is populated by lawyers. The separation of powers is counter-balanced by collegiality; the odd spat notwithstanding.

How to reconcile a parliament of the people by the people for the people, with representative democracy and a class of professional representatives? Our MPs are cut from a very narrow mold."however the Government of the day would be quite stupid to meaningfully go about frightening people."

All it takes is an iphone and blah blah blah. What was the point of that comment if not to frighten people? What are we actually supposed to do with a terror level anyway? Bring an umbrella?

Fear is a more powerful motivator than love, as Machiavelli commented in his handbook for princes.

The LNP have no problems playing politics. It's the one thing they're good at.He found some money for some ballet company in these tough fiscal times. There's your arts right there.Not to mention even the Chinese Communist Party had a ballet company at one point... :)If by the "left" you're including well-known progressives like Tony Abbott you'd be right.

Multiculturalism is bipartisan policy.

When Lambie forms a break-away party you can vote for her.The metadata retention laws are the same as the ones proposed by Labor in 2012.

The world of course is sooo much scarier now that there's tens of Australians fighting for IS.

Don't know when Conroy's term is up, but the ALP will get in eventually.
