Indonesia has about 254,000,000 people, the majority of whom are Muslim. The vast majority live in peace.

If the lies of the haters were true then we would have been at war with Indonesia for over 200 years as the violent hordes descended on us. We would have been fighting for our lives not living in prosperity (most of us prosper).Nothing wrong with being Jewish. All are welcome as far as I am concerned. There are too many great people of Jewish extract throughout history and also living currently. Artists, philosophers, musicians, scientists and many other fields of endeavour have great Jewish people in their ranks. The world would be a poorer place without the contributions of Jews to civilisation. 

If you express violent, right wing, racist views that support the subjugation of the Palestinians and the theft of their land and the murder of their children, then that is a completely different thing.With close to 10% of jobs in Australia being held by temporary visas, our unemployment rate has been created by Australian political decisions, not the US.Laws will not stop racism but they will certainly stop people publishing fact free rants and abuse thus encouraging other people to air their nasty side.

There was a time it was 'acceptable' for a man to give his wife a bit of rough to keep her in line or that rape was acceptable in marriage. Laws have made that unacceptable. It hasn't stopped violence completely but it does make them pause for thought before committing a crime.

Racism is the same. Once it was acceptable to belittle and spread lies about people of different races, in some cases it was a game in the pub to see who could be the most disgusting. Do we really want to encourage the return of those days for some right wing utopian version of 'free speech'? Right wingers are happy to silence all opposition by many different ways if the truth does not suit their agenda and they are happy to outright lie when it does. Both are bad for society so 'free speech' can be abused when in the hands of conmen. Will manufacturers be able to lie about their products next? Sell you an empty box instead of what is advertised then claim the advertisement was protected by 'free speech'? 

First they came for Mike Carlton.I see. You want to silence factual information and allow smears and lies to run supreme. Typical right winger with your hatred of evidence and facts of any kind. Your 'free speech' is just 'free' of truth.

A wealth groupie who thinks that someone who was born wealthy and can't even develop a civilised relationship with her own children should be in charge of deciding what we are allowed to find out (or whether we should be able to earn more than $2 per day). As all groupies learn, she will not respect you in the morning for your fawning adulation. 

Time the taxpayer stopped subsidising Gina's mining operations for billions. They are our minerals, not hers.There has been a massive improvement in the level of racism in this country because of the laws and the pressure put out by fair minded people.

Right wingers on the other hand are incapable of being fair minded and by their reactionary mindset want to drag us back to the old days when white men could do and say what they damned well please and stuff the  women, foreigners and natives. They should know their place and who is the boss or its a paddlin' or a lynching.The old Keith Windshuttle defence. If it not recorded in police records then it never happened. 

The pure of heart, lilly white honest hardworking British stock would never stoop to murders and lynching.

Good to see you pining for the good old days when white men could do no evil. Shame they gave those sheilas the vote heh! Should have left them barefoot and pregnant in the kitchen. Its a sorry day when you can't slag off at the inferior races without a public out cry. Bring back the chain gangs and the floggings. The cat-o'-nine tails will give them all the word to the wise, right wing style.His complaints were directed at 'Likudnics'. I didn't realise there was a 'race' of Likudnics, I thought they were a political movement. 

You read want you want to read Zing. Try reading the words instead of making them up in your head. My apologies if English is a second language to you but there are things called dictionaries. Never once did Carlton complain about 'Jews' which by the way is a religion made up of many different 'races'. He complained about the action of a violent and destructive government. There are many Jews that would support his every word.There is nothing racist about complaining that a political movement is violent and destructive as the Zionist right wing Israeli government is.

He resigned because after he was asked, and agreed, to apoligise in print he was then told by the upper right wing (full of Liberal party connections) management that he was being suspended which is an attack on him beyond accepting. As usual a right winger can't even get basic facts right. 

Wrong on all points yet again Zing.Until 1967 the aborigines were under the Department of Fauna and Flora. So not so much 'wards' as animals to be protected.The governors of New South Wales were advised by Britain to form treaties with the local indigenous people but they found it too hard so we lived for many years with the lie of terra nullius.Another one who doesn't bother with annoying little things like facts.

Carlton had agreed to put an apology in print and continue to write but the editor was over ruled and Carlton was going to be suspended instead. 

He did not refuse to apologise. What is it with right wingers and the inability to handle the truth when it is so easily found? 

I personally think that the newspaper should have stood beside him and told the trolls to well and truly go Ef themselves. The gutless right wingers who run Fairfax have just given the trolls and News Corpse a great big feed. Stupid idiots.The richer people get the more they demand workers get less 'for the good of the country'. When you are rolling in it you have to convince yourself that every cent was your own hard work and that a coherent society didn't contribute. That way you sense of superiority isn't tainted by the realisation that you are one of the lucky ones, not someone who has started with nothing and created wealth out of thin air without any other input from society. Most the very rich started off well ahead of the pack. Deep down they know the truth so they cover it with bellicosity.You would have had the opportunity for a free education. Roads, railways, communications and scientific advances. Legal systems, health systems and numerous other government structures that make Australia a safe and secure place to live and work and do business. 

All of these things make Australian society yet the very rich claim that a progressive taxation system is theft from them yet they have more to be protected from the anarchy that would descend if their demands to cut welfare and taxes were instituted.

The vast majority of the rich were born that way. The smaller amount of the real 'self made' have never done everything themselves and needed to operate in a functioning and educated society where people can pay for their services. You didn't become wealthy from starting off on a dessert island so if you can not see how a stable society created through taxation and a humane safety net has contributed to your life then you need to re-educate yourself.

You can claim that you are more worthy than a fat cat CEO who merely gets appointed as the boss of a company he didn't start and rakes in multi-millions while slashing jobs and wages but by your criticism of my statement you still want to support a society that gives unfair benefits to those that were not truly 'self made'.'Christian' nations have dropped more bombs and fired more bullets than Islamic nations and 'Christian' nations invariably get their retaliation in first.Someone not sitting on the benches of the courts must have applied for the suppression order.I believe the court case will be held on a leaky fishing boat with an asylum seeker in the public area. 'On water' matters are easier to suppress.Obviously people in high places in Australia look to be embarrassed. 

If those people had links to the Labor party then it would be compulsory to spread it over the front page of every newspaper.

So is it the people named that are being protected or others who might be dragged in by association?Their massive tax deductions for extracting our resources results in the overall tax burden being put more heavily on other people and enterprises.Mining companies also get accelerated depreciation on equipment that is mainly purchased overseas so it support foreign manufacturers not Australians. All those millions they 'invest' are actually an investment for mainly overseas suppliers. All tax deductible from profits on Australian ores, minerals and coal. Lose, lose for Australia.That brings up another bugbear of mine. Fuel costs are 100% deductible for business cost and so are wages, so why do big profitable businesses spend so much time and money trying to stop workers from getting pay increases? If your business is making a profit then higher wages just means a larger deduction from gross income for taxation purposes.

Small businesses and those who are close to the line are a different matter. If you don't make enough money to cover expenses (including wages) then it is out backwards even if all the expenses are tax deductible. Once you have a healthy 'net profit' then you have room for wage increases as it wont affect 'net profit'. 

What point is there for Telstra to off shore call centres? Is a tax deduction for wages of $100 overseas better for business than a tax deduction for $150 in Australia? No. It is still a 100% deduction for the expense. I reckon they should disallow tax deductions for off shore labour. It would be tricky to close all the loopholes but worth the try.It is a right wing thing. A bunch of Saudis fly planes into buildings in the US and the right wingers used it to spread lies and invade Iraq. Three teenagers get murdered and the right wingers use it as an excuse to invade Gaza.

'Children overboard' was used to demonise asylum seekers and 'human shields' is the term to demonise Palestinians to excuse the killing of civilians. WMDs = bombs hidden in hospitals. The same use of nasty propaganda and lies to try to prove that 'they' are not really human so we can treat them worse than dogs.  

Consider this. Until the current invasion of Gaza approx 2 Israelis a year were killed by Palestinians (averaged over 14 years). In the same time frame there were an average of 120 murders of Israeli Jews by other Israeli Jews. Imagine that every murder resulted in suburbs in Israel being bombed or houses being bulldozed or if there were a couple from the same area then entire streets destroyed by missile strikes or bulldozed. You would have Israelis rioting in the streets and throwing stones at the police/IDF and then if snipers picked off rioters with high powered weapons then someone would pull out a gun and fire back.

So why do they expect a different result for doing the same thing to Palestinians?At the same time they have plans to lift restrictions on the number of 457 visas allowed into the country! Cheaper workers for their corporate masters and stuff the Australian people. 

This mob of conmen in power are sickening.Only no-hopers instigate evidence based policies? It is true then that the truth is a left wing conspiracy. 

By the way, who are the biggest whingers around? Big business forever complaining about having to pay wages or consider their environmental damage etc, etc and the Coalition who whinge about the sick visiting the doctor too often and the unemployed not applying for non-existent jobs and students not having big enough debts and people who work in labour intensive jobs demanding to retire while they still have life left in their bodies and scientists who come out with annoying evidence on climate change and environmental destruction. I could go on and on about the complaints of the Coalition in their eternal quest to smite their enemies real or imagined but since you are of the school of accepting policies that go against the evidence then giving you more evidence will just make you more convinced that black is actually white.When the Coalition say they are going to reverse the ever increasing number of 457 visas then I will believe they actually care about Australian workers instead of just obtaining cheap labour for their big business mates.Just heard. They are planning on removing restrictions on numbers of 457 visas when we don't have a 'skills shortage' as such. It is just cheap labour for their big business mates, especially in mining.

Gina has 200 clerks on 457 visas. Don't tell me there aren't people in WA who are looking for clerical work.Spot on GJA. Time for them to hump their swag and hit the wallaby track just like the 'good old days' before left wingers ruined society.Their policies benefit big business not people. Mostly big businesses that pillage the land, pollute the environment and pay little or no tax. 

The unemployment level is intentional. A pool of unemployed keeps pressure on wages down. Both Labor and the Coalition use the same tactic but the Coalition is more cruel. 

They claim to care about people getting jobs and to care about families but like almost everything else that comes out of their mouths they are just lies. Smoke and mirrors as part of their campaign of legerdemain.A stupid and nasty decision that goes against the evidence from a stupid and nasty government that is allergic to evidence based policies.

Lies and smears. Smite those enemies, straw or otherwise. Flesh and blood take a third rate consideration compared to the artificially created Pty Ltds and the big business sharks that run them. There were elected to represent their constituents yet there are no corporations on the electoral roll so they are in power under false pretences.

This bunch of lying conmen in the pockets of big business and ably supported by a mendacious corporate media have truly taken us into the era of post-truth politics. 

The old quote "Australia is a lucky country run by second rate people" is now out of date. This mob of shysters are worse than third rate. They are lower than a snakes gonads in a wheel rut.Any company that outsources its workforce to overseas should not be able to claim those wages as an expense on their Australian tax returns. Add to that an old fashioned tariff for anyone who completely off shores and we will see full employment quick smart. 

Big businesses parked in overseas tax havens should not have a competitive advantage over small and medium businesses that employ Australian workers and pay Australian tax.Australian workers are having a greater difficulty finding work than for many years so what do the lying scumbags in power do? Punish the unemployed first and then lift any restrictions on flooding the country with cheap workers on 457 visas.

Nasty and stupid. For the corporations, by the corporations.The Coalition inherited one of the best performing economies in the OECD. It only needed a few tweaks to sort out the structural imablance due to middle class bribes. Unfortunately due to incompetence and being the catspaw of big business cronies and polluters, they are wrecking the joint. Middle class bribes are added to big business bribes. 

They have created a 'crisis' where none existed before.The Coalition is a tabloid government. Shallow, populist and devoid of any depth or understanding. Everything is black and white. In fact black is white when the facts don't suit them. The Murdoch tabloids assisted the election of the Coalition with smoke and mirrors, lies and smears. They appeal to the lowest common denominator with a tactic that is 'baffle them with bull' before even trying to 'dazzle them with brilliance'. 

Hockey outed the party's lies in NZ. As stated by almost every major economic expert in the country (IPA affiliates and Murdoch press hacks aside), there is no economic crisis. It is a manufactured fear campaign.

We are experiencing post-truth politics with an even more rabid than usual, post-truth media.About the only success the Coalition government has had is in smiting their enemies, even if most of them were straw men. This situation was a perfect chance to wave the flag and threaten to smite a few more enemies to make them look tough. All that has happened is that they are looking stupid.

All the media that gave the Coalition such a dream run up to the last election and repeated their every smear and lie, plus a few they made up themselves, have been caught out by the gross stupidity and nastiness displayed by this government. Here was a chance to show they picked the right team. They compared Abbott to Churchill and claimed one stroppy speech laced with tough guy talk was a sign of great leadership. It wasn't. It was the same tactic of the photo ops with hard hats and fluro vests while spreading bulldust about how Labor's policies were going to destroy businesses. It is politics. More smoke and mirrors from professional conmen. 

The last time these idiots were in power they were rated by the IMF as the most profligate in Australia's history and they took us into an illegal war based on a thin tissue of lies. We may see their nastiness and stupidity take us to another wasteful and pointless war.Did you do that yesterday Ravensclaw or in a period with more job prospects? 

I can give you anecdotal evidence of people applying for more than twenty low paid clerical jobs ($20 per hour) when they have experience and not getting a job. 

So who is going to pay the rent when they are off fruit picking? Do they have to put all their property into storage for 6 months a year and live in their cars? Put their pets down? That is fine for back packers but not for people who actually live in a society and are not just passing through.This lying bunch of conmen seem to be strangely capable of looking at all the expert advice on a subject and then do the exact opposite while claiming superior knowledge.

Whether the field is scientific, economic, environmental or social policy they ignore expert advice and come out with fact free rants to justify their idiocy. Lies and smears replace informed debate. 

Either they are idiots or liars on every subject or psychologically incapable of seeking the truth. We know that they lied about the 'debt and deficit crisis' because they were outed by Hockey in NZ. Unfortunately I fear they actually believe their own lies most of the time and are suffering from some form of sociopathy. If they were just lying to support their rich big business mates it would be an understandable process but this malady they are afflicted with goes deeper than right wing greed. No one can be that stupid and that nasty with every decision they make without an underlying sickness.

Have we spent the full $90 million dollar budget for the search for the other plane yet? That gave Tony a temporary platform to big note himself.It was just another fluro vest and hard hat moment to distract from the damage done by the government. He'll done a flack jacket any day now and declare war on Russia. 

This is a government that has spent all its time and effort trying to make people's lives harder unless they are already rich and powerful. Now you suggest they have suddenly unveiled  some previously hidden compassion and it is hurtful for people to speak the truth?

By their deeds shall they be judged, not pre-planned media stunts.  The right hates the living. The dead can't complain when they are used for political stage shows.Nonsense. The stimulus worked almost perfectly. Economist all over the world including those from the IMF and the World Bank said that Labor handled the GFC better than any other country on the planet.

They did so well that fools don't realise how bad it could have been.Tory Boy. The rest of the world knows the truth and even Joe Hockey told the truth in NZ. Labor left the economy in excellent working condition and the envy of the world. There is no 'debt and deficit crisis' yet. The Coalition are trying their hardest to create one by shovelling train loads of money at miners and big polluters at the expense of the rest of the economy.Hockey finally spoke the truth about the economy the other day but he had to leave the country to do it. Labor left the economy in good shape. If the Coalition didn't plan to rip a $7.4 billion dollar hole in the budget to hand money to their big business polluting mates then we wouldn't need to kick the poor and the sick in the teeth. They still plan to hand back large amounts of money to mainly foreign mining companies and a couple of big local donors. Add to that the rich mommy hand outs by the trailer load and you can see them making bizarrely stupid economic decisions. 

There is no 'debt and deficit crisis'. They lied to everyone. They will create one with their master plan of being stupid and nasty with their every decision.

Their hyper expensive witch hunt against unions is not getting enough headlines so they've expanded their net in breach of all accepted conventions in a desperate attempt to find someone who is worthy of the millions wasted.

Door knobs to them. Very expensive door knobs.Apart from lying through their teeth, this bunch of conmen in power can only 'do' stupid and nasty.

Labor didn't spend like drunken sailors to save us from the GFC. They spent just enough to save the economy (right wing capitalist as it is) and then reduced spending at a faster rate than any previous time in government history.

The Coalition on the other hand are the ones rated by the IMF as the most profligate (spend like drunken sailors) in Australia's history.

We are in real trouble with this government because, as with their supporters, they have substituted lies and smears for policy. When you have a government that lies about the past economic successes when the truth is available on the public record then we are in dire straits. When they act against all expert advice, economically, socially, scientifically and environmentally then you will get bad policy. Repeating lies will not make the truth go away.

Labor's economic policies are a shadow of the hard right of the Coalition and will eventually lead us to the same failed neo-liberal swamp of serfdom but at least it will be slower instead of the headlong rush into social destruction that is the Liberal way of doing things.They could restart by doing what was making Australia the economic envy of the world last time they were in government before the Coalition destroyers got control by smears and lies and a mendacious press.You should stop hanging around with shallow right wingers then. My friends and acquaintances hold educated conversations about budgetary affects over a cold ale. 

Call for a 'support the budget' rally and see if you can fill a phone booth. Go on if you think it has so much support instead of taking cheap shots from the sidelines.Chrissy Pyne has made himself the centre of attraction with his childish behaviour and juvenile pronouncements. He doesn't have a coherent policy to criticise.Profligate = to spend money like a drunken sailor.

Rated by the IMF as most 'profligate' in Australia's history = last Coalition government.

Congratulated by the IMF for successful response to GFC = Labor.

After saving the economy, Labor reduced spending at a faster rate than at any other time in the history of government spending in Australia. Almost too fast.

What is it with right wingers and repeating already disproven lies?The Coalition got a dream run from the media before the election. Every lie and smear was reported as the truth.

Now even the most biased corporate media toady has difficulty hiding the truth.Hockey lied about the state of the economy. Admitted his lies in NZ by telling the truth then returned to Australia to continue to lie.

By the time the Liberals have finished stuffing around and handing over billions to the miners and big polluters while destroying the emerging alternative energy industries, in the reverse Robin Hood manner, we will have a debt and deficit crises and it will all be the fault of the Coalition.

We have a reactionary government that only does 'stupid and/or nasty'. No fact left ignored, no expert left unsmeared.The Coalition claimed that Labor was 'the worst government ever' when they took us to the position of the best performing economy in the OECD.

It should be easy to outperform 'the worst government ever' but they have taken us backwards instead. This despite Hockey acknowledging in NZ that the economy was in good shape. Lying then or lying now or lying before the election?Easy fixed Alfie. Pay the proper workers more money and cut the millions from the overpaid fat cats that are rorting the system. The rentiers and parasites are at the top."That climate seems to be increasingly influenced by concerns about the social problems resulting from the growth of economic inequality."

The 'climate' may be changing with access to alternative news sources than the corporate media and the ever blander and more right wing ABC radio and TV. Fact filled articles like this are confined to the edges of their internet portals while the bulk of their output has become cowed by the lies, smears and threats of right wing power brokers.

The lies of neo-liberal economics have been outed numerous times yet the proponents of these lies still get air time and soft serve interviews on 'no longer our' ABC. The Coalition don't even bother with any semblance of dealing with facts or evidence anymore yet are still treated by the media as a viable government if they just change a couple of minor things, but how can any government that hands taxpayer money to receive advice from someone like Maurice Newman who is obviously completely deluded with his claims that we are in trouble because of the coming of 'global cooling'. How can you expect advice from someone with no discernable connection to reality to be of any use?

It is not just equality we need to strive for, it is the return of sanity from the legerdemain of post-truth politics and a regaining of basing decisions on science, facts and other forms of verifiable evidence that has been the fundamentals for human growth and improvement for centuries. 

Poor fellow my planet. Equality on a degraded and dying world is a pyrrhic victory.If the Central Planning Committee got in we would probably have a PM who would claim he wants to be remembered as the Infrastructure PM by building more roads. 

Oh, wait...Group punishment of all unemployed for the sins of the few.

If we followed that logic then we would punish all the Liberals in NSW for the corruption displayed by quite a few over illegal donations and kick them out of their jobs and confiscate any government paid super. That would include the PM. 

The difference being, when it is something naughty done by right wingers then they are 'just a few bad apples' but when something is done by people with little voice or financial means then everyone without voice or financial means should suffer because that is being 'tough on bludgers' and if you aren't rich you are a bludger.Add to the historical information with the illegal invasion by the war criminals Bush, Blair and Howard.

We still have many in government today that supported the insanity of invading Iraq with ever changing lies. Lies upon lies are the first weapons used by right wingers before the bullets, bombs and missiles. 

Our current government got in on lies, continues to lie and seems to be trying hard to start another war by acting tough guy with Russia despite any solid evidence they were directly responsible for the downing of the plane in Ukraine. (Maybe the missile was fired from the Gulf of Tonkin?) 

The conmen in government are truly stupid and nasty.Well said.Most of the Senate minor parties lean to the right but Abbott is still having problems.

When the last election resulted in a hung parliament and the balance of power was in the hands of conservative independents they sided with Gillard because they decided that Abbott could not be trusted (and how right they were). Yet a combination of conservatives, Labor and a Green resulted in a parliament that set a record for the number of pieces of legislation passed and redundant legislation repealed even after negotiation on each piece.

Crash or crash through is not working that well at the moment. Sure, a lot of stupid and damaging right wing legislation will make it through (repeal of carbon pricing the major one) but it will be ugly and messy.No one I have voted for has ever got elected to the reps. I am well aware of my preference vote but having mainly lived in sage electorates from both sides, that doesn't have a chance of changing anything. I have nothing against my local member but

At least in the Senate, due to the number of seats, one of my major preferences has a chance of getting in. So in that respect the Senate is more representative of me.There are dickhead cyclists on the road and dickhead car drivers on the road. The car drivers are in metal death machines, the cyclists put themselves at risk.

The biggest haters of cyclists are usually the same right wing ranters that hate anything that isn't environmentally destructive. The same people hate wind farms, solar power, clean air, clean water and a fair economy where everyone gets an equal go. To them the man with the biggest and nastiest toys must be more important. It is an infantile mindset that exhibits itself in tantrums that would put a three year old to shame. Mine, mine, mine, the road is all mine because I paid a thousand times more for my vehicle to transport one person so I should be given more privileges. Dog in the manger attitude. 

Grow up."When it comes to climate policy there is a struggle between idealists and realists."

No there are idiots who deny scientific evidence and those who are trying to do the right thing. Nasty stupid right wingers who believe that if they repeat the same lies often enough then the laws of physics will change and then you have people who use all the combined knowledge of human experience and believe that if we organise and cooperate we can actual do the right thing and avert catastrophe. 

Time for the lying scumbags to accept the truth. Time for them to think above short term greed and their own over inflated sense of self importance. You are not more important than everyone else. You have no right to be selfish, nasty and stupid. Your 'freedom' to be vile does not over ride everyone else's right to have a liveable planet. 

Climate change is not a left wing conspiracy and climate scientists are not frauds, incompetents or in it for the money. Get real. Take off your tinfoil hats and join relatively civilised society while we still have one.How can Abbott constantly changing his stance on everything depending  on the audience or the time of day be said to be holding 'party values'?

Direct action and the PPL scheme are socialistic. Free speech for bigots but jail for anyone who reports on ASIO? Everyone should be responsible for themselves and do the right thing except for polluters who get paid to pollute? There is no method to his madness, he is all over the shop. The doubles standards are rife. The cognitive dissonance would give him a headache if he really thought things over properly.Abbott reacts or takes orders from the IPA, he does not plan or govern. 
You can't even believe him when he writes it down.Evidence is being misinterpreted, ignored and fabricated. 

Expert opinion with bells and whistles, charts and experiments, historical evidence and almost universal agreement from the brightest minds on the planet is just claimed to be 'left wing' and therefore wrong. You can't win.Finding the middle between those of us who live on a spherical world and those on the right who live on a flat world will just end up with a hemi-sphere and we will still sail of the edge.CPRS MK II as negotiated by Rudd with the Coalition was worse than nothing. Then the Coalition stabbed them in the back and refused to vote for the scheme they had destroyed with too many concessions to big dirty polluters. It was only a bee's dick better than direct action.

If Rudd had negotiated with the Greens on CPRS MKI then we would have had a decent scheme.

Don't blame the Greens because the right wing of Labor wanted to marginalise the Greens. Why would they vote for something that was 110% rubbish in the hope it might be changed into something only 90% rubbish some time in the future.JohnM, are you capable of making a statement without spouting proven nonsense? 

Your conspiracy theories were debunked years ago. You need a new layer of tinfoil. 

The planet is warming at a dangerous rate and we are causing it. Scientists are telling us the truth and are not part of a Marxist plot.To gain power during the hung parliament a carbon scheme was part of the deal. We would have had a carbon 'tax' under Gillard or a carbon 'tax' under Abbott. If Abbott had gained power then we would have heard a lot more of 'why not do it with a simple tax' type of speech and absolutely no claim that he 'lied' due to have to change his political platform due to negotiations.

The 'Gillard Lie' was a lie in itself. She did not plan before the election to intentionally deceive the voters. After lying about the lie the Coalition then lied about the effect that it would have on the economy. The numbers are in. They were so wrong that they were either lying or are a bunch of incompetents. 

The lies were being pushed by those in the Coalition suffering from a mass mental delusion that the vast majority of scientists across the world are engaged in a Marxist plot. Pure delusion. Lies upon lies.

Now as a fig leaf to the science and those who vote Liberal but haven't drunk all the Kool-aid they are going to throw millions at the biggest polluters in the country punching a $7.4 billion dollar hole in the budget and reversing all the gains that have been made.I was half expecting for it to finish "mention this article for a 25% discount from any participating Financial Planning Association member".

It all seems so rosy and perfect. Win Win Win. But if the guy who helped start up the NAB Academy can't give safe independent advise then who can you trust.

I look forward to someone confirming the free steak knives on another site (just to confirm you know, I'm not suspicious)."It is simply because a large proportion of the current government, including the PM do not accept the science."

Correct, and the rest don't care or are in the pockets of the polluters.Scientists using proxy data such as ice cores in Antarctica and tree rings and sediment in South America have shown that the Medieval warm period was not world wide. The scientific evidence is available for anyone who would like to find the truth instead of repeating debunked nonsense spread on denialist websites. 

Satellite data of air temperatures show a slight slowing in the rate of temperature increase in the air and other measurement tools have shown a greater take up of energy by the oceans. 2005 and 2010 were hotter years than 1998. Again this information is widely available in the scientific literature so if you were were actually interested in the real state of science instead of spouting manufactured lies then you should keep away from denialist FUD. You are not a sceptic. Sceptics change their minds when the truth is provided. You have rejected the truth alongside the rest of the worshippers of The Invisible Hand and the Holy Virgin Mother Ayn Rand (who ended up on welfare therefore proving everything she said was utopian nonsense).Your comment on mass is incorrect. There has been enough warming to melt the land ice at a greater rate so the run off is diluting the salt content making the water freeze quicker and therefore take up more surface area. There have also been wind changes that have helped to keep the ice from drifting away from some areas. 

Although there have been some increases on some area of snow, on the whole Antarctic ice is decreasing in 'mass'. Glaciers are melting faster, more chunks are calving off as well.

The myth that Antarctica is not affected by global warming is not only wrong but yet another constantly debunked piece of anti-science propaganda. 

Global warming is real. The scientists all over the word aren't just saying it for a lark, a dollar or a Marxist conspiracy.Teach a man to fish and he will sit around with his mates drinking beer all day."The CPRS contained so much assistance to businesses that there was negligible incentive to actually cut emissions. The Grattan Institute found the assistance was so great that it went from alleviating impact to being tantamount to protectionism."

Please take note of this and not spout the usual nonsense that we would have had an operating scheme if the Greens hadn't voted against CPRS MK II. It was worse than useless. CPRS MI was OK and had Green support but because Labor was too clever by half in trying to marginalise the Greens they preferred to deal with the Lying Nasty Party instead and got knifed in the back for their stupidity. 

Could the stupid lying jerks stop saying that warming has stopped? We have had two hotter years since 1998. The rate of warming may have slowed but it has not stopped and scientific evidence shows that more energy is being absorbed by the oceans than the air. FFS stop parading your stupidity in public.Cherna, regurgitating denialist propaganda like a drunk regurgitates a dodgy kebab does not increase the sum of human knowledge. It just places you firmly in the camp of rabid right wingers who refuse to acknowledge a mountain of scientific evidence built up over many decades by the finest scientific minds on the planet. 

Don't play with numbers, you might get hurt if you use them without supervision. 

They did not replace the head of the IPCC and he did not sue. Get your information from science websites not conspiracy sites.Totally agreed. Why would a government sell off a profit making arm? Why wouldn't a corporation buy a captive market to royally fleece?

No privatisation has benefited consumers/taxpayers. They have all ended up with higher prices and lower services. A private company would have to take out a loan at a higher interest rate than the government and expect to pay off the loan and make a profit on top. The government would be better to keep the asset and borrow the value of that asset at a lower rate and keep the income stream to pay it off. 

So why do they sell? Corrupt dogma?Are we talking about the same Commonwealth Bank that just ripped people off for tens of million dollars in a great massive greed fest full of lies and cover ups? That have bankrupted people by illegally changing their investments to dangerous portfolios with large commissions against their wishes?

You claim that that is the pinnacle of privatisation? No ethics and a complete rip off on a Saturday as well as the rest of the week? Tellers put under stress with demands they sell more 'product' or they don't reach their KPIs or get bonuses on their miserable base wages? Making workers sick and customers poor? 

You really didn't think about that for very long before coming out with a stupid anti public ownership rant did you? These are the bad old days. 

Agreed. Gaol time for corruption will clip their wings.

These moves from Baird sound good if they could be hurried up a bit. Such a difference from the lunacy affecting his party at the federal level where they are intending to get rid of government functions and corporatise everything. Even deregulation of uni fees has seen some big donations from those in the private 'for profit' college sector that is keen for a bit of taxpayer money to upgrade the CEO's Mercedes. 

Still, if the federal Coalition get their way we will be totally privatised and run by corporations. Sign the TPP and we will transfer our democratic rights to foreign multinationals and courts of commerce. There would be no point donating to a political party if they have been rendered down to figure heads only with no real power.Labor left the economy in the position of being the best performing one in the OECD. Third lowest debt, economy growing despite the GFC and lies about the effect of the carbon tax and numerous other positives. Treasurer Swan won an award and even Albo got international credit for infrastructure improvement.

When the Coalition was last in charge the economy was rated ninth best in the OECD. Now they are out to destroy the NBN by putting a half arsed job in (and pay the CEO more for doing less) and build a lot more roads for the chariots. I wonder how many places this mob of conmen will drop our status.Veganpuncher. That is nonsense. Check the scientific literature not the right wing bulldust websites. 

CO2 is a greenhouse gas. It retains heat. There is a mountain of evidence and at least four recent decades of scientific evidence to educate yourself with. Denialist clap trap from right wing think tanks does not get equal status with proper science.It truly shows how far downhill it has gone when trying to find a rational right winger since even 1997. It was hard enough before. 

I really think the point that pushed them over the edge into complete fantasy land was the invasion of Iraq. They suddenly found themselves being outed as a bunch of idiots caught out spreading porkies who thought it was going to be a cake walk. Well, everything the 'lefties' said turned out to be accurate. They were left piling lies upon lies to justify their outright vicious stupidity. 

Now with denial of AGW they were already using lies and misrepresentation as a default mode. They can only operate with lies and smears because they can't back up their rhetoric with facts, so that is all they use. Words are weapons, not a method of communicating ideas to work out how to improve things. Words are to smite your enemies and lies are just another way of smiting. 

"[I}gnorance and pig-headed arguments from ideologues on both sides of the debate." I strongly disagree with that statement in the article. The ignorance and pig-headedness is 99.9% on the side that think that virtually every scientist on the planet is part of a Marxist conspiracy. One side accepts the evidence of scientists and the other side only does stupid and nasty.If the Liberals had not blocked changes to the laws to allow the Malaysian solution we would not be in this situation. The boats stopped as soon as the Malaysian solution was announced and didn't start until the court ruling and the Coalition's refusal to allow the required legal amendments.

But that was when the Coalition didn't want to 'stop the boats', they wanted them to keep coming so they could use them to attack Labor.

So you see, even when Labor tried to be as nasty as the Coalition regarding asylum seekers, the Coalition wouldn't let them because the timing was inconvenient for their political needs.

Every boat that arrived after the Coalition refused Labor's amendments are their own fault not Labor's. You reap what you sow. There was a moment when a bipartisan solution could have been arranged but it is gone.The Greens had absolutely nothing to do with it. Go debunk yourself.

Labor acted within the existing legislation which was a construct of Labor and Coalition votes with Greens opposition.The Greens have voted against all legislation brought in by Labor or the Liberals on asylum seekers because of draconian sections of the legislation. They would prefer on shore, in community care while asylum requests are processed. If then, they are proven to be shonks then they can be deported.

Unlike the Liberals who have children snatched from class rooms and whisked away in secrecy even if they are not a flight risk. 

You call yourself a lawyer but you are being intentionally stupid not to understand a simple concept. Yet more proof that right wingers use words as weapons, not as a means of communication of ideas.We accepted 20,000 last year out of 50,000 off shore applications. This year they have dropped the number to 17,500. That queue is getting longer by the second. 

We should immediately halve the 30,000 people per month we take in immigration (100% economic) and double our asylum intake. We could triple out asylum intake without causing social stress if we didn't have such historically high levels of immigration and uncapped 457 visas flooding the country.In an otherwise informative article I take exception to the author blithely using the term 'enhanced screening'. To enhance something has the meaning of 'adding on to improve' whereas the new screening would more accurately described as 'diminished screening' as they have removed and weakened standard screening.

I can understand why the federal government would intentionally misrepresent their actions as 'enhanced' but for an intelligent and educated person to fall for their 'framing' is a disappointment.I get outraged by the disgusting hypocrites using 'deaths at sea' as a claim for their 'humanitarian' actions when in fact they would rather the whole lot just went away and died somewhere else without bothering us good folk. 

Sickening.Much better to piss money up the wall on witch hunts, spin doctors and lost aeroplanes. Wouldn't want the big polluters and foreign miners to take a back seat to the aged. 

Lets see, you started with a slur on Labor and now a slur on the ABC and yet you haven't attended to a single detail of the article.

Do you really believe that a sixth investigation into pink batts is money better spent than an investigation into currently operating rorts? Try to answer without slagging off Labor or the ABC.No point in investigating this. No unions or Labor party members can be smeared. The Coalition is into smiting enemies not helping people. People are on their own since the end of the age of enlightenment.And Tony is going to give more power over the environment to the states as if borders were not artificial lines drawn on a map. 

Queensland, beautiful one day, environmentally degraded the next.Republicans voted to cut funds for security at embassies so are more responsible for Benghazi than the Democrats. 'Benghazi is a mindless chant to hide the fact that the Republicans have not policies and no ethics. It is similar to the right wingers over here who are still obsessed with what Julia Gillard did twenty years ago. It is just an attempt to find scapegoats. 

Rubio is just another right wing-nut. The Republicans are even more raving mad that the Liberals in Australia. Idiots like him will get Australia dragged into another illegal war based on lies like Iraq, especially if we still have this mob of lying conmen in power here. 

"Obama's penchant for negotiation" that says it all. Why negotiate when pre-emptive strikes are a proven failure? Bloody bunch of raving nongs.Last year Australia accepted 20,000 refugees. There were 50,000 off shore applications so the mythical queue more than doubles in length each year. The Liberals have cut the number to be accepted this year down to 17,500. 

Meanwhile we accept 30,000 economic migrants per month in through the front door to keep a good pool of workers to keep pressure on wages down (in addition to uncapped 457 visas) and prices on accommodation up. They don't broadcast that to the rednecks in electorates that aren't blue ribbon Liberal. They might lose seats if they told them how many 'foreigners' they were jamming into Australia and causing traffic jams on the M4 and queues in the hospitals.Meanwhile the government is removing controls on financial organisations that have defrauded people for many millions of dollars.

It is nice for the right wingers to have a lot of overpaid anti-union property developers and the like throwing hearsay evidence at unions while people die on their construction sites on a regular basis due to locking out union safety representatives.I read one report where it said that 11 mothers attempted suicide and then heard Eric Abetz say a couple of people attempted self harm. Both can't be right.

I would hope that our detention centres didn't drive 11 mothers to suicide within 48 hours but this government has a record of outright lies when they have a political agenda to push.

It is a sorry state of affairs when I expect lies to be the default option for government press releases. What happens if they tell the truth about something important and no one believes them (there will always be supporters who don't care if they lie)?In the US states where euthanasia has been legalised and people are allowed to have the correct medicine on hand to end their life painlessly, less people actually commit suicide. The mere fact that they can stop the pain gives them strength.It is right wing Christians who oppose dying with dignity. The same right wingers who are happy to see people live in poverty and suffering because the 'right' of the individual to make a profit at someone else's expense trumps 'community morale'. 

You can't have it both ways. You can't be a right winger and then pull out the 'community' card because you have already decided that the community comes a distant second to the economy.I would be disappointed if I died by being run over by an enormous fuel guzzling four wheel drive with poor visibility just before they got banned from city streets. Not that I would know, because, you know, I would be dead and therefore wouldn't know. 

Please save me from right wing 'logic'.Religious types have no right to dictate how I take my last breath. They have done nothing for me during my life except to annoy me and hold back social progress so they can keep out of the way at my death.

"Thou shalt not kill" is a fine sentiment but since so many anti-euthanasia  zealots are right wingers and right wingers have been responsible for the last couple of futile wars based on lies that Australia has been involved in then I will add that voting for the Liberals removes your right to claim 'thou shalt not kill' as a reason for forcing people to live in suffering and pain on the grounds of gross hypocrisy. Forcing people to suffer is a form of torture and torture is 'evil'.Israel broke the cease fire before Operation Cast Lead so your claim is wrong. Israel started that one for no reason what so ever.The increasing number of illegal settlements in the West Bank is proof that Israel intends to claim all that land.

I wonder how many of the young IDF soldiers had Australian accents having travelled to Israel to do National Service?I find that religions are filled with many different types of people.

Take Christians. You have your selfless Christians feeding the poor and your left wing Christians trying to improve society such as via Revolutionary Theology. You also have your contemplative Christians who don't get in people's faces and use prayer like Buddhists use meditation.

Then you have your right wing Christians who want to go out smiting enemies and forcing the 'one true faith' down their throats. These ones have prayer sessions over bombs and war machinery and ignore 'thou shalt not kill'. They see wealth as the blessing of God therefore divine right to greed and oppression. Not for them 'the least amongst us'. Not for them 'if you have two coats then give one away'. Not for them the actual words and actions attributed to Jesus. Old Testament haters with a vengeful God. Fire and brimstone in the eternal search for sinners to be punished.

Me? No proof of Sky Fairies so no 'faith'. I prefer ethics over morals.Reduced tax on asset gain and negative gearing fuel speculation not investment. Over 95% of properties (and shares) that take advantage of these provisions are existing ones.

What fool believes that encouraging the trade and inflation of the prices of second hand goods is productive? It is an inflation bubble that can only survive by intentional government intervention at the expense of more pressing and sensible use of money. 

Get rid of negative gearing, the half tax rates and reduce our immigration by half or more and housing will become more affordable and the unemployment rate will drop. Normal people will benefit not just the banks, the real estate developers and other rentiers. The current system is a boon for parasites. 

I will without doubt hear cries of anguish about how the move will affect people who 'have invested so they don't bludge off the taxpayer when they retire blah blah blah for the good of renters blah blah blah' but a stupid system is a stupid system. 'Real Estate' is not a true market, it is skewed heavily towards those who already have and against those who need a home to live in. When a run down two bedroom workers cottage with only street parking can get a price over $700,000 dollars then you know that insanity rules.It is clear and simple that taxation policies and immigration policies are creating over-priced assets. It is intentional government policy that benefit an ever decreasing number of people.

You spout the usual right wing propaganda in most of your posts so why not support a change of legislation so the 'market' is fair? Why support a market where people who purchase a second dwelling get tax advantages over those who don't have their first? Why support the market being propped up by the fantasy of perpetual growth with artificially high levels of immigration?

We could stop importing and producing cars so that old clapped out bangers would become valuable as scarcity increased but is that smart? Would having money tied up in more and more run down vehicles be good for the economy? Would having smash repair barons in the BRW rich list instead of property developers be better for society? 

The fatal flaw in your argument is that right wingers don't want a true 'market'. They want a market that suits the already rich and powerful leaching off an ever growing pool of people desperate for work and a roof over their heads. I don't want new cities, I want this one to be liveable as is my democratic right. Right wingers don't like democracy, they prefer the power of the dollar over the power of the people. 

We all deserve somewhere to live. We don't deserve tax exemptions for purchase of second hand properties.Overpriced is a 'worker's cottage' that can't be afforded by a basic worker. The price of real estate compared to the yearly wage has been an exponential explosion. What an average worker could afford in 1970 is now beyond their wildest dreams because of artificial manipulation of the market.The winners write the history.

If Australians really wanted to know the truth then the Liberal party with their global warming deniers, white armband history war warriors, blatant economic lies and their kicking of the poor, the sick and the unemployed would not be in power. 

It seems we would prefer to hear lies about Australian moral superiority than face harsh reality. Why do you think it is so easy for the Liberals to demonise asylum seekers? Us proud Aussie do no wrong but all those bludgers are out to rip us off. We are perfect and everyone else are savages or bludgers or terrorists or whatever the enemy du jour being trotted out by the right wing propagandists happens to be.PB82 has nothing on the long term effects of D-38 even if it misses the physical body.Windshuttle chooses information and twists it to his theories. He has been caught out cherry picking and ignoring facts that don't fit his agenda. 

Your comparison to Plimer is very apt.While I can easily find numerous examples of fact free ideological rants from right wing shock jocks and trollumnists, I do not find the equivalent 'polarising' from the left.

If you think that the equivalent on the 'left' of a Bolt, Jones, Albrechtsen, Akerman, Blair etc, etc is a Chaser sketch that parodied another right wing ABC hater then your idea of equivalence is truly unbalanced.

Accusation of left wing bias are thrown around willy nilly anytime unpleasant facts manage to rear their ugly heads in the media. This is not proof of a divorce from the centre, this is proof that the right wing has gone so far to the loony right that they call the sensible centre 'socialist'. 

This article is an example of 'false balance'. There is no equivalence to  the current over representation of right wing nutjobbery in the corporate media.

Just look at the lies and smears about global warming and 'debt and deficit crisis. Pointing out that someone is talking bollocks is not taking a hard left wing positions when the facts and the expert opinion are in your favour. We are in the era of post-truth politics and it has been created and maintained by the greed and power of the right. Facts are now considered to be left wing conspiracies. 

B- on your paper. Must provide more evidence if you claim there is an equal weight from left and right destroying sensible debate.Well you see Peter the Lawyer. Those people you mention may say things that you do not like but they are nothing like the fact free ranters on the right.

You have proven my point that the mere appearance of factually based articles are proof of left wing bias to the hard right. Idiots who claim that the Labor party are socialists and that climate scientists are part of some world wide communist plot. There are no factual basis for making claims like that yet they are made every day by right wingers. They use words as weapons, not for information transfer. A lie to them is just valid tool to be used at will. They are warriors, not enlighteners. 

When some of those you mention call for the nationalisation of all banking or the confiscation of all private property then you will have a true left wing ranter.

Why on bleeding earth would or should anyone be hanging out for the next bit of hearsay evidence for something that happened twenty years ago when we have a current government trying to cover up for banks stealing money from people in recent history? This obsession with Gillard and this slush fund is a real worry. It shows a deep psychological problem in right wing thought patterns that such a petty thing about someone not in power should take up so much of their limited brain space. 

What about the clear corruption throughout the entire Liberal party fund raising arm as shown in the ICAC? That is here. That is now.AJC you spout complete nonsense. The only true sceptics are the climate scientists who will amend their theories as evidence provides itself.

AGW denialists have the religious fervour of zealots who refuse to accept the clear and obvious evidence. They manufacture large amounts of junk science to muddy the waters and spread lies and misinformation for the same reason. The fact that the vast majority of them are aligned to 'free market' think tanks with a record of lies and distortions show that they are motivated by a political mindset not scientific evidence.

At last count, over 99% of peer reviewed papers support and provide further scientific evidence for AGW. One contrary paper by a Russian scientist stated in the open paragraph that economics were his major concern.Those people are not demented fact free ranting left wingers. They have never called for the overthrow of capitalism. They support moderate capitalistic viewpoints. They are very 'centre'. They may criticise the hard right but that does not make them the hard left.

This is the problem with the acceptance of the mindless gibberish that passes for 'opinion' by these shock jocks and the like. They actually make people believe that you can simply accuse someone of being from the socialist/communist/Stalinist hard left just because they point out when someone has not told the truth. Catching a right wing politician out with double standards or mis-truths doesn't make you a hard left winger, it means you have paid attention.

I have been almost moderated out of existence on this website for calling out the blatant rubbish spouted by the phalanx of fact free right wing posters here. For me, The Drum is right of centre. Not one single author has called for the destruction of capitalism.

Once you stop treating facts as left wing conspiracies you will be able to tell the difference between real ranters and the people you have tried to tar as extremists.Clete. Capitalism is to the right. There is no one from the ABC or Fairfax that has called for the downfall of capitalism. They may call for regulations to control the outright greed and destruction that uncontrolled capitalism would bring but they still support a market based economy with a social safety net.

The right wingers on the other hand want the destruction of the safety net, the disbanding of any voice not produced by corporate media, the destruction of all public services through outsourcing and privatisation. A complete user pays society with the removal of all constraints and control over rampant wealth and greed. The only thing they want taxes to pay for is the military and the police to protect the assets of the wealthy.

ABC and Fairfax are right of centre. Ranters as noted above are hard right wingers with no regard to the rights of anyone. They despise democracy being able to control the excesses of greed that they believe is their 'right'. They will not be happy until corporations have more control over society than governments. Government can shrink and shrink but while they ever legislate for the good of all society they are a threat to the right wing ranters. We currently have a government that legislates for big business foreign or other wise and kicks the poor in the teeth.Rudd sucked up to Chris Mitchell when Rudd was a Qld politician and Mitchell was at the Courier Mail. When it was obvious that Howard was going to lose they backed 'their man' Rudd. When Rudd was deposed they reverted to type and used every lie and smear they could find to destroy Labor and Gillard.

Go back and check. Why do you think that Rudd ended up drunk in a strip club with Murdoch cronies? He had already made the pilgrimage to bow before Murdoch. He wasn't their first choice but he was the best available. 

The last review of the ABC for bias that was produced by one of the universities showed that ABC was actually biased towards the Coalition. Labor is right of centre and ABC therefore must be also right of centre if they gave more favourable treatment to the Coalition.Yes Tony will not be as stupid as leaving the Australian economy in the position of the best performing one in the OECD, world wide applause with the third lowest debt, rated third best for safety of investment and increased productivity levels compared to Howard and all that despite the GFC.

Silly, silly Labor doing the right thing by the country when they could have been economic simpletons and just handed more money to the biggest polluters and foreign mining companies while slashing jobs and services in pursuit of the blatant lie of a 'debt and deficit crisis'.  Maybe Abbott can out perform Howard in overseeing the 'most profligate government in Australia's history' as set out clearly by the IMF.Leyonhjelm and Day have close ties to the IPA."Gillard government's carbon pricing scheme."

That should more accurately say the Gillard/Independents + one Green carbon pricing scheme.

There is a clip of Tony Windsor stating the truth (Tony Windsor tells Tony Abbott some home truths). To gain government, both Gillard and Abbott were required to legislate for a price/tax on CO2 pollution so we would have had an Abbott tax or a Gillard tax. Gillard got the gig because the conservative independents didn't trust Abbott and haven't they been proven to have foresight.

I bet Abbott wouldn't have been called a liar every day if he had brought in the carbon price legislation. On the other hand he has openly lied about over 20 different things since he got power. 

I was complaining that Labor had veered to far to the right many years ago. That does not excuse the Liberals going so far to the right that they have fallen of the edge of the flat world they live on. 

The Liberals have disbanded and defunded any group that may arrive at any factual information that will contradict their right wing propaganda. 

I do hope to hear you upbraid anyone who claims that 'socialist' Labor did this or 'socialist' Labor did that. They are a centre right party.But you have not criticised the removal of the somewhat inadequate to be replaced by nothing at all? Sure Labor didn't do as well as they should have but removing what little advances they made is not going to improve anything and therefore slagging off Shorten will not fix anything while he is not in power.

Time to direct you wisdom and criticism towards the current government.Interesting article on another website regarding deregulation and getting rid of red tape.

Private 'for profit' colleges are salivating at the prospect of getting hold of tax payer money when tertiary education funding is deregulated. One 'for profit' college that donated heavily to the Liberals (and had high level contacts in the Liberal party) was responsible for fast tracking all the financial advisers for Storm Financial. 

So we have a problem with just demanding extra 'training' for financial advisers when the 'trainers' are only in it for the money as well. There needs to be proper government regulation. Real, enforceable red tape.The Liberals are out to smite their enemies. There is no search for the truth.His 'instinctive' response was to shout 'look over there, nothing to see here'.Sign the TPP and 'red tape' will become illegal.The Coalition will support the real corruption and the most aggressive parasites in the rentier class while attacking anyone and anything associated with organised labour. They hate working people having rights. They hate democracy coming from grass roots actions instead of being the choice between Born to Rule (A) or Born to Rule (B).

The rorts of the financial institutions need to be investigated more than what Gillard did 20 years ago. This mob of conmen in charge have two lists. Those associated with average workers who are on the 'to smite' list and those associated with the already rich and powerful who are on the 'to suck up to' list.We ain't seen nothing yet.

Wait till we sign the TPP and then we will not even be able to legislate even feeble regulations against the financial institutions.Sigh. Why don't those lefties just accept a nice right wing slogan instead of using so many words and so much evidence to justify their case?It's scary when you think that Nixon actually warned about global warming and managed to do some good things for the environment. I reckon it is worse now. 

These days they don't make recordings, everything is 'on water', 'commercial in confidence' and even the TPP that has wide ranging ramifications for society and democracy is held in secret. When access to discussions on 'free speech' are silenced, you know you are in big trouble.A right wing think tank is pushing the idea that expensive nannies benefit the low paid shift workers and not the wealthy. Big surprise. 

No doubt they will have their next article on how shift penalties are hurting the poor.The Royal Commission into unions is showing people aghast that unions have appointed union men to various positions yet when a bank says they will have in-house investigations and appoint bank insiders to investigate and make rulings regarding their own malfeasance everything is tickity-boo. 

The hypocrisy and double standards being set by this government boggles more than the mind. There only actions so far is to try to remove regulations that protected investors.Wealthy people use nannies and this government legislates in favour of wealthy people and against all others.The Carbon Price is the simplest and most effective way of mitigating global warming inputs without losing control in dodgy international financial trading.

Opposition to the price is not based on any rational economic argument it is purely and simply because polluters don't care or don't believe in AGW. The lies and the excuses for not doing anything are not based on any rational argument. They are based on delusional right wing ideology that requires the complete absence of scientific reality and economic facts to be accepted.

Garbage in, garbage out. Lies and smears to hide that fact.All media outlets should be required to publish/broadcast actual party policies without being paid millions in advertising fees. 

The simple facts without the slogans and then political parties would not need to raise millions in funds to spread the biggest lies to fool the people. 

As a start, all donations should be limited to less than $100 pa from individuals registered on the electoral roll. No companies, no unions, no slush funds as exposed in the ICAC investigations into the Liberals. 

If unions still want to take action to support Labor then they can distribute forms to their members to individually request small donations of $1.90 or less per week to be automatically deducted. Don't sign the form and not money donated.They insist they have to take action when the facts say otherwise. They insist we shouldn't take action on global warming when the facts say otherwise.

Welcome to post-truth politics.The non-use of the head is part of the rules to become a Liberal party team player.My Dad follows Bolton. I have nothing to say.The Coulter link shows about as much reasoning as the right wing jerks who claimed the Muppets were a communist plot. What is it with right wingers and finding 'reds' under every bed? Have they gone insane through the success of their delusional propaganda? 

I find most sport boring to watch. If you are not playing then you don't understand it. FFS, people watch swimming. What is exiting about people going up and down a pool? Yet the Coulter types would see 'America's Greatness' if some US athlete won a gold medal somewhere. Swimming is great if you are doing the swimming. That's it. The rest is a vicarious form of nationalism. We won, we won, we won. Who is this 'we' that has their fat arse planted in an armchair when claiming part of a 'victory'. 

Just get out there and do something and stop complaining about which sport your lazy, unfit self prefers to watch. 

And stop treating war like sport. It isn't great if our side 'wins' when we shouldn't be supporting 'our side' in illegal invasions. It isn't un-Australian or anti-American to not chant for 'our side' when they are destroying somewhere. It isn't 'great' to get rid of environmental regulations because it is a win for 'your side' because we all lose. 

Wake up and stop being mindless followers and participate actively (before all non-approved activities are illegal under right wing rule).It can also be called 'shooting the messenger'.The global warming deniers are funded and fuelled by the already rich and powerful fossil fuel companies. They have artificially created a 'debate' that is full of lies and distortions.

The insanity that has gripped the modern hard right is a form of criminal sociopathy. Short sighted greed funding long term destruction. Inherent selfishness and I pure belief that they can change reality with enough lies. A Dunning Kruger effect with everyone else suffering from their own rabid delusions. 

It doesn't matter how often the outright lies of the conmen are pointed out, they just pay for more regurgitation of the already disproven. They are sick. They are dangerous. The intentional and studied ignorance of these fools on the right is a crime against humanity. They are toxic parasites that intend to kill their host.So Trekka, by not being paid you are just one of the 'useful idiots' that  was a beloved term from those on the right for those who fought for left wing politics without making a personal gain. 

Physics doesn't listen to right wing propaganda. We are warming the planet to dangerous levels. We must act now. Denial will not make it go away.Since Donnelly thinks that all public schooling is a form of Godless communism, no wonder he doesn't want any oversight of what teachers teach.

Make way for creationism in science and extra bonuses for global warming denial.Attack the blue collar workers and the unions that support them but let the real top dollar criminals run rampant at the big end of town.

Remember the golden rule. Whoever has the gold makes the rules. 

Wholesale sackings at the tax office are another way of making sure their are two sets of rules. A crooked bankster has more chance of being fined for fair evasion while their Porshe is being serviced than convicted for any of the rampant white collar fraud. 

The sad thing is I expect that from the Liberals but can't remember Labor doing anything about the problem either. Keeping an eye out for a cushy directorship?The CEFC is making money and the RET has resulted in lower wholesale electricity prices which is supposed to benefit 'every household in Australia'.No skin lost supporting The RET and the CEFC.

Even the government's hand picked auditors have said that the RET has brought power prices down and they were told not to consider the environmental impacts. The CEFC is making good returns so it would be foolish to remove that. Both are successful in a good right wing economic and competitive sense.

The carbon price is only good for the environment by making a price signal for big polluters so that doesn't count in a right wing sense.Our economy is growing. It is not being destroyed. The lies spread about the effect the carbon tax would have on the economy are already proven to be false. 

Renewable energy is already dropping the wholesale price of electricity and so the effect on manufacturing has been somewhat balanced out. No company has claimed the carbon tax put them out of business but several have claimed the high dollar was the final straw. Again your claims have already been proven false.

Do you really think that repeating proven nonsense is way to run a country? It might be a good way of gaining and maintaining power by fooling enough people but intelligent people realise that eventually you need evidenced based policies not mindless fact free sloganeering.There is a laziness in the media. So easy to report 'he said, she said' and call it balance but what if what 'he said' is a total load of old cobblers that can be debunked with easily available facts? Allowing the nonsense to be 'reported' gives it credence if it goes unquestioned as it so often does. It is a false balance."And partly because politicians have, in the past five years, all but abandoned moderate language and gone for shock and awe at every opportunity."

That is the nub of the problem. The Coalition while in opposition could find no lie too big or too small to hurl at Labor. So we ended up with Labor bringing us through the GFC with flying colours yet the public view had them tainted by claims they were 'the worst government ever'. They believed that the best performing economy in the OECD with the third lowest debt and continuing growth was on the brink of collapse.

When such and enormous and easily disproven lie gets public traction it results in the Labor party abandoning fact based debate as well, because it doesn't work. We have truly entered a world of post-truth politics care of the Liberals. They have smeared everyone in the major parties by their words and actions so people look in hope at the new faces.Dear persons in charge of the polls. The call is for a Royal Commission into White Collar Crime in general, not just the Commonwealth Bank.

Your other 'contact' doesn't work.Justice Rares in the Slipper/Ashby case threw it out because it was a corruption of the legal system for political purposes by the LNP/Liberals.

ICAC investigations have shown a web of slush funds and systematic corruption within the Liberal party fund raising arm.

I will add that every time the bastards sell off government assets or privatise public services so their corporate mates can make a profit then that is criminal. 

Every scientific and environmental body they silence and defund so their corporate mates can continue to rape and pillage the environment without opposition is a crime against humanity.Disclaimer statements are a standard feature of most publications. It doesn't mean the information is wrong or that the IMF doesn't support it. On the contrary, if they didn't accept the methodology, they wouldn't have printed the report.

No one has proven that the facts and figures included in the article are wrong. Your desperate clutching at straws and playing word games to try to obscure the truth fits well with standard right wing propaganda techniques.Good to see that I am not the only one to recognise that Labor have drifted to centre right. 

The hard right claim that the GFC stimulus was some sort of socialism but it really was a way of saving capitalism from its own greed so it can continue on its merry way. The hard right can't accept that governments still have an important part to play in the economy so any government intervention is akin to godless communism. That is also the reason they had to spread lies about its success. You cant get rid of government and their regulations if people know they can successfully operate for the benefit of all society. You must constantly claim that government is evil and useless. 

Time for the failure of Supply Side economics to be recognised and head more towards Modern Monetary Theory or something similar.You are right. Changes need to be made or we will be in trouble in a couple of decades. That is not the definition of a crisis in anyone's books unless you are indulging in a bit of artificially generated 'disaster capitalism'.Workers are only really needed as capacity expands. They have got enough capacity for the current market and will extract all the goodies using giant machines and continue to make a healthy profit. 

They are not walking away. They just don't need to pay very many people in this phase. 

If you only listen to miners propaganda you will exacerbate your ignorance as to the modern processes of mining. Coal miners in the eastern states are walking away because all the best stuff is gone and the price is down but over in WA they are making gravy after investment in new fields.Could this be proof that despite the astronomical pay packets of those at the top they actually do not take an active part in the business?

So why are the pay packets so high if time after time the top dogs claim ignorance of the basic functioning of the business? Every success is theirs with big bonuses and share options while every failure is someone further down the pecking order.We have a government that keeps submissions regarding free speech laws a secret. When caught out they lie about the reason. When the lie is pointed out they still refuse to publish submissions.

We wouldn't want the truth to leak out and spoil a good ideological crusade.The TISA and TPP are nothing more than forfeiting our democratic rights to unaccountable corporations.

This bunch of lying conmen that gained power through smears and lies are winding back every sensible economic and social measure that Labor had brought in. From the sensible price on CO2 pollution that is destroying the planet as we know it to winding back banking regulations that allowed financial corporations to rip off over a hundred million dollars worth of people's money. Even their budget is an attack on people and the environment while favouring particular corporations both domestic and foreign. Axing the carbon and mining tax will have little effect on ordinary people but will be a windfall to the biggest polluters and miners who leave a path of destruction in their wake.  Every voice from scientists and experts in any field of economics or social policy has been disbanded and defunded while they trumpet that we are 'open for business' for more pillage and destruction.

Right wingers have constantly claimed that any form of government intervention is some type of communism and that the United Nations is out to steal our freedoms but in the background their true anti-democratic program is running. Gut all government power, sell all government assets, privatise everything until we are under corporate rule with no recourse. Our laws will be made in international commercial courts with no appeal mechanism. Voting will be a waste of time. Already Coalition governments throughout Australia are making effective protest illegal. Union pickets, environmental blockades and even locking your own gate are becoming criminal acts. VLAD laws in Qld can be extended to any group without appeal. Meanwhile they are trying their hardest to enshrine the right to lie and smear by corporate media by claiming 'free speech'. 

'Our ABC' is already marked to be divided and conquered by privatisation so eventually even the news will be in corporate hands pushing a corporate agenda. Deregulation of university funding is the start of privatisation in that arena and the federal government has already decided they will only fund private schools. All we will be fed will be more lies and smears. More mindless global warming denial. More anti-worker propaganda. More anti-environmental hogwash. 

The 'born to rule' mob will no longer have to pretend to care about you because government will be a useless choice between powerless figureheads. Why do you think that the right wingers claimed that the Labor party was the 'worst government ever' when our economy was the best performing economy in the OECD? Because they really hate government and want to hide the fact that good governments can improve things for average people. They want to take control away from governments and hand it to corporations.My thoughts exactly. 

You have a very similar situation with privatisation. Once sold off it is almost impossible to get back under public control considering we have sold out our democratic rights under 'free trade' agreements. 

The TPP is still out there waiting to give more control to unaccountable corporations to rape and pillage the environment with no recourse. Secret talks will see our pathetic control of financial institutions disappear entirely into the hands of the same rapacious 'too big to fail' transnational greed-machines that crashed the world economy and pushed for 'austerity' for the people so they could maintain their profits. Privatise the profits and socialise the losses.

Tasmania is another state with legislation set to criminalise protest in the manner of Victoria. Lock up people to satisfy corporate greed. The Gardens of Stone near Sydney are planned to be literally undermined destroying millennia old landscapes. Once gone, never replaced in the proverbial million years. 

We now have a government that wants to derail sensible action on climate change throughout the whole world so their mates in the Greenhouse Mafia can keep making profits when renewables could create enough clean power to keep modern society running with a fraction of the damage. Dig it up and chop it down. No thought for the future past the next quarterly profits. 

Too many woodchips used for paper when hemp can produce more per hectare with less toxic processing. That would leave a situation where you could harvest a small amount of dress timber for furniture and the like while using plantation timber for 'out of sight' uses. 

A friend came across an area in the Washpool State Forest where a big rosewood was dropped for panels for the new parliament house. He fitted out all of his kitchen with the left overs and gave a fair swag away (it was illegal to do that without a licence but it was just left to rot in a big clearing).Nongs that make ignorant statements about the luxury of the dole always ignore the cost of rent. $360 for share per fortnight isn't too bad compared to some areas.

I spoke to a bloke who, despite working, was always short of cash because the one bedroom flat he rented (with nothing special in the way of extras) was $460 per week."$510 a fortnight!!?? Hardly poverty."

Hockey gets paid more for spending two nights in Canberra as an allowance just for accommodation.  How much are you allowing for accommodation for a whole fourteen days?Funny how you ignore the GFC when talking about surpluses or the fact that the Coalition flogged off $74 billion dollars worth of assets and wasted all the money. Most profligate government in Australia's history as per the IMF.So why hand back truck loads of money to polluters Ben? 

The Coalition is happy to leave your grandkids with a rapidly heating world and all the extra expenses that go with that. The cost will make the piddling debt that Australia has now look like loose change from the back of the couch.

The IMF rated the previous Coalition government as the most profligate (wasteful spending) in Australia's history, not the Labor government.The Coalition have been lying about the state of the economy that was left to them by Labor for so long that they are stuck making stupid statements about emergencies. They inherited one of the best performing economies in the world. Number one in the OECD after the GFC (number one means 'worst ever' in right wing speak where black is white). 

Every economist that is not aligned with a right wing slime tank or paid to spout propaganda for Murdoch has pointed out that the debt is entirely manageable and that we only need to redress some of the structural imbalances (mainly introduced by the previous Coalition government) to get it sorted and the debt will be absorbed by normal economic growth.

Giving back truck loads of money to polluters gives lie to their concerns about lack of revenue, as does the overly generous paid parental scheme.

If this bunch of conmen who lied their way into government continue to get advice from the extreme loony right they will ruin the economy with cuts slowing growth and destroy the infrastructure building for future growth by gutting the NBN. Plus they are scaring off investment in renewable energy due to their idiotic obsession with listening to extreme loony right global warming deniers. 

Their only success will be knocking off the Marketing Division of the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation from their hard won 'number one' spot.If God existed and he brought his word to us via the Middle East then he would stop all the death and destruction there by popping out from heaven and using his omnipotency.

Man made god in his own image and the one's who made him a vengeful right wing god are a real problem.Lying right wingers took us into the illegal invasion of Iraq in the first place. Abbott was part of that government and has proven that he lies by default so you can't trust him anywhere.

Right wing stupidity got us into Iraq in the first place so why should more right wing stupidity fix the mess they created?Just watched footage of another shooting, the shooting of Kajieme Powell. The police said that he came at them with a knife. I couldn't see one.

Here in the comments you have people repeating every word that is used as an excuse to shoot people to death as if they were there and can attest to the absolute truth of the matter. Still, your average right wing hater is going to prefer lies to the truth every time. The truth is a left wing conspiracy.The last seven years handed the Coalition government one of the best performing economies in the OECD (up from ninth) with the third lowest debt. All major economic indicators sailing pretty. Every major economist in the country that is not employed by Murdoch or the IPA (financed by Murdoch) say that the claims of a 'debt and deficit crisis' are basically lies. 

Simply repeating the mindless, fact free lies and propaganda that managed to get the Coalition into government (with the help of a mendacious corporate media) does not make the Coalition good economic managers.

Labor took Australia to the position of the BEST performing economy in the OECD while the Coalition were claiming that Labor was 'the worst government ever'. Well who looks bloody stupid now that they can't live up to their claims? Who is it that is performing worse than 'the worst government ever'? 

You should wait till the Electric Kool-Aid wears off and come back and make a sensible comment."If we're delving into the world of morals here, then you need to start with a manufacturer who makes turd-flavoured crisps, hides them in an opaque, air-filled packet, quotes misleading nutritional "facts", and tries to get them put in every kid's lunchbox."

Do they come with a free packet of glitter sprinkles?They've managed to hand back bucket loads of cash to the biggest, dirtiest polluters in the country. That means they've lowered 'our' taxes. I know, they've said so on the news. They have lowered taxes. 

Sheesh, you've got to give them at least a B+ for effort.Moral, shmoral. This bunch of economic incompetents couldn't run a chook raffle. They'd find the richest person in the room, hand them the chook for free and wonder why no one will buy any tickets.Total trust that the market will solve all problems and that profit making outfits wont gouge for every cent they can.

Industry super funds should work out how to set up some of those villages and make a reasonable without usurious profit for the benefit of the fund and its members. It is not an investment that will go out of fashion or lose customers until the Fountain of Youth is found (or the Coalition legislates to work everyone till they die). 

'For profit' outfits are just working out a different way to 'sell your grandma' to make a dollar.If you are a wing nut then everything looks like a bolt thread and you are upset if it isn't exactly right for you. No different sizes, no shades of grey, with us or against us. 

Team Australia, one size fits hardly anyone.I'm beginning to wonder if right wingers measure progress by the amount of pollution and environmental destruction left in mankind's wake. 

Can't look at a forest without wanting to chop it down or dig stuff up from underneath it and any energy production or transport must pollute the air. The more rubbish created the better, the more polluted the water the more 'we' must be making stuff. The bigger the footprint the more successful the economy (and stuff society or the environment). 

I look forward to more renewable energy and electric vehicles that run on it. My dream is for an electric assist bicycle because the hills are getting steeper as I get older and who wants to turn up to work all sweaty when there are no shower facilities.When you compare the performance of Australia's economy with others in the world (remove global fluctuations) you will find that Australia's ranking goes up during Labor governments and down during Coalition governments.

The right wingers are just better at lying and have more media support.Labor had corrupt individuals, with the Liberals the corruption is systemic.Greig, when will you stop pushing dishonest denialist talking points and accept that new technologies are improving at an incredible rate and do not cause anything near as much damage as burning fossil fuels.

Every tonne of CO2 emissions that is released into the atmosphere is unpaid for pollution that is destroying civilisation as we know it. Why do you support a business being effectively subsidised by polluting for free? Doesn't that go against the same 'user pays' principle that makes you decry subsidies for solar? 

You have many different angles of attack in you vendetta against mitigating global warming and each one has a varying degree of intentional misrepresentation and hypocrisy. If you aren't attacking scientists you are attacking renewable energy.Marko you are wasting your time repeating oft debunked lies spread by denialists here. We are not readers of Murdoch rags, we don't believe every piece of nonsense dished out to us.

The IPCC warns us that it is continuing to warm and that is dangerous for the planet. Twisting and intentionally misrepresenting their findings will not change reality one iota. It just confirms the crass dishonesty of the global warming denialist's tactics.
