So Alpo and Gordon, you would advocate that potential political stability in the ME based on a common interest is impossible, so let them continue to hammer away at each other?  Really?

Why not consider as John Lennon did, and give peace a chance?

Further, Alpo, you seem to think that it would have been much better for everyone if Saddam had stayed in power.  The Saudis, Iran, Kuwait and Israel would all disagree with you there (which is why they all actively assisted the COW in his removal).  Apparently, the reason why you think that Bush was ill-advised in removing Saddam, is that you cannot imagine the bloodbath and economic basketcase that the ME would be now if Saddam and his sons were still in charge of Iraq.The world is not "shifting to renewable energy", the developing world is building coal plants at many times the rate of renewable deployment.  Renewables are simply too expensive, and intermittency limits cost effectiveness to around 20% capacity.

Further, Australia will meet our target of 20% renewable capacity  by 2020.  We are not getting left behind, we are way ahead of most countries.PFD, the "few dollars" that the carbon tax was costing us was not reducing emissions in any meaningful way - it wasn't solving the problem (however you might define it).  Any actions that Australia take are meaningless in the global context, it was just making us feel better.  By paying "a few dollars" we assuage our guilt, like the collection plate at church.Tiresias, coal is not a declining industry, it is growing year on year.  And we are not "making ourselves isolated from the rest of the world", we are developing renewables at a rate much faster than most other countries.Sir Robert of Lindsay, you clearly don't understand the economics of energy generation.  The main cost of electricity is the capital for generation equipment (turbines, power lines, solar panels, wind turbines, smart meters, etc).  The costs are amortised over the lifetime of the generation equipment.

Fuel costs are a tiny fraction of the price you pay for electricity.  And that is why renewables will continue to be  more expensive than coal, even when the price of coal increases as the resource becomes scarce.  Sorry, but those are the facts.  Face them.  Renewables are not a silver bullet, they are simply too expensive and limited due to intermittency.Most scientists agree that AGW is real, but is different to them agreeing that it is bad, and we must commit to  "tackling the issue".On climate policy, the pollies are on a hiding to nothing.

The Australian public expect (demand) that the government fix climate change, but the people will not vote for a policy where it costs them money.  The government is left to run in circles, pretending to do something meanlingful, and instead only do something symbolic, because they know that any action they take will be political suicide.

They only answer to the climate policy dilemma is to execute only "no regrets" policy, and continue to pursue technology development toward low emissions solutions that are cheaper than coal.  Until that technology exists, nothing can happen.

Now there are some here who say that reneweables are (or nearly are) cheaper than coal.  Problem solved!  Right?  Well no, because they are wrong, renewables are nowhere near cheaper than coal, and will not be so any time soon.  Other solutions are needed, (eg thorium and IFRs) but where is the willingness to pursue them?"develop our economy and collaborate with the rest of the world to develop a sustainable renewable energy future"

Pursuing renewable energy is not developing our economy, it is retarding it by creating systems with more costly energy generation prices.  Nowhere in the world has renewable energy genuinely undercut (ie minus subsidies) conventional production methods, including nuclear power.  Nor is there any likelihood in the near future, claims to the contary by vested interests in the local renewable industry are to be ignored, they are simply flat out lies.  

The fact is, nuclear power produces less CO2 per kWh, and is cheaper.  This is why Sweden and France have both the lowest per capita emissions, and lowest electricity prices in Europe.

Genuine action on climate change involves research into new generation nuclear technologies (like thorium and IFRs), not pursuing the old solar and wind options that are simply not working, and still only produce a tiny fraction of global energy needs.

mfk, 

Take the time to look up "life-cycle emissions analyses", read carefully actual studies done.  you will discover that your assumptions are not correct.  Nuclear is at least comparable, if not superior to wind (and defintely better than solar) on emitted CO2/kWh.

Also, nuclear produces power  in many countries at a competitive or superior price to fossil fuels, and much cheaper than renewables - In fact French nuclear power is close to the cheapest available electricity in Europe at 5.6 c/kWh compared to German coal at 7 c/kWh,  Dutch onshore wind at 12.2 c/kWh, and SPanish solar thermal at 28 c/kWh.    Again, don't rely in your instincts, look up "economics of nuclear power", again you will find studies that prove contrary to your preconceived notions.

Gees rusty cairns, you don't get it do you?

Sure, nuclear is a "non renewable " fuel source, but current reserves can last us for many thousands of years (see FBR technology) - plenty of time to find an alternative (like nuclear fusion) or perhaps we will develop cost effective renewables one day (that can handle intermittency), who knows?

Nuclear, even with expensive pollution control costs, which ARE fully paid for by the price it's energy is sold at, and it still works out a fraction of the cost of solar power.  And nuclear reactors have already been returned fully to greenfields at a cost of about 5% of the original plant cost. The average price in the US is around $125M per site.  Check wiki, or a wider google search, inform yourself.

I have watched the Four corners program titled "Power to the people ", and it is an opinion piece that gives voice to vested interests in the renewable energy industry.  It was not accurate, and it did not properly quantify.

Navigation buoys and space stations are solar powered because
- they are remote to grid electricity
- they don't need high wattage for cooking, heating etc
That is not an argument for replacing low-cost reliable conventional baseload generating capacity with expensive and intermittent sources of power from a very diffuse energy source.  Go get a mechanical engineering degree and 30 years of experience on the subject, and we can chat again.

"The expensive renewables you dislike have been found to eventually lower the cost of electricity. "

No they haven't.  Where do you get this ridiculous idea?.  Renewables increase the price of electricity.  Fact.

Of course the renewable industry and green ideologues would have you believe otherwise.  But why would you listen to them, when you know they have a vested interest?  Unless of course you are a green ideologue, and you choose to believe what you wish to be true, rather than facts.Uh, no.  Azrael, 

You are mistaken, solar power is actually much more expensive than coal.  But is subsidised by taxpayers.  If you removed the subsidies (including for coal) and ridiculous feed-in tariffs, solar is around 3 times the price of conventional power.

Further your solar panels can't run your stove, heating or even toast bread - for that you need gas or a grid connection.  So you are also needing the distribution.  If you disconnect entirely, then you have to pay for batteries and gas, how much does that cost you over the 5 year life of your batteries?

Continued subsidies and unrealistic feed-in tariffs are not economically sustainable, they will end.

You are just another sucker who can't do the math.  
David.  Coal won't run out for 300 years.  It will be cheaper than solar power for a very very long time.ayjay, whilst I agree that coal is dirty and dangerous, it is not "due to be phased out".  the industry is growing year on year (in the developing world), there will be more coal plants in 2100 than there are now.

Why?  Because it generates cheap electricity.  The developng world does not care about "externalities", they only care about raising their populations from poverty.

That's the problem.  If you can't acknowlegde the problem, you can't discuss the solution."There is no pause in global warming..."

Then you are at odds with climate science and the IPCC, which has acknowledged the pause.  The point being that temperatures are not increasing in correlation with CO2 as expected.  Why?  We don't know, and we should resolve that matter before we declare the science is settled and that we are all doomed unless we dismantle the global industrial energy technology base, and throw the developing world's economies into reverse.stalga, 

Thanks for at least acknowlegdging that the pause exists.  There are many suggested reasons for why, the main being changes in solar activity, increased ocean heat uptake, and low ECS.  We need to understand this properly to quanitfy future warming, and balance this against the extreme cost of decarbonising the global economy.

That is not to say that we should do nothing, instead I would argue that the pause demonstrates that we have time to properly deploy clean, safe, long-term and economic solutions like thorium and fast breeder fission, instead of panicing and trying (failing) to deploy expensive and limited renewables.  And once we have cost effective technologies, the developing world will follow, not because they need to reduce emissions, but because low emission technology is cheaper.prison, I agree with nearly everything you say, except I do not agree with your optimism about reducing "carbon footprint".  We would need to build a dozen 500MW nuclear reactors simultaneously to make a difference, and I don't see that happening any time soon.

I am a member of the human race, no political affiliations, I don't particularly like any of the current crop of pollies.Of course we will one day (in 300 years) need to wean ourselves off coal.  But now it is cheap source of energy, and the developing countries need cheap energy to overcome poverty and overpopulation.  Which is why the coal industry continues to grow year on year.rusty cairns, you may be right aboutthe environmental cost of coal, but that will not stop developing countries from using it, and putting up with the environmental damage.  The only solution is to develop a solution that is cheaper than coal.

And solar power isn't it.   As Power to the People pointed out, without legislation and subsidies the renewable energy industry would die.  The Orange Bowls club relies for its profitability on ridiculous and unsustainable feed-in tariffs, and tax-payers subsidies.  And the US solar thermal plant shows is a tiny 110MW, it is 20% of the size of a typical coal plant, it hasn't even opened yet, let alone proven itself.  And if its like the molten salt plant in Spain, it will prove absurdly expensive (5 times the price of French nuclear electricity).

Price is still very much a factor, investment in renewables in Australia is not sustainable.  You really need to learn to quantify, and be a bit more sceptical of opinion pieces that are driven by vested interests in the renewable energy industry.

The solar system on the Orange Bowling Club will NOT generate cheaper power even if no subsidies were paid.  What about when it;s raining and at night - they draw on grid electricity right?  So they need the infrastructure to be there, but they don't pay their share for the distribution system that keeps the lights on.

Australia placing a price on the damage caused by burning fossil fuels will NOT stop developing countries investing in it and damaging the environment.  And developing countrries will not agree to put a price on carbon, because they know it is bad for their growth.

The cost of electricity has almost nothing to do with the cost of the fuel, it is the amortised capital and operating costs that is so expensive.  You need to learn a bit about the subject, you clearly see renewables with rose coloured glasses.  There is a reason solar produces &lt;1% of global electricity.  I am trying to explain it, but you don't have the base knowledge to comprehend it."The global warming pause is, to use our PM's vocabulary, "absolute crap"."

You are denying climate science.  Suggest you check out the IPCC AR5.  You will find that you are wrong.The pause is a slowing in the rate of temperature increase.

Temperatures increased did not correlate with CO2 increase. There was an increase in temperature, but it was not caused by CO2. Am I clear?

Keep pedalling your alarmist rubbish.Alex, go check the journals, and verify the rate of warming over the lasty 2 decades against CO2 emissions.  Then work out how much CO2 is being emitted, and then work out how much it will warm.  If you check the numbers,rather than your rhetoric, you will realise that there is no need for alarm, and we can progessively move to new technologies when and as they become economical and sustainable.

If you remove all subsidies, renewables would be 5-10 times the price of coal.And since when were political promises considered "facts"?  

the yank, Australia is also planning on 20% renewables by 2020 under our MRET scheme.  We are well ahead of China now in terms of capacity of renewables.  I am not sure why you think China's promise of 20% is of interest, they will still be getting the other 80% from non-renewables, mainly coal."we are now at a stage where during peak periods renewable energy is actually forcing down the wholesale cost of power"

Sydney Bob, think about it.m  Creating an occasional glut of energy with solar power is actually really bad.  It means a slower return on investment in solar panels, excess solar power is worthless, and results in higher prices when there is no sun, since we still need the conventional infrastructure for times when there is a high load, and no sun.

China is building nuclear at 4 times the rate of renewables.  And building coal plants at 10 times the rate.So the heat is "hiding somewhere"?  This is good news, CO2 can rise, and result in no climate change.  It will only become an issue if for some reason the heat decides to stop hiding.

So Gr8Ape, do you have any scientific evidence to suggest that the process we observe (small temp increase, hiding heat) will suddenly cease, and global warming will happen?  I have checked with the IPCC, and I see no scientific validation for such a conclusion.

Jerry, you are arguing semantics (I never said "cessation" or "no warming") , and you haven't answered my question.  If the energy is being stored in the deep oceans, and temperature trends are flat (ie minimal gloabl warming), how is this bad?  What compels us to act urgently with bizarre economic policies?"There is one and only one way to reduce green-house emissions and that is economic and population contraction"

Nonsense, we could simply replace all coal-fired power with nuclear power.  With thorium and IFRs we have enough fuel to last 5000 years.  The answer is straight-forward, we simply don't have the political will to invest in commmercialisation of these technologies - the anti-nuclear brigade clearly do not consider climate change an urgent issue.

Check the IPCC AR5, where they unreservedly acknowledge the pause, and admit they don't know why it is happening, has acknowledged that observation does not match the bulk of current models, stating: 

"This difference between simulated and observed trends could be caused by some combination of (a) internal climate variability, (b) missing or incorrect radiative forcing, and (c) model response error."

To deny the pause is denial of climate science.
The problem with Australia unilaterally imposing taxes and fees on ourselves, is that we are acting independently of our trading partners.    It increases the price of everything for Australian consumers, and compensates by returning money to consumers (presumedly in an equitable manner).  The problem is in applying rebates to trade impacted industry, so they may export and compete fairly.  Where does the money come from to pay the rebates?  And how complex is such a rebate system?

The only equitable system is one that imposes a price on CO2 GLOBALLY.

Until such a global solution exists for this global problem, we are better off investing money into developing the new, better, cleaner technologies that are needed to replace fossil fuels.
whohasthefish,

Regrettably, you are mistaken.  The intermittency of renewables, and the cost of storage and backup generation,  means that they are unable to signficantly contribute to supplanting baseload power systems.

Google:  "Household Solar Photovoltaics: Supplier of Marginal Abatement, or Primary Source of Low-Emission Power" by Graham Plamer, or his recent talk on the ABC's Ockham's Razor.  The analysis is very sobering, and demonstrates why the popular but naive claim that "renewables are the future!" is utterly delusional.

The technology to properly replace coal, oil and gas has not been developed commercially yet.  Nuclear (think new tech like thorium and IFRs, not old Gen2 reactors) offers the best prospect at the moment.Gary, 

The Argo buoys would need to be accurately recording temperatures to 100th or 1000th of a dgree to be able to verify deep ocean heat uptake.  Whilst you conclude with some conviction, I remain very doubtful, based on the available evidence, of the IPCC being able to properly and definitively conclude on this matter.

Until the reason for the pause has been properly quantified (the IPCC has yet to report on this), equilibrium sensitivity has not been determined accurately.  The science is not settled.  Based on observations of temperature trends in recent times, we may only be facing a warming of 1-2 degC this century.  We don't yet know.  Policy needs to acknowledge this uncertainty.whogoesthere,

As a world dictator would you also feel compelled to provide low cost energy to the world's poor?  If so, what would you recommend?
Warwick, 

How will rebates to trade affected industry be funded?The third way to use price to reduce emissions is to research, develop and commercialise new and improved and CHEAPER technology so that it directly replaces the old tech.

Skewing the economy to make uncompetitive technology viable cannot possibly result in an equitable outcome.  If its not competitive, then one way or another we have to pay more for it.  Obviously.  There is no way to do this without pain.@EM Laidly:

You are obviously unaware that solar PV attracts 10 times the public money investment than coal (per kWh produced), and it is still too expensive.  

The problem isn't how many solar panels Australia has, it's MW capacity being installed in the developing world.  Unfortunately it is a fraction of the capacity of new coal and gas plants.  That's the problem.  Until it is solved (ie solar power is really, actually, measurably cheaper and more reliable than fossil fuels) solar power is a waste of our valuable resources on a non-solution.

We need to be putting money into R&amp;D into cheap, reliable and clean thorium and IFRs.  Next gen nuclear is the answer, and if you disagree then you are just not taking solving the problem of climate change seriously.Thanks Circular.  So how many more kWh of energy is delivered by fossil fuels (coal, oil, gas) compared to renewables?  When you have that worked out, you will see how much more renewables get ($ per kWh).

In order to answer TomToots question, compare just coal to just solar.Stalga.  You have it back to front.  The "time factor" is in favour of nuclear.  It is possible to build 10 nuclear power station in parallel, and within 15 years replace 35% of Australia's energy production with zero emission technology.   Solar power could not hope to do that in 50 years, even if the technology was capable (which it isn't, because of intermittency).

The French created a near 100% zero emission energy base in less than 20 years, and proudly have the lowest per capita emissions footprint in Europe.  Are you saying we are not as smart or capable as the French?

Many people in Australia don't want nuclear power because they have foolishly succumbed to relentless propaganda from foreign uranium mining interests trying to suppress our obvious advantage in possessing nearly half the world's known reserves of uranium.  Such stupidity is nothing to be proud of.Jack, 

Back in the 70s and 80s, Australia had a highly active anti-nuclear movement (we had GreenPeace, MAUM, NDP etc etc).  Where did they get their funding and motivation?  The propaganda they disseminated, and the public fear they evoked, were instrumental in establishing the ALPs bizarre 3 mine policy, and in shutting down Australia's advanced fuel leasing program, including the development of centrifuge enrichment, waste management and monitoring systems.

Ask yourself, why are Australians so afraid of nuclear power, while the French are happy living next to reactors?Dr Who knows full well fast breeder technology is commercially viable now relative to Gen3 technology, well beyond experimental.  And nuclear is much cheaper than solar and wind when you consider the problems of intermittency (ah yes, that problem, you forgot to mention that one Dr Who).  Solar and wind are bit players because the energy source is so diffuse and unreliable.    The technology that is cheap and clean and reliable enough to replace fossil fuels does not exist yet.  And Gen4 nuclear is the only low emissions technology which shows any prospect of carrying the massive energy requirements of the next century.  

The real game hasn't begun yet.  Smart people keep their minds open to what the future might hold."Peddling the same old misinformation does nothing to advance the argument... "

I agree Blzbob.  So when are we going to stop with all this misinformation about solar power being the answer?
Hub, solar PV was invented 100 years ago, and has been commercially available for offgrid applications for over 40 years.  It is similar to nuclear power in terms of technology maturity, and yet nuclear produces 17% of the world's electricity, and solar a fraction of 1%.

It isn't the answer.  Never will be, no matter how much the sustainability ideologues want to to be otherwise.  And "investment" (aka pouring in endless amounts of public money) will not change that.  Solar power will always be just a small player with a niche market.Blzbob, 

Nuclear power already produces 17% of the world's electricity.  It will never be a "whole new world wide problem".That's funny, GraemeF.  Why do you assume that because I know solar power (or renewables in general) can't significantly reduce emissions, that you would assume that I am in favour of coal?  It is because I am not in favour of coal as a source of energy that I insist we should look further for solutions that would really work.

cityside, 

That 4 corners episode was called Power to the People.  And it was a soap box for capitalists with a vested interest in public funding of the renewable energy sector.  Watch it again, note how many of those interviewd had a financial stake, and come back here.

Also note the closing line.  Building solar power infrastructure "costs money - a lot of money."  That's the problem.whogoesthere:  "Why not now?"  

Ask the developing countries why they are building orders of magnitude more capacity in coal plants rather than solar plants.  Then you will have your answer.

The "I want cheap power' view " when you consider that it is the 100s of millions of marginal poor in the developing world, rising from their poverty, that governs how much CO2 is emitted over the next century.  

Or are you condemning them to continued poverty?  Who then is being selfish?Eggman, I agree, which is why we should abandon the pursuit of solar energy immediately, because it cannot supplant coal.  We need a better solution, and nuclear (thorium and IFR) appears the best answer yet."This is an argument to make solar cheaper"

And how do you propose to do that?  All hold hands, shut our eyes tightly and sing Kum Ba Yah until the good fairies of green energy utopia come to our aid?

The Germans have already shown that R&amp;D investment, economies of scale in production, and local generation, don't solve the problems of renewable energy cost.  And Germans still have higher electricity prices and a per capita Co2 emissions footprint that is double neighbouring France.

What are the French doing right, that the Germans are not?  
France has a committed plan to progressively replace it's current nuclear fleet with FBRs, starting around 2035.  They are not planning on a renewable industrial revolution.Dr Who, check fast neutron reactors at the World Nuclear Association website.ram, solar power gets 10 times the subsidies that coal gets (per kWh produced).  Remove all subsidies and the market would kill solar dead in an instant.ram, solar thermal is absurdly expensive.  Ask the Spanish about their Andersol plants.You are correct Bulldust.  Many posters here seem to not realise (or don;t want to admit) that solar PV is very heavily subsidised with public money.  If it wasn't, it would be prohibitively expensive.The 6 cents per kWatt is not anwhere near the real value of the power you are producing, the money creditted to you is paid for through public funding (not the sun).

As soon as power companies abandon feed-in tariffs, and only pay the real value of solar power, will people realise what a dud solar PV is.  And they are gonna howl, because many people are going to be out of pocket.  It won't be pretty.The "cheapest form of energy" is renewable energy.

Really?  And why is it that the developing world is building so many coal plants?  Many, many time the capacity of solar power.  Is it perhaps because you are ... ahem... wrong?  ie renewables are not cheaper?

"I'm considering going back to the camp fire to do my cooking and bathing in the creek instead of heating water for a shower! Carbon energy is costing us too dearly."

Oh dear.  It's all too hard, so let's all go live in caves.  (and BTW camp fires produce CO2, and if the world's 7 billion only used wood as fuel, we would end up with no trees).  

Hey rusty cairns, how much cooking and hot water is available when it's cloudy and raining, or night-time?  

There are still 1.3 billion people who unfortunately still use biomass for cooking and heating.  It is the cause of a tragic health epidemic.  And you think it's a great idea?stupendus, if the Greenies knew how much they are putting back plans to raise the world's poor from their poverty, their answer would be to vote for their guvmint to give the world's poor a barrel of money, so they can feel good about themselves.rod, 

Australia is losing interest in your expensive solar panels.  We will be building next generation nuclear technology (not with any help from Germany), and we will be laughing at you.

Good luck to you and your countrymen and women. You're going to need it big time.orangefox, 

Whilst in theory the technology exists as you have stated, you have forgotten to factor cost.  Intermittent gas turbine generation is way less efficient and more costly than continuous CCGT, and solar thermal with molten salt storage is absurdly expensive.  Ask the Spanish.Mark O, bobtonner also missed your comment "Meanwhile in India".  And seems to not be aware that billions of people around the world live their entire lives without ever seeing a street light.  Obviously, solar panels in Hampton NY has nothing to do with renewable energy being a prospective technological global climate fix.If there were no public funded subsidies, they would not have installed them.Great.  So let's stop all the subsidies and forced legislation and let competition happen on a level playing field.ScottBE,  China and India are installing solar panels, but also building new coal fired plants at 10 times the rate.  The coal industry is growing year on year as a result, and solar energy uptake has comparatively little impact on it.  It is a myth that renewables are critical to offsetting fossil fuels.  Nuclear power has a much greater impact.

John in Brisbane,

If intermittent generation isn't a problem any more, and Musks fabulous new energy storage batteries are now so efficient and cost effective, they must surely (according to your argument) be able to compete on a level playing field.  The problem is solved.

So then why do we need a RET?It's not the power company's fault that they have to charge more to fund the RET.  They are not a charity.  It's the fault of the RET - as Rog said, other power users are paying for your "free" power.  Further, you are still privileged to be able to afford the PV panels, many others are not so fortunate and can't afford any capital outlay.  And they have to pay for your free power, and your warm inner environmental glow.  How is that fair and equitable?

No Olivia, you are wrong.

Continued growth in intermittent renewables destabilises the grid, causing a need to build redundant conventional infrastructure (for when there is no sun or wind) that is rarely used.  But when it is needed it is really needed.  Hence massive market volatility, the need for costly smart metering systems, etc.  

Increased intermittent renewables (beyond around 15-20% capacity) is bad for power companies AND consumers.

Further the argument that the increased "carbon pollution" of 15M tonnes would cost us $14 B is obviously nonsense, because compared to the global emissions it is insignificant, and results in an even more insignificant increase in global temperatures.  No wonder Olivia didn't exand on this "method developed by the United States government".  

Renewable energy isn't critical to avoiding climate change.  It isn't the solution because it is too expensive, and won;t be accepted in teh developing world.  Coal and gas is also too expensive.  Until technology is developed that is cleaner, more reliable and cheaper than fossil fuels and renewables, the global problem of climate change isn't solved. 

Roll on R&amp;D into thorium and integral fast reactors.  This is how we should be spendng our money, not wasting it on known white elephants.
Or we will stop trying to pick winners (like renewables), and open our minds to researching new ideas, develop better technology, cheaper cleaner energy generation methods, and we will raise everyone in the world out of poverty, and provide everyone with the technology to control their family size, and thereby resolve overpopulation.  

And nobody will be killed or forced to do anything.

I like my solution better.Jeremy, 

What makes you think renewables are the future?  Maybe another technology will be invented that's cheaper and better than coal and renewables?  We have nuclear power too, and there's plenty of opportunity to make that work safely, cleanly, reliably and cost-effectively.  Just wait for the curves to intersect right?There is over 5000 years of uranium based on current extraction technology, and using currently commercially available fast breeder technology.

Plus thorium, which offers 4 times the fuel availability of uranium , and isn't a technological challenge - a working design was validated 50 years ago.

If there are problems, they can be more easily overcome than the problems with solar - ie, energy density means the need for large collection areas, the Earth rotates and there are clouds.   Any ideas on how to fix those problems, Dr Who?

Nuclear is the future, some people just haven't woken up yet.


Its a bit of a myth that fossil fuels get subsidies.  It would be good for those makng the claim to actually identify the subsidies with some evidence rather than repeating myths.Why rely on the bloke down at the pub?  Listen to the engineers who actually have to to build these systems.  Renewable systems have scaling and cost constraints (due to intermittency), baseload fossil fuels are cheaper and more reliable.  It's a fact, deal with it."The sovereign risk is real (e.g. no new commitments to large scale renewable projects this year). "

Why is that a sovereign risk?  We don't need any new generation capacity, there is currently an oversupply.  It is ludicrous to bow to legislation to build expensive infrastructure that then sits idle (eg Sydney's desal plant).And who pays for this risk aversion?  Taxpayers! - to the tune of $billions.  Refer to to my comment about the sovereign risks associated with excessive debt.

And coal plants are not being run past there useful life.  If they are profitable and produce energy affordably then they are still inside their useful life.


Wind Industry Employee, 

Having legislation that costs the Australian taxpayers $23 bilion to 2035 is also a sovereign risk, when you consider the current amount of national debt.  

So too is building supplemental wind infrastructure that is intermittent and will destabilise the grid.  There is an upper limit to the technical viability of wind power, then you need to start building expensive gas turbine peaking plants.

As a carbon dioxide abatement strategy, renewables are just too expensive.  20% is the limit, and we should stick to it.
Paradigm, 

That is nonsense, the upper limit is not geography (or energy density kW/km2, although it is a big factor with solar and biofuels), it is the amout of supplemental power that can be put into the grid without instability, noting that at any time, it is possible that all of that supplemental power is down and not delivering any power.  There is no upper limit if supplemental power is matched by idle standby peaking capacity with biofuels, and/or geographical dispersion+overcapacity, but these are both absurdly expensive (see the recent AEMO study) so represent an economic upper limit.  The big problems start at about 20% capacity.

And the operator does not wer the expense, the cost of supply is ALWAYS passed onto the consumer.  Always.  And fuel costs have nothing to do with it, the cost of electricity is driven almost entirely by capital cost of infrastrcuture (amortised over the plant life)  and operating costs (labour).

Except for supplemental wind (up to 20% capacity, renewables are very expensive to consumers, and only get to happen because of massive subsidies, delivered primarily through solar feed-in tariffs.  Long-term such market skewing is not sustainable.Rattan.  I believe in deeply technological innovation, and when we have the breakithrough storage technology, I will march in the streets for renewables.  Until then, we have what we have.Dr Who knows full well that Germany balances the instability from its high use of renewables by buying nuclear power from France.  Australia doesn't have that option.

And Germany has already maxed out their ability to use wind power (and probably solar too), based on energy density and land use.  They still have to source at least 70% (at times 100%) of their power from reliable baseload sources, or hydro peaking capacity.

And baseload power is not a myth - in Australia it provides power 24/7 even if it is not being consumed at a much lower price than fluctuating the supply, and using expensive gas peaking capacity (note Aust mainland has only 6% capacity in hydro).  Yes it is possible to produce some supplemental power from intermittent sources, however to then assume that it is infinitely scalable and can cost effectively replace fossil fuels is renewable industry lobbyist garbage.So politicians use language to exagerate?  Who would have thought?  And this is worthy of a whole article in The Drum?Reinhard, the problem is that our trade partners in developing countries do not want to pay for the externalities.  They want cheap energy in order to industrialise as fast as possible, and so raise their populations out of poverty.  TAnd they are prepared to suffer the consequences toachieve that goal.  Australia unilaterally applying a cost to externalities kills trade.  And does nothing for global emissions if developing countries are not constrained.

Nothing can happen about putting a price on carbon dioxide until there is a global agreement to do so.  And even then, it works counter to addressing poverty and overpopulation, so there is a big price we will all pay for that agreement."the cheaper the energy the less encouragement there is to create new infrastructure"

That's a joke, right?  Or is it just spin?

Can I suggest you review what happened at the last Copenhagen conference to provide you with a refresher on the behaviour of developing countries when it comes to putting a price on carbon dioxide.GRF, you are absolutely spot on.  The world needs need cheap energy to resolve the biggest environmental problem we face - overpopulation.  And cheap energy comes form coal.  It is isn't possible to debate climate change rationally without facing this dilemma.
There is a very strong corelation between access to low cost energy, and high standard of living education and access to techn ology, which are the precursors to low infant mortality and low birthrates (required to resolve overpopulation).

In other words, cheap available energy is the key to solving the world's most important environmental issue.Dr Who,

3rd world economies do need "modernisation, and also a stable government.  They need both.James, 

Where do you get the idea that the low end of the range is dangerous?  We had 0.8 degC of warming over the 20th century, and we barely noticed it and the IPCC confirms we are not seeing any significant changes in weather events.

The difference between 1degC and 4.5 degC of warming is vast.  We need to know, and I mean REALLY know, that we face problems before we start diverting financial resources away from important needs, like growing the economies of the developing world, providing clean water, addressing global health issues, etc.  

The problem is that too many people do not see the devastating environmental and economic downsides (especially for the developing countries) of moving away from cheap baseload energy production.
James Picone, I think you are imagining that someone here is arguing that CO2 doesn't cause warming.  It is in your imagination.  The greenhouse warming of the Earth's atmosphere, primarily by water vapour, is an empirical fact.  And more CO2 will mean at least some warming.

The question is:  how much warming, how much water vapour feedback, and how fast is the warming (what is the transient climate response)?  Fact is, we just don't know.  Observations donrt match models.  

And since reducing emissions has massive negative connotations toward economic growth, especially in the world's poorer nations, we really need to know before we can set more than a "no regrets" policy.
Nor do they mention that China's expansion of low emissions technology, includes an 80% contribution from nuclear power.Exactly James in Brisbane.

And that is why would should be very wary of any policy that involves making energy expensive, reduces global living standards, or retards the process of raising the poluations of the developing world from their poverty.Would somebody please remind Greg Jericho that 25 years later, we DO NOT have better modelling.  The current models simply do not match observation.  There is obviously something amiss, and it does seem like TCR is low, and that warming is now, and will continue to be, slow.  And slow warming means we have policy options other than a panicked need to shutdown industries and move to expensive energy options - which are sure to slow economic growth and hamper efforts to reduce global poverty.Tiresias,

What you have posted about how climate change causes extreme weather is THEORY, it hasn't been proven by observation.  It is therefore not a scientific fact.  It may have the support of many scientists, but the history of science is littered with the corpses of such theories.

Another theory is that as CO2 causes more warming at the poles and less at the equator, there is less temperature differential, and so less energy going into mid-latitude storms. 

Which theory is right?  Observations favour the latter.  And yet it is not the theory supported by the IPCC.  Why do you think that is?
Sorry Mulky, but you are wrong.  Gravity is a fact.  It is deemed a fact by virtue of repeated observation.  The theory part is about explaining WHY the phenomenon of gravity exists.

However the idea that climate change causes extreme weather is NOT a fact, because it is not observed.  It is a theory only.

If you are still struggling, I recommend you go back to high school, because this would be basic/introductory in year 11.bozo, 

What you are citing is theory and anecdotal observational evidence.  The IPCC has collated detailed studies, and documented it in the AR5 and SREX reports.  Hurricane frequency is not increasing.

There is plenty of speculation about what might happen in the future (with lots of doom and gloom from alarmists) but that is not science.  So far both theory and projections (via models) have not been validated against observation.Thanks Oaktree that is exactly what I was referring to: doom-and-gloom alarmism that is based on scary stories we see on TV and speculation, and not based on science.stalga, 

Regrettably, your information is not current nor authoritative.  I am quoting the IPCC latest reports on extreme weather.  Increasing floods, drought and hurricance frequency are not observed.  That's the science.Alpo:  "Had you read the IPCC report you would know that extreme climate events are on the increase "

Actually, that's a bit simplistic.  There is no significant increase in floods, droughts, and hurricanes.From Chapter 4 of the SREX:
 ??There is medium evidence and high agreement that long-term trends in normalized losses have not been attributed to natural or anthropogenic climate change?
 ??The statement about the absence of trends in impacts attributable to natural or anthropogenic climate change holds for tropical and extratropical storms and tornados?
 ??The absence of an attributable climate change signal in losses also holds for flood losses?

From the IPCC AR5 WGI Chapter 2 on extremes.
 ??Overall, the most robust global changes in climate extremes are seen in measures of daily temperature, including to some extent, heat waves. Precipitation extremes also appear to be increasing, but there is large spatial variability?
 ??There is limited evidence of changes in extremes associated with other climate variables since the mid-20th century?
 ??Current datasets indicate no significant observed trends in global tropical cyclone frequency over the past century ? No robust trends in annual numbers of tropical storms, hurricanes and major hurricanes counts have been identified over the past 100 years in the North Atlantic basin?
 ??In summary, there continues to be a lack of evidence and thus low confidence regarding the sign of trend in the magnitude and/or frequency of floods on a global scale?
 ??In summary, there is low confidence in observed trends in small-scale severe weather phenomena such as hail and thunderstorms because of historical data inhomogeneities and inadequacies in monitoring systems?
 ??In summary, the current assessment concludes that there is not enough evidence at present to suggest more than low confidence in a global-scale observed trend in drought ... AR4 conclusions regarding global increasing trends in drought since the 1970s were probably overstated. ...
 ??In summary, confidence in large scale changes in the intensity of extreme extratropical cyclones since 1900 is low?
Alpo, 

There is no overall increase in frequency nor intensity of floods and droughts, no increase in frequency of storms.

These are matters of detail that should be noted.

I have posted the details from the reports, hopefully the moderator will allow it.
Stalga, my statement is also correct.  Alpo stating that "extreme events are on the increase" is simplistic.Jerry, 

You expose the modus operandi of climate action advocates which is to use environmental causes to undermine the current economic system, and promote an alternative that is based on leftist idealistic notions.

You also use the same justification to tarnish the government (Conservatives), and thereby throw weight behind your own (presumedly Progressive) political platform.

It's all very Orwellian.Jerry, you give away your agenda by connecting climate change with corporations making "excessive profits", as if this is bad.  In reality such activity provides jobs, investment capital, superannuation, and results in public money revenues for social programs (like health and education).

You may wish to consider that the vast bulk of current fossil fuel deployments today are providing cheap energy in the developing world to the poor, and raising them from poverty.  And you wish to shut that down.  What of the poor?  Let them eat cake?
Jerry, 

"No one is denying energy to the poor, in fact ongoing free energy from the sun and the wind will advantage the poor."

In other words:  Let them eat cake.  (note:  energy from the sun and wind is not free, it is very expensive, that's why it doesn't compete with coal)

Certainly there is an environmental cost to fossil fuels, however it is not the eeevil corporates who get the advantage of not realising that cost up front.  We (the consumers) do, because we get cheap energy.  And the world's poor do, because they get to emerge from poverty.

Is this a failure of the market?  Of is it a quirk that has provided dramatic increases in our standard of living around the globe?  We have gained our wealth at the expense of the environment, but look at the benefits that are accruing, particularly in developing countries. 

The environmental damage caused by fossil fuels must be reckoned with, I agree.  However to do so will disadvantage the world's poor, they need cheap energy.   And renewables are not cheap, and their deployment will not help the poor.  There is no easy answer to this.  Moving away from fossil fuels is going to hurt us all economically.



Econ:  "Clearly the LNP supporters are more likely to believe there is no problem"

More like LNP voters are are smart enough to see that there are bigger and more urgent problems in the world than climate change.

What a lot of nonsense.  Before declaring that voters are "warming to the scientific view" on climate change, it is helpful to define what that view is.  Most of the above discussion has nothing to do with science, and the questions are too vague and ambiguous to draw conclusions.  

So what is the scientific view?

1.  That climate change is real?  Sure.  The consensus view is that at least half the observed warming in the late 20th century was caused by human emissions of GHGs (though some is certainly natural and caused by natural oscillations)

2.  That climate change will cause extreme weather events?  Well, that depends on what type of weather event:  

a)  Heatwaves? Yes.  But bushfires?  Not necessarily, it is a more complex question of hydrology and climate variability.  

b) Floods, droughts and cyclones, possibly - but currently only a theory, not confirmed by observation.  (See IPCC AR5 and SREX reports)

3.  That we need to urgently reduce emissions?  Not an issue for scientists, it is a matter for politics, since we need to balance science, engineering and economics.  

4.  That policies like Direct Action or Carbon taxes will reduce emissions?  Not an issue for scientists, it is a matter for partisan politics, pick your team.

For your information:
a) Large bushfires have been on the increase.

True but the connection with global warming is not obvious - fires are related to many other issues, available fuel (recent rains), climate variability (eg ENSO), hydrology - increased temperature is a very minor component.

b) Floods and droughts have been on the increase regionally. 

And yet the IPCC AR5 and SREX reports both say this is unlikely due to AGW.

c) High magnitude cyclones have been on the increase. 

While frequency is decreasing.

d) Urgent decrease of emissions is indeed an issue for scientists to tell ...

Disagree.  Recommend decreasing emissions is not up to scientists to advise, that is a policy.  Only the quantified implications of not decreasing emissions.  And they can't even do that with any accuracy.

e) Whether it is direct action or an ETS that will be the best strategy is again for relevant technical specialists ...

We agree on that.  But there is obviously a lot of partisan politics in play here.  If the LNP had introduced at ETS, the Greens supporters would still be howling about how grossly inadequate it is.  

My guess is the LNP will go with DA and also an ETS framework at 0$/tonne C (in preparation for an international agreement). ALP and Greens will also pitch an ETS, but with a price on carbon.  
Comrade, be aware the IPCC AR5 and SREX reports say that it is unikely that AGW is causing increased floods, droughts or hurricanes.  The  IPCC favours the idea that these extreme events  may happen in the future, but they are as yet not observed.  Just thought you should know.Spot on Orion.  But that would mean that we could say "climate change is good".  Yet the IPCC does not support that theory, they support the "climate change is bad" theory, even though it is not observed.

I wonder why?  Any guesses?
It's easy to think that climate change alarmism is the product of being manipulated by the media or the IPCC or left-wing loopies using it as a platform for promoting their agendas.  But sadly is seems the fault lies in the millions of poorly educated,  involuntarily ignorant Australians who cannot quantify the trivial implications of climate change, against the many other more important issues that demand our resources (eg poverty, overpopulation, global health etc).David, 

The problem is that the IPCC has "quite clearly" NOT quantified the impacts of climate change.  

They can't even get the future temperature projections accurate (its apparently somewhere between 1.5 and 4 degC, maybe), and that is based on climate models that so far (as the IPCC has acknowledged) haven't matched observations.  And this is just temperature.  What about the impacts?  The latest IPCC reports show no increase in floods, droughts and hurricanes.  What about the 10m sea level rise? it's still only rising at much the same steady rate as it has for the last 300 years.

I don't think the IPCC is corrupt, David.  I just know that they haven't yet quantified the impacts of AGW, and what they are saying isn't nearly as scary as people seem to think it is.  At least not compared to the many other problems in the world (like health, education, etc).

David, 

Read above where I point out that the projections, with error margins, still do not match observations.  Now explain to me again how science has accurately quantified the impacts of AGW.  

Really, David, if you think that's a rational argument, then you are in no position to lecture me on how science works.David, 

Although I am tertiary qualified in science, I don't think I know more than climate scientists.  I don't think I am disagreeing with them, I am disagreeing with you and your interpretation of climate science.   I have no intention of deferring to YOUR interpretation of "how science works", because quite frankly it is ridiculous.

And yes, a projection with big error margins is inaccurate.  (the error margin defines the bounds of inaccuracy).

Stephen, your analogy is faulty, it should say:

If large group of oncologist told you that they were 95% certain that you have cancer, but it isn't harming you now, and may not ever cause you any harm (the doctors are not decided on that, they are about 50/50 on it being bad some time in the future, maybe).  Treatment is costly, and requires that you mortgage your house, and there is no guarantee of a cure.

What would you do?
TJC, 

What TA and GH think about CC is not relevant.

The Direct Action policy was formulated because polls show that 80% of Australians want the government to take action on climate change, favour the meeting of modest targets, and do not want to pay for it with increased electricity bills.  The government therefore made a commitment at the last election based on that, and they are acting on that commitment.

And BTW, DA has nothing to do with "handing over $billions", there are some requirements and deliverables around getting the money.  The process is not unlike what happens today at the CSIRO. 



Mike, 

Closing the borders to immigration isn't a good example of responsible global citizenry.  

And if you think that such is setting an example for others to follow, you are not understanding the drivers of human overpopulation (poverty, lack of access to education and technology). The people who are doing the overpopulating are not looking for leadership from Australia. They have bigger problems.

It has been part of the Coalition policy since Howard (and Palmer's current policy too) to maintain the prospect of joining in on a global ETS.  Indeed it will almost certainly be part of Bernie Fraser recommendations to have an ETS framework ready for if/when the US, China and India get serious.

"Then there?s the question of the best mechanism for reducing emissions on which ***an international agreement *** might be reached. There is much to be said for an emissions trading scheme. It was, after all, the mechanism for emission reduction ultimately chosen by the Howard government. "

Source: Tony Abbott. A REALIST'S APPROACH TO CLIMATE CHANGE Speech - July, 2009 

I will put $100 on Bernie Fraser concluding that we should have an ETS framework (at $0 per tonne CO2) for participating in a global ETS if/when it becomes binding.  Care to take the bet?

Malcolm, you waving your hand at the lost jobs and economic ruin that would result from the collapse of the coal mining industry in Australia.  Not to mention the impact that high energy prices would result from cheap coal, and a premature switch to expensive renewables.  The environment is important, but democratic politics doesn't allow the condoning of such cruel disregard for people and their livelihood.Malcolm, 

Anybody who thinks that shutting down coal mining in Australia will ahve any impact on climate change, certainly knows nothing about AGW.  Because it would have zero impact on the use of coal in the developing world.  And that is still only a small part of the issue - what about oil and gas for heating, liquid fuels for transport, agriculture, etc etc.?

The developing world will continue to feed the existing anf future coal plants for their lienced term (50 years +) and they'll get their coal from whoever will sell it to them.  

The answer to this problem is about finding a technology that is cheap and reliable like coal (and that ain't renewables), and configuring technology and processes to make more efficient use of current systems.

Andrew, 

The Swedes boast low emissions because they get all of the electricity from nuclear and hydro -  zero emissions.  The Sunday Extra program was talking about heat geenration (it is a cold country) and refers to a relatively small development program in biofuels from forest detritus and municipal waste.  

Australia already has a similar biofuel program as well as ethanol production for liquid fuels from sugar and grain.  Although there is a limit to how much biofuels can offer before they become environmentally unsustainable.  Direct Action could potentially provide funding for further development of prospective technologies.

If there is one lesson we might learn from the Swedes it is about how to use nuclear power effectively, including how to build waste repositories (see Forsmark).
Gerard, 

Nothing could be more indirect and lame than imposing a tax.  Which is what the ALP did.  What could be more lame than telling people they need to get by on less, screwing ordinary people into the ground with increased prices and a lower standard of living, or artificially skewing markets to create an army of rent-seekers and capitalist frauds.

The really exciting stuff is in developing new technologies and processes.  Not just renewables, but open the mind to new ideas that will actually be better and cheaper and more reliable than the current systems.  Innovation is how we will resolve this problem properly. And that is what DA is encouraging.
TonyJ,

I am glad you asked, because there are way too many people here who do not understand DA, and who criticise it based on ignorance and one-eyed partisan bias.

The government is not controlling the process or picking the winners.  It is overseeing a competition (delivered by reverse auction) from private investors to develop solutions.  The funding is approved and delivered on the basis of proving quantified outcomes in greenhouse reduction, and future prospects for development of technology and processes.

The same process happens today at the CSIRO.  And it is funded by taxpayers, and is beholden to government for regulation.  

Yes, in principle, although supplemental wind power is reaching saturation, and I doubt wind farms would be considered innovative nor effective enough to attract funding.  On the other hand, biogas peaking facilities to provide cost effective idle standby for extending the capacity and supplemental renewable source like wind farms, now that might be an excellent investment for DA.How could anyone calling with the title "ABC's business editor" boil down Direct Action into "the Coalition wants to take money from taxpayers and give it to polluters."

How about reporting on what DA actually is, instead of repeating mind-numbingly ignorant Green Party mantras?anote, the government is not "giving" money to "industry".  It is providing selected funding opportunities to ANYONE who presents demonstrable solutions (technology or processes) that result in reducing emissions.  There is a difference between what you and Ian think DA is, and what it actually is.  Have you spotted it yet?
anote, you are wanting to support the idea that DA is about paying polluters (cos TA and the Coalition are cosy with eeeeevil Big Coal), which is silly Greens rhetoric.And/or nuclear.

The question is: what is economically viable?Rhonda, 

Surely you are aware that Direct Action didn't have the support of the Senate, and that the government has been negotiating, and needed PUPs support.

I mean... you did know that ... didn't you?


Australia has the highest number of reports per capita in the world - It's all our fault.  We must end reports now, because 97 % of scientists agree that if we don't, then humanity is DOOMED.  It doesn't matter how many reports the developing world produces, its our fault that they produce reports in the first place.  We must atone for our sins!
So basically what the Task Force is recommending, is that we should have a legislative framework for an ETS in preperation for international agreement.  "But ambition needs to be tempered with caution. In the period before there is international agreement, an Australian scheme should not prejudice the competitiveness of our trade-exposed, emissions-intensive industries".  In other words we should not implement an unregulated ETS until there is a global ETS for us to participate in.  

Isn't that Palmer's policy?  Isn't that why he cut this deal, to achieve that outcome?
Ray:  "solar panels and inverters supplement the power being consumed locally and actually reduce the need for grid capacity expansion in most situations."

Not true, as grid capacity must be there for the circumstance where there is high load, and night-time of heavy cloud reduces solar input to zero.

Sea level has been rising for 300 years since the Little Ice Age.  How much does the RET contribute to stemming the rise in sea level?Todd, you have it right.  Occam's razor dictates that the RET is needed because renewables are expensive, simple.  Yet so many adherents to the renewable cause insist that this is wrong, and renewables are cheap.  It seems to be down to a bizarre conspiracy theory about fossil fuel vested interests, politicians, and brown paper bags.The alternatives are:

1.  Detaining the adults, and seperatnig them from the children.  (Is that better?)

2.  Not detaining anyone, and thereby encouraging dangerous boat journeys by people, with their children, that has resulted in 100s of children dying.

I would rather see SHY bawling her eyes out than hear of another child drowning en route to Australia.tonyM, I think you are confusing ECS (equilibrium climate sensitivity) with TCR (transient climate response), look them up.

Nevetheless, you have hit on a good point.  If TCR is low, then can we claim AGW will be catastrophic?  Is there really an urgent need to reduce emissions?  Is there scientific consensus on that, I wonder?  I think not!
But the Chinese are not scaling down the use of coal, and will increase their rate of burning for many decades to come.dace76, 

In the 80s Australia had a fledgling nuclear industry, with plenty of skilled people,.  We had our own home-grown uranium enrichment, waste disposal and monitoring technologies, and we even started building a reactor at Jervis Bay.

This was all shut down by the ALP at the behest of the coal unions.Genfie:  "Population is NOT the number one driver of climate change"

Yes, it is.  The need for cheap energy (from coal) is needed to raise people from poverty, and thereby enable a means to control population growth.

The biggest impact on population growth is the increase in living standards, which provides education and technology to control family size.  Cheap energy (coal) is needed to drive that.  Forcing expensive energy (renewables) on the developing world is the wrong way to address climate change.Removing the RET will have a small but measurable impact on electricity prices, which in turn will flow through reduced prices of goods and services, and so a correlating improvement in the standard of living.

Compare this to the impact that the RET will have on global CO2 emissions.  i.e. so small as to be insgnificant -  let alone whether such a change in GHGs would have any net positive impact through an avoidance some tiny fraction of a degC in warming.

As Warburton has pointed out, the RET is an expensive means of reducing CO2 emissions, there are better and cheaper methods.  And that is why the RET should go.

This will not stop renewable energy adherents who are dreaming of a green energy nirvana from their unquantified, nonsensical, ideologically-driven rage.Standard response GreyBags:  anybody who questions climate change dogma, or that the one true path to salvation is renewable energy, is thereby somehow denying scientific evidence.

On the contrary GreyBags, I am applying arithmetic to the problem (part of the scientific process), and finding your support for the RET, and your belief that it will somehow fix the climate, to be an "ignorant opinon based on delusion".Hear, hear Walter.  How will future generations judge an outrageous waste of financial resources like the RET, in a world where millions still live in hunger.

Reinhard, the problem isn't "can it be done?", it is "how much does it cost?".  GRF points to the problems, and the way around it is to build overcapacity, expensive geographically seperated locations, and introduce environmentally damaging biofuelled gas turbines for peaking power.

Diesendorf's conservative estimate of cost is $7B PER YEAR more than current cenrralised methods, or $210 billion over a 30 year plant life, , and that's a best case scenario.  Surely I don't need to tell you that right now, this is money we don't have.  Further he compares us to Denmark, Germany and Scotland, yet fails to point out that they balance the intermittency of their capacity by buying kWhs from their neighbours.  Australia doesn't have that luxury, we are on our own, and that's why it is so expensive.  

Will 100% renewables in Australia offset the negative impacts of climate change?  Of course not, because emissions in developing countries will dwarf our puny efforts.  The world needs new and cheaper technology, not for Australia to build massive white elephants."can have your clean energy, base load power, and energy security all for the same cost as fossil fuel alternatives (and damn cheaper that nukes)."

JoeBloggs - that is nonsense, and you know it.

The AEMO projects a cost of $320 billion.  THe EDM study projects costs at $7B/year or $220B over approx plant life and excluding peaking capacity from gas turbines.

Barry Brook has projected that nuclear would be half this cost.

Joe, you can demand all you like, the facts are not on your side.  Renewables are EXPENSIVE.  Thats why they need the RET to survive in an open market.Joe:  "$320 billion ... We get the same energy security, the same energy costs, but without the damage."

No, we don't get the same energy costs, because to get a return on this capital outlay, investors need to charge for electricity to get a return on the huge capital outlay.

Sure Australia' investment in NBN is big too, but they will be charging to get a return on that investment.  And at this stage it is looking very unlikely that this will be anywhere near economically viable, and taxpayers will be underwriting a massive loss.  There is a disconnect between the value people perceive in very low latency data links, and the price for installing them.  How do I know?  Because I am working right now in this industry on this particular issue.

NBN is a case in point as to why AEMO won't work, and will be an economic basket case.

On waste, below ground disposal is quite capable of storing HL daughter products safely and permanently, you are quite wrong about that.  There is therefore no need for transmutation.  You clearly don't understand the engineering involved, this problem was solved decades ago.

Only supplemental intermittent wind is cheaper than fossil fuels, add storage and it is way more expensive.  There is no conspiracy, this is just a fact.  It is the reason why a RET is needed, otherwise renewables would not be deployed.



Laidly,

There are several plans for 100% renewables in Oz - BZE, EDM and AEMO, and they have all been roundly debunked by the engineers at BraveNewClimate.  And they are all outrageously expensive.  Suggest you go check it out, or visit Barry Brooks site.

And your one-size-fits-all comment is hypocritical.  Most of the commenters on this thread want renewables simply because it seems like a good idea to use endless free energy, the knowledge and thought process ends there, and they wouldn't have a clue about the engineering and economic constraints on building renewable systems and using intermittent, low density energy sources to power our modern society.  
Gary, AEMO was priced at $320B and EDM at $220B (excluding 25% gas turbine idle standby capacity, which would be &gt;$100B).  Please a rapid transition has to takle into acount the costs of paying off the contracts for existing licensed plants.  There are numerous important issues not covered in the plans that are being glossed over.

And the engineers for the projects are not being objective.  The engineers at BNC had lots of technical objections, you need to dig and research, not just accept things at face value.
whohasthefish:

What storage technologies?  If there was one fact in this discussion, it is that energy storage is both inefficient and expensive, and lack of available storage capacity is why intermittent renewables are difficult and expensive to deploy.  Everyone with a basic understanding of engineering knows this, but you wave a hand at the problem as if it isn't there.

GRF, the big cost of renewables is grid-wide integration costs.  This is one critical issue not considered by the EDM studies which Reinhard refers to above.  The costs for this are enormmous, and not factored in yet.

Also, the use of biofuel for peaking capacity is not a technology that has been tested.  Manufacturing, transporting and storing the fuels has big problems.  Also there are currently massive fossil fuel inputs to agriculture.

Compare this with progressively replacing coal plants with nuclear, and you can see there is a much better low emission option that we are not considering here.  How about a MRET for nuclear electricity?  50% by 2050.  Thats more like a viable solution!A more serious problem will be if our neighbours don't trade with us because our energy is so expensive that we cannot produce goods at a competitive price.Hewson is just saying what you want to hear.  That's what politicians do.  I can't believe how many here are falling for this nonsense.R&amp;B, bear in mind the reduction in Chinese coal imports arise from using their own coal and leverageing existing stockpiles.  They are still building new coal plants, and increasing their CO2 emissions.If renewables are so cheap, why is the RET projected to cost taxpayers $22 billion to 2035?  If renewables are competitive, why do we need legislation to force supply to be drawn from renewables?

Answer:  This is EXPENSIVE and we are spending valuable resources on making a tiny impact on global emissions.

Let's use the $22 billion on developing new technologies that make a difference.  Along with Hewson being yesterdays politician, the RET is yesterdays policy.
"Repealing the RET would deliver a windfall gain to coal-fired generators of over $16 billion NPV".

Evidence please.

"Cutting the RET... reduces competition"

Oh please, the RET is legislation that FORCES suppliers to use renewable energy and so artificially destroys competition in the market.  Removing RET returns us to a level playing field.

"increases greenhouse and particulate pollution in our air"

On the contrary, there will be continued reducation in pollution without the RET.  It will just come frrom other more cost effective technologies.

"and does not reduce electricity prices".

Say what?  Of course it reduces electricity prices, over what they would be if we keep the RET. 

Stating obvious fallacies and distortions is not a good look Dr Hewson.  Shame on you. 
HolyCow, 

Extend you logic to the future, looking back from a warmer (though far from scorched, dying world) that is ravaged by poverty and overpopulation, and asking:  why did we become so obsessed with a single environemntal issue, and forget about other issues?WT, if and when solar is cheaper than alternatives, then we may deploy it.  This may not happen prior to fusion energy becoming a viable alternative.  

A solution is not a solution, until it is a solution.

If solar is cheaper, then there would not need to be any MRET or government support through subsidies.  It doesn;t matyter what Abbott says.   Private companies will rush to invest, developing countries will stop buying coal and building coal plants and coal will be gone.  No problem then, it is all solved.

Really?
Joe, 

The energy losses (not to mention the extreme cost) in distribution from Australia exporting solar power would be prohibitive.  Further, there is a big impact on energy security to remote countries importing energy, sovereign risk is a significant factor in most countries energy policy.

The TurNur project, like Desertec before it, is still only at the phase of trying to attract investors.  It is far from a reality.

Joe, 

On Turnur, they are much further from go-ahead than you think.  10 million Euros is nothing, they are asking for $billions to build this plant.  There is no guarantee this will happen, there must be a return on investment, and the supply must be secure.  I take the claim of solar thermal being supplied at cheaper than offshore wind or nuclear with a grain of salt, that's a salesman speaking.

Joe, thanks for acknowledging that energy security is important, and is the main reason why the UK will be reluctant to commit to long term importation of solar energy from Tunisia. I am glad you agree with me.

However you are mistaken on the issue of Australian energy security being better off with renewables.  Australia is not dependent on external suppliers for our electricity, which is mostly generated by Australian coal.  Australia also has our own gas supply for direct heating, as well as hydro (Snowy and Tasmanian).  We are a net exporter of energy (coal, gas and uranium).  Although we have local oil supplies, our only energy import is oil as there is a shortfall, however renewable energy will not provide a resolution for that (of course).

Finally, there is no guarantee that our neighbours would be interested in importing expensive renewable energy from Australia, they may prefer not to be beholden to others and instead build their own supply.  Energy export will only happen if there is a guaranteed market.
Coal has been in the past, and continues to be in the developing world, a cheap form of energy supply.  And cheap energy is bringing people out of poverty.   Coal is not the only form of energy available, but it is cheaper than most other forms, and has the benefit of being ubiquitous in availability and capable of reliable baseload supply.  The only cheaper technology is supplemental wind, which is NOT ubiquitous, and is intermittent, and so not universally available to the world?s poor.

Climate change is real, and humans are in part responsible.  The ?pause? does not challenge that fact, but rather brings into question the rate of future warming, and therefore quantifes the threat is presents, and the need for urgent action.  THe hiatus in warming suggests we may (within reason) continue to use cheap coal while progressively developing and commercializing the technologies that will (must) ultimately replace it.

In short, coal is good for humanity (reduces poverty, hence overpopulation), and at the same time it is bad for humanity (climate change, pollution, health impacts).  In other word, if we remove coal from the energy mix to reduce emissions, there is a downside, since we are removing a valuable mechanism to free people from poverty and our best (only?) means to control overpopulation - the ultimate environmental threat.  

It is prudent to acknowledge that there is more than one side to this issue, and that balance is required in our policy response.

How much have charities assisted China in their rapid program of dramatically reducing poverty in their country?  A:  it is not rich Westerners philanthropy, but rather cheap energy and industrialisation which is responsible.

Coal = cheap energy = reduced poverty.

I am surprised that anyone would challenge this obvious fact.

As Mungo points out, climate science has yet to determine where the heat is going.  Sure there is a consensus that AGW is real, but when it comes to policy we need to know how hot it will get, and how quickly.  These facts matter.  And climate science has not settled on these issues.

Of course there will be those who argue that we know AGW is bad (do we?), and so we must immediately move to renewables (must we?).  This argument ignores the high cost of deploying intermittent renewables and ignores the fact that we need other low emissions technologies like nuclear if we are make any headway.  And all this impacts on our trade competitiveness and jobs, and spending money on reaching emissions targets takes money away form other valuable environmental projects.

Abbott knows all this.  It is his job as our PM to balance all these issues, rather than pursue one high focus policy at the exclusion of other important issues.
The desal plant does not mean there is no climate change.  But it does highlight how utterly wrong we can get policy by not projecting future climate impacts correctly.

A better policy would have been to recognise the uncertinaty in climate projections, and build the desal plant on an old ice-breaker so we can sail it to specific places that require the water, when and as needed.  A new modular nuclear reactor would be an ideal low emissions power source.  If Australia didn't need it because it rained, we could hire it out to the Arabs or to Vanuatu, or whoever (although we would get to keep the lithium).  Why didn't we do this?  Are we just stupid?Abel, that is asinine alarmist twaddle.  Please stick to the facts as presented by climate scientists, and resist the temptation exagerate.Zing, 

As expected most of the replies have missed your point.  The issue is not that China, India and the US should cut emissions and Australia should do nothing.  The point is that we should ALL contribute, as best we can, equally in terms of maintaining a balance in trade.  Which is exactly what we are doing by deploying 20% renewables by 2020, and cutting emissions by 5% on 1990 levels.  

In other words, there is no point in Australia going 100% renewables and destoying our trade competitiveness because that will neither suit Australians, nor resolve climate change, so it isn't a solution.  It is just a silly feel-good notion.On the contrary BL, people want to believe that a government can take action on climate change, and they (the voters) don't have to pay anything.  And they think solar panels and wind turbines (paid for by the guvmint and their bottomless bucket of money) is a way to get free energy, forever, and fix climate change.  

They aren't nitwits, just sadly deluded.JohnnoH, 

As the polls show, most people accept that AGW is real.  ie most people are not deluded about AGW.  However they they rejected the carbon tax.  Why?  Because they don't accept that they need to pay for climate action, they want the government to fix it with someone else's money.  

People don't accept they need to pay a higher price, as Dr Who says.  And they don't accept claims of impending catastrophe, and dire future consequences, they have seen too many alarmists caught with their pants down.  

I agree people with solar panels are not deluded, I never said they were.  The deluded ones are those who think solar panels will fix climate change, and that renewables will replace fossil fuels.  Do the maths.  Renewables will be only a small part of our energy future, other technologies are needed. 
Solartation, that is nonsense.  Remove all subsidies and renewables are 5 times the price of centralised traditional systems.purrum, don't suggest that renewables are expensive and limited.  There is an army of deniers lining up to tell you that you are WRONG, and solar and wind power are both cheap and infinitely scalable, and destined to be the power source of the future (all evidence to the contrary).Stalga, 

What is the price of electricity form the Wind plus stored energy system?  How does it compare to conventional elecricity pricing?  That's the point.

And yes, stalga, you are absolutely correct.  Supplemental power from renewables is OK up to around 20% capacity, and in the case of wind it is affordable.  But where will the other 80% of energy come from?  That is the problem we already face, as Australia is closing on 20% capacity.  That is why the RET is being reconsidered, the market is already saturated with supplemental power, and further investment in renewables is not a cost effective means to reduce emissions.


Tedd, don't believe the renewables hype.  Solar still produces less than a fraction of 1% of the world's energy.  Do the maths of you are able, it will reveal that renewables aren't going to have more than a tiny impact on CO2 emissions.India and China are already taking up solar power.  It provides already effective low density power solutions for off-grid domestic use.  It is still a very tiny fraction of the world's needs.  The main market is industry and commerce, where solar power is next to useless because it cannot deliver when it is needed, and storage mechanisms to even out supply are too expensive.Lord Kelvin, where is your scientific evidence for impending "dead oceans"?  It is this type of asinine alarmism which is preventing rational policy being executed.Robin, 

Whether AGW is a serious problem or not depends on projections.  The problem is that these projections ar extremely difficult to calculate with any certainty.  We are relying on conjecture - it MAY be bad, as opposed to it WILL be bad.  

Yet we KNOW global problems like poverty, overpopulation and health are real and impending and very bad problems that need fixing now.  And so cheap energy is needed.  Now.  

We don't know yet if the oceans will become acidic and we will all die.  Some people are leaping to that conclusion without scientific evidence.  They claim thh barrier reef is dying from acid oceans, there is no such evidence.   They claim a parallel with the PT extinction, there is no such link with paleoclimate data (at least not in scientific circles).  These claims smack of alarmism, and most people don't believe it, and will not vote based on it.Gary,  solar + wind + idle standby gas/biogas is VERY expensive.  That's the problem.  That's why it isn't being deployed, coal (and in fact nuclear) is way cheaper.greenspider, renewables already receive about 10 times the subsidies that NRE receives (per kWH produced).  Such subsidies are unsustainable.  Suggesting otherwise would be "telling a lie".greenspider,  I am in favour of removal of the RET and all subsidies from all forms of energy production.  

Let me ask, if that were to happen, do you think renewables could compete with traditional centralised power systems.  Be honest.rusty, I agree with your argument, but the developing world eg China and India (our trading partners) are not listening and they are not volunteering to pay for the pollution impacts of coal.  they want cheap energy now to raise their populations from poverty.  

The problem you cite needs a global agreement,  I am all for it.  I just don't see it happenig soon.  And I don't accept that there is any benefit to pricing carbon when the developing world does not.  Nor does the population of Australia who rejected a unilateral carbon tax.Rusty Cairns, 

Crossing a river brings potential benefits and opportunities to the person taking that action.  Unilaterally pricing carbon is ONLY NEGATVE to the economy - there is no benefit nor opportunity.

Global agreement means EVERYONE has to jump together.  When some are acting, and some not, then the problem is not solved.  AND those acting are disadvantaged, have less ability to adapt and innovate, because they are poorer.

Previous global agreements have worked because there were cost effective technologies (eg HCFCs) available which allowed affordable deployment of alternatives.  And private industries successfully lobbied to make the change, because they could (and did) make a fortune out of the technology change.  

This is not the case with CO2 remediation, since "decarbonising" is universally and unambiguously  negative to the economy.  Only the renewable energy industry stands to gain from technology change, but only if supported by subsidies and legislation... which is why they are whining so loudly about possible changes to the RET.  They will lose money.






Gregory.  How about this category:

GW - partially man-made + partially natural, and not very important compared to other environmental issues.Also consider AGB that the deep oceans have a lot of capacity to absorb a lot of heat heat and so maintain the atmosphere in a slow, unremarkable (like natural) warming trend.

In other words, the world is heating up, but it isn't a big problem.

Admittedly just a theory, but if true would have a major impact on policy, and puts me in the "climate science isn't settled" camp."this change will have overwhelmingly negative consequences for ecosystems"

Not settled.godb I beg to differ.l  Those are very very relevant questions.  

So too:
"Do you believe climate change will be catastrophic, or benign?"
"How much are you personally prepared to pay to reduce carbon dioxide emissions".
"How do you rate the importance climate change action against other global issues (deforestation, biodiversity, poverty/overpopulation, health, etc ...)?"
etc

These are all important questions to ask before you expect people to vote on committing to policies that negatively impact on our economy.

But I suspect it is inconvenient to ask difficult questions, think about the issue deeply, when it's easier to just emote.
It's simple.  

The polls show that people accept that climate change is real and that they want the government to take action, but they voted against carbon tax/ETS because they do not want to PAY for that action.  Similarly most people are in favour of renewables, because they perceive that this is a means for action to be taken where they don't have to pay.  i.e. in their dreams they imagine the guvmint pays for the solar panels, and then they get their electricity for free, forever.

Yes people are that deluded. They want to believe renewables will save us all and create a green energy nirvana.  They even lie to themselves, declaring that solar and wind power are cheap and infinitely scalable.  It's a delusion, not unlike religious faith.
