Liberal state governments all over Australia are criminalising protests so I'm not sure what we can do.

Environmental Defenders Offices defunded, unions being hunted down for extermination, ABC being neutered. Dissent is being crushed at all sides. Yet the mob doing it spout the word 'freedom' like they have a trademark on it. Freedom to lie and smear, freedom to destroy is all they want. 

I think that alongside these 'free' trade agreements, I would add the sale of public assets and the privatisation of services in the basket with sedition and corruption.Evidence, smevidence. It only gets in the way of a good right wing delusional slogan. 

Coal is good for humanity.
There was nothing but bush in Australia...

"Black is white". Repeat one million times with the help of Murdoch and hope the idiots believe you.Lies and smears got them into power. Trying to pick fights stops their popularity crashing but eventually people will notice that the 'Adults' are performing worse than 'the worst government ever'.

Last Labor government achieved the position of the best performing economy in the OECD. Last Coalition government was rated by the IMF as the most profligate government in Australia's history.

We have a bunch of conmen in charge but the smoke is clearing and the mirrors are cracked. You can get power by legerdemain but you can't run government that way.It has to be a concerted campaign on the poll. One previous one was outed as too many 'votes' coming from the same place.

The lying conmen have filthy cheaters for supporters. Who would have thunk it?The lefts ABC? Is that all you can come out with? What about a tiny shred of evidence occasionally? Shooting the messenger doesn't reinforce your argument.

Please click on the link of the author to see her pretty clear 'right wing' pedigree. 

So there you have it. Everyone but the blindly stupid of the hard right wing can see Abbott for the fool he is. Time to smell the roses David. Even the 'right' to middle 'right' are embarrassed and only the delusional loopy far right still give him support.

A simple inescapable truth for you. During the last Labor government the economy was rated as the best performing economy in the OECD which was up from ninth under the last Coalition government. The last Coalition government was rated by the IMF as the most profligate in Australia's history.

Lies and smears got them in power and you continue with lies and smears. Are you paid to do so or just happy to spout nonsense?

Howard got in with less than 50% of the vote.Eternal growth is a cancer.

The current form of growth in the economy is more like a Ponzi scheme where they need more and more poor people to feed the tiny few at the top of the pyramid. Rich people can only have so many servants and buy so many yachts. 

If India puts on a growth spurt then that will create very few Australian jobs as they don't want labour, they want raw materials. Raw materials are capital intensive. The winners will be the foreign companies that make the mining equipment and the mainly foreign companies that own the mines. 

Large amounts of money are sucked out of the productive economy by the parasitical FIRE sector. Finance, Insurance and Real Estate. You could also add corporations that perform tasks that used to be done by public servants and public works but now make hefty profits for the few when paid with taxpayer dollars or charge fees for previously 'free' services. 

When the Coalition says growth, they mean growth for their corporate friends at the big end of town and they didn't get there by sharing fairly or paying workers a proper wage.There is little evidence that the airline was downed by a Russian missile but somewhat more that it was strafed by a fighter jet. The only fighter jets in the air at the time were Ukrainian.

Me thinks his 'intelligence' is as good as Howard's was on Iraqi WMDs and links to Al Qaeda.

No economist outside of the IPA or the Murdoch payroll subscribes to your nonsense regarding the Australian debt. It is pure nonsense. 

Under Rudd/Gillard we were rated the best performing economy in the OECD. Under the last Coalition they were rated as the most profligate government in Australia's history. Constantly repeating Liberal party lies does not make them truer. The mud throwing went into industrial level when Abbott was opposition leader so your comment is pure projection.Experts first on the scene said it looked like damage from strafing, not a missile. Still, this government, like the previous Coalition government, have never let evidence interfere with an opportunity to sound tough. The Russian missile will probably end up being filed with Iraqs WMDs.They want global warming off the stage to concentrate on economic growth but if the 'grow' using old technology they will eventually stuff the environment and you can't have an economy without a functioning environment.

What point growing so that big corporations can park more profits in off shore tax havens and not pay for their externalities?Just like all the miners shut down when the MRRT was introduced...Considering how much Abbott has claimed in expenses for riding his bike and attending party gatherings, it is a bit rich of you to try to bring up something that happened to Gillard over twenty years ago that not even a Royal Commission could find any evidence of. 

We also have Abbotts slush fund Australians For Honest Politics where he lied to the AEC (an offence) about the secret funding. 

Liberals dropping like flies at ICAC and the best you have is decades in the past? Tremble in fear Gillard because some one eyed keyboard warrior has not kept up to date with reality.Rudd probably had a few facts to back up his outburst. Abbott has as much proof that the airline was downed with a Russian missile as Howard had for Iraq's WMDs.The list of proven lies by the Coalition is getting longer by the day. ABC fact check has it as 12 obvious and blatant ones but other independent outlets has the list heading to thirty (includes 'white lies'). 

The ALP lie list is a repeating, thousands of times, that Gillard lied about the carbon tax. Repeating something a thousand times does not make it a thousand lies.

Also, a lie is a statement made when you have no intention of living up to it. Gillard stated that 'there would be no carbon tax under a government I lead' but she did state that she would bring in a price on carbon in the future.

So what really happened? Unbeknownst to anyone before the election there was a hung parliament. Both Gillard and Abbott had to negotiate with the conservative independents to form government. Part of the requirements of those independents was to bring in a pricing structure on CO2 pollution (see 'Windsor tells Abbott a few home truths'). The result?

Gillard didn't 'lead' a Labor government into power, she formed a coalition. Due to negotiations she agreed to brin in a 'price' on carbon earlier than she planned. She never intended to deceive anyone, nor would have Abbott (anything but sell my arse) by agreeing to exactly the same scheme when he did not have it in his election platform. Therefore, NO LIE. 

Abbott was not forced to negotiate with anyone to form government but he broke numerous 'promises'. He has no excuse. He lied. He intentionally deceived people to gain power. He said what ever he thought would get him the job and then reneged.I'm sure he just meant he was going to 'button-hole' Putin and used the wrong cliche but it was stupid. If Rudd or Gillard had said something like that the media would have been baying for blood but since Tony is one of 'theirs' the rules are different.The plan was to build it then sell it off at a profit. The whole shebang was to fund itself. When these idiots spout figures like $90 billion it is as if the money was being flushed down the dunny instead of returning a profit on investment. Yet these guys reckon they are superior economic managers.

No one will want to by a half arsed, mixed bunch of technology that is years behind before it is finished. Copper? Not worth two bits.They last full investigation into the ABC showed they gave more favourable coverage to the Coalition. Even the ABC can't hide the truth of the current government stuff ups.

Coalition supporters don't want balance, they want entirely one sided applause for what ever brain farts Abbott et al come out with. 

The 'adults' are in charge and they are performing worse than 'the worst government ever'. Can't even sprinkle glitter on that one.Labor was being applauded all around the world for their handling of the GFC. They got us the seat on the Security Council and we were well respected.

Most the major papers around the world couldn't believe that we voted out a party that took us to the position of best performing economy in the OECD just because of mindless slogans and a smears and lies campaign by the Coalition and their seditious media mates.Banks have been in the news recently for widespread malfeasance. Kelly did nothing to clean up their practices.

We have a Royal Commission into unions who support the downtrodden yet clear evidence of the ways banks have destroyed peoples' live by their actions are ignored.There is absolutely no proof that she took tainted money.

More lies and smears from a mob that is incapable of governing instead of destroying.Yet again proof positive that right wingers believe that if they repeat lies and nonsense often enough then reality will change to suit their deluded egos.

The Gillard government performed smoothly and professionally despite being a minority government. The economy was left in a much better state than it is now that 'the adults' are in charge. This was while being under a campaign of lies and smears by the Coalition and the mendacious media dirty tricks that has not been seen since the Whitlam days. 

The pathetic lying, science haters who conned their ways into government will not engender a fraction of the respect that Gillard gained.Using coal is not 'cheap'. They just do not pay for the damage they do. If the externalities were priced in then coal would be far more expensive. 

It would be much 'cheaper' for me to dump a truck load of garbage into your yard than pay tip fees.All for the fraction of the cost of one year waging the last war in Iraq that was justified by lies.

Mankind could do some great things if they didn't act like barbarians so often.Dumb right wingers cheered when Australian manufacturing jobs were destroyed so corporations could send them to China with their lower standards for pollution and workers rights yet now they want to blame China.Mining is not manufacturing. Mining jobs did not go to China.

I pay attention to the news so I believe that your statement regarding the Greens and the shutting down of car plants is pure fiction.

Renewable energy is lowering the wholesale price of electricity and will continue to lower it into the future so the mindless right wing attack on renewable energy will drive up prices.The economy was in a better shape with the price on pollution than it is now. Investment in technology and jobs in the renewable sector are now plummeting faster than the profitability of coal mines. Lose, lose under the Coalition. 

Poor darlings on the right hate any form of mitigation against global warming because that would be acceptance of scientific evidence. They prefer to think that the laws of physics are controlled by mindless slogans, smear campaigns and outright lies.The economy grew while the carbon price was in place.

The economy has stalled since the pollution price was removed. Hatred of a pricing method on pollution is just an extension of global warming denial and based on the same irrationality. 

How you can claim it was an economy destroying tax when the evidence clearly and obviously says the complete opposite? That only shows that the hatred that right wingers have for science and progress has made them delusional.The raising of the tax free threshold to $18,000 was the compensation for most people. Those on pensions and benefits got a rise in payments.

If you missed out then you either earned no official income and were in the black economy or didn't live in Australia.Climate science can stand safe and proud on their mountain of evidence. Rigorously peer reviewed and backed with empirical evidence. Supported by every major scientific, educational and governmental body on the planet. Questioning data is part of their job. The scientists are the most sceptical people on the planet who are not happy until everything is checked, re-checked and then checked again.

Right wing denialists with their cherry picking, junk science, lies and smears are another thing completely. A hand full of cranks spouting the same contradictory nonsense over and over again from inside their fossil fuel funded 'think tanks'. How will repeating a bunch of already disproven lies affect science? 

It's not warming. It is warming but it is natural. It is warming and we are part of the problem so the one and only choice is to build nuclear power plants. Just go away and make up your minds and come back when you have some sort of consistency and evidence.Right wing corporate greed merchants from the 'developed world' moved most of the manufacturing to China to take advantage of their lax pollution laws and their virtual slave wages and now right wingers whine about Chinese pollution.  

Our economy had better numbers when the carbon price was in force than now when it has been removed. Now, high tech renewable industries with good paying jobs are leaving the country due to uncertainty.If the Greens had their way we would be getting power for free from the sun, the wind and the tides while cities would have fast and clean public transport leaving the roads clear for the deliveries and tradesmen that need private vehicles that will most likely be run with electric engines and recharged while they park them under the cover of solar panels while they work. 

Cavemen burnt things to create heat. We have progressed beyond that.

If we keep destroying the environment by keeping technology that relies on burning things, we will crash all the economies and that cave will be looking good. It is your average modern right wingers that are the Luddites railing against modern technology and social advancement. We had a start but the reactionary Coalition wants to drag us back to the past. Back to a state that virtually every scientist on the planet says is bad for us in the long run. That is a sign of criminal insanity when the evidence is there for any rational person to see.The last five years were hotter than the previous five years.

The last ten years were hotter than the previous ten years.

The last twenty years were hotter than the previous twenty years.

Do you really think that spouting nonsense will change reality?You can't bomb climate change and Tony prefers to stand beside men in uniforms, not white lab coats. 

The Coalition only know how to smite. They do not know how to build.We were going OK until we stuck the mining magnates on our back racks to give them a lift and now we falling way behind.That biggest mining boom? Was that the one where it was interrupted by a global crash in world economies, that despite world beating efforts by Labor, resulted in a drastic drop in taxation revenue?

How come the last Coalition government (Hint: rated most profligate in Australia's history by the IMF) only left a piddling amount of money in the bank despite selling off $74 billion dollars worth of commonwealth assets.Nutjob right wingers only accept cooperation if it is to attack their perceived enemies. Cooperation for the common good in anathema to them.

Any sensible plan that Obama organises will be destroyed by the luddite right wingers who have control of both houses in the US. A bunch of reactionary idiots who are allergic to science and facts in general, much like the Coalition over here.A middle class family that makes its own power without pollution can lower its footprint for home use and transport. Unfortunately the vested interests are doing everything in their power to stop them cutting their economic ties with profitable fossil fuel corporations. 

Middle class families also have far less children. If it wasn't for the intentional massive immigration levels, Australia's population and energy requirements would be dropping.With solar getting cheaper in leaps and bounds plus storage costs coming down, it will be possible to have electric powered vehicles whether cars or small power assisted commuter bicycles that do not contribute to GHGs. 

It would be preferable to have public transport powered by renewable energy for most travel of any distance but some form of individual transport would still be needed. The addiction to enormous fossil fuel powered 4WDs that only travel on city streets would have to change. More car share programs with parking under solar panels to recharge them. 

A proper NBN would remove the need to travel for business needs as conferences could be held in high definition without problems. Information on products could be accessed without the need to hold them in your hand as scanning technology improves. 

We don't have to forgo modern technology and convenience to lower our footprints. We just have to unshackle ourselves from the dinosaur industrial methods of producing power.Small government then you are ripped off by corporate cowboys who are only in it for the profit and don't care how many lives are ruined or whether the environment is still viable.A proper government with a proper public service is good for the public in general. Providing quality services for the public does not need an extra profit pilfered on top of the costs. 

Our current corporatist government borders on corrupt with all the outsourcing and selling off."this is pure bullsh*t, a good boss pays his workers a good wage because he wants to make sure his business succeeds so he keeps his good workers happy."

Pity there are so few 'good' bosses around and a lot of greedy shonky bastards that rip people off. Get rid of unions and the 'good' bosses will not be able to complete with the rip off merchants under cutting them. I have worked in a few different businesses and the 'good' boss is a very rare thing. Especially when the boss hires an arsehole manager who likes to throw their weight around. 

There are far more instances on the records of businesses being forced to repay workers who have been intentionally under paid then there are instances of union corruption.Then why, with the millions of dollars spent, did the Royal Commission find not one skerrick of evidence of large amounts of cash being handed out on wharves and elsewhere? Why didn't any of these bankrupted businesses come forward if it was that rife. You had your chance to front up and give evidence. They basically found diddly squat even when they investigated stuff going back over 20 years. ICAC found more corruption between the Liberals and business figures by only looking at a couple of years.

Could it be that you are just a lying right winger pretending to be an ex-unionist, doing what lying right wingers do best?The union got heavy fines for the dispute with Grocon. The biggest part of the dispute was safety on worksites. Two people died just walking past a Grocon site when a hoarding fell on them. The union should have their fine refunded because they were right.Most free trade agreements only help big corporations.

The deal with China will most likely see Australian jobs suffering as we tend to only export bulk without value adding. If they are also allowed to bring in Chinese labour for any big project they plan then what is the point of calling it 'investment'. Mining is the main area and that leaves Australia with a degraded environment so if all the equipment and labour comes from China then what benefits to we get? All those costs are tax expenses and add a few dodgy 'loans' from off shore mobs and we get no income tax either.The terrorism scare campaign is all out of proportion to the actual threat.

A woman is killed by their partner in Australia on average once a week and yet despite there being no acts of Islamic terrorism in Australia, violent right wingers use it as an excuse to demonise people. Anyone with any sense knows that if you keep hassling people for no reason at all they will eventually bite back.

IS is in Iraq because of the immense power vacuum left due to our illegal invasion based on a thin tissue of lies. 

As for the Palestinians, they are being treated in an horrific manner by Israel. Israel do it in the name of a Jewish God with almost 100% support from countries that ostensibly worship a Christian God so naturally that annoys people who support the God of the oppressed. I do not believe in any gods but do know that the Palestinians are being brutalised.We have a bunch of conmen in charge. 

Truth, facts, scientific evidence, expert opinion, verifiable contentions, accepted conventions, common sense, reality and all other forms of being in touch with planet earth in this acceptably determined universe do not affect the Liberal party or the Coalition in general. 

Chant a lie like you would say your Rosaries and you, too, can change the laws of physics. You too can rewrite semantics or claim the the etymology of basic English words are leftist inspired.  

Look over there -------&gt; A lefty is stealing your baby. Be afraid, be very afraid. George Brandis will save you and your offspring from a collective and cohesive society.I operate on the principle that anything this government says is a lie until it is proven to be the truth by a reputable source. That saves me a lot of time and cuts down on confusion.Until the 'born to rule' right wingers find it is their job going instead of them getting rid of lower paid workers for extra profits, then nothing will change.Certainly missing in action regards to Justice Rares statement in the Ashby case that it was an abuse of the legal system for political gain. Also no action on Slipper's diary being stolen on order of Mal Brough but such quick action on the young lady who leaked the details of the one off, never to be repeated and not declared 'scholarship' to Abbott's daughter.The 'Loans Affair' was another media beat up.

It was splashed all over the papers with the climax of Khemlani coming to Australia with briefcases full of papers he said contained proof positive of dodgy dealings by Labor. He was met and feted by John Howard but the 'evidence' he provided was nothing of the sort. It did not show any dodgy dealings. The media went silent as their job was done. A campaign of lies and smears not seen again until Gillard out negotiated Abbott with the conservative independents.Howard flogged off $74 billion dollars worth of assets and had little to show for the money.

His government was rated by the IMF as the most profligate in Australia's history.

Gough got the oil price spike and suffered from the inflation spike that the rest of the word also suffered from but still spent less money as a percentage of GDP than Fraser and Howard. Rudd and Gillard suffered from the worst depression since the Great Depression and raised the standing of the economy from ninth to the best performing economy in the OECD.That is called 'projection' Gregory. It is the Abbott government that has resorted to class warfare, science denialism and fear campaigns to cow people into his ridiculous white bread, divisive, Team Australia nonsense.

The last Coalition government took us into an illegal war based on a thin tissue of lies and the current one has us back chasing shadows of their own creation at a cost of $500 million per year so they can look tough.No. The Coalition and the media made Khemlani a celebrity in their attack on Whitlam but he had no proof to back up his claims. Just another campaign of lies and smears perfected by the right wing politicians and media.So Whitlam caused the world wide inflation spike? It was Whitlam's fault that OPEC started playing price games with oil? 

Nicely taken completely out of context to prove the economic idiocy of right wing claims. Same as the right wingers always ignore the GFC when claiming a 'debt and deficit crisis' from Rudd/Gillard. Not that any respectable economist believes that Australia's small debt is a problem. The doubling of the debt under Abbott is still not a major problem but their economic stupidity in supporting foreign miners and big polluters over technological changes that will see new investment into Australia's economy may cause that crisis. Jobs lost all over the place due to denialism of the science of global warming and thus the mindless attack on renewable energy.Whitlam left government without debt.They were unpopular due to the lies and smears propagated by the Coalition and the Murdoch press much like the campaign of lies and smears against Gillard but at least she didn't also have the CIA in on the act as was with the case of Whitlam.

People who have a head full of media lies do not vote in a rational manner. The Khemlani Affair was a complete beat up. The press and the Coalition accused Labor of doing dodgy deals but even when Khemlani came to Australia to be looked after by John Howard they searched through all his paperwork and found no evidence of any wrong doings. Of course the damage had been done already so the press silence on the proven innocence of any of the claims was just part of the bastardry.Privatise the profits and socialise the losses.

The scheme is designed to fail. This bunch of lying conmen in government are are for the corporations and by the corporations.They hate us for our freedoms.

That trite statement sums up what I think is wrong with the 'west'. Our leaders claim superiority because of the gains by leftists, feminists and others of progressive bent at the same time they try to destroy all the gains that have been achieved from the Sixties onward. The egalitarian nature of western democratic capitalism is being destroyed by right wing capitalism as ever more power and money ends up in fewer and fewer hands. 

To distract us from that, the power elite need to have a constant stream of enemies to keep the masses scared and willing to hand more power to the already powerful so they can protect us from the monsters under the bed that the right wingers tell us live with the reds. 

Australia is a perfect example of that. More and more legislation to spy on people and take away their rights to protest. More and more legislation that benefits the rich and makes life tougher for the poor. We have Royal Commissions and now a permanent goon squad to hunt down and exterminate unions who may have a couple of bad nuts in them but on the whole they spend the majority of their time assisting, protecting and trying to make life better for those who don't have a voice. Yet calls for an investigation into institutionalised greed within the banks that has destroyed lives of many people (not as many as unions have helped but a large number) is pooh poohed because the rich and powerful operate by a different set of laws. 

Muslims are the enemy du jour. In the past it was any number of racial groups that were going to destroy the Australian way of life from the Vietnamese, the Greeks, the Italians, yellow peril, red menace, even the Catholics at one stage were suspect because they gave fealty to a man wearing a dress in a foreign country. 

On the whole it boils down to the same old story. Some people can never get enough even when they live a life that only some can dream of but these people are never satisfied and need to get more an more. Unfortunately people start to notice the unfairness and the greed so there is a never ending campaign to create fear. Fearful people react, they do not think. Fearful people take safety amongst those most like them even when the fear itself is being artificially created from within and they pick your pockets while you huddle.Again the massive levels of immigration and 457 visas are ignored. The cancer like growth of the population may be good for big business but it is bad for the average person and disastrous for the environment. 

We are jamming an extra 300,000 people per year into the country to keep up 'demand' for housing and to keep the pressure on wages low. More and more people in casual, low paid jobs.

The Coalition like to trot out some hard done by 'small business' person every time they want to gut red and green tape but it is big business that benefits most and big business is no friend of small business as they don't like any real competition. 

Now they are making their union witch hunt permanent to destroy the last defence that working people have against greedy big business. They refused to look into the banks that ruined the lives of thousands of people but attack the unions who have helped and protected thousands and thousands of people. We will end up in a corporate serfdom where any pathetic wage we receive will be paid in rent to the wealthy with multiple properties gained through tax concession. 

Rob from the poor and give to the rich."Yeah, the Mainstream media propaganda crusades and millions in advertising from the major parties have nothing to do with them constantly getting into power."

A public that is fed lies does not vote for the best people.I've got nothing against capitalist democracy. Unfortunately capitalism has ruined democracy. 

Sign the TPP with ISDS and corporations can sue democratically elected governments for protecting their environment and people's rights. That is not democracy.You have a 1000% more chance of being attacked in the streets by a drunk white guy. Get some perspective and stop the mindless fear campaign. It doesn't mask your bigotry very well.Reality, truth, perspective. Traits sadly lacking in the fervent right wingers of today.If you want to cower in fear under your bed because someone has a plastic sword then go ahead. If you think that some punk teenager fighting for the wrong side in Iraq is such a threat that you need big tough Tony to protect you then you probably need psychological counselling for uncontrolled fears.

The rest of us adults realise that the threat of terrorism is a extremely remote possibility but is being exploited for crass political purposes. 

Anyway, since the 9/11 perpetrators were mainly Saudi Arabians and IS are being backed by Saudi Arabia and the worst form of Islamic radicalism being exported is Wahabism that has state support from Saudi Arabia then how come we are such good friends with Saudi Arabia? If terrorism is such a threat then why don't we attack it at its source instead of stripping Australians of their basic rights?Martin Bryant was terrifying but that was because he was in Australia and not half way around the world. He'd have to have an intercontinental ballistic missile before I would surrender my freedom because of some some teenage scrote in Iraq. 

Get a grip on reality.Some deranged kid that had his passport confiscated when he wanted to use it to go to Afghanistan to get a wife flips out because he was directly targeted. That is not a terrorist plot you idiot.It serves two purposes.

1. Used as a method to continue to spread unwarranted fear of the threat of terrorism to distract people from the damage they are doing to Australia.

2. To get extra funds to spy (more than now) on internal dissent against the power elite such as environmentalists, peace activists, animal rights people, people trying to protect their urban environment against rampant development and more roads, unionists and lefties in general.And their right to vote in a government who will enact legislation in their favour has gone due to signing away democracy with 'free trade' agreements containing ISDS provisions.How long ago? 

All the menial jobs seem to be filled by people on temporary visas these days.The last Labor government won an award for good economic management. The last Coalition government won an award for the most profligate government in Australia's history. 

The right wing lie of superior economic management is in its death throws. People have evidence that 'trickle down' economics is actually 'stream up' economics and is extremely bad for the economy and society.Except that there are mining trucks on public roads all the time and governments building port structures for them etc etc. 

Nice how they get to claim the cost of their multi-million dollar machines off their tax when they purchase all of them overseas. We are subsidising foreign manufacturers.You also have the massive subsidy of externalities where they get to destroy and pollute for all they like without paying a proper price. The proposed mines in Nth Qld will be able to draw massive amounts of water from the Great Artesian Basin without paying a proper price while the farmers will see their bores drop down to a level that they can't get water from them.

Fracking for gas allows them to pump in vast amounts of chemicals which have and will destroy aquifers that people rely on for water.

And when they leave they never remediate the land back to its original condition so centuries of eco systems can be destroyed for free and not even a similar one restarted. 

All this so they can send the majority of the profits overseas. What a proud member of 'Team Australia' to think that destroying the land for foreign profits is such a good thing but paying workers a decent wage negotiated by a union is evil.Meanwhile the government has opened the floodgates for more 457 visas. Even school teachers! There is a vast pool of qualified school teachers who can't get permanent work, only casual work (if they are lucky) on a term by term basis that finishes the day the holidays start so there is no income over that period. The best and brightest give up and get a job somewhere else so they have some kind of security. Where are these 'permanent' positions they can't fill because of a skills shortage?

The much vaunted infrastructure jobs for building roads have all got consultants on to assist them with processing 457 visas. Don't tell me we don't have the skills for road building. 

The government is hell bent on purchasing everything from overseas, including military equipment. It is false economy to save a few dollars on the books for a specific item, to loose the entire amount from economy by sending it overseas. 

We have a massive immigration intake to keep a pool of desperate people looking for work so that there is no pressure on big business to pay decent wages. Unemployment is an intentional government policy to benefit business interests. Low employment coal mining is getting a dream run while they are crushing high employment renewable energy. 

Education is being privatised so even 'learning' can make profits for their mates. That is why all the fees are sky rocketing. It makes it more attractive for the profit orientated over and above those who care about proper education. 

It isn't just the young. Those older people who have been retrenched later in life and are being ignored will being joining the young with pitchforks.Gina Rinehart employed 200 people on visas to perform office work. Don't tell me there are not people in Australia skilled in admin and accounts.That is also the other advantage of saddling young people with enormous debts for higher education. People with large debts are less likely to take risks and rock the boat. A nice compliant work force.Unemployment benefits are mostly eaten away by high rents. After paying rent there is barely enough left for food. $300 per week (with rent assistance) doesn't go far when rent takes $200 of it. After paying for the essential bills such as power and phone (can't get a job without a phone) and god forbid if you live in an area without public transport and have to own a car with all the expenses and repairs associated.

After secondary school, all further education is expensive and even TAFE will leave you with a debt due to changes in government policies and it is no good having free doctor's visit ($7 soon) if you can't afford the prescription costs. What free dental? Not on the planet I live on. 

Your statement shows a level of ignorance that could only be achieved with a heavy diet of mindless, fact free, right wing slogans. Consumption of too many processed bigotries and saturated shock jocks is bad for your health. It poisons your heart and numbs your brain.You mean the mismanagement of Labor that saw the economy rated as the best performing one in the OECD? Applauded around the world for their response to the GFC that resulted in Australia being one of the few to have continual growth. The Labor government that left Australia with the third lowest debt in the world? 

When we have a right wing government (and their usual idiots) who replace evidenced based policies with mindless slogans based on delusions and lies, then we are in real trouble. That time is now.No it wont. The fees are sky rocketing so people will simply not increase their education and society will suffer. It is already expensive and the Coalition want to make it prohibitively expensive. 

Eventually all of society will be run by snotty nosed private school bullies like Pyne and the economy will crash.The students at the Australian Institute of Sport wont have to pay $100,000.TAFE fees are about to go up immensely and people will have to take out loans for courses. If they drop out they will lose all the money and even if they finish the course at some of the numerous RTOs sprouting up like weeds to make profit from students, the qualifications may not be worth the paper it is written on. There are cowboys starting courses that just tick and flick without any proper study. Employers will learn who they are eventually but since proper courses like TAFE are being cut everywhere, students will waste their money with the cowboys in desperation. 

Welcome to the new user pays system where the institution are more interested in profits than teaching students. Eventually the Liberals will privatise everything.The Grattan Institute is not quite on the loony right like the IPA or to a lesser degree the CIS but the author also worked for the CIS. This suggests a 'free market' attitude to what is an essential service. 

There has been a constant moves to force universities to become businesses and that is echoed by the support given to higher fees by chancellors and vice chancellors. University management has also waged war on staff wages and conditions with most now in erratic casual employment. The Americanisation of the sector runs unabated.

The Liberals don't dare fully privatise all the sector but they will ensure that only the children of the rich and powerful will be able to attend the 'sandstone' universities and their equivalents in other cities. There will be some allowance for a few of the brightest plebs but on the whole the lower ranks will have to receive second class treatment in private, for profit outfits that will give them a dodgy qualification and an enormous debt.Tick and flick and bank the cheque is the new 'free market' approach to 'education'. No quality and certainly no value. 

Further cuts to TAFE and massive increases in fees are ensuring that the private, profit making cowboys can get their greedy mitts on good profits. By the time the students learn that their qualifications are treated with disdain, it will be too late. Remember it was a profit making RTO that fast tracked the 'qualifications' for the majority of the staff of Storm Financial and they went on to destroy many lives and the RTO laughed all the way to the bank (probably the Commonwealth).The 'gold plating' was based on a rising consumption in electricity demand (it was falling) to handle peak use during a couple of days a year (bound to increase) during summer when everyone with an air conditioner cranks them up.

To apportion the cost honestly, those with air conditioners should be mandated to feed their equipment directly from solar and therefore not require the 'gold plating' of kilometres of infrastructure and substations.

We are all subsidising air conditioners are a far greater rate than we subsidise renewables (which as stated above are lowering the wholesale price of electricity). 

Hatred of the carbon price and renewable energy is merely an extension of the science hatred of climate change denial and is pushed with the same level of dishonesty/ignorance.The false concern for a rising cost of living when the Coalition are slugging the poor on so many other fronts is risible.

The hatred of modern technology that creates fuel free electricity and the hatred of a price on the massive pollution created by burning fossil fuels, not to mention the environmental destruction required for their extraction, is inextricably linked to a right wing mindset that refuses to accept the massive weight of scientific evidence that says we need to change the way we produce and consume power. 

When you reject clear scientific evidence then lying about the effects of mitigation processes comes too easily. There was a Coalition politician rambling on on ABC radio the other day (the reporter did nothing to question him) how the carbon price was a regressive tax that hurt the poorest. This dishonestly ignores the fact that those on lower incomes were over compensated for the rises in power prices and is contrary to the Coalitions original attacks on the carbon price which was to cry poor for those who would suffer from an extra $10 per week on their incomes over $100,000 per year. The clear hypocrisy of saying one thing one time and another thing later when both are not backed up by any factual evidence is a constant reminder that this mob of conmen in power will say or do anything to keep power and that no lie too big or too small will be ignored in their permanent campaign of smoke and mirrors.When over 95% of the scientist on the planet (every country, every language, every political system) say that we are warming the planet at a dangerous level due to burning fossil fuels then it is gross stupidity not to listen to them. 

The fossil fuels needed to currently produce the components of renewable energy are a minor consideration in our current throw away society. Once used, the resulting product produces electricity without need of further fuels where as a coal powered station uses a vast amount to construct then is useless without a constant supply. There is no evidence that it will result in "massive amounts of extra emissions".

The right wing concern for the poor must stick in your throats since the dog eat dog mindset requires many losers so some can be immensely wealthy. Most of the benefits of electricity supply to the very poor in the world is in areas that do not have existing poles and wires. In those areas it is much cheaper to provide a small local network of a renewable source. The poor have trouble buying food yet you would force them to continue to buy coal for fuel instead of the fuel free alternative. 

Renewable energy will knock fossil fuels off their perch due to costs in the future but currently we have a dishonest campaign being run by lying right wingers that is trying to destroy a nascent industry that employing far more people than coal. It is not 'pragmatic' to ban wind turbines within 2km of peoples homes if you are allowed to have coal mines with all the associated noise and toxic dust closer. That is just plain vicious stupidity and a 'restriction of trade' that is so beloved of right wingers. All this talk of 'subsidies' that ignores all the subsidies to mine and burn coal and the externalities not priced any more.Fossil fuels still get far more subsidies than renewables. It's just that they have been getting them for so long that people don't notice. It is easier to point out the much smaller and newer subsidies for renewables as part of the denialist campaign of Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt that is used to destroy anything that the power elite want to ruin if it looks like it may cut into their profits. 

Every step of the way from exploration, extraction, transportation and the eventual burning of the fuel (approx 60% of the energy is wasted) is subsidised by entrenched subsidies and tax write offs. You hear that a new mine will 'invest' blah blah millions into an area but in truth, most of the money is spent buying equipment manufactured overseas and then the entire cost becomes an expense to write off on their Australian tax and most the profits are sent overseas. For that we get a degraded environment and poisoned air (it is not all CO2). We are being jipped and duped.Fossil fuels get far more subsidies for exploration, mining and burning.The 'gold plating' is needed for a few days in the year during summer when people with air conditioners crank them all up to maximum. Local photovoltaic power works well on those days and provides electricity locally without the need for vastly upgraded networks from remote coal fired power stations.

Make the people with air-cons install solar power and the need disappears. The sun is always shining on the hottest days of the year.Yes the carbon price that was sending the airlines to the wall by making them charge too much for tickets.

Well, no airlines are dropping their prices. They say they absorbed all the costs.There are systems but while governments keep propping up fossil fuels they will languish. 

New battery technology is coming in leaps and bounds but there is a mob who have re-engineered and old steam engine design to store energy in the form of compressed air. Unfortunately the powers to be have a vested interest in keeping to the old dirty technologies.There simply are not hundreds of thousands of 'scientists' who have differing views on global warming. There is a small coterie of noisy activists, mainly employed by right wing think tanks, who are mostly not climate scientists but get a level of media coverage well beyond their level of expertise. 

Please direct me to the latest scientific paper by Dr Patrick Moore that has managed to refute the cumulated mountain of evidence that has been produced over the last three or four decades. I can even remember hearing a clip where Richard Nixon was warning about global warming. 

Until they have a published scientific paper with proper evidence to prove that every other scientist on the planet has it wrong then they are just stating their opinion. You can have as many opinions as you like (Abbott changes his depending on who is in the room) but you can not have your own facts.Was the posting from somewhere reputable, like a scientific organisation or was it from a rat bag denialist site that cares nought for the truth. Hopefully not from any Murdoch affiliate as they have proven they avoid the truth at all costs as a political imperative. 

Just give me the name of the paper he has published and I will find the link myself.So you are claiming that the scientists are not political, they are just incompetent and are talking rubbish? Any proof of that assertion? 

Repeating standard unsubstantiated right wing smears does not contribute to the debate. You need some evidence to support such a massive statement.A big problem shared by many.Where did you buy that lovely serve of ignorance on a stick?

Are you saying that every scientific, educational and governmental body on the planet that is staffed by the highest trained individuals in their fields are all in fact lying to us? Incompetent? Part of a worldwide evil conspiracy?

You make an enormous claim. Care to back it up with some old fashioned, evidence? A few facts? A little bit of verifiable science? You know the stuff that got us out of the caves and brought us modern technology? Just because we set fire to stuff in caves doesn't mean we are stuck with setting fire to stuff for ever for energy supplies. We have progressed a little.At least an appeal to greedy self interest is honest.

Pity most the campaign against mitigating global warming is based on dishonest claims and bizarre conspiracy theories.Increasing the tax free threshold to $18,000 was a lot more than $10 per week.Warburton, like you, denies the very scientific evidence of global warming so anything he says is just ignorant opinion based on delusion.Again Greig, you have made it quite clear in the past that you have rejected the evidence of over 99% of all peer reviewed scientific literature on the subject of global warming. The ability to deny such an enormous and overwhelming mountain of evidence does not make me trust your ability to make an evidenced based decision on any subject. I am sure you can use your arithmetic to prove that 1+1=3 if it suits your political game regarding global warming. Sophistry does not equal evidence. 

Even Warburton's study found that renewables created a downward pressure on wholesale prices and that is the nub of the matter. Anything that interferes with the profits of fossil fuel companies must be stopped. Mankind has been burning things for fuel since before they moved into caves and the current Neanderthals of of politics and dirty business simply can not comprehend doing things any other way. They attack what they fear and they attack what they do not understand but most of all they attack to protect their own world destroying ways. Stupidity and greed and an overwhelming sense of their own importance."Tony has to pay for the war somehow! The millions spent on searching for planes and Royal Commissions."

Not to mention the extra expenses for Operation Sovereign Borders and the mind bogglingly huge amounts they pay foreign corporations to run concentration camps for them.

They claimed that the cupboard was bare for SPC's request of $25 million and basically demanded that the workers there had to drop a whole range of penalty rates that didn't exist but we have $500 million years to go chasing shadows in a country we already illegally invaded on a thin tissue of lies last time they were in power.Kevin. Gillard and Abbott were given the same ultimatum to form government. So we would have had 'anything but sell my arse' Abbott with a carbon price or Gillard with a carbon price. See the clip of Tony Windsor for proof "Tony Windsor tells Tony Abbott some home truths". There was no intention to deceive so there was no lie, the situation was unique. If Abbott had got government he would have done so by promising a carbon price. I bet then we would have heard more about "if you want to put a price on carbon, why not just do it with a simple tax". And I bet my bottom dollar that you would have happily supported him by saying it was a necessity of forming government and not a broken policy. 

It is you that refuses to see that Gillard's 'lie' was just one of many lies by the Coalition to smear a good government and didn't they repeat it over and over and over and over again. Dishonesty rampant every time. Now we have the lying conmen in charge and Abbott is going around breaking virtually every promise he made before the last election and you are still supporting his blatant dishonesty. No excuses for his lies and broken promises one after another. None what so ever.That is true Hugh. The states can bring in any taxes they want to. There is no legislation stopping them.

I've got a feeling that all the 'lawyers' around here specialise in taxation law loopholes so the rich can avoid their fair share. Obviously not up on Constitutional law and 'Equity' as a social concept is anathema to them, let alone its spirit within the law.Ben and Peter spend so much time on these forums lecturing people on working hard they must either overcharge for their services or have someone else do all the work. They are certainly not heads down and bum up.They would call it a consultants expense and not a salary expense, that way it would be based in a foreign country and not on an Australian pay roll. Just an imported service.Now that 'The Adults' are in charge they are performing worse than 'the worst government ever'. 

The lie that the right of politics are better economic managers refuses to die despite the overwhelming evidence. They will pick on one item out of complete context with any other figures or world affairs and blow it completely out of proportion to smear Labor over and over again. The last was the blatant lie of a 'debt and deficit crisis'. Pure fiction. The previous time they picked on interest rates and claimed over and over again that 'interest rates will always be lower under a Coalition government' as if that was all that was needed to make a perfect economy. As soon as there was a lower rate under Labor they made a complete 180 degree turn and claimed that lower interest rates were a sign of a poorly managed economy. They can not be trusted to lie straight in bed. It is all a con job. There is no lie to big or too small for these mongrels to use in their constant exercise of political legerdemain.The biggest threat to you is being crushed by the giant dog whistle being wielded in Canberra. 

It is a mindless scare campaign to hide the atrocious job they are doing on the domestic front with lie after lie.

This is the same mob who took us into an illegal war in Iraq based on a thin tissue of lies. You accept every lie, you repeat every smear, you are a repeater station for the dog whistles. 

A bunch of people that we first supported and now are attacking who are being supported by our Saudi allies half way around the world are more interested in taking over what they consider 'their lands' back from the artificial lines 'we' drew on maps. They are no threat to us. The only threat to us is if all the dog whistling nastiness pushes some marginal testosterone fuelled youth over the edge into violence.

The real terrorist threats are being exported by the Saudis with their state support of Wahabist fundamentalism. The Saudis who behead people on a regular basis and treat women in demeaning and medieval ways. Our friends the Saudis. Stuff IS, they are small fry compared. Of course, yet again, we attack the off shoots and not the source. A bunch of Saudis fly planes into buildings and we invade Afghanistan and Iraq. Such is the logic of right wing war mongers. 

How safe are we after 800 police targeted houses all throughout Sydney with media crews in tow to tear apart the houses of Muslims? What was the result of that? One guy charged with talking about violence over the phone and one plastic sword confiscated! Don't you think that that has pissed off people? 

We have a bunch of conmen in charge who lied and smeared their way to power. This fear campaign is just another tool in their box of dirty tricks. If someone snaps then it will be their fault for sticking the fire crackers into the ants nest when the ants were just going about their normal business.It is a blatant fear campaign to distract the voters from the damage they are doing to the country. Stock standard right wing tactics when the lies and smears directed at Labor no longer have traction. 

The Liberals know that 'us or them' can rally people around the flag but when they direct their dog whistling at a significant minority in Australian society then they will 'rally around' their own mob in defence. The overblown rhetoric and massive police actions (one guy with a nasty phone call and one other with a plastic sword) combined with another insane invasion at vast expense of a country that is no threat to us runs the risk of actually pushing someone over the edge in anger and creating a terrorist attack.

So stupid and so nasty. It is like they are daring someone to do something just so they can look tough by reacting to the problem they caused themselves.When it comes to slaughter I reckon the Christian Military Industrial Complex wins hands down.Rated most profligate government in the history of Australia by the IMF.

Flogged off $74 billion dollars worth of assets during a mining boom and only left $20 billion in the kitty. 

Left a structural deficit through middle class bribes that is still bedevilling the current Coalition. 

Blew a fortune taking us into an illegal war based on a thin tissue of lies. 

That is one apple rotten to the core.Most people ignore the details of politics and just pick up the sound grabs. The media allows or in fact creates a false impression of Liberal economic superiority and constantly runs campaigns of smears and lies against Labor. If the smears and lies don't work then start a fear campaign or a war.

Labor took the economy to the position of being rated best performing in the OECD. Number one. Top of the pile. Yet the corporate press gave more time to the Coalition falsely claiming that Labor were 'the worst government ever'.

It is one heck of a good propaganda effort to turn best in the world into worst in the world. Part of that relies people believing that Labor can only spend until we run out of money. That is a lie. Whitlam spent less as a proportion of GDP that Fraser and Howard. Howard got the award as running the most profligate (spent too much with nothing to show for it) in Australia's history. The report was from the IMF by two of the staff at the IMF and it used all their data. Not one person has proven that data wrong but the lying right wingers dismiss it because of a standard disclaimer as if that changes reality. The Liberals suck as economic managers because they only know how to take from the poor and give to the rich which results in a poor economy.He left a budget surplus and his spending as a percentage of GDP was lower than Fraser and Howard.

Repeating old lies does not make them true, even if it is the only thing the current mob of conmen in charge are capable of doing.Dirty tricks campaigns are a hallmark of right wing politics. 

Bent premiers in cahoots with CIA affiliates and of course the seditious Murdoch press that couldn't rub two facts together if their lives depended on it.

At least Gillard only had the lies and smears of the Coalition and the mendacious press and not the addition of the CIA coup masters as well.Whitlam proved that governments could benefit all the people not just the already rich and powerful.

The Coalition are under the delusion that everything privately run is perfect and that governments are part of the problem. They go out of their way to prove the latter while lying about the good that proper governments can achieve. They are reactionaries of the worst kind. Destruction and smiting replace policy and building. They mistake being bully boys for 'leadership'. A bunch of kiss up and kick down sociopaths.What I witnessed was a media pack that was so absorbed in the minutiae of Labor leadership that they missed the fact that Australia was being applauded throughout the world for the masterful handling of the economy post GFC. The same media pack happily repeated every lie and smear spread by the Coalition without question.

Now we have lost a government that took the economy to the position of best performing one in the OECD and now have a bunch of lying conmen who mistake bully boy tactics for policy. 

They will make Australia slide down the rankings like every previous Coalition government have done before them, all the time blaming Labor for their own incompetence. 

So media expert? Why do you let the lie that the Coalition are superior economic managers get so much credence when the evidence is there that proves the opposite? Why repeat the Gillard 'lie' every time you mention her when Tony Abbott has told so many porkies that they have trouble fitting on a page? Is that 'balance'. One lie 'from' Labor to balance the twenty to thirty (blatant ones, not just the small ones) from the Coalition? Just to show that you are 'fair'?The Khemlani affair was yet another beat up with support from Murdoch. Everyone claimed he had the dirt on Labor but that was all just a big circus. He came to Australia and Little Minded Johnny Howard looked after him and checked out all his records and there was not a single piece of damning evidence. That didn't matter because the public had swallowed all the lies and smears. 

Lies and smears. Same tactic got Abbott in power.Plus Howard's government was rated as the most profligate in Australia's history by the IMF.

As if taking us into an illegal war based on a thin tissue of lies was not enough to condemn him for all history.If you compare the government in Australia to the rest of the world we go up in ranking under Labor and down under the Coalition every time.

Fortunately for the Liberals, people are not well informed enough to realise that so they get away with the lie that they are superior economic managers.The Howard Coalition flogged off $74 billion dollars worth of assets and left a tiny amount in the bank. Pissed the rest up against the wall. Rated most profligate government in Australia's history by the IMF. 

Economic incompetents.SVJ. The old shoot the messenger when you are in a hopeless situation gambit. Not much else a Coalition supporter can do though. 

Name a Coalition government that improved our standing compared to the rest of world higher than a Labor government did. Name a Coalition government that received international awards.The most successful lie of the Liberals has been that they are better economic managers than Labor. They do this by taking small things out of context and blowing them out of proportion.

If you look at the rating of the Australian economy compared to the rest of the world you will find that under Labor we go up the ladder and under the Coalition we go down the ladder.

The Rudd/Gillard government took us to the top of the OECD ratings yet the lying Liberals claimed that they were 'the worst government ever'. They claim that Labor spends like a drunken sailor yet the IMF are quite clear that the Howard government were the most 'profligate' in Australia's history.

The Coalition runs on lies and smears. If they ran on their true economic record compared to Labor in comparison to the global economy then they would be out of power for a long time. Fortunately for them, dishonesty and dirty tricks works a treat when you have a mendacious media on your side. If people start paying attention to the economy then start a war somewhere to distract them.We went from ninth on the ladder to number one. It was better than any other country in the OECD. The IMF changed their advice on the basis of the success of Australia.

At the very same time the 'media' were happily reporting the complete and utter rubbish spouted by the Coalition that Labor was 'the worst government ever'. No lie too big or too small for the conmen of the Coalition. Unfortunately they are reported seriously instead of being laughed at outright during media events and we now see the result. People have believed their lies because an unquestioning media reported them as if they were truth. 

We are still hearing that Whitlam wrecked the economy by spending too much but he left a surplus and both Fraser and Howard spend more money as a percentage of GDP.Both subject to a massive media campaign of lies and smears.You have more chance of being killed by a drunken white male. Are you going to be scared of all white males then?"This is again an interesting study of the conservative mindset in Australia today."

So true. That mindset believes that ignoring scientific evidence because you don't like it is not only acceptable but desirable. It also displays itself with the stating and repeating of easily proven lies. It's as if they have decided that the normal rules of evidence or accepted social structure built up over many years in regards to promoting your causes, do not apply to them. The ends justify the means and the facts be damned. 

There has always been a good slice of that mindset in society but it has now become not only mainstream for right wingers but a badge of honour.

Bring back the conservatives of old and the small L Liberals as they at least would behave in a basically honest and civil manner compared to the current mob of right wing foot soldiers and their black ops think tanks.It is interesting on the privacy front. If I worked for a company and sent nasty, narrow minded, bigoted and sexist emails using Grey.Bags@ currentemployer. com.au and it was found out, I am sure that I would in line for a serious talk or sacking. If I sent the same email via GreyBagsisanaughtyboy@ ozemale. com.au and it was hacked and printed then I could feel justifiably miffed if they were published. 

If he used his official university email address then that reflects badly on the institution as well as his character and lack of care as to what he says to whom. Apparently some of the emails went to up to eight people and he didn't think anyone would mind his language. Such is the sense of being greater than the rules that  the great unwashed have to behave by when one holds and exalted and privileged position. A true representative of the right wing sense of superiority over the lesser beings in society. 

Perhaps if he'd made them rhyme he could have got away with 'artistic licence' as it was they just sound like the ranting of a aging, right wing privileged, white male of the standard Liberal Party variety.A naughty email that doesn't affect the company sent on the company's email account should only attract a word to the wise. It is so easy to set up a private email account for your more ill considered missives that to send one via a work account shows a lack of intelligence on your behalf and companies would prefer to have smarter people on the payroll. A 'talking to' would remind you to show some old fashioned common sense.Ah yes and the GFC didn't affect Australia, just the rest of the world.

Check out Whitlam in context with global finance due to the oil shock and you will realise that Australia was not alone with inflationary troubles.I don't have any children but would prefer to live in an educated society where people can reach their full potential despite starting with little.

Also, people tied to debt will not rock the boat and that suits the already rich and powerful in maintaining the status quo.The ALP would be better served by protecting the reforms that Whitlam brought in that are still under attack from the Liberals today instead of taking offence at the Greens for supporting one of Gough Whitlam's policies that they have long since dropped.

If Gough had been given a fair run then I reckon the Greens would never had enough people to form. It was only the relentless swing to the right by the ALP that opened up fertile fields for them. If you throw out something perfectly functional and usable onto the street then you shouldn't get upset if someone else uses it. 

I do think they should have not impinged on the body of the photo and instead left it in its original rectangular form with the Greens logo underneath it to prick the consciences of those in the Labor party who still hold ideals for social progress, not just individual economic gains, for all Australians.Like the teachers on welfare because their jobs have been filled by 457 Visa holders? 

Like the manufacturing workers on welfare because their jobs were shipped out to exploit workers in third world countries or the ones whose industries will collapse because we have a government that would rather spend $94 million looking for lost planes of $500 million per year in futile wars than spend one cent on supporting Australian jobs?

But as long as someone can get their already generous remuneration tripled by assisting in the privatisation of Medibank then everything is all sweet for the right wingers. It is only ever those with the least and doing it the hardest that are ever to blame for anything but that is to be expected under a Coalition government.If you look into the Khemlani affair it was just another piece of media manipulation blown up out of all proportion to reality. Khemlani was 'supposed' to have all this evidence that Labor had done dodgy deals and he was reported widely in the media as if it was the truth. When his information was actually looked at there was nothing out of the ordinary in it. They were silent on the actual facts but the damage had been already done so why bother informing the public of the truth? Nothing has changed for right wing dirty tricks both parliamentary and media based. 

It was just another successful right wing campaign of smears and lies, just bigger than the one to bring down Gillard. The dirty tricks also CIA support instead of just Murdoch.IMF rated the Howard government as the most profligate in Australia's history, not Whitlam. 

Don't let the facts hit you on the bum on the way out.(seriously)

Well yes! It is proven. It is on the record. Jimmy Carter even sort of apologised for it. Just look for information provided by Christopher John Boyce.

Try reading some proper history instead of the whitewashed version preferred by right wing politicians and their supporters.And it required a dirty tricks campaign to end all dirty tricks campaign to get him out. The nasty, lying, right wingers are still trying to wind back his reforms that benefited all Australians, not just the already rich and powerful.  It even had the US contribution of CIA black money and 'intelligence' to bring him down. 

Not even the malevolent campaign of lies and smears against Gillard went close to the outright bastardry of the the 'born to rule' mob in Whitlam's orchestrated downfall. At least it was only a US citizen with media control that performed acts of sedition against Gillard and not government agencies.Another truth avoiding right winger trying to rewrite history.

You are factually wrong. Go and learn some history before it is unaffordable to do so. 
Right wingers are so proud to display their ignorance of the facts in public. The further away from the truth, the louder and prouder they get.I have already heard from a slew of second and third rate, right wing politicians and media types claiming that Whitlam was a bad PM. These nasty, small minded, idiots will be forgotten long before Whitlam. The right wingers in Australia are still trying to wind back the reforms of Whitlam that gave to the vast majority of Australians instead of just pandering to the already rich and powerful.

This bunch of lying conmen we have in power now are not fit to even attend his funeral, let alone sit in parliament. 

Whitlam took Australia out of the Fifties mindset that was still retained in the corridors of power. Abbott is trying to take us back to the Fifties. Australia would be a less dynamic and more unpleasant country if it wasn't for Gough. The economy has benefited vastly from his free university education reforms. Soon it will be uni for the rich only and everyone else will have to be happy with minimum wages and no penalty rates in servant class or a crippling debt that will have them slaved to the system for fear of penury. 

Society under Whitlam dared to dream of better futures. Society under the Coalition is taking us towards the end of the Age of Enlightenment with corporate overlords instead of feudal ones. Gough was a great man who improved the lives of many. Abbott is a stupid and nasty reactionary who panders to the greed of the big end of town.We live in a world of post-truth politics.

To deal in facts and evidence these days is treated as treasonous. Ignorant opinion and outright lies demand to have a greater stage than the truth and since it suits the agenda of the rich and powerful, it does.Labor was so scared of being accused of supporting terrorists that they failed to do their job. The Liberals just hate us for our freedoms.I referred to Rudd as Howard-lite. Shorten is Abbott-mid strength.Another article from a right wing think tank that says 'let us rape and pillage in full corporate greed without contributing to society'. 

When mining companies return the environment to its original condition after they have plundered it while contributing more for 'our' resources then they may be in a position to complain. When they don't write off all their foreign purchased machinery and all their other expenses including inflated CEO remuneration off their Australian tax then they can complain. How much in tax deductible donations to the CIS receive from mining? 

Education is for the good of all society well into the future. Mining principally benefits short term corporate profits, mainly for foreign companies.The Australian has ceased to report the news and is now a barely disguised propaganda outfit for utopian right wing thought processes and the flip side of an attack dog against anything or anyone that doesn't subscribe to the proven failures of their right wing delusions. 

Global warming denial is up there at the top. Mountains of evidence from decades of research by the best minds on the planet and they can only seem to find a couple of aging white guys with scientific qualifications in different fields or outright right wingers with no qualifications, to write article after article smearing scientists. 

Their constant 'search' for reds under the beds in any organisation that is not controlled by large corporate interests is another. Thus the attack on the ABC and on public universities as biased. The only not for profit organisations that are acceptable to these hard right wingers are religious organisations because they still have a definite hierarchy where right wingers can take control and smite the lefty sinners.It is still just talking to yourself. That helps sometimes. It can clear or arrange your thoughts.Agreed with the "divisive political games". A whole heap more of war and 'with us or against us' rhetoric and stuff all proper governing. Kicking the poor in the teeth is sport, not an economic plan.Real Estate is a ponzi scheme only held up by the major parties and their massive immigration numbers. Without the extra 300,000 people per year looking for a house then the prices would drop to a sensible level.

Time to start thinking about homes for people instead of real estate speculation for profit. 

Can't stand reality shows anyway.The Australian 'community' is not the ones that fund the IPA. What the IPA wants is good for the top end of town and bad for the majority.A couple of studies in the US on ethanol production from crops showed they used more fuel growing the crops and processing the ethanol than they got for the final product.The Liberals wouldn't 'do the right thing' even if it was financially sensible. Their attack on renewable energy when it is proven to lower wholesale costs of electricity is a case in point. Joe Hockey thinks an open cut mine next to a coal fired power station is more visually appealing than a wind turbine.

The Liberals 'pick winners'. Their choices are based in the false, fanatical belief that global warming is a left wing conspiracy theory and that destruction of the environment for short term profits is good because it makes profits for their donors and annoys the enemy greenies.Best you acquaint yourself with the impending destruction of large sections of the Gardens of Stone within stones throw of Sydney.

More birds die from being hit by cars or flying into windows of buildings. Wind power is reaching parity with gas for price and are very good at producing electricity, just check the results in SA. 

The nonsense spouted by fossil fools continues unabated.  Do you ever get embarrassed that nothing you say can be backed up with evidence or are you happy spouting proven denialist garbage?Any CEO remuneration over $250,000 should be paid for out of after tax profits and not be a tax expense like wages for average workers.The Liberals did public research on terrorism responses. Maybe sending in the military to Iraq got the best reaction in focus groups.If you extract your head you will be able to see reality.

This bunch of conmen have spread more porkies in this term alone than combined Greens and Labor in 30 years. Repeating the overblown nonsense of Gillard 'lying' thousands of times does not take the score up.The Liberals constantly attack the unions who represent working people but are happy to take instructions from bosses unions like the BCA and their paid propaganda outfits like the IPA. 

There is class war and the rich are winning.When they destroy the public school system so only the rich can afford proper schooling then they will be sure to magnify the effect.This ignores the beautiful clip of the senior Victorian police officer who stated that the unions were engaging in illegal behaviour through bikie members.

When pushed for evidence of wrong doing or links to bikies in official positions he could provide exactly none. Not a sausage. The only bit of evidence he provided was the name of a bikie who was not and have never been an official and had not even been a paid up member of the union for a couple of years. 

Right wing union leaders using their power to control things is a completely different matter from corruption and illegal acts.All these comments as if the TURC has actually uncovered new information. So far it has just been a repetition of old stories based on heresay. 

It has been a waste of money, that is why they want an extension. They are desperate for some real scalps to prove it was worth the millions. 

It is clear that the Liberal party are waging an ideological war against workers having any rights. Hard won wages and conditions such as penalty rates are in their sights. Big business want to have no organised opposition to complete control and they will get that if the Liberal party succeeds in destroying the unions. 

Small business owners should be very suspicious about the unhealthily close association the Liberals have with the big end of town. They are out to drain every cent from society that they can and will brook no competition. Their lust for money and power makes a mockery of their claims that they support a free and open market.Science is not political. It is based on thorough research and painstaking detail.

Idiots who refuse to accept evidence are political.

So we should just accept any old thing said to us about terrorists with no proof what so ever? Like Iraq and WMDs or their links with al Qaeda. Perhaps there were the plans for a terrorist plot written on the back of that plastic sword? If you believe that then you probably still believe the Coalition election promises in which case I have a bridge for sale if you are interested.Anyone caught publishing faulty or fraudulent information is quickly outed. There are checks and balances. Scientists love proving that someone else is wrong. 

Global warming denialists despite their best efforts have found no proof that any figures or the science in general have been manipulated to fool people regarding global warming. There is no proof of fraud or incompetence on a world wide scale across all the fields of science that have merged to consensus on global warming. 

You are talking about office politics, that is always political. That is a separate area than the facts and evidence produced by research into AGW. Who gets the grants may be political within an organisation but that does not mean that the research is going to be fraudulent to support some mythical 'political' cause.  

Deniers claim that global warming is a left wing political hoax without any proof what so ever. Their claims are 100% political and 100% wrong.

If you don't understand the difference between people accusing scientists of producing work intentionally manipulated to suit a political 'cause' and the general run of the mill office politics and work place greasy poles then there's nothing I can do for you.The media have definitely failed to keep the Australian population well informed but when you have a situation where 800 police raid houses in an orchestrated media event just to confiscate a plastic sword and charge one guy with having a phone call where someone asked him to do something nasty then it is not just the media's fault.

Everyone should watch the priceless testimony of the senior Victorian police officer at the TURC where he was absolutely sure that the unions were a hotbed of vice and fraud but when questioned had absolutely no proof what so ever and the only name he could provide was bikie who was not an official and whose membership had lapsed. Not a single piece of evidence to back up his assertions. If you think the media is bad at ignoring the facts then the same failing in the police force is positively frightening.Yet again I see people writing that the ABC shows left wing bias by supporting the last 150 years of scientific research and evidence that has resulting in almost every single scientist on the planet warning us that we are warming the planet at a faster rate than at any time in history and it will be to our detriment.

That is science. It is not left wing to report facts.

It is apparently very right wing to make up conspiracy theories and repeat claims that have no basis in evidence. You can have as many stupid and ignorant opinions as you like but you can not have your own rules of science. Calling the ABC or the scientists 'lefties' will not change the laws of physics. Get a grip on reality before it is too late. 

Welcome to the end of the Age of Enlightenment. Pig ignorance demands equal time with scientific evidence.2005 and 2010, were hotter than 1998. 2013 broke many heat records in Australia. There has been a slowing of the rate of warming of the air as the oceans have been absorbing more heat. Warming has still increased. 

To say that the warming has plateaued off is to display either ignorance of reality or intentional dishonesty. You have proven that you have a completely politic stance in as much as you have decided that no matter what evidence is provided you will ignore it. That is the antithesis of science. That is delusional. Why this delusional thinking is shared by so many people who are out and proud right wingers is anyone's guess.The Labor party has drifted over the line to become a centre right party. The party on the whole is more right wing than its members or supporters. That was evident in choosing Shorten over Albanese despite the popular vote. 

I have been critical of decisions by Labor but I object to the lies and smears that pass for political 'debate' from the Coalition, their business masters, their supporters and especially the mendacious right wing, fact free, corporate media of Murdoch and friends. 

I sent a letter to my local Labor member saying I put my support behind them after the travesty of the last election with its embrace of post-truth politics. I also reinforced that support recently with the caveat that if Labor supported the Coalition with the insanity of another invasion of Iraq to top off their concocted 'terrorism' scare campaign, then I would campaign against them for independents or the Greens. A decision of such importance should have been discussed with the public with some sort of vote. Labor has lost me again.

I slagged off Rudd as Howard-lite but Shorten is showing himself to be Liberal-mid strength. We do not need the lesser of two evils. We need a viable alternative to evidence free ideology. We need to to rid the country of post-truth politics. Getting rid of the conmen in charge to get another mob that will sell out our environment, public institutions and ethical legacy slower is not an option I will support. 

I wave my plastic scimitar in defiance.On the 'open for business' scale, the OECD rated us as third best while Labor were in government. Abbott made the claim like we were 'closed for business' so that just makes it another lie amongst an enormous pile of lies. 

What Abbott wants is to crush workers' wages and conditions so he can make it a 'bosses paradise'.I agree. They want to fight, give them a one way ticket.

I'd extend that to the whole cabinet as well.He didn't back up his scare campaign with a single iota of evidence.Drug dealers push drugs. Laura Norder dealers push Laura Norder.

The biggest threat of violence in Australia is some otherwise peaceful person being pushed to the edge by the constant dog whistles from government and because of the dogs that hear the whistles using it as a licence to be obnoxious to anyone who may or may not be Muslim. 

I've seen peaceful protest marches turn violent due to the police intentionally herding people into tighter and tighter areas until people are angry and squashed together. As soon as someone snaps due to being treated like an animal the media start rolling the cameras and the police can be shown quelling violence (that they created themselves). If you keep pushing, niggling, harassing and various other types of oppression and bullying you will get violence. It is inevitable. 

The powers to be in Australia seems to be hell bent on alienating and discriminating so hard that so that when the violence comes they can finally shout 'I told you so! This is why we took your freedoms and made it a quasi police state'.Just read in the SMH that the big scary sword that was confiscated during the raids by 800 police officers on the homes of Muslims was plastic. Why did they bag up and carry out a plastic sword? Was it just for the cameras?

800 police and we still only have one guy charged for having a phone call with someone who asked him to do bad things. 

You couldn't make this stuff up. This is the 'intelligence' that tells us we are under threat. Beware people walking the streets, terrorists might give you a nasty bruise. 

The most terrifying thing in the country is the size of the dog whistle in Canberra. That thing is so big that someone could get hurt if it fell on them.The Coalition only wanted to protect two freedoms.

1. The freedom to be a bigot.

2. The freedom to tell as many lies as possible and have them protected under 'free speech'.Abbott et al only ever found success in Old Testament smiting. Policy is not their strong point because that usually requires an evidenced based approach and as we are well aware, evidence, like fact,s are a left wing conspiracy.

So it was smite Julia, smite Labor, smite the unions, smite the workers with penalty rates, smite the manufacturers with unionised workforces, smite the public schools, smite the ethics teachers, smite the sick, smite the poor, smite the unemployed, smite the scientists, smite the environmentalists, smite the experts, smite the economists, smite, smite, smite. 

Unfortunately all this smiting was no good because so many people were on the receiving end of a good smiting that the Coalition dropped in the polls so they needed a common enemy to rally Team Australia around the flag and they need them to be obvious and different to feed the deep held fear of 'THE OTHER and they also need to be weak enough that they can't fight back. 

Enter the Muslims, the enemy of first,last and middle resort for the last few decades (more than ten). We have been destabilising and bombing the Middle East for years upon years. Installing different dictators then over throwing those dictators to install new ones and making sure there is no chance any natural alliance or democratic situation can arise.  Drawing arbitrary lines in the sand that keep like people separated. Different dress, different colour (usually), different languages, different religion and best of all too few of them to become a real threat in Australia (as opposed to mining magnates but money substitutes for numbers). Now almost everyone can join in on the smiting. We have a winner. A smiting we will go, a smiting we will go......A great big dog whistle unleashes all the hounds. The hounds don't know the difference between good Muslims and bad Muslims. Muslims who go out covered up because of male oppression or ones that choose to wear that style of clothing for 'modesty'. 

You don't need to go back very many years in Australia to find evidence of women being accused of 'asking for it' in rape cases because of the way they were dressed. Scratch the surface of our 'modern' society and you will still have a patriarchal society that treat women as second class. Abbott has even said that "I think it would be folly to expect that women will ever dominate or even approach equal representation in a large number of areas simply because their aptitudes, abilities and interests are different for physiological reasons". 

Support for the inherent racism being fostered by the almost entirely male front bench of the government to score political points does not help the cause of women of any religion or secular bent.

By the way, the uncovered meat attracted cats not flies.Gillards woes were indeed due to forming minority government. It was unforgivable for her to be seen as more trustworthy than Abbott by the conservative independents.

For her excellent negotiating skills she was subjected to a campaign of smears and lies by the Coalition and the mendacious Murdoch media (the other media too lazy or gutless in their obsession with personality over substance). 

The greatest and constantly repeated attack on Gillard was due to the fact that she promised to put a price on CO2 pollution and legislated for a fixed price leading to a trading scheme. This did not suit the science hating Luddites in the party who were in the pocket of the fossil fuel and mining industries so they painted her as dishonest. 

Now we have a bunch of lying conmen in charge who have openly broken so many promises made before the last election that they have trouble fitting them all on one page and they do not have the excuse of negotiating to form government. 
AGB. Gillard is clearly on the record promising a price on 'carbon'. Only a fool would deny it.

She did claim she would not put a 'tax' on carbon 'under a government I lead'. She did not 'lead' a majority government. She formed a coalition with several conservative independents who gave the same ultimatum to 'anything but sell my arse' Abbott regarding the carbon pricing scheme. Look up the video on the net from Tony Windsor called "Tony Windsor tells Tony Abbott some home truths". 

Objection to the pricing of CO2 pollution is simply an extension of global warming denial. The same people who complained about the tax also smear climate scientists and any form of renewable energy.

The ABC does not need to twist Abbott's words to brand him a liar. They do not need to take his comments out of context. He damns himself by his own words. The ABC were happy to repeat all of Abbott's mindless slogans before the election without asking him to justify any on his nonsense. There is no bias against Abbott or the Coalition on the ABC in fact they go out of their way to make sure they give more bias to the Coalition for fear of complaints. It is not the fault of the ABC that the lying bunch of conmen in power are incompetent and that it is on display for everyone to see.Haters gotta hate. A good scare campaign gets the idiots to rally around the flag. 

So much for not being able to afford to support any manufacturing in Australia when they are happy to blow $500 million dollars per year to chase shadows for popularity points.

The next time any of the government mention 'debt and deficit' it is up to the reporters to laugh in their faces instead of reporting proven nonsense to the public.The Australian is a loss making organisation.

Fail. 

The Telegraph is a fact free propaganda rag.On almost every issue right wingers have shown themselves to be allergic to facts. 

Global warming denial is the rejection of over 150 years of tested science.
Screaming about a 'debt and deficit crisis' when no economist on the planet apart from those employed by Murdoch/IPA sees a problem.
Spent years complaining that Gillard brought in a fixed price on CO2 pollution after she promised to do so then broke so many promises themselves that the list takes up more than an average screen shot can encompass.
Spread lies about the benefits of renewable energy with investigations into the right wing conspiracy theory of Wind Turbine Syndrome.
Claimed we definitely would destroy the economy if we supported Australian industry then is in the process of blowing $94 million on a hunt for a downed plane and $500 million per year to bomb the country they illegally invaded a few years ago. 

There is not a single scientist or expert in their field that has not been de-funded, ignored or smeared by this government and their followers.

When you live in right wing post-truth politics then telling the truth is a radical left wing concept.  Repeating proven lies do not make them true.The ABC is not biased to the left.

Right wing politics has simply given up on the truth. Reporting the truth is not left wing. Right wing politicians claim bias at the ABC for reporting the truth of global warming. When right wing politicians can show me proof that the last 150 years of scientific study and process has morphed into some bizarre world wide socialist conspiracy then I will start to believe that they are not just evidence avoiding radicals. 

Real proof. Evidence. Facts. Scientific papers, Reality based observations not groundless accusations. The sort of things that human progress has always been based on. Until then I will treat them as the obvious greedy, lying conmen that they are. The Cult of The Invisible Hand needs to do more than smite their enemies, they need to visit reality again.You see APM, global warming is not left wing. Only right wingers claim it is.

It is scientifically proven to exist and we must stop burning fossil fuels or it will ruin the planet.

The mere fact that you want to insist that fact free conspiracy theories should get equal status to 150 years of scientific evidence shows you are not in a position to claim what is, or is not biased. The truth is not biased, you are. 

The questions have been asked and answered, and answered, and answered, but it doesn't matter how often the answers are given the right wing Cult of Denial have complete faith that they know best. Faith and science don't mix.Science has only been politicised by right wingers rejecting its evidence. 

Social reaction to the evidence is something different. Denial is a rejection of facts. Saying that you believe in global warming but are too lazy and greedy to act to ameliorate it would at least be honest. Making up lies about scientists twisting the evidence because you don't like their results is dishonest and stupid.

Shooting the messenger, whether the scientists or the ABC will not change reality. Repeating proven lies about scientists or ABC bias will not make those lies true. 

The only social engineering going on is the FUD campaign by right wingers. They spread Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt to muddy the waters and fool the ignorant. Almost all global warming denial can be tracked back to right wing slime tanks that have been practising FUD for years. 

The only place to argue the science of global warming is in the scientific papers. In that arena the debate is to the extent, not the existence of anthropological global warming. That is why the right wing denialists never take that path. They have no evidence for their lies and smears. 

The ABC should not be forced to report proven lies and manufactured FUD.You are right there Troy. The Coalition with their stacking of the ABC board and constant threats have made a timid and gutless ABC that will happily regurgitate lies and smears as a balance for truth. The completely one sided attack on Labor leading up to the last election did not keep the public informed of the Coalition's plans (even the many they lied about). I do not believe that the ABC charter says to repeat constant Coalition lies and smears without question in case they decide to cut your funding. 

Time for the ABC to swing back from right wing post-truth politics.I'd rather money be spent on keeping the Australian population knowledgeable than waste millions and millions on another ill fated foray into Iraq to match the billions they wasted in their previous illegal invasion.

I'd rather money to the ABC than handing it back to mainly foreign miners and the biggest, dirtiest polluters in the country.

The money spent on the ABC shows an efficiency of service that makes the commercial networks and media look like they are burning money and the commercial networks produce garbage that interrupts their ads. Those ads put up the price of the products on the shelves. The amount of cost of advertising on the price of a new car is almost as much as the labour component of its manufacture. We can't afford to make cars but we can spend an estimated $94 billion on looking for lost planes.

Funding to science, research and education along with the ABC gets a caning while ignorance, fear and religion is being funded and peddled by the government including massive funds for Operation Sovereign Borders, increased military and more wasted money to the spooks ($380 million a year, for what?).In a world dominated by right wing post-truth politics then the facts becomes treated like a radical left wing concept.The ABC is definitely the most trustworthy news service in Australia. Particularly on radio and TV where there is no commercial outlet that bothers to do anything in depth. Who would suddenly watch ACA is 7.30 or Four Corners were taken off the air? ABC viewers are more discerning and their demographics show a greater level of education than those for commercial outlets.

The Australian newspaper used to be a fairly good reporter for foreign affairs in years gone past but they have gone completely loopy with their global warming denial and other right wing, fact free attacks on anything that doesn't suit their political agenda. Fairfax still does some good work but they have also fallen in quality with good and fearless journalists having left. SMH backed the Coalition last election and let their nonsense about Labor being 'the worst government ever' (while the world applauded) while Coalition slogans got high rotation. They let their obsession with the cult of personality over ride the actual business of government. Now we have lying conmen in charge. 

Before the last election I found myself shouting at the radio when the ABC completely abrogated their responsibilities to call out the blatant Coalition lies and smears. It is 'false balance' to give the facts on one side and 'balance' it with evidence free rants on the other side.  Time for the ABC to lose its timidity and fear of being called biased. When you have a government full of nongs who think that the scientific evidence for global warming is a left wing conspiracy then humouring them does no good for public knowledge. Bring back the facts and call out the lies and smears.There was a time not so long ago when the rest of the world were applauding Australia. They gave the Labor government awards for the handling of the GFC. The IMF changed their policy to match that of Labor's because it was so successful. The Australian economy was rated the best performing economy in the OECD. We were the envy of the world.

Yet, during this period of proven success, the Coalition and their supporters were claiming that Labor was 'the worst government ever'. Best in the world was rated as 'worst ever'. The same people claim that the ABC is biased.

You can have your own worthless, evidence devoid opinions but you can't have your own facts. 

The ABC is not a hot bed of left wing propaganda and global warming is real. If you want to pander to your own ignorance and stupidity then the Murdoch media is everywhere. Leave intelligent, reality based people with an option for news.The Finkelstein recommendations were for a strengthened independent press council with some actual teeth to ensure that errors and lies by the press were corrected in a timely and efficient manner. The press had no fear if they had their facts right (same as Bolt).

Where is the press and the right wing outrage that now journalists can be imprisoned for actually publishing the truth? It seems that they were pushing for 'freedom to lie' not freedom of speech.

Lying about global warming will not stop the laws of physics. You apparently enjoy your 'freedom to speak nonsense' but that gives us the right to call you out for your ignorance/stupidity/dishonesty. Not one scientific body on the planet supports the rubbish spouted by the Cult of Denial.Me too 'the yank'. As I noted in another post (if printed) Labor have lost my vote as well.Maybe if we didn't start so many stupid fights we would be safer. The illegal invasion of Iraq on a thin tissue of lies was the worst action I have ever seen from an Australian government.

Meanwhile the supporters of the war criminals that made us a target went on and on and on about a very sensible price on CO2 pollution.

Your intolerance to anything that isn't white bread anglo has blinded you to the real threat to society as we know it. It is rich old white men that are the biggest threat to the planet, not someone who wears a scarf and eats funny food.It isn't just the political classes. You can see by opinion polling that going to war and refusing asylum seekers crosses party lines. Even if the former create the latter. It is not just hard right parties that know singling out an enemy and ramping up fears will get you public support as the centre right Labor party is just as guilty.

The political damage of being seen to be un-Australian even if the actions of Australia are at fault is a trait shared by most tribes. This is why singling out Muslims as a threat affects all Muslims in Australia, not just the radical ones. It is a natural human instinct to circle the wagons for kith and kin.

I believe it is a gutless act by a timid Labor party to give support to the Coalition when they have proven they will act in craven and dishonest ways to political gain. It is the nature of political parties to 'live on their knees' and hope for their time in power instead of doing what is right when they know a mendacious corporate media and a malicious Coalition will smear them mercilessly. The Coalition are still spouting the same proven lies about Labor that they told before the election regarding the state of the economy but Labor seems incapable of laying a glove on them. I sent an email to my local Labor member in support of them in the face of lies and smears but warned if they supported another military misadventure I would actively campaign against them. Stuff you Labor.First up, don't vote for Coalition governments, they do stupid things when they get power. If you like futile wars then vote Coalition since they have been responsible for the last few.Well said.

It is not the whole story though. We do have one side of politics that constantly accuses the other side of the very dishonesties they commit themselves while dragging the whole lot out of the gutter and into the sewers. We have a population that is sick of the gutter tactics and is so time poor that they can only be bothered to get their political information from a lazy and partisan corporate media that gives outright falsehoods equal time (if not more) than evidenced based reasoning, all in the name of 'balance'.

The last bastion of half intelligent reporting, the ABC, is now under more threat from the culture warriors on the right who fight for lies to be protected under 'freedom of speech'. Having a shallow, emotive laden but fact light (or non-existent) reporting on politics suits their agenda. We have a government in power that tells everyone that governments are incompetent and then goes out of their way to prove it, as an excuse to sell out democracy to corporate control. 

Destroying public education will compound ignorance just the way they want it to. 

When the government of the day pays good money for a business advisor that runs around smearing scientists and claiming that the BOM is part of some leftist conspiracy then you know we have left reality. If people were truly paying attention they would never vote for a mob who are proud to be open about their complete ignorance or intentional dissembling. When being publicly open in your rejection of science became politically acceptable you know that people have switched off.  

Every political campaign is aimed at the swinging voters who are wooed with money and/or fear. Engaged political thinkers are ignored by the corporate media.Your welcome.Advertising is mental pollution. 

Mindless repetitious garbage, its only purpose is to hypnotise you into buying crap that you don't need. It destroys the flow of drama and should not be allowed on any news program as that would deter the reporters from investigating the company that funds their show. 

I object to the price of products I buy being inflated by the cost of advertising whether I watch ads or not. So once I actually see a product advertised it goes on my list to never buy again. I stopped buying a couple of products I enjoyed because of this but found similar without much problem.  The advertising component in the price of a new car is almost as much as the labour component to manufacture the car.News Radio broadcasts parliament. It gets annoying pretty quickly listening to the same talking points over and over again that we got before the last election. It is like a broken record.I started watching 7.30 again when Sarah Ferguson was in the chair.Not a single contribution posted whether short, long, in answer or on its own yesterday on this thread. Considering the quality of some who got past the censors numerous times I do wonder why.

The Coalition have a vendetta against the ABC as they have a vendetta against anything in public ownership or in the public interest that doesn't make their corporate mates a dollar.

Further mindless destruction of the NBN also on the boards as you can't have a network that advantages all. The rich must have a better service because they have paid for the Liberal party. Everyone else will either have to go without or pay through the nose. There will no doubt be plans somewhere in the Liberal's cupboard to charge people for the ABC. The online services are way too popular to allow to be used purely as a public service. 

"There will be no cuts to the ABC".Too many people chasing homes to live in. Too many speculators that only see real estate and not homes. Too much power in the hands of the finance sector and their excessive greed. 

Our immigration levels are somewhere near 300,000 a year. Cut that to the bone and watch prices drop. The addiction to economic growth at all costs is a cancer that is destroying society and the environment.Being an Abrahamic religion, Islam, like Judaism and Christianity share the basic Ten Commandments as brought down by Moses.

You really should do some research.If the Abrahamic God existed then it is up to them to use a bit of that omnipotence to sort out his followers. Until that happens I will happily labour under the rational belief that man made God in his own image and sometimes that image is very ugly.

I'd like to know what good it served the Romans, who bore false witness to gain power, to have 800 police raid houses around NSW to arrest one bloke for having a conversation with an ex-junkie bouncer from Kings Cross who asked him to do something nasty.

For that, and the massive media assault against an infinitesimal threat, we now have alienated a large minority group in Australia who have done nothing wrong except to be of a different cultural background with easily identifiable dress (ignorance of the difference between a Hindu or Sikh not withstanding). 

Arch 'Christian' Scott Morrison urged the shadow cabinet to capitalise on the electorate's growing concerns about "Muslim immigration", "Muslims in Australia" and the "inability" of Muslim migrants to integrate (SMH February 17, 2011). What an ugly God he worships with nary a whiff of the words of Jesus. Muslims respect Jesus as a profit as well."Prophet' not profit. Not that right wingers don't prefer the latter in their worship of Mammon.That possibility has been thoroughly investigated by scientists and they found absolutely no evidence for that hypothesis. Why not put in a category asking whether climate change is caused by the earth being flat?Tsunamis are one off events resulting from cataclysmic events. 

They have as much in common with long term climate as someone doing a belly flop in a pool has too the natural action of standing water.I don't give a stuff how many of the general population accept the scientific evidence or are swayed by lying denialists. I object to having a government that is full of science hating idiots who think they can change the laws of physics by repetition of lies. 

Its bad enough that we have a mob that will take us to war based on lies let alone declare war on the only planet we have because of their slavish worship of The Invisible Hand. The Cult of Denial is a danger to civilisation as we know it. It is a repudiation of over a century and a half of scientific development and knowledge. The worship of Mammon has addled their brains. Their love of money has clouded any rational thought like a junky stealing from the future for a another fix.Can't argue with that logic. Too many people, especially the ones that want to amass more than they can earthly use."So here's a question: with the rich and robust law against incitement, why is the Abbott Government introducing the new offence of "advocating terrorism"?"

Because it is a political stunt from a government that runs on lies and smears so needs a new distraction every chance they can get to keep people from paying attention to things like facts and evidence.
