Completely correct, John. And the author of this piece, by claiming equal weight to the response of Labor and the Liberals, tells us straight away that he is not an honest analyst. 

For some reason these 'refugee advocates' just don't seem to get it; 1,200 dead and possibly more - all  under Labor's incoherent and half-hearted atttempt to placate  various voting blocks. The liberals simply saw evil and stopped it.All completely missing the point of marriage. The primary purpose of marriage is to reinforce with legal sanction the right of the child to a relationship with his or her biological parents, biological grandparents and biological extended family. These relationships are a fundamental part of the identity of all humans and one of the most fundamental of all human rights. The fact that many children are denied these relationships through misfortune, neglect or deliberate acts does not negate either the right of the child to those contacts and interactions nor justify undermining marriage further by expanding the definition to include homosexual relationships. 

On the contrary, to equate marriage with homosexuality, which is what we are talking about,  undermines this most fundamental of all functions of marriage.  The creation of homosexual marriages will utterly destroy marriage in our society; already undermined by liberal divorce laws and measures to encourage women to have children outside marriage. 

This is not a slippery side. Homosexual marriage represents a cataclysmic collapse of western moral and family structure. It is the most destructive action of the left ever inflicted on society. I predict it will cause the complete collapse and destruction of western society. Not immediate, but it will follow. 

Agree, I would strongly support a ban on no-fault divorce. Excellent idea. And while we are at it, I would also prohibit marriages between couples who are biologically too old to produce children. And I would require couples to prove that they have no criminal record, no prior marriage, no history of drug abuse, no history of social security dependency  and the financial means to independently raise children prior to issuing a marriage licence. And I would make it compulsory to attend child rearing classes.

What you are suggesting is correct, you just didn't connect the dots; marriage needs to be strengthened rather than further undermined by equating homosexual relations with marriage and causing more damage to the interests of children.No referendum? Because the truth is homosexual marriage would be overwhelmingly rejected under a secret ballot. That is why the homosexual lobby rejects it.

What we really need is a referendum to entrench in our constitution that marriage is a relationship between one woman and one man to stop it coming under attack. It would pass comfortably.  Put up any alternatives you like; they will all be rejected.Labor rejected homosexualising marriage because they know at the grass roots level it would be lethal for the party. It would be the end of the Labor party.False reasoning. The fact that many children are denied contact with their biological mother, father, grandparents or extended biological family due to disease, misfortune, neglect or relationship breakdown is unfortunate. That is not justification of further undermining marriage and increasing the likelihood that children will be excluded from their biological heritage and their natural biological identity. Biological family is a fundamental part of what it is to be human. Indeed, it is probably the most inalienable of all inalienable human rights. We all have a biological mother, father and grand-parents. Witness the outcry over the stolen generations. 

Marriage is a structure that is under attack in our society. And the corresponding rights of children are equivalently under attack and ignored in the discussion. 

Marriage has little to do with the people getting married. It is all about children. I would favour tightening the marriage laws, making divorce much much harder, excluding older couples who are incapable of producing children are measures for example which would strengthen marriage.
Make marriage much harder to get and its value will increase.  And children will be the main beneficiaries.Answer; they should be raised by their biological parents where ever possible. Deliberately stripping a child of one or both of his or her biological parents, grandparents and extended family is a spiritual crime of the highest order.Yes, it is not possible to 'rehabilitate' these people. They also do not have a mental illness and cannot be 'cured' using medication. These people are simply following the tenants of Islam; which is to kill all who oppose the imposition of Sharia law and an Islamic state - in this case a resurgent 'Caliphate'.  So it is completely logical for them, on returning to Australia, to continue to slaughter 'infidels'. Their religion demands it. 

There is one and one-only cure; Christianity. Unfortunately they are murdering the Christians too. With nairh a whisper of complaint from the compliant left ......No, Alexander married the dominant chief's daughter; Roxanne. That is how he concured Afghanistan! He clearly realised the odds were otherwise against him. Beats Bush don't it! (His teacher, Aristotle,  might have been a dummy at anything to do with describing nature  but  was a wizard at diplomacy and human relations - Alexander's dissection of the personality of the Persian Emperor Darius and use of that information in battle had  Aristotle written all over it).Harvey, we certainly get the message you don't like Mr Hockey. Fine, who cares? 

The issue at stake is the mess in the nations finances left by Labor / Green incompetence, mismanagement  and waste.  And a Senate controlled by special interest groups and populists with hidden agendas.  And, last but not least, the relentless negativity of Labor; as your post so aptly demonstrates."A compromise deal on co-payments will compromise the structure of our health system"?

Well, I'll tell you what will really compromise it; a nation with a net external debt of about 4 trillion and net government sector debt of more than 1/2 trillion facing GFC mark II and an imploding banking sector from a housing crash. Australians are living on borrowed money and borrowed time. Try 'no medicare payments' of any kind and a public sector health system with very constrained finances and that is the most realistic future. And that really IS a big change. 

Co-payments? The question is can it save the system?  Answer, probably not, but worth a try. Doing nothing is not an option.Because the purpose of the co-payment is to reduce perceived over-utilisation of services, not to generate revenue.  Which is why they made it revenue neutral by sending the funds to research. Free services tend to get abused. There is also a benefit in changing the mind-set that everything should be free. Ultimately the Australian population will have to be weaned off welfare and the co-payment is like a set of trainer wheels. Get used to it, our current course is unsustainable.Well, I suppose to the extent that bacteria can be grown in blood agar they too could be said to have unbridled blood-lust.

The author of the piece however completely misunderstands what is happening because he, like a bacterium,  is ignorant or blind to the spiritual side of the world. ISIS are not driven by history or tradition, that is just the veneer. They are driven by a certain spiritual force entering  the world.I don't think the author of this piece is in any way lauding Saddam as a leader; he  was a mass murdering  thug. But we see now why a very careful understanding of history,  and the reality on the ground, is necessary before 'regime change' is even contemplated. The people running the 'Caliphate' are arguably much, much worse than Saddam. 

Saddam was a secular Sunni leader. Iraq only functioned as a secular unified state because the oil-less Sunni dominated the oil-rich Shite and Kurds, which placated the Sunni.  All that changed with the American invasion. Now the Shite have all the oil AND all the power so the Sunni are in open  revolt. And it is this split which has made it possible for the radicals to create an Islamic  'Caliphate' out of parts of Syria and Iraq. The faux nation-states that were the  progeny of defeat of the Ottoman's are now disintegrating and in its place a 7th Century barbaric nightmare has formed of which the whole world should be afraid.

Perhaps the same outcome would have pertained even if the Americans had not invaded. After all, Saddam would have died one  day. There could have been an Islamist uprising following his death. We will never know. But if the appropriateness of an intervention is measured by its results, then the US invasion of Iraq has been a tragic loss of life, a tragic waste of money and not the least a tragedy for the whole world if the new 'Caliphate' lives up to its threats.bbt I think Mr. Newton might squabble over those figures. 

The minimum energy loss from any energy interconversion process is 50% according to Mr Newton.  But not even a rocket can reach 50% efficiency. Only 75% loss is super-super-efficient. For a two-way process, assuming you reached 25% efficiency with each step and there was only one two-way energy interconversion, that computes to about 94% of the energy lost for the net process. Then of course you have thermal losses from storage, hysteresis losses etc. etc. If you got back 1% of the energy you sent for storage I'd say you'd be doing quite nicely ( a coal-thermal electricity generator for example operates at 1% -2% absolute efficiency in terms of potential energy in vs usable electricity out). 

So it pays to check what people say with your own calculations. Often things like 'efficiency' are quoted without being defined. If, for example, I decide that the maximum possible efficiency of a process involves 75% loss of energy then, if I reach that figure, I might then say my machine is operating at 100% efficiency - in the sense that it cannot be improved upon. I don't know if that is the case with the source you quote, but in absolute terms your numbers are impossible to achieve.'Direct action' is neither pragmatic nor realistic. By far the greatest bulk of green-house emissions stems from the need to produce, distribute, process and cook enough food to feed 7+ billion people every day. It is the biggest industrial project the planet has ever seen; by a huge margin. Most of the eco-system of the planet has been harnessed to feed humanity. And much of the ancilliary infrastructure of cities and communities is devoted primarily to food supply with all the associated embedded green-house gas emissions  involved in building and maintaining those cities and communities. And no amount of 'direct action' can change any of these fundamentals.

Worse still, all and any actions to mitigate green-house emissions will involve the expenditure of energy. For example, expending fossil fuels to plant trees might sound good in the short-term, but in the long term, because the fossilisation rate is almost zero in Australia, it results in a net rise rather than a fall in emissions. Soil carbon is returned to the atmosphere over the course of a century or two for a geologically old place like Australia. 

There exists  no practical, realistic, pragmatic or in any way viable means to address anthropogenic global warming. No market mechanism can ever work and no 'direct action' can ever be effective; both will make the rate of rise of emissions increase by creating new layers of activity associated with green-house emissions. This problem has no solution. 



Warrior, that's what they were saying about 30 years ago too! 

The  only known viable containment for a thermonuclear reaction is a gravitational field. The fact that you can use zillions of dollars worth of the world's dwindling supply of helium to trap a fusing plasma for a few microseconds in a super-con only serves to underline that basic fact.Actually scrotal wall cancer; not quite the same thing as testicular cancer.'could have had a scheme running for years now' - for what purpose? There is  one absolute long-term proven  historical certainty; that economic growth is always associated with rising green-house emissions. All 'market mechanisms' require  growth to function. Only the lunatic market-obsessed Americans would come up with such a contradiction in terms as trying to use a 'market mechanism' to fight the inevitable consequences of all growth. 

It is impossible to reduce anthropgenic green-house emissions because the collective human entity has a natural propensity for growth. And this propensity cannot be controlled by any political or administrative means. It has huge inertia and insatiable hunger. Nothing but global disaster will  stop the human juggernaut.There are some very fundamental flaws with Mr. Jerico's analysis. Indeed there has been a fall in electricity consumption, but attributing this to the carbon tax is an assumption only. It is an assumption that may in part be valid; for example, to the extent that it has driven off-shore a significant component of industry that uses a lot of electricity (such as  aluminium smelting etc). 

Declines in consumption may also reflect the rising price of electricity but this is only partly attributable to the carbon tax. Expensive 'renewables' (sic) have also put up the price of electricity. (And the embedded carbon in the 'renewables' sector is ignored in the quoted government analysis incidentally). 

But finally, the quoted government analysis of Australia's green-house emissions is, in fact, complete and utter hog-wash. We have shut down our industry and are importing as replacement. A proper inventory should include all the embedded carbon in all manufactured imports, including food, that we consume. A proper analysis will show that our emissions are rising in proportion to our economic growth and no 'carbon tax', ETS or any other faux 'market mechanism' has a snow-flakes chance in Hades of changing that fundamental link.No Helvi, Germany is building coal-fired power  stations as fast as they can be built and the solar side is a disaster both economically and logistically in terms of energy generation.The Germans are backing up every GW of solar or wind power with coal or gas; because the former are intermittent the latter are  essential to prevent black-outs. And in the case of the coal power, the thermal lag time means they must run 24/7/365 if they are to do their job. And that means emissions are going up rather than down, staff and maintainence costs persist. (They have retired their nukes but still have access to nuke power from France; the coal power is to replace the nukes). 

And increasing the amount of solar / wind will never solve the problem; it only makes the  power more expensive. Excess intermittent power from solar / wind cannot be stored and is shed as waste heat. Back-up with just gas is too expensive; so coal it is for the  future in Germany. That means  INCREASING amounts of  coal-fired  power. 

You don't need a 'Royal Commission'; it would just generate, well, a lot of extra green-house emissions! 

All you need are the three laws of environmental economics;

1: All economic growth is associated with rising greenhouse emissions.

2: All measures instituted to ameliorate green-house emissions have the effect of increasing the rate of rise of emissions. 

3: Green-house emissions rise until either a) climate change causes economic collapse reversing (1) or b) resource depletion (chiefly fossil fuels) causes economic collapse reversing the effect of (1). 

Most people don't know it, but the vast bulk of green-house emissions are the result of producing the food to feed 7 billion people every day. And this  process is exquisitely dependent on fossil fuels at almost every step (from farm mechanisation, to fertiliser, insecticide, herbicides, transport, storage, refrigeration, processing and the list goes on). It is only possible to feed a tiny fraction of the current world population without fossil fuels. The fuels represent millions of years of stored sunshine and are irreplacible. 

Rupert Murdoch, multinationals and neo-cons ? Pretty much irrelevant. It's all about mouths to feed. Try hunger to see how it feels, and then tell me how you  propose  to combat climate change.The modelling is based on differential equations which only ever give approximations, and cannot include all the chaotic behaviour that results from various feedback mechanisms. The climate sytem is in fact incredibly complex. The equations  are never intended to be precise. They are just a 'best guess' and should always be viewed in that context. 

There are however historical precedents for rapid climate change on Earth. And if there is ever a large-scale release of permafrost and ocean methane we could well see another. With 7 going on 8 billion people on the  planet we are going to test to see how well the Earth is buffered against CO2 fluctuations regardless of the politics - which is largely if not completely irrelevant given the momentum occasioned by population, economic  and social history. 

I just love the one where the Green's (sic) voted against the rise in fuel excise! What an awesome display of frecked hypocrisy! And they were grinning from one pink  ear to the next. Priceless! It is so rare to see Monty Python upstaged, but the Green's managed to do it! Let's see more of the same I say.You mean the rationalisation they gave to make themselves feel  less guility about violating their own stated principles for the sake of political expediency? Nah, I thought they were just joking!I haven't seen any actual figures, but I suspect you are right. The energy inventory must include not just the metal smelting and manufacturing, but also the production of the food needed to feed the workers making the solar cells etc, their energy transport, welfare, health and other energy costs involved in production, maintenance and replacement of new, failed or aged units etc., etc., etc. 

No such thing as a free lunch.Ted, you eat fossil fuels. All the food you consume is the result of intensive farming based around fossil fuels. 

We are the past eaters. We eat millions of years of stored sunshine in just one year.Charging people encouraging illegal people smuggling and supporting the business model, albeit secondarily, with murder or attempted murder is excessive, but morally their actions are equivalent to killing. The so called 'refugee industry' does bear some moral responsibility for the more than 1000 deaths at sea under Labor. 

On the other point you are completely correct; the so-called 'refugee advocates' care not a whisp for the well-being of others. They care only about their hatred of their political opponents, feeling morally self-righteous and a juvenile need for self justification. They are immature, dishonest and averse to reality.

All good suggestions APM, all good suggestions.What absurd nonsense. You clearly have no idea at all of the events surrounding the holocaust and your likening of returning illegal economic immigrants safely to their proper home is an insult to every survivor of the holocaust.Janice, what a breath of fresh air you are in the ABC web pages. Plain simple reality confronting the immature mindset of the left. Wonderful!15 years is too short a time-scale, John. 

But it is not a relevant issue, since no 'market mechanism' can ever slow the rate of rise of emissions. All viable markets are associated with growth and historically all growth is associated with rising green-house emissions. 'Market mechanisms', by adding additional layers of non-productive activity, will in fact accelerate the rate of rise of emissions rather than reduce them. 

A good example is the closing down of manufacturing in Australia (such as aluminium smelting) following the imposition of a carbon tax. We added the greenhouse emissions of import transport on top of the export of manufacturing emissions. Lose-lose situation. This is a typical consequence of short-sighted ideologically driven thinking. 

There is one and only one way to reduce green-house emissions and that is economic and population contraction. And these two are both inconsistent with 'market mechanisms' of any kind. It was game over a long time ago. Humans will exhaust the fossil fuel supply of planet Earth and then we will find out if the differential equations being used by the climatologists are bunkum or not.
Nuclear cannot replace fossil fuels, Greig. They are absolutely central to feeding 7 billion people every day. 

All that adding nuclear can do is allow the growth to continue for a little longer than it otherwise might and probably at a faster rate.  Anything you do that adds energy to the system stimulates other activity on a wide scale which will generate more emissions.An overly simplistic analysis of the Jeudo-Christian 'God' Jungle Boy.

The physical universe is one in which incarnate spirits, such as Humans, can make spiritual choices. But that is only possible in a Universe whose structure is determinate; by which is meant that it is subject to inviolable physical laws that cannot be changed by God. Thus God does not have the ability to intervene to prevent suffering once the choice is made by the soul to become incarnate. Then the  die is cast.

Thus the  potential for suffering results from the desire to exist in such a Universe which, according to Christian tradition, is a  desire by the human soul for spiritual knowledge. It is only in a Universe where choice exists  that it is possible to experience the differentiation between good and evil. And with that choice inevitably comes the experience of evil and suffering and death.

You falsely accuse the God you deny of cruelty. God is innocent.Disagree. If there is any thing such as inalienable human right, surely it is the right of people to their identity and a very significant part of that identity is who are your biological parents and grandparents. People are not commodities, they are not something you buy or sell.

I refused to donate sperm when asked to at university for this very reason many decades ago. Contracts are meaningless. You are always responsible for what your sperm or eggs produce at some level; you have a moral and spiritual connection to any child you produce. And no man-made law can ever change that.

Any legislation that allows children, and adults,  to know who their parents are if they want to is good legislation.I don't have the stats on hand, but it is my understanding that  cancer rates are higher in the vicinity of coal power stations. 

Be that as it may, all becomes irrelevant when plied against the laws of thermodynamics. And that is where so-called 're-newables' (of course there is absolutely nothing 're-newable' about silicon chips) fall down. A grid system requires reliable supply otherwise there are blackouts. If you are happy to tolerate intermittent supply, fine; use a wind-mill or a solar cell. But industry and most households will not tolerate intermittent supply, so we need base-load. 

If you choose a coal-thermal system for your base-load there is absolutely no need for the intermittent 're-newable'  supply input because  the long thermal lag-time of the system means that it must be run up for operational efficiency able to supply full-load in the absence of intermittent input. The intermittent input then goes as waste heat, reducing the efficiency of the system overall. 

Or you could use gas which has a much, much  lower thermal lag time. Trouble is gas is far too valuable to burn for fuel (it is used to feed the world's population; if you don't know why, look it up).

Or you could use hydro; but that resource is limited. Or you could use nuclear; probably the best option. But you probably have ideological reasons why you don't like that.

So, until a miraculous power storage system is invented, 're-newables' are more part of the problem than the solution. That's right people, their net effect is to INCREASE the rate of emissions not lower them. They make the looney green left feel good about themselves, but they do more harm than good to the environment when subjected to realistic accounting. And please, spare me the BS accounting claiming emissions are falling. All we are doing is exporting them. 

So, should the Govt. abolish the 're-newables' target? Yes, absolutely. And if they want to fund useful research, fund studies into power storage systems. For without these, solar cells and wind power have no future except for people with conventional batteries, which have their own problems.Whogoesthere, when the fossil fuels run out mate the human race will all but die-out. That's because we eat the stuff. The carrying capacity of planet earth without them is 1/2 billion and probably a lot  less with the biosphere stuffed up at the end of humanities run. And that's before you factor in all those that get killed fighting over the last of the oil and gas. Modern civilisation, aka the 'oil age', ends when the oil runs out.

Substitute? Forget it, there isn't one. Fossil fuels represent millions and millions of years of stored solar energy from global sized collectors.I know the answer to that, Grieg. The French use nuclear!

And the Germans import  power from France because of the unreliability of 're-newables'. But more to the point, the Germans are building lots and lots of coal-fired power stations as we speak.

Green dreams.No, he is quite correct.  You need a population of about 100 million to sustain any advanced manufacturing system independently. The fossil fuel requirements to feed them and allow all that to function are never included in the kind of EROI that are quoted.

Take away the fossil fuels and see what happens! You'd get a big surprise.Steve, China is moving their energy requirements in two directions 1: thermal coal, with the continued construction of new coal-fired power plants on average one every week and 2: expansion of their nuclear capacity. They have also expanded hydro but their main move in that direction, the 3 gorges dam, is in operation. 

China is not and cannot move their energy requirements to 'renewables' (by which I presume you mean solar cells and wind farms).  China needs consistency and controlled large-scale supply for industrialisation; and that is what coal and nuclear provide. Solar cells are just tinsel decorations. They are useless in a coal grid system.

China's greenhouse emissions will continue to rise in proportion to economic growth until 2030 and, you can be absolutely certain, after 2030 as well.Yes Pete, it's a comedy fest from the left and the ABC. The current author claims Abbott 'whimped'. The previous one was claiming he was pugalistic! Nothing like an each-way bet I suppose. 

But the prize for whimp ad extremis goes to one B Shorten who, when asked what he would have to say to Putin, said he would say 'nothing'. That's right folks 'nothing'. He would prefer to say nothing than raise the possiblity of criticism by the media. Shorten is afraid; afraid of the media, afraid of saying the wrong thing, afraid of saying the right thing and just generally afraid period. Shorten is afraid of saying something politically incorrect in the face of the new-fascist left speak. 

Abbott is a strong leader. That is why the left hate him. Shorten is a weak and cowardly leader with no principles and no conviction. And it shows.ty, China has no plans now, or at any time in the foreseeable future, to reduce the amount of power it generates from thermal coal. In fact it is slated for massive expansion roughly paralleling their GDP  growth forcasts. 

They are also planning for massive expansion of nuclear power. 

Solar panels and windmills are of little use in an idustrial grid of the sort China is building and their main interest in these is as industrial products that can be sold to other nations. They will remain a trivial component of the Chinese energy system. 

India and many other third world nations will also be massively increasing the use of thermal coal over the next 50 years as they try to modernise their economies, improve living standards and the quality of life of their people. And in this they sould be encouraged. 

So, with more than 200 years supply available, it is coal that will continue to be doing the heavy lifting in 2100 and possibly out to 2200.Mr Abbott has done well to keep the issue of the downed civilian air-liner in the news and keep up the pressure on the Russians, who supplied the missile involved, that killed many Australians. And so he should as the representative of the families of those killed. 

Economically he and his cabinet face the herculean task of repairing the damage done by the Rudd / Gillard / Rudd and their 600 billion debt legacy (more than 300 billion in accrued debt and another 300 billion or so in entrenched structural debt due to Labor policy). And in the face of this, all we see is the relentless denialism and negativity of Labor; unable to face up to its appauling legacy of debt and intent on blocking all measures to repair the financial apocalypse they have created. 

And from Mr Cassidy? Yet more Abbott, Abbott, Abbotting in the hope that if enough mud is thrown, some will stick. Does the Labor side of politics have any conception of how pathetic they really are?Kanooka, how did the Abbott opposition 'block' so much legislation; they controlled neither the house nor the senate?  Only in the case of absolutely absurd politically inspired measures, like the 'Malaysia solution', was it possible from preventing Rudd / Gillard making a bad problem worse. The claim that they 'blocked ... so much legislation' is a fabrication. However the claim that Labor is blocking the solution to the problems they created is completely valid for they are using their control of the senate to do so along with their Green partners in crime. 

And Australia has yet to endure the GFC; our housing bubble has not yet burst. So all the money Rudd and co. spent was waste.  And now, having squandered our financial position, we face the possibility of a financial sector crisis with no reserves and deep government debt - all courtesy of Labor incompetence, waste, haste without prudence and lack of insight.If I am not mistaken, one of the first elecronic computers ever built was built in Australia (the second if memory serves me correctly). We invent a lot of things in Australia, but the national attitude to work, business and incentive means we have never followed-through on our technological break-throughs. We only consider being good at sport as a legitimate form of success.

And in relation to the current thread, poster John51 cites, as one of the purposes of policy, to increase energy efficiency. John would do well to study the history of technology; essentially all technological innovation is associated with improved efficiency - so much  so that efficiency gain has been proposed as a proxy for technological advancement. However, all efficiency gains have been associated with rising rather than falling emissions! A crude explanation is that efficiency gains are associated with increased utilisation and a wider field of application. 

So, paradoxically, encouraging energy efficiency through technological innovation INCREASES the rate of rise of emissions. Like so many things in the 'climate debate', reality is often far from the  common conception and the proposed solutions often a re-statement of the problem.There might be one resource worth chasing; helium from Neptune. Currently the only source of helium is at the apex of  oil and gas deposits and with new finds scarce, helium is increasingly at a premium. It is needed for superconducting devices like MR scanners. And it will run out. 

So if you want to become really, really, really obscenely  rich work out how you can snatch lots of helium from the atmosphere of Neptune or Uranus and bring it back to Earth.'Colonisation of our solar system'; Bloggs the only planet in the Solar System that is suitable for human habitation is the Earth. Not surprising really since we have 2 to 3 billion years of biological adaptation behind us. 

It is technically feasible to have a permanent outpost on the Moon or Mars or possibly even a Jovian moon, but these outposts would be outrageously expensive to maintain and utterly dependent on Earth produced technology and resources, and as a consequence limited to very small crews. And once the fossil fuels run out, industrial society stops and so does all space exploration and associated activities. 

The distant future is one in which either Homo Sapiens is extinct or a technological society is a part of the mythical past. Without fossil fuels we return to the pre-industrial stage and the Earth's population drops from more than 7 billion to less than 1/2 a billion.Well, there's not much oil, but there's lots of natural gas to be had. In fact there is a moon somewhere that has seas of methane. 

But there is a smallish issue of cost. Or rather an elephantine issue of resource cost that will always prevent its utilisation for farming here on Earth. That, unfortunately, is simply the logistics of it; it takes a collossal investment of fossil fuels (manfacturing, mining, processing, supporting and feeding the millions of people needed to allow  the infrastructure to exist to build vehicles capable of reaching distant planets). It is a negative sum game. The methane you get back will never be enough to compensate for the consumption on Earth.

Don't believe everything you see in science fiction movies. Humans will never colonise the solar system; neither physically in person nor with robots. At most we have perhaps 200 years before advanced civilisation comes to an end when the fossil fuel reserves of the planet are exhausted. 

There is however one, and only one, thing that we can (at least in principle) do in outer space that transcends our species on this planet; the deliberate bacterial seeding of nascent worlds orbiting distant stars that have been identified as potential sites for the emergence of life. We have 100 perhaps 200 years tops to do it. After that, when life finally dies on this world that is the end. And we are the only species capable of interstellar reproduction of life.Bloggs humans need a 1g environment to maintain their bone mineral density. And they need trees, fresh air, mountain streams and sex on  lonely beaches to maintain their sanity. 

But you might be able to sell burial plots on an asteroid (for billionairs only, cause that's how much it would cost to bury them up there).MR imaging pre-dates the LHC by decades Sir Lindsay. So far there really hasn't been any 'spin-off' from the LHC, although they did confirm the Higgs mechanism. 

There is however a connection to the current topic; if ever there is anything that might be worth mining in space it is the helium needed for superconductors.Tough but fair assessment, Peter. 

In fact what we have is China announcing that it will be business as usual for the next 15 years (at least) and Obama looking to be able to blame the Republicans for the absence of any Obama legacy.Theos, it is not 'technically possible' to support the current population of the Earth without increasing green-house emissions.

The bulk of emissions arise from feeding 7 billion people each day. This process is exquisitely dependent on fossil fuels at every stage; from natural gas derived nitrous fertiliser all the way to the dinner plate. Without fossil fuels the carring capacity of the Earth is about 10% of the current number. 

And the global agricultural, distribution, processing and consumption  behemoth to function requires a viable economic superstructure, and this requires growth to function. So all growth means rising emissions. 

We live in the oil age but still don't acknowledge it.

If things remain on the current course, emissions will continue to rise until either climate change forces catastrophic population decline through economic contraction, or the oil / gas runs out first with the same result.

So the best, and most humane, thing to do is to encourage the modernisation of third world economies; historically this is associated with reduced rate of population growth. It is also associated with rising per capita emissions, but that's the price you pay. And the best way to modernise third world economies is with cheap reliable electricity base load, and that means coal; you won't be able to do that with solar panels or windmills. Paradoxical isn't it; the very thing the greenies rail against is probably the only card we have to play.Nitrous fertiliser is indeed made from natural gas - it's called the Bosch-Haber process. At least you got part of the name right. Go look it up. I think a Nobel prize was awarded for it (?). It was a key part of the so-called 'green revolution'; the other parts of course being mechanisation and fossil fuel derived insecticides and herbicides.

I haven't seen any fossil fuel propaganda books. But the truth is in our society we are only able to support the kind of infrastructure, be that water, sewage, transport or industry, we have because we have cheap reliable base-load power. It is also the means that China has used to modernise her economy. 

Unfortunately solar panels and wind mills will not modernise a third-world economy. That is just the reality. To modernise their economies third world nations   need what we used and continue to use; cheap reliable non-intermittent coal fired power.So, Dr. Who, do you always accuse people who know more than you of making a 'fool of themselves'? Might be worthwhile finding out about the subjet material before you make such statements in future perhaps? You might be surprised who some of the posters on this site are.  

As for third world nations, they have many problems. But the issue discussed here is population. Historically rising living standards and industrialisation have been associated with falling birth rates. And to emulate the West's evolution in this regard requires cheap, reliable baseload electricity. 

Of course we could alternatively let nature run its course as ultimately it will control population. But we are civilised people who value life arn't we?Dr. Who, there is a very strong correlation between living standards, education levels and fertility rates. Go look it up - once again you accuse someone of error out of ignorance.Virgil, China is telling us where to go and mouthing platitudes to make Obama happy; for the next three 5 year plans their emission will rise with growth. That is as good as forever because in 15 years time it will be a new set of 5 year plans. What might or might not be the economic situation in 15 years time is anybodies guess.Do you really think a couple in India have their mind on company profits in America or Europe when they are engaging in sexual intercourse? If so, this is an amazing feat of corporate bedroom penetration!To which you could add a fifth; the collapse of Saudi rule and the rise of Wahhabist Sunni Islamists to power in Arabia. These would be closely allied to IS, as indeed is required if a true Caliphate is to be reborn under Islamic State.What I think Bruce is referring to is the extraordinary nature  of consciousness (or imagination if you prefer) in an otherwise inanimate space-time. We can indeed look at the fundamental building blocks of nature be they fundamental particles or the structure of the continuum of space-time, but the emergence of consciousness from the lowest entropy structures known in the universe (that's us folks) is more than can be accounted for by those building blocks. There is much, much more going on in this universe than meets the eye - or the microscope or its successor the particle accelerator.  And it cannot be explained or even begun to be understood on the basis of those building blocks. There is a transcendent reality which we are aware of simply though consciousness, in spite of how hard we work to try and explain it away as interacting particles and fields.No, the 'anthropic principle' is the claim that we live in a universe with just the right fundamental constants and just the right laws of physics to allow for the biology and evolution or conscious beings. This principle presumes that those fundamental constants and laws of physics are random numbers that get chocked up multiple times until they hit the jackpot. Yes, it's a ludicrous cop-out because they cannot explain the fundamental constants.

But Bruce's comment is neither shallow nor narcissistic and certainly not an extension of the 'anthropic principle'. Its actually quite profound.

The suggestion that this film contains a 'hard core science' is complete nonsense. Seen the film; very disappointed. Minutes become years in 1.3 G. Absurd. Treatment of 'extra dimensions' (for which, incidentally, there is not the slightest wisp of evidence) even more absurd than the absurd speculation that 'extra dimensions' themselves constitute. Treatment of gravity; they use the word but there is no science.

Science fantasy is the best it could garner. I wouldn't even rate it as science fiction. If you want science fiction see 2001 (from which they seemed to borrow the imagery of a worm-hole - incidentally, worm holes are also a fantasy with the cosmic microwave background proving the universe is flatter than a  pancake).

Objets that are in orbits are in a free-fall frame (that is, an inertial frame). In the movie it is claimed that the astronauts on the surface of the planet with 1.3 times Earth gravity aged only minutes whilst the occupant of the space ship orbiting the same planet aged years; so the only variant is gravity at the surface vs a free fall frame as both are in a combined system in free-fall around the black hole. Time does slow with a non-intertial frame, but barely measurably even with atomic clocks at Earth level gravity                                            .

General relativity includes special relativity - it simply extends it to include accelerated frames of reference.Ben, humans didn't invent mathematics - they discovered it. People on some distant galaxy, if they've come far enough, will have the same prime numbers, the same integral and differential calculus (different symbols of course but the same structure) and the same quantum field theory. 

The reason is simple; the physical universe and mathematics are structurally homomorphic and, at the foundational level, isomorphic. That means they are, ultimately, exactly the same thing.Good question! No, they are not dependent on the base.  Two, three, five and seven are prime numbers in binary for example.All you need is something the mass of Neptune on a tooth-pick. Good luck!I was actually at the announcing lecture of the guy who made the claim you didn't need the mass of Neptune. I couldn't follow everything he was putting up, it was too quick, but I could smell a fudge from the back of the room; he was burying all sorts of problems in fudged 'extra dimensions'. Warp drive is just a fantasy.Dark matter by definition does not interact with photons. That is its key physical property.Where to begin! 

Dark matter is, within measurement errror, absent in the centre of highly luminous galaxies (such as the dense central disc of the Milky Way). 

Photon interactions are very well understood at the quantum level so by studying light from distant sources it is possible to rule-out non-gravitational effects from dark matter on propagating photons.

Photons are neither wave nor particle (wave particle duality is just an historical interpretation); they are quantum fields. As for a 'medium' being required; the only 'medium' required for the propagation of electromagnetic or gravitational 'waves' as far as we understand is the vacuum itself. You don't need anything else.

Mind you, the vacuum itself is quite a complex thing - but that's another story.At the event horizon particle / antiparticle pairs  created from the vacuum can get separated over the event horizon so the black hole 'evaporates'. This process is intimately linked to the behaviour of photons at the event horizon as all fundamental particles are charged (meaning they interact with photons). 

So the answer to your question is really quite complicated. Its a good question though.Time only slows in the sense that were it possible to observe a clock passing the event horizon, to an external observer it would appear to be running slow. 

The occupants of the spaceship that crosses the horizon know nothing of this. Their clocks look perfectly normal to them as they approach the horizon - until they cross the event horizon; they are zapped the instant they cross the horizon. Dead, squashed in zero time.3 stage rocket to Earth orbit; good I thought. Then taking off a planet with 1.3 times Earth gravity, single stage to orbit! Not only that, it was just the capsule bit. No nukes. Cringe. Surely they could do better than that? I mean, you try and suspend reality in your mind, and then they do that! Go figure. They must think audiences are silly. It just turns it into a comedy.The banks should more than just 'tough up'. Australia is in grave danger; we have the highest per-capita foreign debt in the world with net external debt in excess of 4 trillion dollars. And as the author has suggested, we have de-industrialised as a result of poor policy over a long period and rely on a single industry, mining. to service that debt.

To avert a complete catastrophe, bank profits need to be put aside as collateral and this needs to be legislated. There needs to be a progressive annual increase in the percentage of loans that are covered by bank reserves until something like 80% to 90% of their loan portfolio is hedged by bank reserves. The banks will do everything possible to try and prevent this but it must be forced on them. And it needs to be done very quickly.The 10% GST replaced sales tax which on many items was as high as 22%. It also helped simplify the previous very complex sales tax regimen. So that aspect has been a very definite plus. 

In terms of efficacy, the beauty of a consumption tax is that 
1: it generates income in proportion to economic activity. When things are depressed less tax is collected which acts as a stimulant to the economy and vice-versa,
2: it traps tax that is otherwise avoided in the cash economy,
3: it collects tax from high income people that otherwise have means of avoiding paying tax; they can't avoid a consumption tax if they want to spend that money. 

A consumption tax is by far and away the fairest and most efficient way to collect tax in any society. Income tax punishes the middle and upper middle income earners. It also stifles business growth and innovation; and hence stifles employment. The huge proportion of people living on welfare in this country, were there no consumption tax, would otherwise not contribute at all to taxation, for they generally pay no income tax. And the super rich can often avoid paying  income tax altogether.

Australia would do well to increase its consumption tax and simplify it further by applying it universally with no exceptions. There should be accompanying cuts in middle income tax as an incentive to business employment and growth. If sensible income tax levels could be achieved in this country (and anything over 25% is senseless and economically inane) a lot of those people currently on welfare could be gotten off it and into gainful employment. 

You don't know the history, Bob. Islamic State are representative of a much broader and more profound movement in political Islam that is sweeping the entire Sunni population of the middle east. IS has been nearly a century in the making; even longer if you include Wahhabist history. The declaration of a Caliphate was a direct challenge to the Saudi King, the nominal current Caliph (by virtue of control of Mecca and Medina). Effectively IS has declared the Saudi King apostate which is equivalent to a declaration of war on the current Saudi administration.  They intend to take control of Saudi oil and are declaring that loud and clear to the Sunni population of Arabia from whom they are asking support. 

IS are highly organised, well funded and have long-term strategic goals which were laid out decades ago. And their plans do not end at the Saudi border; they start there.Anecdotal evidence suggests this practice is quite rife in the public health system; it is stacked with foreign doctors many of whom go out of their way to avoid employing native Australians when they are in decision making roles preferring instead to employ people of their own ethnic or religious background.The (unintended) irony here is of course that your statement is correct; coal-fired electricity generation will help lift millions if not billions out of poverty in the next 20 years and improve their health, welfare and living standards.

But that doesn't fit the green misanthropic narrative, does it ?Deaths from floods in Bangladesh are  secondary to overpopulation and habitations built in inappropriate areas secondary to this overpopulation; nothing whatsoever to do with sea level changes. 

Increasing coal-powered electricity to Bangladesh can help lift these people out of poverty, improve their economy and increase wealth. Historically such improvements have been associated with improved education and a lowering of birth rates. 

And therein lies the way forward to improving the life expectancy, living standards  and reducing the fatalities in Bangladesh. It is very different from what is being pushed by the Green movement.Pastor,  'renewables' is a misnomer. There is nothing 'renewable' about solar cells which require a massive fossil-fuel based infrastructure to produce. 

But more to the point, so-called renewables are expensive, exceedingly inefficient and provide only an intermittent supply; not viable to run an industrial scale infrastructure. 'Intermittents' would be a burden on 3rd world societies as much as a benefit. They need what we use to maintain supply to industry, transport and other infrastructure; coal.

Coal power is cheap and reliable and able to give the consistency of supply needed to run the infrastructure of an industrial society. The only currently available substitutes are gas and nuclear; both more expensive than coal. And gas should be conserved for agricultural applications.Ahh, here we go again, avoiding the issue and pretending it is about 'the science'. No, it's not about 'science'. It is about the effect of actions you take in the real world to try and deal with the myriad of problems humans face. It is about trying to make sure you don't make problems worse in a gullible and ignorant knee-jerk response like trying to shut-down coal-powered systems that sustain cities. We have in recent history seen the lifting of millions out of poverty with huge increases in living standards and health in CHINA. And more than anything else, this has been  due to a huge expansion of coal-fired electricity. The Chinese are building on average one new state of the art coal-powered electricity generation station EACH WEEK! And good on them! Or don't the Chinese deserve to live as we do?Snake;
if you really want to help third world nations, in addition to helping them establish cheap and reliable coal-powered electricity grids, help them mechanise their agriculture, manufacture fertiliser locally from natural gas  and encourage the eduction of women in birth control.  All good first steps.  The last however could be problematic in Islamic countries.Pegaso;
Indeed, let us laud common sense. We use coal-powered electricity in Australia to power our cities, our hospitals, our transport infrastructure and to maintain our communications, water and sewage systems and many other functions that keep large cities functioning. 

They don't have those luxuries in 3rd world countries. Who do you think has the better health and greater longevity? The nations with coal power or the ones without? Commonsense indeed!No, gravity is a hard empirical fact. General Relativity as a description of gravity is a theory; but one supported by such a huge amount of empirical confirmation that it is effectively impossible for it to be wrong, although it may be an incomplete description. Thus for all intents and purposes, General Relativity is fact, just not all the facts.Jerry, conservatives,  as I would like to consider myself, tend to take pragmatic positions - which, in general, is a reflection of their greater life experience. Conservatives understand, in particular, the possibility of unintended consequences. Often because they've seen it all before. And they have a more realistic understanding of what can be achieved in the real world under real world constraints.

You liken fossil fuels to tobacco. This is a very false analogy. Without fossil fuels 90% of the world's population would starve to death. But we can go without tobacco.

You call the current government 'denialist';  yet they are committing billions to mitigation. If the Labor policy was mitigation and the LNP's an ETS would you oppose an ETS on 'principle' (i.e. the 'principle', of course,  that you oppose whatever the conservatives propose)?

Anecdotal evidence working in the real world would suggest that the victims of domestic violence are;
1: Children, particularly at risk from de-factos.
2: Men  much  more likely to be victims of verbal abuse which is the most common form of adult to adult domestic abuse.
3: Women roughly equally likely to commit physical violence against men as vice-versa. Physical violence by women against men is virtually never reported however as the male fears shame and often acts to protect the female in spite of the abuse.

The truth is often vastly different to the propaganda.Extreme weather events?; the most studied region, the north Atlantic, does not show any trend to increasing frequency or severity of weather events. The data is available on-line.

Divestment in fossil fuels?; since feeding the world's population is dependent on fossil fuels, and since the world's population is growing rapidly, if you want to make lots and lots of money, buy fossil fuel shares.

Roof-top solar?: because they are linked to a coal-fired grid in most of Australia they increase net emissions rather than decrease them. If you don't know why you should find out.

Batteries? Indeed, viable batteries are what you need to make solar viable as a means of reducing emissions. Not there yet, and there are environmental problems with the batteries themselves.Unfortunately correct, Paul. It is completely impossible to reduced global net emissions with a rising population.

And all 'technological' fixes only make the emissions rate of rise increase; if for no other reason than they all require the foundation of a fossil-fuel based manufacturing economy. 

Perhaps the best approach is to take the least misanthropic. Recognise that fossil fuel consumption will increase inexorably with population growth and hope that rising living standards that accompany that increased consumption result in a lowering of birth rates. This approach would mandate that we encourage the use of coal-fired electricity for 3rd world nations as the cheapest, fastest and most reliable way to modernise their economies.

It's not the greenies narrative, but then reality rarely conforms to ideological straight-jackets.That's not allowed.How about you stop using the products of industrial society first? Then you can tell others to. (PS, don't forget that includes your food too).Good post. I didn't know that.  And so far in the region for which there are the best historical records, the north Atlantic, there is no evidence for any significant change.Stephen, the 'debate' isn't about the science at all - it is about what, if anything, humans can do to change the fact that our greenhouse emissions rise as our population increases and our technology becomes more sophisticated. It is people who cannot or will not address the complex inter-relation between population growth, technology growth, economic activity and green-house emissions who try to steer the 'debate' towards 'the science' where they think they can 'win'. That is where you will find your true 'deniers'.Australia is a geologically old nation and the rate of fossilisation is small to zero almost everywhere on the continent. Soil carbon in Australia as a result is recycled back into the atmosphere over the course of one to two hundred years i.e. it is not trapped by fossilisation. 

For this reason, bushfires in Australia and land clearing should not be included in any green-house ledger. Equivalently, neither should soil carbon or tree planting / revegetation. This is in contrast to a place like the Amazon basin where land  clearing does have an impact on the rate of carbon fossilisation and permanent carbon trapping. 

In fact 'direct action' plans that use fossil fuels to collect, grow and distribute seedlings INCREASES net greenhouse emissions when implemented in a country like Australia. And any ledger formed to account for green-house emissions in Australia should reflect this increase and should have a 0 beside the contribution from the trees planted.

There are NO easy ways to deal with human greenhouse emissions; chiefly because most of them are bound up with the process of feeding 7 billion people every day. If you want to plant trees to limit soil erosion well and good; but be aware, the process will increase not decrease Australia's net green-house emissions.Sea Monster, an ETS is just as bad as 'direct action'. Or maybe even worse. Both will cause an increase in the rate of rise of emissions.

To see just why you need to look at economic history and its association with green-house emissions. There is a very close correspondence between population growth, economic growth, technology growth and emissions growth. Perhaps the most surprising one is the growth of emissions with technological innovation; which is virtually universal. Improved efficiency is a  proxy for technological innovation but is historically, almost paradoxically, always associated with rising rather than falling emissions. 

Thus an ETS cannot facilitate a 'technological solution' as none exists. Moreover, for an ETS to function requires continued global economic growth - which, as we know, will always be associated with rising emissions.  Worse, by adding additional layers of economic activity, an ETS will increase the rate of rise of emissions globally.

No such thing as a free lunch unfortunately.
The conflict between Islam and Chrisendom is 1400 years old. It is not a new 'clash of civilisations' but the re-emergence of an old conflict. 

Islam is essentially a territorial political and military movement. It is of the extreme right wing politically. It has zero tolerance for non-Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity and Islam are all nominall 'Abrahamic') and little tolerance for Christians or Jews. 

The current escalation of Islamic violence is intrinsic to Islam itself as it attempts to assert its doctrine of global dominance through violence.  Under colonial conquest, political Islam was  suppressed. However, as the West's colonial control has abated, political Islam has been reborn. Its re-emergence otherwise has nothing to do with the actions or inactions of the West.Harvey;
Abbott promised to repeal the carbon tax; and he did!

It is true the $7 GP co-payment does not have an election mandate, but it certainly does not constitute dismantling of medicare. In fact  the actuaries are saying it is essential to control growth in medicare spending; the co-payment might help, but it has not yet been legislated. Even then it will be some time before it is possible to ascertain whether it has been successful in reducing the rate of growth. 

The GST is unchanged. There is no current or pending legislation to change the GST. 

Let us hope Gonski is goneski, but my understanding is that it is still on the same back-burner it has been on for some time.  Gonski would indeed make the nations finances goneski; which is why both Labor and Liberal have put it into the never-never land. 

There is no new tax on petrol; the existing tax is proposed to be re-indexed to inflation as it was in the past. The status quo is equivalent to a continuous tax cut due to inflation. 

Chaplains in schools? That is the only one of your points that is valid. It does indeed discriminate in favour of Christianity. But there are those of us who understand that it is Christianity which has provided the moral and ethical foundation for Western Democracy, and we think it is appropriate that it be taught in schools."activities that fuel the world's economic growth ... emit a range of greenhouse gases"; no kidding! In fact this is a no-brainer; all economic growth throughout recorded history has been associated with rising green-house emissions. 

But then the author(s) goes from the sublime to the ridiculous; it "requires an economic solution". This latter suggestion is in conflict with the initial observation and if the author(s) had spent a little time thinking about it rather than regurgitation stuff he or she had read they would realise just how absurd the suggetion is. All economic systems require growth to function, all economic growth is associated with rising green-house emissions - they got that much right - but then they suggest an economic system to reduce emissions? Bizarre indeed. 

In fact economically functionally  carbon trading systems will ALWAYS increase global net emissions by virtue of generating economic activity at some level. And they will not be functionally viable as an economic system if they are not consistent with  growth.Robb, by far the biggest contributor to global green-house emissions is the global agricultural enterprise aimed at feeding 7 going on 8 billion people every day. This process is exquisitely dependent on fossil fuels at virtually every step (it was christened the 'green revolution' in the '70's); mechanisation, fertiliser, insecticide, transport, refrigeration, packaging and processing to name just a few functions that are depending on fossil fuels.

Thus with a growing population there is zero potential for emissions reduction.Stalga, you are correct about the synthetic nitrogen fertiliser. Do you know how it is produced? From natual gas (i.e from fossil fuel). The stored energy in the food, at the end of the whole process of human food consumption, ends up as CO2 in the atmosphere.

But you are wrong about the chief causes of green-house gasses. Feeding the world's population is by far and away the biggest source. By a huge margin.  It dwarfs everything else by orders of magnitude. The 'pie-charts' you quote from do not include things like the synthetic nitrogen fertiliser, insecticide, herbicide or the transport, packaging, distribution, processing and preparation and consumption of food. The 'pie charts' are just talking about agricultural mechanisation and cow flatus. Just think about your own daily activities; driving to the supermarket, cooking food or driving to a restaurant. Even the lighting you utilise when eating. Even these activities consitute a significant part of your carbon footprint - but they are not included in the 'pie charts' you are looking at. And they are only the tip of the iceberg. Multiply that by 7 billion.Foolishness knows no political boundaries.Ng you seem to mounting a sort of 'micro-economics' argument. The failure occurs at the level of the integrated system. For example, to sell the apples the orchard owner might advertise the apples on the internet. This attracts people who then get in their cars (greenhouse gasses) and drive over to check out the apples. Some then consume cardboard boxes (greenhouse gasses) to pack the apples and then  drive home (greenhouse gasses) with them. 

Or to take your example of taxing coal power; this causes a price rise in electricity, so some companies that might be manufacturing in Australia close down to take advantage of cheaper foreign coal-power (greenhouse gasses) and import product instead (greenhouse gasses). This actually happened with aluminum smelting in Australia. The net result is a rise in emissions. 

There is an old saying 'you can't have your cake and eat it too'. Translated into the current topic, it means you cannot have both growth and emissions reductions. And if you cannot have growth you cannot have a viable economic system. 'Carbon trading systems' are an attempt to both have your cake and eat it too. They will fail.Are we seeing the re-writing of history with Rudd too?

Rudd was a disaster; even his own colleagues thought so! He, along with Gillard and Co., bequeathed in the vicinity of 600 billion dollars of Federal Debt to future generations to pay off having inherited a surplus, no debt and money in the bank in the Future Fund from Peter Costello. (More that 300 billion of this was accrued debt, there was a more than 40 billion ongoing deficit and entrenched Labor spending makes up the rest of the 600 billion).

And Australia has yet to experience the GFC; not because of any good management on our part but because it has yet to visit our shores. We have the most overpriced real estate in the world. You'll know the GFC has hit Australia when the real-estate  collapses. We have more than 4 trillion external debt (public + private) and most of that will be written in USD. We've essentially no manufacturing sector left, a population dependent  hand-outs and a government dependent on mining sales to China to fund the interest on the debt. 

It is a house of cards; it just hasn't fallen over yet. But it will. Rudd a success?Well said, sgra. I remember the time well. It was the Hutu's attacking the racially distinct taller Tutsis of whom the Hutus were jealous. It was profligate and widespread with execution often by machete and the likelihood Western intervention could have changed the outcome, given the time required for logistics, is tiny to zero. I doubt even the Belgians could have prevented it once it got started.

Similarly in the current situation. Once the rate of new cases exceeds the ability to trace and isolate individual cases, interventions of the kind contemplated and currently implemented by Western nations cease to be capable of changing the course of the epidemic. Contact tracing and isolation can only work in the initial stages of an outbreak; such as was achieved in Nigeria. 

That is not to say that increasing the chance of survival of a select few with IV drips, respirators and transfusions is not desirable. But people should be under no illusion that that sort of treatment can be made available to the million expected active infections in Jan. '15. Or even the tiniest fraction. 

Where however the West can fail is if this infection is allowed to get out of control in neighboring countries. The West's military prowess can be used to help close borders. Fortunately there are some sensible people in Nigeria who don't listen to the left-wing non-sense coming out of the West as they have sealed the Nigerian border. Keep up the good work Nigerians and congratulations for the quick containment of the outbreak there. And good luck.Not completely correct Peter, but correct in context. It is possible to improve the survival prospects with high-tech intensive care medicine. But intubating and ventilating patients and giving them transfusions is impossible in the context of West Africa given the numbers of cases.

Mr Abbott is absolutely correct to not send any service people to West Africa. There is little a token Australian team could do other than have a presence to say 'we were there'. However hopefully he and his health minister are making plans to deal with any outbreaks that occur in our local region where Australia could make a real difference. 

The people who really can make or break this epidemic are those native West Africans who have had the infection and recovered enough to work. They are immune to the current strain of Ebola and likely have significant cross-immunity to other strains. These people can work in the hot conditions without space-suits, can help isolate the infected and bury the dead. If the West really wants to make a difference they need to work with the local authorities to identify these people and select those able to work and help train them up for simple tasks.LK I suspect most politicians have little understanding of the medical issues and are responding to public opinion.

Sending a high-tech Australian treatment team is pointless when the job of re-hydrating victims can be done much more efficiently and much more safely by local people who have recovered from the virus and are immune. They don't need protective clothing in the heat and can work much, much faster.

One of the first principles in medical care is that you first make sure the treating agent is not at risk of contracting or spreading the disease. The failure of MSF to protect its people in spite of  best possible practice (9 dead and rising) indicates that current methods are failing. A re-think is needed and there is an alternative as I have suggested above.MT there are thousands of active cases and the estimates are 10's of thousands of currently incubating cases with projected more than 1 million active cases in Jan. '15. How can you manage that? Contact tracking is impossible with those numbers.

Well you certainly cannot manage it with small teams in space-suits. You have to use something that grows with the epidemic; a bit like fighting fire with fire. The thing that grows with the epidemic is immune survivors. That is the key resource that they can use. One immune survivor can do more useful work  than a whole team of space-suited people trying to avoid  infection, and at a miniscule fraction of the  cost.1: The WHO has done the stats on the exponential growth pattern. You'll find the numbers there.
2: It is logistically impossible to create enough beds to track an exponential growth.
3: External forces cannot stop an exponentially growing epidemic. 

Where we might be able to help is with public health advice. We have people who are very good at this. Detailed inventory of those that have recovered from infection and their whereabouts and ability to work. Training of these people to gather data, distribute re-hydration fluids and help locate and bury the dead could be a huge and crucial contribution. 

What we don't need to do is send in sophisticated treatment teams who at best can provide only marginal reduction in mortality in the absence of an intensive care facility and represent a risk of infection to non-immune personnel. Time for cool heads and a brutal reality check.Yes, low probability although not zero.

What is rather concerning however is that the Dr. did not self impose a 21 day isolation (as did the good Doctor from Queensland bless her cotton socks). He knew the risks and should not have been bowling or out in public for three weeks since the last contact.

So if a trained medical practitioner does not show enough responsibility and sense to quarantine himself for three weeks what hope is there with lay people traveling?

And on an even more concerning note, this is yet another MSF doctor who has become infected in spite of stringent precautions. This strain appears to be  much more infectious than previous strains.I think with a death rate of ~ 50% we can rule-out native immunity. 

More concerning is the high infection rate amongst MSF volunteers in spite of good (but not state of the art because of the location) precautions.

Australia should under no circumstances send Govt. run and funded services to West Africa with infection rates in medical personnel that are being seen in MSF staff. They could  not in any case make any measurable change in the course of this epidemic. Volunteers are free to take their chances but should face a mandatory 21 day isolation on return to Australia.Essentially correct gaz. It's a long time since I've seen it, but I seem to recall there's a differential equation that tells you what happens in an epidemic like this once the numbers swamp the potential for control. It's not pretty.

People seem to confuse control with treatment. The teams that are suggested to be sent over are TREATMENT teams. And yes, they can do some good but probably not much more than someone dispensing lemonade could do. But at this stage of the epidemic treatment teams CANNOT alter the course of the epidemic. 

The other side is control. Control means burying the dead, isolating infected cases and contact tracing and testing. These measures can work but you need vast numbers of people to do it now that the case loads are in the thousands and the incubating cases in the 10's of thousands. And the only people with the potential to do that are native Africans who have recovered from the virus and are immune.

So no point gnashing of teeth and trying to make it a political football. Only the Africans are capable of addressing this epidemic because only they have people with immunity.Conservatives don't need fear to establish power EM, Labor with its incompetent management of anything involving money gives them office on a platter.

And the air-strikes are unlikely to change the views of domestic Islamists whose motivation is driven largely by the declaration of a Caliphate.  A Caliphate  (i.e. Islamic control of Mecca and Medina, and ultimately Jerusalem) and thus the displacement of the Saudi King is a longstanding Wahhabist goal. Western intervention may dampen that enthusiasm if it can deal decisive blows against IS and destroy any possibility of them taking Arabia.

TA the 'most dishonest politician'  - I think there would be quite a few contenders for that title. And TA would be well down the list.Whilst they do indeed want to overthrow the Syrian and Iraq governments, their name isn't ISIS. Their name is Islamic State. Why is the distinction important? They dropped reference to Iraq and Syria very openly and specifically when they declared a Caliphate. A Caliphate by definition means control of Mecca and Medina, currently nominally the Caliph is the Saudi King. By declaring a Caliphate and himself as Caliph, Abu Bakr Al Baghdadi has thrown the gauntlet down to the Saudi King whom he has declared apostate.

The declaration of a Caliphate means IS intends to take Arabia. And that means Arabian oil. And that is why the West has become so very interested in IS since the name change. They will put taking Australia on the back-burner for the time being but eventually .....I acknowledge your correct description of the Bush invasion of Iraq as destabilising; it was one of the greatest strategic blunders in American foreign policy history. It brought down an essentially secular administration, opened the door for the Islamists and gave a green-light for Iran to develop nuclear weapons confident that the US could not afford to open another front.

However, it is by no means certain that IS would  not still have come into existence had the Ba'athists remained in power. Although strong-man led and brutal in suppression of opponents, the Baathists were always only one bullet away from a fall from power and the Wahhabist Muslim Brotherhood had much more staying power than any of the local dictators like Saddam. 

IS is of course the child of the Muslim Brotherhood and their plan for an Islamic Sunni Caliphate, now a reality.Well said Bev. Kevin and his ilk of course when (not if) there is an Islamic terrorist attack in Australia will of course blame Mr. Abbott and say 'there, I told you so'. 

At an annual cost of $70,000 per person or $3,500,000,000 per year every year (assuming treatment is continued - this is my understanding of the drug mechanics). Against that expenditure of 3 1/2 billion dollars a year you must estimate how much improvement in heath could be achieved by spending that 3 1/2 billion on, for example, reducing obesity, alcoholism and drug dependency. The long term and individual gains in the latter would far outweigh the benefits of the former. And both sets of conditions are dominantly self-inflicted (most Hep C is the result of needle sharing or profligate sexual behaviour). 

The nations finances are finite and the money allocated to health needs to be spent wisely for the maximum benefit. That absolutely rules-out $70,000 dollar a year treatments that MIGHT, and it is just might, give someone a longer life expectancy. If they are smokers and still doing drugs they would probably get a bigger boost in life expectancy  from stopping both; and that's free.Yes indeed Islam has been doing it; but not quite for 'thousands' of years - more like 1400, and of course the cameras are a new addition to the routine. Not always with guns of course, another new innovation. But they do prefer the old-fashioned knife for the camera. Beheading is, after all,  the traditional way of dealing with captured enemy."Conservative governments consistently fail to confront the gun lobby"?  The only government in Australian history that significantly attacked the issue of guns in our society was the Howard government with its buy-back scheme eliminating assault type weapons altogether.  

Telling a lie does not the truth serve.Bit of a shame he doesn't understand anything about electricity generation however. 

How many GWH you generate from wind or solar is virtually  irrelevant if it is being fed into a coal-fired base-load system. The important measures is the work done in KWH, not the power generated. The work done is not only difficult to measure but no attempt is made to even guess it. Quotes claiming reduction in green-house emissions per KWH generated by virtue of intermittent input are fallacious. The 
reality is baseload + intermittent input = work done + waste heat + other system losses. Coal grid systems are run on the assumption that baseload = (expected) work load + system losses with long thermal lag times. The intermittent input goes to waste heat. There is a net rise in effective greenhouse emissions because of 1. additional heat loading reduces system efficiency and 2. embedded carbon in the manufacture, installation and maintenance of intermittents.

Reality is very different from the green dream. Decisions need to be removed from Greenies and politicians and put in the hands of engineers with no vested interests.

O.K., I've read it. Diesendorf makes some claims which should be challenged, but even accepting his claims he still acknowledges  he need for ancillary supply by gas / hydro / nuclear  or solar thermal. Solar thermal has unresolved issues, gas (short thermal lag time) is too valuable to burn (need for farming) and hydro is limited. And we are too brainwashed to be able to build nuclear.

But all that misses the point entirely. We use coal power in the eastern states and linking intermittents  into a coal grid is counter productive. And closing the coal down is simply not an option.Who, if you have an engineering or physics background you should know that power generation does not equal the useful work done. In fact, not even remotely if we consider things in terms of potential energy input (for a coal-fired power station the figure is about 1% - 2% of potential energy input appearing as work done at the end of the chain).

The 'work done' represents the end-user consumption, which might be cooking or heat in your house, running appliances or lighting, for example. The power generated always has to be greater than the actual work load or there will be blackouts. The efficiency is a function, amongst many other things, of how well this difference can be minimised because  excess power has to be dissipated from the system as waste heat.Grieg, I agree with you suggestion of nuclear. For  a geologically old place like Australia with plenty of storage places and a large uranium supply, we are ideally placed to use nuclear. 

Ditto fossil fuels in Agriculture; but this isn't a minor use. Fossil fuels are used in mechanisation, fertilser, insecticide, herbicides, transport, refrigeration, storage, processing, packaging  and preparation of food. Feeding 7 billion people every day  is the biggest industrial project the planet has ever, or will ever, see. It is also the biggest consumer of fossil fuels and the largest source of green-house emissions on the planet.

So all the argument about electricity generation is really just a side issue and relatively irrelevant to the issue of global green-house emissions.That figure is nonsense Yank. And, incidentally, in the real world men are as commonly victims of domestic violence as women. But men are much less likely to report it.The current West African outbreak is almost certainly beyond the threashold for contact tracing (in fact, long well beyond it, with contacts in the 100,000's or even millions) so any 'intervention'  of necessity can only help treat a small percentage of sufferers.  In that circumstance Western intervention treats chiefly the symptoms of the Western media circus. 

This epidemic will have to burn itself out. It cannot be stopped by human intervention at this stage, the case numbers are too large. The most important thing is to stop it spreading to neighbouring countries. If you want to help the people of West Africa, help them close borders, limit people movement and send them huge quantities of bottled lemonade which, if consumed flat, is the best low-tech treatment possible that can be administered without medical supervision. Locally, they need to use those who have recovered from the virus and are immune to collect and bury the dead as well as distribute the lemonade. Where possible, using non-immune people to treat or manage the sick should be avoided. And this includes well-intended Westerner's.Yep Bradford, that's the way you do it. The most valuable resource they have are people who have recovered from the virus not Western do gooders running around in space suits. And yes, they are immune to the current strain. 

And if you want to prey it won't do any harm.Obviously you only use people who have recovered and are capable of working. 

You don't need medical training to bury the dead or distribute and administer lemonade. 

The lemonade works because the sugar pump is usually the last thing to go in gastro infections and is the only really reliable way to re-hydrate low-tech. Already saved millions of lives. It won't stop many deaths but will prevent a lot of co-morbidity and accelerate the recovery of survivors. Yes it's simple but one of the reasons it works so well in such situations is precisely because it is very simple.This is a simple RNA virus Nige,  those who have recovered are immune to re-infection with the same strain. 

If the infection reaches 1,000,000 cases in Jan. '15 (WHO prediction) they'll be closing borders all right. The alternative is to have it spreading througout Africa. The Nigerian border is apparently already closed. This is something Western troops can help with.How is a small team of Australians going to 'stop' Ebola with about 10,000 active cases and  likely up to 50 to 100,000 currently incubating the virus? 

None of the foreign intervention actions can 'stop' Ebola. All they can do is treat a small minority of cases and increase the survivial rate perhaps by 10% or so in those limited numbers that can be accommodated in a  field facility.Well said, Nova. There is a desperate need to reign-in the banking sector in this country and the reign it in hard. Real hard. The penalty for failing to do so will be dire indeed. 

The amount of hard capital that banks need to have in deposits to back up their loans needs to be progressively ratcheted up to the 70% and above level. Speculative behaviour needs to be proscribed completely. 

Australia is currently one of the biggest (probably the biggest) per-capita debtor nation in the world with more than 4 trillion in external debt for a small population. This debt is not written in AUD and, unlike the Yanks, we can't print our way out of trouble. 

And as the screws are progressively put on the banks, measures are equally desperately needed to deflate the real-estate bubble economy that is Australia. Negative gearing needs to be abolished. Capital gains tax needs to be applied to family homes; gently at first and gradually rising until prices slowly drop. It's either a slow deflation or a catastrophic one which takes out the banks. The former is preferable.Wrong on all counts, Dove. You claim the name is indicative of the non-threatening nature of IS but quote the wrong name? They are not 'ISIL' nor 'ISIS'; they are Islamic State. The name change, which they have made very clear and have emphasised,  is VERY significant because it means they are claiming sovereignty over Mecca and Medina. That is also what the declaration of a Caliphate means. And the threat to control Arabian oil is real and realistic; there is strong Wahhabist support for IS in Saudi Arabia and strong sympathy in the Sunni population for IS. 

And they are well organised and very well funded. And they have very widespread support from Muslims globally. 

IS represents a very real threat to global security. And the minor recent setbacks are not an indication that it has been defeated.Global growth in coal consumption is roughly proportionate to global economic growth (2012 figures courtesy of BP; 2% global growth and 4% in the Asia-Pacific region).

Coal is not in decline simply because there is no viable substitute for growing  industrial economies other than nuclear. Gas is too valuable to burn (it is used for fertiliser production and other agricultural applications) and intermittents like solar or wind are unviable without efficient energy storage systems which do not exist currently.

Reality is so often different from the green dream.No time, the biggest contributor to global green-house emissions isn't electricity generation; it's agriculture. Agriculture is also almost certainly the biggest consumer of fossil fuels (hard data is difficult to find since 'agriculture' component of fossil fuel consumption should include not just mechanisation, fertiliser etc, but transport, storage, distribution and preparation of food; so it even includes those trips in your car to the supermarket or restaurant and the embedded fossil fuel in all that packaging and processing - but when you realise there are 7 billion people eating every day you get some idea of the scale of it). Global agriculture is the biggest industrial project the planet has ever seen. By more than a country mile!Ludicrous. Spending money would somehow have ameliorated Nazi  blood lust aimed at Jews?  And no, it wasn't aimed at Gypsies or Poles. There are some forces in the world you simply cannot appease. You have to fight them.Funny that. Come to think of it, I don't seem to recall the last time a Buddhist, Anglican or Shinto flew a jet liner deliberately into a building or blew themselves up in a shopping mall. 

Couldn't be the religion, could it? Nah.An even bigger worry is that Mr Green wants to censor them all.I think there is a name for what Gillard was trying to do; it's called 'political censorship'.Harvey, the people who are doing the most bombing are Islamic State. I read somewhere the biggest manufacturing source of their cartridges is Communist China. Mind you, they have lots of captured US arms too. I'm pretty sure IS does not hold shares in US or European armaments industries, and probably don't have shares in anything at all for that matter. 

IS is not the creation of some grand western conspiracy, Harvey. It is the creation of the Muslim Brotherhood who established a time-line for the creation of a Caliphate some decades ago.With IS on the outskirts of Baghdad I think you'll find it was begged rather than asked. 

But its all a bit irrelevant because Iraq is about to cease to exist. Even the Americans have apparently realised that Baghdad will fall and they are probably preparing their evacuation plans as we write. They had better focus on getting as much armaments OUT as possible because those that aren't removed will become the property of the new state that encompasses essentially all of former Iraq and most of Syria. And those weapons will then be turned on Saudi Arabia.

The IS attack on Saudi will be tricky for the West. No non-Muslim troops will be tolerated in that very conservative Sunni nation and I suspect Saudi will fall to IS caliphate some time early 2015. IS will then control a significant part of the world's oil supply. 

Worth contemplating isn't it? Interesting times lie ahead.If it turns into an investigation of Mr. Palmer, his interaction with current governments both state and federal  and his motives for entering politics, not to mention his relationship with the Chinese, it could prove very interesting indeed.Trouble is, Harquebus, that society evolves rather than gets controlled. Political direction has only a very limited influence on social evolution which is so complex it defies analysis (i.e. it is chaotic). 

But the really basic things will always prove to be the most reliable indicators of the future. The most basic of all are food and clean water. And with 7 billion people to feed, these are anything but trivial issues. The food supply is absolutely fossil-fuel dependent and the industrial scale control of the planets biosphere will continue until some sort of catastrophe intervenes; it is simply not possible to control the urge to eat for 7 going on 8 billion mouths every day and governments of all persuasions will do whatever it takes to feed their people. They can not do otherwise. 

But without growth the system collapses catastrophically. More to the point, leaders do not have the option or even the ability to stop growth. It is not under control but rather a self-generating self-reinforcing collective global structure of growth. It just stops when it stops. Not before.Yes Tedd, the fossil fuels will run out; and so will we. The chief issue with fossil fuels,  and the chief source of green-house emissions, has nothing to do with electricity generation. And never will have anything to do with electricity generation. 

Forget your solar panels and windmills. They won't save you. Forget your emissions trading systems; they are trivial and pointless. They are just the plaything of political pundits who like to argue.

It's all about food. The entire biosphere of the planet has been turned over to human food production and every single step in the process, from fertiliser, insecticide, herbicide, mechanisation, transport and refrigeration is fossil-fuel dependent. It's called the 'green revolution' and you eat it.

And the logistics do not allow it to be any other way. We live in the fossil fuel age and are past eaters of sunshine; fossil fuel deposits represent millions of years of stored sunshine from continental sized solar collectors. We burn it in a matter of years. 

Once the fossil fuels are gone, so is your civilisation  and essentially all but the most rudimentary technology. Not to mention 90% plus of the people.Greenspider, battery storage systems themselves have problems related to production, lifespan and disposal. And realistically they are only feasible for small domestic applications whereas society at large requires industrial scale continuous supplies.

What Charles is trying to point out, quite correctly, is the absurdity of plugging intermittent sources of power, like wind and solar, into a thermal coal-powered grid. It actually causes waste of power in the form of waste heat. And this makes the combined intermittent / coal system LESS efficient than  thermal coal run in isolation; i.e. it INCREASES net greenhouse emissions. And that is before you take into account all the embedded carbon in the intermittent manufacture, installation and maintenance.

The we see absurdity on absurdity; quoting the amount of power generated not the useful work done !!!! (which is very hard to measure). There is no net gain if you generate an additional megawatt of solar power if the end result is the power goes to waste heat because the coal powered station had to be run under the assumption of effectively zero intermittent input to prevent blackouts.

It ain't rocket science. But common sense sure is in short supply.
