Situation like this is most tragic. World leaders on the "right side" of the tragedy will come out in drove and express their indignation. "How could they do that !" Lawyers will come out and nicely summarize what they knew about international laws. "Justice must be done, and needs to be seen to be done!" They all cried. 

Well, nice in theory. How are you going to pin-point who actually pull the trigger? Even if you knew, how are you going to track him down and arrest him? Perhaps Obama can unleash his drones? 

Given the fact that the rebels had been bombed by the Ukrainian air-force, and suffered considerable casualties, I bet they wouldn't want to wait for another plane-load of bombs falling on them. So pull the trigger they did. 

Humans are clever enough to make destructive weaponry that can demolish a target a long way off. Unfortunately, the human emotions remained the same. We are still irrational. We are fearful. Worse still, we can be vengeful. Throwing the advanced weaponry and humans into wars, we have disasters!

I believe it would be nice if Professor Donald R. Rothwell has a few words about what is happening right now in Gaza, I mean in the legalistic point of view...It is rather interesting that just about of all the articles on the Drum, none have yet to mention the human tragedy in Gaza. 500 dead, of which 100 are children. Then last night a hospital was hit.

Now about the hospital...It was claimed that it was an "accident". The downing of the jet could also be an accident. Although that means fk-all to the victims and their relatives, and of course the Malaysian Airline which faces a real potential of collapsing. 

A game of tug-of-war between superpowers is not new. When the Soviet Union was sinking knee-deep in Afghanistan, the US, with the help of the CIA, was funding and arming the resistance group. Osama Bin Laden was getting all the helps he needed then. I bet the US was grinning from ear-to-ear then. Not much point in arguing who is purer at heart here, I reckon. 

It is not unknown for dogs, especially the vicious ones, to fiercely defend their territories. If you are unfortunate enough, or stupid enough to wander into a pit-bull's territory, you are asking for more than a few loud warning barks. You are likely to be torn to pieces. Russia is now regarded by many as an ex-super power. The US would like to believe it is now the top dog as it has the most fire power, and was not too shy to dish it out in the name of democracy. 

If anyone believes that Russia is a has-been, he is serious wrong. A cornered and wounded pit-bull is most dangerous. The economic sanctions carried out, and threats of more to come, will only serve to stir up the diplomatically wounded Russia even more. 

I did find Julie Bishop's hairy-chested megaphone "diplomacy" more ridiculous. She was talking "at" Russia and making demands. Fair enough, we lost 40 people. However, wouldn't be be better to first sort out the mess, ie. to bring home the dead, and working out a way for proper investigations to be carried out. The chest thumping and bone pointing can come after.

Perhaps all these are done for domestic consumption...That our leaders are a tough lot? The Malaysian approach is probably the way to go. Keep your voice low, and your hand-shakes firm.USS Vicennes, the mighty guided missile cruiser of the most militarily advanced nation on earth, the USA, shot down an Iranian civilian aircraft, killing all 290 people on board!

According to the USA, it was mistaken for a F-14 Tomcat Fighter.A nasty casualty of wars. Deliberate, accidental, or just a case of ignorance, does not really matter as these humans should not be caught up in the conflicts and die.

Personally, I venture to say it was a case of uncertainty and panic. A powerful weapon in the hands of humans who are prone to make irrational decisions was a disaster in the making. 

If we are to look at the recent event in Gaza where four kids playing on the beach were "mistakenly" killed by Israel, in broad daylights, then perhaps we can see how difficult it was to visually identify a plane at such altitude.This is a clear case of technology, or perhaps more aptly, technology of destruction, has overtaken human intelligence. 

A missile fired from the ground, can track and destroy a rapidly moving aircraft at vast distance above. So high that it is near impossible to distinguish what it is, military or civilian, friend or foe. Yet a missile in the hand of a man can do such destruction! Weapons of destruction are all around us. They are built because that is how humans chose to resolve their differences. It is called WAR.

Who fired that fatal missile? It depends on which side of the fence you are on. The Yanks and our note-worthy leaders such a Tony Abbott and Julie Bishop already knew. According to them, it was no doubt the separatists. Talking about judge and jury. However, if the voice recording was indeed authentic, then it was quite "likely" that the separatists fired that missile.

Was that a deliberate act of murder? I doubt it. I think it was more of an act of panic and mistaken identity. Mind you, the Ukrainian air-force did attack the separatists from the air. If you are in the shoes of them, would you want to wait for bombs to fall on top of you? 

USA, with its mighty and supposedly the most advanced military weaponry systems, shot down an Iranian civilian aircraft from US Navy guided missile cruiser USS Vincennes. This was despite the fact that the cruiser was full to the brim with technologies. By the way, USA never did concede responsibilities, but did pay the Iranians compensations anyway!

Am I defending the act of killing, especially this particular case? Far from it. What I am stressing is the fact that WARS are ugly. Caught in the middle will be some innocent third parties, like those victims.

By the way, lets do not forget the on-going, asymmetrical war that is happening right now in Gaza.I am quite sure that some of the Hamas operatives are not very clever. However, I doubt they are that stupid. If you are a person to fire rockets into Israel, would you be dumb enough to pile your rockets in open fields so that Israel can pick them off one by one?

Gaza is a densely populated region. The tall buildings are very closely clustered together. No matter how well aim you are, the collateral damages around the blasts will be immense. As John Kerry said: "It was one hell of a pin-point operation." Whether the IDF is ethical enough to endeavour to reduce the civilian damages or not, there will still be a lot of unnecessary damages. Mind you, not "all" IDF personnel as as ethical as one would assume them to be !

The continual choking of the Gaza strip will not reduce Hamas's vengefullness. The high number of deaths among the young will certainly create a large pool of angry, vengeful youngsters ready for the picking by the terrorist groups. Israel may wrongly believe the course of actions now and in the past will make itself more secure. I believe it is very wrong. 

Israel got a taste of what it is like when it is complete cut-off from the outside when foreign airlines refused to come to Israel. I believe that is what Gaza is experiencing for all these years when the region is constricted by the tight embargoes Israel imposed on it.

Build more walls? Make them higher? More anti-rocket systems? Perhaps Israel should build a huge dome to completely cover itself.

More resentment, more angry, more oppressed, etc. will result in a never ending cycle of wars. 

The great wars were meant to be the wars to end all wars, but how wrong were we ?The news cycle got an adrenalin rush when Julie Bishop put forward the UN resolution about the MH17. Tony Abbott jumped into the act by making himself, as some journalists said, "statesman like". Yes, condemn the terrorist acts. We must demand justice. We will not rest until justice is done, and seen to be done!

Strangely enough, there was hardly a whimper from Bishop, Abbott, or even Shorten, about the tragedy unfolding right now. Although it is silly and meaningless to judge a tragedies by numbers, but there are even more deaths in the current Gaza war, an asymmetrical one I would argue.

I often wonder why the Palestinians are so stupid by throwing rocks at the IDF who in turn fired tear gas canisters, rubber bullets, and even real bullets. Then the futile acts of rockets resulted in hardly any significant harms to Israel, yet the Palestinians copped a serious walloping !

Now I believe the tight, boa constrictor like blockades around Gaza have resulted in lives that are hardly worth living. Life sustaining supplies must be "smuggled" through tunnels from Egypt. When these tunnels are closed or bombed out, basic shortages made already miserable lives downright desperate!

Any decent minded people doubted Israel's right to existence, in peace. But what about the Palestinians? Are they lesser human beings? Perhaps because they are not "the only democratic nation" in the Middle East? Perhaps God didn't "promised" them the land?

I believe any peace talks and ceasefire will result in only short-term fix. Similar wars will flare up again in future. The root cause are the blockades. Sure enough Israel will argue that by loosen the blockades, Hamas will bring in weapons. However, blockades have not resulted in the elimination of rockets. 

I believe there is no longer any trust between the warring parties. Why is a thousand Palestinian deaths matter, when Israel is secure ?I am not surprised that Mr. Terry Barnes wrote such a glowing endorsement of Tony Abbott. Yes, sad and unfortunate it may be, but a disaster such as the MH17 and the Port Arthur did give our leaders a bounce in their status, and possibly their polls rating. 

It is all too easy to tell the entire world we are right in the middle of a "baddies" and "goodies", "cowboys" and "Indians". It is a perfect platform to show outrage and despise for the people or country we don't like. David Cameron of the UK took the opportunity to kick a few goals too. He even holds a public inquiries about the death of the ex-KGB agent. Publicly shame Russia? Well, I would venture to say it is more like a "Cold-war" warrior !

Then of course, sanctions, especially arms sales. Interesting enough though, the UK is happy to sell Russia weapons to fit on the Brazilian warships being built by the Russian.

It seems some world leaders have finally got the opportunity to display their "iron spines". John Howard was probably ecstatic when G.W.Bush called him a "man of steel". Now Tony Abbott's chance is here. Would he be stupid enough to form a "coalition of the willing" again to tackle Russia? Well, possibly not as G.W.Bush is now happy with his high-school standard painting hobby. The USA as a country is too broke even if the itch for invasion is still there.I wish the the MH17 disaster never ever happen, but it did ! 

The crushing bad news for the entire world, especially for the families affected, masked the other events happening around us. Queensland LNP copped a walloping in the by election. If the same trend continues, Campbell Newman could potential become Campbell soup! But this had little media coverage as the MH17 was a bigger event.

The continuing large scale demolition jobs carried out by the Israeli army did not get that much coverage either. Yes, "One hell of a 'pin-point' operation" as lamented by John Kerry. 

Back to Tony Abbott...

He looked and acted like a true statesman, his arms gesticulated with every word he uttered as if he was measuring the length of each word. According to him, we must come down hard on President Putin as he was painted as a villain. More sanctions. More travel bans. Before his pubic speech, he and Julie Bishop already determined it was a "deliberate" act by the separatists. A murder they asserted. 

Wouldn't it be nice if they pay a bit of attention to the Gaza war? But no. It wouldn't fit into the LNP and also the ALP scripts. Above all, Israel is "the only democratic" country in the Middle East. Being a democratic country, it can carry out mass killings as only a democratic country knows how!

Polls come and go. Disasters also soon merge into the background. After that, the real issues remained to be dealt with. Mind you, Joe Hockey's ill-timed book does not help that much, especially for himself. By throwing into the mix a Peta Credlin really makes things very interesting. But that will be another story for another day...One should not be surprised that the Western powers divided the Middle East in the past and took whatever they wanted from the region. It wasn't that hard as the "divide and conquer" principle never failed. Corrupt figureheads were installed and popped up by the manipulative western powers to keep the general population oppressed.

Such tactic can only work for so long as the divided nations woke up to the fact that they had been taken for a ride. The trouble is that these secular based nations thought their believes are far more superior to their neighbours. Of course, throwing in the one commodity everybody wanted, ie. Oil, we have a show-down!

A tiny nation such as Israel runs rings around the far more populous, far bigger Arab nations tells much about the disunity and disorganization of these nations. 

It is the unfortunate fact that to keep the fragmented, strong-will, and potentially troublesome groups together, you need an even stronger, nastier, and scheming person. Saddam Hussein and Assad are just two of the examples. Yes, give them democracy, and things will work themselves out. No, they won't. 

The rise of ISIS is just a bad dream actually turned into a reality. A group of thugs with no respect for any form of authority but their own drew much supports from amigos with zero understanding of human decency and how a society functions. All they knew is to pull the triggers and destroy. Like listless gangsters, being belong to a group gave them the legitimacy to be someone, or wait a minute, close to Allah !

I believe ISIS will eventually self implode as their rapid advance is halted. Then they will turn against each other. Unfortunately, that will not happen for quite sometime yet. That Baghdadi chap reminds me of Pol Pot of the nasty Khmer Rouge.

In some strange way, the West has achieve what it wanted...ie. to keep the bloodshed away from their borders.Jay Somasundaram

If one has to rely on tobacco for the benefits you listed, then perhaps one also contents to discount the negatives such as an early call-up by the Grim Ripper? 

By the way, do smokers pay for their own cancer treatments, or all tax payers ended up footing the bill ?

There is nothing about being politically correct, but everything about being realistic. I am talking about the financial aspect of it. An early death to a stranger means nothing much to me. However, when that person's slow death becomes a constant drain on our health system, then it becomes everybody's business.Yes, I am a skeptic for good reasons...

Now the spooks wanting more "Meta Data" about our electronic activities. Our honorable Attorney General George Brandis agreed with the proposal and attempted to sell the idea. Unfortunately for him, it came unstuck when he tried to explain what "Mata Data" is.

"Well... The web address...um, is part of the metadata...the web address, the electronic address of the website..."

If he has not a clue about what ASIO asked for, surely there is a problem there, isn't it ?

I want to look at a bigger picture...

The mess caused in the Middle East by the "Coalition of the willing", and then the deliberate attempts to dislodge the Syrian government, have resulted in a far worse scenario than any military and political analyst can predict. A vicious, cold blooded terrorist group called ISIS. These hoods intend on destroy anything and everything on sight. 

The trouble is that losers who have nothing to lose, but everything to gain by joining such mindless killers, can potentially return to Australia to potentially wreak havoc here.  

My question is: Didn't we create problems by stirring up the pots, and then trying vainly to hose down the fire? 

Now that we could potentially have home-grown terrorism, everyone got caught in an ever widening net. Talking about poking a stick at the hornet's nest....Nina,

I am pleased to learn that your paternal grandfather enjoyed a pleasant trip to Kings Park. However, I am not sure that you need to feel less safe in Australia now.

Racism and bigotry have always present in every society. Fortunately, society tolerance for diversities in Australia's managed to keep such objectionable behaviours underground. In private BBQ, pool parties, or drunken Christmas parties, these stooges may surface.

It is such an unfortunate fact that the recent events in Gaza will potentially resulted in some ugly scenes. It is even more unfortunate that it will repeat time and again as the deep-rooted problems between the Palestinians and Israelis remained.I watched with despairs as the war, an asymmetrical one I must add, raged on in Gaza. I despaired for the dead, the injured, the maimed, the homeless, and the ones who are frightened sh*tless. Equally, I despaired for the Jewish people who are simply wanting to lead a normal life. 

Throughout my less than spectacular life, I got to know people of all religions, faithless ones like myself. I am pleased to say that I got on very well with most but a handful of "rigid" people. These are people who are prepared to carry their faiths, race on their sleeves, and will not yield an inch to conform.

Humans are irrational beings. Some of us are only too ready to associate innocent people with events happening elsewhere. I believe they already harbour a strong dislike of certain people or religions just beneath the surface. All it takes is a minor excuse and such hatreds will break out.

Jewish people are well respected, just like every other races or faiths that populate this world. Equally, there are bad elements too within all of us. Sadly, the behaviours of the oppressive regime in Israel simply gave the ignorant and bigots the excuses they looked for to lash out. 

When I was young and ignorant, I heard about the mass killing of Jews. My young mind simply couldn't comprehend the scale of the murders, and the reasons/excuses behind them. What have they done wrong? Six millions of them? But then I also learned Mr. Albert Einstein was a Jew. That really confused the crap out of me. 

As I grow up, I learned about Israel. I thought it was a just and deserving course to take for people who suffered so much. Unfortunately, things became confusing again when Israel engaged in on/off wars with its neighbours. I still thought it has the right to defend itself. 

Fast forward to present...

The constant images of mass destruction, children blown to pieces, orphans, homeless, no electricity, raw sewage running on the streets...Nothingness...Even the supposedly safe haven in UN run schools copped a few rounds of tank shells.

The one and only conclusion most people can draw is: Israel is a bully. It is a bully because it can. It can because it has the massive advantage in firepower. 

For a rational person, Jews should not be tied in with Israel's bullying behaviours. Unfortunately, the recent events in Gaza did make it easy for the bigots.I want to talk about
(1). timing, and 
(2). knowing your topic well. 

The timing of the new changes to 18C is totally out of synch with this new government's core policies, ie. its serious intention to slaughter that "Budget Black-hole" dragon. So much heat and smoke, and a hell of a lot of annoyance, for very little gain. In the end, it got tipped into the toilet by the "PM decision". Politically, it was probably the most stupid thing ever. A distraction that took away the energy from the budget big sell by Joe Hockey and co. 

Then the word wrestling on "Occupied" and "Disputed". A competition of who has a better understanding of English language. Another wild fire started by George Brandis that needed to be put out. Perhaps George is getting sick and tired of being outshone by the star performer Scott Morrison, and wanted to break out and tell the LNP party room" "Look mate, I am George, you know...the Attorney General."

I bet George Brandis wished he had chucked a sickie yesterday instead of fronting up the media pack. That media pack was just intent on stuffing up his day. Jihad on the media, I reckon ! 

"Meta Data is...Like a Web site...Well...Browsing history...Electronic Address..."

I watched with much anticipations for the "true" definition of Meta Data to be cleared up by the highest lawman of the nation. Then I got anxious as the media pack managed to extract a bit of information, or perhaps confusion, out of him, Why am I getting anxious? Well, what if those naughty porn sites I visited are now fair game? 

Then I got confused as George struggled to make sense of what he said at the very beginning. Like a clump of knotted up nylon fishing line, all tangled up and twisted, with no beginning and no end ! Jihad on that reporter for being so persistent and so mean. 

Then much later on, I realized that it was actually a clever ploy to confuse. Yes, it was just an act. By pretending he didn't know, he avoided having to provide the true answers. Remember Ronnie Reagon? He used to jumble up his answers pretended to be affected by old age, and the media let him off lightly. Yet it was a ploy !

So there you have a true politician...Vague, ambiguous, indirect, zig-zaging, weaving and ducking. I think Malcolm Turnbull ought to watch out. His may lose his portfolio to George Brandis.Despite the constant carping by the "lefties" and the die-hard ALP supporters', the LNP actually a hell of a lot smarter than it is given credit for. I believe it is an attempt to make the Australia Post viable once again !

Take the "Meta Data" issue for example. It is an attempt to extract one's electronic movements and activities for at least two years. Such proposal alarmed many people, for various reasons. 

For the cynics and skeptics, it is an attempt to keep track of where they have been, who they associated with, and how frequently. That is sufficient reason to be weary of such a proposal. 

For the ordinary folks like myself, it may not seem much to ask. However, if you are a "connoisseur" of "adult materials", what is the potential for your activities to be used against you in future? Then what is stopping the spy agencies to retain such information long into the future? Who and how can it be prevented? The worse scenario I can think of is the McCarthy Star Chamber during the fervent pursue of communists. 

For the terrorists, yes, they want to watch their backs. But I thought they already have sufficient recruitment materials for the next 100 years ! Mind you, they are not as dumb as some of the spies are. remember Osama Bin Laden? He did not use electronic communication, he used human couriers !

So here comes my "out of left-field" theory...By making electronic traffic flows accessible to the spy agencies, many people would turn to the postal mails instead. Sure there will be addresses on the envelops, but try linking those millions of addresses to make any sense will be much harder than the electronic data. 

Expect to see a sharp rise in Australia Post business, folks. Pure genius, this LNP mob...There is no need to privatize it anymore.It is obvious that the law does not always apply equally. One can metaphorically get away with murder if a string of claims of bad childhood experience, being a victim of  sexual abuse, or domestic abuse are put forward in court.

We have anti-bullying laws. Racist rants are just another form of bullying against someone who the bully perceived as inferior to them.

That "ugly" woman was a case in point. Without any reason, prompting, or provocation, she lashed out at strangers who were just minding their own business, and were looking forward to getting home for a rest, and possibly enjoying a warm decent meal. I bet those affected will find their meals just didn't taste as well. In other words, she f-up their days.

Now, racism or not, is that how a civilized society operate? Some strangers just vent their own personal sh*t on others?

It is a known fact that domestic abuse and animal abuse occur more frequently in lower social economic society. When you are loaded up with problems, you want to look for someone or something that is "perceived" to be beneath you. It is likely that a female or an animal copped it. "Go kick a dog." 

That woman looked decidedly vicious. She unloaded her venom on some unsuspecting kids, then found out it did no good. So she turned on the next victim. Guess what? An Asian, and a woman ! A perfect target. If that is not a racist, I don't know what isn't. I bet she wouldn't take on an Asian man.

She claimed to have dodgy knees, couldn't get a job, and have domestic issues. Well, I doubt she will get a job too soon, now that she became famous, for all the wrong reasons.Benice:

My rant, if that is what you thought it was, was not directed at people randomly. I don't perceive myself as better or above her. However, I didn't go and abuse someone just because she thought she can, or thought can get away with. And she did get away with the crime when dragged to the court, by the way.

It is fair enough that you see fit to defend the un-defencible. She copped a slapped on her wrist for unloading her own problems on other innocent parties who were just intent on getting home, and minding their own business.

Far too often we saw nasty behaviours like this got away by pleading poor childhood, family issues, and poor health. I am sorry that was the case, but that does not justify her to pick victims to bully at. It so happen that she picked the ones who are "perceived" as lesser beings, ie. children and Asian woman. 

Go and pick someone who is stronger and bigger and see what will happen.

How do you know the victims themselves are not enduring even worse "personal circumstances" than that vicious woman "claimed" to have ?Benice,

I believe you are not like me...You can see the goodness in even obnoxious people. Yes, I am guilty again, on top of calling her vicious !

She did pick her victims. She picked a couple of youngsters who happened to have occupied the seat she thought should have been reserved for her. That is called presumptuous. Failing to dislodge the youngsters from the seat which was rightfully theirs, she then turned on her next victim...an Asian woman...A lesser being in her mind.

You can cut, slice and dice it every each way, but the fact remained she was out to get her way, just because she is "supposedly" had crooked knees. I bet many of us, including myself, have some form of medical conditions, but these are not a ticket to go and "demand", yes demanded a seat, and then unleashed her venom on a foreigner, because she thought she can. By the way, she just might have gotten away if not someone had the good sense of recorded the event.

"If we're all going to get along, surely respecting everyone, including the impact of everyone's problems on their own lives, is key."

Nice sentiment there. Wouldn't it be better if one deals one's own problems rather than sharing it around, with strangers? 

Remember a while back, the ABC report Mr. Fernandez also copped a serious racial abuse while on a bus to work ?Alfie,

CEO is not a real job ?Santa is not true ? I nearly chocked on my cereals when I read the last paragraph ! After all these years, and no one bothered to be straight with me ?

Whether children should be protected from nasty events and deaths is probably entirely up the parents. However, here in the West, we do have a choice. At the war zones, the choice is taken away from the parents as deaths, injuries and destruction are all around them. 

It must be a bloody futile act in Gaza right now ! Does it mean that the Palestinian children are more robust? Do they suffer the same psychological harms as we in the West do ? 

The question is whether humans can become hardened as we are exposed to grisly disasters, man-made or natural, too frequently at a young age. I believe two possible outcomes for the children in the war zones when they grow up.

(1). They become totally hardened and would not blink when taking someone's life...A cold-blooded killer.
(2). Become psychologically damaged and turn inward...An invalid.

ltfc1,

If what you said is true, then children in nations without Santa at all must have been deprived of something big time !Like most governments, there are successes and failures. Promises made and broken. 

The Abbott government does have one big success in stopping the boats. By launching the "Operation Sovereign Borders" or perhaps more aptly named "Operation tell them f-all", Scott Morrison scored top marks. Now whether you support or are against the tactics, it has managed to keep boat arrivals right beneath the daily TV radar. That is good news for the government.

Judging by the public opinions, it is exactly what Australia wanted. However, dealing with refugees is a lot easier than dealing domestic issues. With the boat arrivals, you need some orange lifeboats, or you simply pack them up and send them off to a third-world country eager to earn some foreign aid money. Out of sigh, and out of mind.

With domestic issues, especially those involved the pocket nerves of taxpayers, it is much harder. It does not help too when Tony Abbott made enemy out of Clive Palmer. 

The longer the budget issues drag on, the more truths came out, despite LNP's best efforts to suppress them. The co-payments meant lower-pay mob will cop a larger disadvantage than the higher-pay ones. What is the big deal? Asked the treasurer. The higher-pay people pay more tax anyway. But that is the problem...He still can't see the reason why people are pissed off. 

Lets say all things being equal, and everyone pays the correct taxes and receives the rightful subsidies. Then here comes the co-payment which resulted in a "net" extra out of pocket payments. If you happens to belong to the lower-pay group and found out that you copped a dud, what would you do?

But then again, the age of entitlements is now over. So stop whinging and go looking for that elusive second job.

Talking about job...Eric Abetz reckons it is no big deal flicking 40 job application a month. "One in the morning, and one in the afternoon." according to him. Yeah, how about sending your applications to Abetz's office at least once a month? Or to each parliamentarian's office ?Like the very first day at the high school playground, you are totally lost among a group of strangers. You do your very best to stay calm. Chest out, look self confident, and don't stare. While you are doing that, you are busy working out friends and foes. Who are the bullies and who are the ones you can bully, and rob them of their lunches.

Sooner or later, you will suss out that your initial guesses were way out. The bullies are in fact the ones who you thought you can walk all over! Why? Because they have alliance. One becomes stronger in groups. A gang perhaps.

The same applies to the world stage. By now, most nations have already worked out who are the bullies, and who they can walk all over. Again, the key word here is "alliance". The NATO which is essentially a gang ruled by the USA, and EU is another gang which it thought joining up a bunch of dis-similar nations is a good idea. The third bully is the once all powerful Soviet Union. 

The two more powerful gangs are now muscling in on Russia as the formers believe the later is nothing more than a toothless tiger. Judging by the way Russia lost its influence in Poland, Georgia, etc, it is perceived as the inevitable that Ukraine will follow the same. 

It would be extremely foolish to think Russia is now a spent force, and NATO and EU can walk right in to take whatever it wishes. Sanctions, albeit limited ones, are meant to make Russia see its evil ways and turn around. However, the question one needs to ask is whether Russia can sustain more pains than the West. I believe now Poland is making noises because Russia imposed sanction on fresh vegetable imports from Poland. The French of course, is very good at protecting its own interest, and maintains its military trades to Russia. The UK? Well, David Cameron claims he didn't know the UK is still selling military equipment to Russia. 

Australia also joined in the game and threatened trade sanction. The amount of trades between Russia and Australia is a massive $1.75 Billions!

China, sitting on the sideline, is probably busy talking to the Russians. They want what Russia got, and will pay.Ugly vs beauty...

Kath and Kim made me laughed when Kim dressed to kill, or more aptly, to "maim". Super tight outfits showing her bulges like a Michelin man. The trouble is that she didn't know it was, well, bad taste !

The same goes for the dressing up of kiddies like a street walker. Lamb dressed up as mutton? Far beyond their age, and way below what is appropriate. But that is how some parents like to portrait their kiddies.

Have a close look at the parents, and you will quite likely notice that they are not the "cat walk" materials. I believe it is like the pushy sports moms and dads who are intent on making their little Jenny and Johnny a super sport star because they themselves couldn't cut it. They wanted desperately to amend what their "limitations" are, and their children hence suffer for their failures !

Little JonBen?t Patricia Ramsey was paraded by her parents. I did find it uncomfortable to watch. She should be out climbing trees, digging up sand pits, and smell the wild flowers growing on the road sides. Instead, she was dressed up as an overdressed transvestite with forced smiles to boot.

Her mom, she was not exactly a beauty queen material...and that is my point ....A very good article by Sir Ivor Roberts. 

In a perfect world, diplomacy should come first, second and last. Unfortunately, in the imperfect real world, diplomacy does not figure. The only time it does is when there isn't much left to fight over.

Winner takes all is the way it is. Winners with the bigger guns, more alliances, more financial and political influences, more friends who are ever so eager to say "YES".

The great wars are meant to have ended all wars, yet we are still looping bombs at each other. The major difference between the two world wars is there are many more smaller wars, and they are happening in the Middle East.

The collapse of the "evil Empire" as so named by Ronald Reagon meant the USA is the sole super power. I guess it gets to its head a bit. The miss-adventures in the Middle East proved that even a super power with its riches and fire power, cannot win outright because there are so many causes and grievances lying beneath. 

Israel's on-off wars with the Palestinians are one-sided thanks to its superior fire power. To keep its citizens safe, it built walls. Does it make Israel safer? Yes, it is for now. Israel has the unquestioning supports from the USA and most of the Western nations, apparently because it is the "only democratic" nation in the Middle East. I believe the NAZI pride themselves as very civilized. They are into classical musics, fine arts, fine wines, and always dressed impeccably.

I bet not many of us like to have the Hamas living next door. They are the outcasts. What gave them the legitimacy and the oxygen are conflicts. It is the same a the even nastier group ISIS. These groups thrive on violence. The trouble is, Israel is providing exactly what the Hamas needed. I like to believe Israel is now the best "recruitment agency" Hamas could ever wish for. The youngsters who are affected will, unfortunately, fall right into the folds of a terrorist group.

I don't believe there are such things as absolute peace and absolute safety. There is also no absolute winner. By destroying everything and everyone along the way to attain that elusive "win" will only mean you create many more enemies who are only too keen to destroy you, one day.All nations rely much on their media spins. The Ukrainian government scored a win by initially agreed the recovery and investigation teams to proceed. Then it started a massive offensive around the crash site. 

So what is the purpose of the agreement when the Ukrainian itself made it impossible to safely work there? 

I believe President Putin is sitting tight and wait to see the effects of the newly imposed extra sanctions. If and when the dusts cleared, and Russia found itself losing big time due to the sanctions, then he just may let the Ukrainian take back the disputed areas. However, I bet that will not be the end of the matter as there be more troubles into the future.

If Putin finds the sanctions is not doing very much to hurt Russia, then he is likely to ramp up his supports to the separatists. 

My bet is that Putin is not going to let Ukraine get away with too much as it is all about face, as well as not wanting to set a precedence.I bet many of you will disagree with me on what I am going to say...

In the bad old days, during the "cold war" period, when the world was divided into the US and Soviet blocks. The were wars of course. The Vietnam war was one of them. Then the tug-of-war between the US and the Soviet in Afghanistan. Of course the on-off troubles between Israel and the Arab nations. 

Despite all these wars, big and small, I believe the world was "relatively" safer and less turbulent. My theory is that the two big brothers basically kept the disputes under control. If they want to start a war, they need to get the nod from the "boss" first.

Now, there are bosses everywhere. The Soviet Union is no longer a powerful and mighty it once was. The US has the upper hand in the cold war tussle, but itself had over-extended its military prowess. It actually believe in its own spins and thought it is invincible. The fracturing of the Middle East thanks to the toppling of the dictators had created more questions than answers. 

Since the adventures into Afghanistan, then Iraq, and Libya, and so on, the tyrants who managed to keep a semblance of a functional society were removed. No one told the US and the "Coalition of the willing" that once you removed something, you need to put something else, something better, to fill the vacuum. 

So now in the Middle East, we have groups of terrorists more extreme and brutal than anything we knew. Mob such as the ISIS which knows not much else other than reciting a few pages of the Koran, and dead set on destroying anything else they dislike. Lets put it this way, if they saw no problem in blowing up the ancient Islamic shrines, why stop on Christian faith?

The destruction of Syria is another disaster in the making. But then again, isn't what democracy is supposed to do, to spread whatever it is around, be it good and bad. Right now, it is more bad if you care to notice.TC,

This constant reference to "Israel being a democratic state" simply doesn't cut it any more because actions speak louder than words. The mass killing of Palestinians with modern weaponry, supplied and is now happily "replenished" in urgency by the US of A, which again, is a "democratic" country.

There is no doubting that the Israelis love lives, well, their own, of course. I doubt very much they harbour similar sentiment for the lives of the powerless Palestinians who, co-incidentally, also love their own lives just as much as the Israelis !

Women and children were not even safe when were clinging on the last remnant of safety provided by the UN, when they were attacked in the schools.The midday news on the ABC did an interesting report on driverless cars. Yes, intelligent cars that think for themselves! News? Well, hardly. Because there are "thinking tanks" stretches back as far as I can remember! 

Yes, these tanks come from all aspects of our society. Some of these tanks haboured political leanings, or bias. Some from the education sector. Obviously the business groups don't want to miss out. They have their Panzer size tanks too. The trouble is that these tanks are too clumsy to maneuver because they are on caterpillar tracks. They make lots of loud noises, and puff out voluminous amount of hot air and black smoke. Smoke screen ?

Although each sector has its own thinking tanks, there are occasions where these tanks are seconded to a different sector to, well, think for them, of course. When a new government is mired in indecision, doubts, fear of the unknowns, the business tanks are mastered in. These tanks will come up with all sorts of ideas, usually more hardline than the government dare contemplate. Thick reports are produces. Mind you, these reports have to be thick for them to be viewed as "substantial". 

The big day when the "tank" reports are made public, proud tanks will stand next to the equally proud government representatives, handshakes all round. 

After the big presentation day, all will be forgotten. The government keeps doing what it has always been doing, flogging a dead horse. The think tanks will happily go back to what they have always been doing, ie. thinking, thinking up big plans ready for the next call-up by the government.It is so true that successive governments fell for the deep love of slogans.

Gillard's "Education Revolution" was dumb and as stupid. We don't need a revolution in education because we are doing relatively fine in education. To ramp up the urgency only served to discredit the government, at a time when its political capital runs dry.

"Budget Emergency". "Budget Black-hole", "Lifters and not leaners", "No XXXX" etc. Could someone please compile a list?

Joe Hockey now finds the going as hard as pushing sh*t up the Capital Hill. Frustrated and mired in constant negotiations with the senators, he is now looking for a quick and dirty pathway. He wanted to by-pass the senate. "Operation by-pass the senate", anyone ?

"Operation Bring Them Home" is stirring stuff. I guess no Australia object to the efforts to bring home the remains of the victims. Tony Abbott and Julie Bishop found themselves on familiar territory. In situation where conflicts are involved, the government usually get the voters full supports. There is no political mileage to be gained from a humanitarian disaster. 

I found the language used by Abbott was quite emotional when he mentioned the likelihood that wild dogs may disturb the bodies. It is not as if the families affected are not suffering enough already.

As days passed, it became increasingly obvious that it is not as easy as sending a mob of AFP to the crash site and locate the remains. So the question of "To arm" or "No to arm" the AFP became confusing. Bishop was keen as mustard to have armed AFP, so was Abbott initially. But soon Abbott realized, to his credit, that it was a bloody dumb idea, and refrained from mentioning it. Bishop seemed not to cotton on the risks in arming the AFP, and she still, to this day, reckons it is a good idea. 

She was rather proud of the fact that the Ukrainian government agreed to the access to the crash site. All honky dory? But then the offensives by the Ukrainian forces around the site totally walloped the agreement.The downing of the MH17 gave the politicians a perfect platform to work on. The opposition parties can't really criticize the government's performance on the world stage for risking being making a political issue out of a human tragedy. So they went mute. The population is quite content for the government to get on with it as they don't really have much alternatives. Besides, it is a humanitarian issue to us too. 

Bishop did her best to get the UN resolution through. Can't fault her on that. However, I doubt her language at the very beginning about "murders" and pointing the finger at the separatists did not gain her any leverage with the separatists!

Then on the matter of sending the AFP, and a lot of them too, begins to smell a bit like grand standing on the world stage. Did the Dutch send as many of their own investigative personnel? 

It then became rather ridiculous when the possibility of arming the AFP. It is a damn stupid idea. Dumber and dumb ! I guess she got carried away. 

Banning Putin from attending the G20? Is that a big deal? Isn't that nothing more than a talk-feast that involving closing off streets, lining streets with armed police? 

Trade sanction? $1.7 billion per year trade? Get out of here !

Ultimately, when the dust settled, everyone will be back slapping, and smiles all-round. 

Would Bishop put up a UN resolution on the Palestinian massacres, right now?Dave In Melbourne,

Like you, and many of us, do believe it is utterly important to bring back the remains of the victims. However, one needs to be fully aware of the risks to the living, ie. the personnel who are putting their own lives at risk in order to bring some closure to the families affected.

Lets put it this way, if a boat load of people are being pounded by huge waves and at risk of being killed, would it be responsible to send rescuers out, knowing that they are likely to get smashed against the rocks? 

Heroism and compassion are great attributes we all admire. However, foolhardiness and irresponsibility are to be avoided.Sir Trent Toogood,

Air Marshal Angus Houston wasn't keen on arming the AFP. I believe him being a military man, knew exactly the unintended consequences it may quite possibly induce.

The politicians did not see the forest for the trees. Those who can't, teach. Perhaps it should be rephrased...Those who don't have to lose their lives, only too keen to start a war !

Truth is stranger than fiction !

So our most capable foreign minister Julie Bishop managed to get Ukraine to agree to gain access to the crashed site. A significant number of ADF were sent there, with the intention of "secure" the site. Then there was the question of "..to arm" or "...not to arm". 

All dressed up and rearing to go. Alas, then the Ukrainian started an offensive right near the site. So now it is all dressed up and nowhere to go. The question is: Why did the Ukrainian took the offensive move now, and right near the site?

A less conspiratory person would argue that it is just a war initiative. However, a conspiracy theorist like myself might even begin to think the Ukrainians are trying to prevent a well-coordinated investigation. Something to hide, maybe? 

Now to the question of sending the ADF into harms' way. It seems we are only too keen to send in the AFP. They went to PNG. The Solomon Islands. East Timor. Fair enough, they are well trained, and they are doing a fine job. However, it does appear the government is using them as a way to tell the rest of the world that :"We have the best". It was perfectly OK to send them to those situations where villagers didn't see eye to eye, and fought among themselves with small arms. It is very different when there are tanks, heavy machine guns, rockets, RPG, the works. 

So pistols are not enough, let them carry machine guns, RPG as well? You might as well send in the SAS. In fact, I suspect they are already among the AFP officers. So are we going to allow ourselves to be dragged into another war, this time in a long way away?

Air Marshall Angus Houston very wisely articulated that it is not feasible to be armed in this conflict zone. He should know as he saw many real wars. The politicians? Well, they certainly know how to make themselves look and sound important, and they like wars. Well, as long as they are not the ones fighting it, and die for it !I reckon Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston is very wise, after watching how he behaved during the mysterious disappearance of MH370 and the downing of MH17.

At the beginning of the MH17 disaster, Tony Abbott and Julie Bishop already "knew" who were responsible, and labelled it as a "murderous" act! They then promised to bring those responsible to justice. Hairy chested stuff. Then they topped it up by setting up a military style "Operation Bring Them Home". This reminds me of "Operation sovereign Border", or perhaps should be aptly named "Operation tell you nothing". 

Then more icing on the cake by sending quite a substantial number of AFP, and even suggesting armed personnel to guard the site!

You have to be pretty dumb to even contemplate arming the AFP. Small firearms vs heavy machine guns? Anyone with any common sense would know it is dangerous enough to be in the midst of the combatants, let alone letting off a few rounds of pistol shots.

Angus Houston, a man who saw actions during his long military service, knew it wasn't a good idea. On The Insiders yesterday, he praised the co-operation of the separatists. Now I believe it is a better way to deal with such a situation rather than telling the separatists that they are nothing but a bunch of murderous bastards.

Politicians wants to be seen as proactive and tough. I am not so sure you want to be tough when you are in someone else backyard.

Just like wars, a disaster such as the MH17 does give politicians a wider angle to work on. Maggie Thatcher almost glow in the dark during the Falklands war as she was the PM in war. John Howard was decidedly steely during the "Coalition of the willing" wars. The later also unashamedly turned the Tampa saga into a near-war scenario. "We decide who can come, and the manner they come!" Stirring stuff. Australians like that. 

Tony Abbott found himself in front of the camera quite a bit during the MH17. "Operation Bring Them Home" sounds like a war cry. I doubt there will be another "Coalition of the willing" for quite a while.

By the way, I wish Abbott and Bishop front up the TV and talk about the human tragedy that is unfolding in GAZA. But the Israeli lobby would be most unhappy about it, wouldn't it?Perhaps Mr. Stephen McDonell ought to consider "in-bed", sorry, I meant "Em-bed" with the ADF. 

Modern day warfare are fought on many fronts. The "media spin" front probably is as important as in the thick of actions. 

Governments are so good at manipulating media spin that can be clearly shown during election campaigns. Media are bused in without being told where the bloody hell they are heading. The next step may involve blindfolding the media !

I can understand but not necessarily agree with the tactics during elections, but I sure don't see the reasons for withholding information from the media. Perhaps the ADF suspect there are Russian spooks within the media crowd? Perhaps the ADF attempted to big-note themselves by only give away a little bit of information at a time. As we all know that "information is power" ?I had my doubts about the pool of talents in the LNP when it was elected some 12 months ago. Many of the ministers are recycled. 

I was proven wrong again, judging by the strings of intelligent comments made by the "experienced" ministers. Eric "40 job applications per month" Abetz, George "18C" Brandis, Christopher "Credit is due" Pyne, and "Kevin Andrews.

Some ungracious folks made light of the wisdom of these gentlemen, but we can ignore them. To make the best even bester, Joe Hockey did his bit to help out with his latest fuel excise rational. "Rich people spend more on fuel than poor people", he proclaimed. 

Not content to be outdone by the "Fact Checker" on the ABC, I shall have my own "FAT Checker".

Yes, it is possible that rich people have more than one car, or even two, or three. One for the man, one for the woman, and one for each of the brats. After a long research that lasted some ten minutes, my "FAT Checker" discovered that poor people also have similar living arrangement, ie. man and woman, plus a few kids. The adults do need to go to work, or do the '40 applications per month" thing if they don't already have a job. So they need a car because there are no public transports in the bush.

In a round and about way, the poor people may have as many, if not more cars, than the rich folks.

Now here is the dilemma...Poor folks quite possibly have to live a fair way, even a very long way from their work place because of the price of housing. I know of people who have to drive 100 Km round trip everyday. 

Lets say it takes 15 litres of fuel for the 100 Km trip. So it will be 15 cents extra per day. No big deal? Perhaps. But then don't forget the GP co-payments which will, supposedly, help to fight cancers, dementia, etc. in the future !

Abdul the rug dealer next door will be only too pleased if people dump their cars. I believe the unscrupulous Abdul is busy flogging off his carpets that use no fuel.Perhaps a psychologist, a sociologist, a doctor, or anyone who is smarter than I am, can help me out here, please...

I noticed Mr. Robin Williams stood next to Chevy Chase who is now a much chubbier person than the images in his many comedies. Chevy, also suffered form depression. Then my comic hero Frankie Howard also suffered from such illness, and sadly, many other comedians. 

Do comedians have a higher likelihood of suffering from depressive illness ? Could the "peaks" and "troughs" have anything to do with being a funny man ?

Then of course, addictions. 

Do addictions cause depression ? or 

Depressive persons seek addictive substances to ease the pains? 

Do addictions magnify the depressive illness ?I watched the "InSight" on the SBS last night. It was about the attractions of ISIS to Australians and young people in other Western nations.

I was rather pleased to learn that many, in fact, the majority, of the audience were opposed to the stupidity of ISIS, and were not reluctant to condemn it. Unfortunately, there were a handful, probably two, were rather gung-ho about it. One "brave" even have the ISIS flag/logo/trademark on his sleeve. He looked rather proud of his identification with ISIS. 

When questioned deeper into what and why he thought ISIS is such a beaut idea, he spewed out the usual craps about Muslims doing their duties for Allah. Then of course the crusade and oppressions by the West on Muslims. 

Then a father told the crowd that he had report his son to the authority as the 17 year-old was drawn to the ISIS ideology. Good thing that he had done so as he may have saved his son's life, as well as others'. Apparently the young chap became listless and depressed, and started growing a beard. Now apparently the beard gave him the respect he did not have. 

Talking about ISIS's ideologies. What ideologies? They made it up as it goes. Pol Pot did that by destroying history, and killing well educated persons. Pol Pot wanted to turn back the clock. ISIS is doing exactly that.

Despite the fact that I am an atheist, I do value highly the "historical" values of the ancient religious symbols and monuments. To the idiotic ISIS mobs whose main objectives are to terrorize, destroy, and create havoc, these monuments have no relevance in their narrow minds. But then again, what do you expect from a bunch of ignorant infidels? 

Than Al Baghdadi stooge behave like one of those TV evangelist. He looked ridiculously funny if he is not deadly !Now that G.W.Bush is keeping himself busy painting half-decent portraits of world leaders, and John Howard keeps himself busy giving the occasional speeches, the world should be a much quieter place. But it is not !

So what the hell is going on ? Well, you may be disappointed to know that we are still living the aftermath of the wars started by the "Coalition of the willing". Despite the massive spins by the politicians and the supposedly upright and honest, tell it like it is, military leaders, the wars didn't end up well at all. They packed up in a hurry, as the war efforts depleted the respective nations' coffers as well as public's patience. Claims were made that the Iraqi army are now well trained, ready to defend the nation. We know these are nothing but lies.

President Obama, to his credit, knows fully well that as much as he wants to demonstrate to the world USA's massive military supremacy, the nation simply can't afford to do what it used to be able to do, before the GFC and the Afghan and Iraqi wars. Perhaps the USA has learned a lesson somewhat from these two wars. Pity about the fact that USA didn't learn from the Vietnam war though.

The Arab Spring promised so much. The progressive were cheering as they thought by ridding of the dictators, the Middle East will have democracy like the West. The conservatives also shared the same sentiment with the progressives, but with a different agenda. The later foolishly believe that the dictators will be replaced by leaders who are more compliant and are sympathetic to the West.

Alas, they are both wrong. The Arab Spring turned out to be more of a winter chill than the expected sunshine and blooming flowers.

Would ridding Syria of President Assad be a winner? I doubt it. ISIS is morphed from the Al Qaeda mobs. And Al Qaeda was already operating in Iraq after the fall of Saddam Hussein. So the removal of Assad will simply hasten the ISIS's advance. 

The incompetent and self-centred mobs in Iraq right now know only one thing, ie. how to hold onto power, and stuff the plights of the people. Obama is in a bind here. To support a bunch of crooks will not result in any improvement for Iraq. To commit soldiers on the ground is a definite negative., at least for now.

Mind you, Julie Bishop, David Johnston and Tony Abbott are out gung-ho the Yanks, as they "...will not rule in, or rule out" ground troops. Talking about stupidity !I am totally and utterly dejected ! My world is crumbling around me. No, please do not worry, I am not contemplating self harm, but I am awfully closed to doing it !

The new Abbott government has promised so much. They promised to shoot the Budget Black-hole out of the sky. It is a "work in progress" right now. Then the PPL to boost women participation rate. It is a bit on the "too generous" side, but who is going to complain if you are "entitled" to a $75,000 cash payout? A very good policy if you qualify for it.

Scott Morrison managed to off-load refugees to third-world countries and spared the LNP the heartaches suffered by the ALP. 

Joe Hockey and Mathias Cormann did a good job in hammering out a "fair and balanced" budget, and even smoked a couple of big fat cigars to celebrate their efforts. Adults are in charge. Doers and not talkers. I like that...I like that a hell of a lot !

I thought to myself: This government does mean business. It steers with firm hands, and knows exactly where it is heading.

Then for some strange reasons, George Brandis broke the "doers, not talker" policy and opened his mouth. He proposed to tip the 18C into the dunny. Good idea again, I thought. But then I realized that only a very small minority cheered for its demise as most Australians, being fair minded we are, didn't think it was such a champagne idea. So it was more umm and ahh. It took much of the oxygen from Joe's budget. Finally, it took a "PM decision" to whack it on the head with a 10 pound hammer. 

The, Eric "40 job application per month" Abetz gave us an insight on his empathy with job seekers. Lifters and not leaners are preferred. Fair enough. Now go get a job, you bludgers !

Down but not out, Brandis decided to give ASIO and the AFP our "MetaData". Although not quite sure what the bloody hell it actually is. It might be fine if he did his homework and took the bother to learn what it is. After that interview, I knew what it is...A series of Ummm's and Ahhh's, just like the "010001". So he wanted to give something away and have not a clue what he is giving away?

More stink bombs by Eric Abetz about abortion and breast cancer. 

Is it any wonder that Julie Bishop and Abbott are only too glad to be jetting around the world, and leave the geniuses to mob up their own mess ?It looks like new borders are being redrawn. It is clearly not what the West had wished for when Iraq was invaded with a lie such as "WMD" and "imminent danger" as so declared by Colin Powell. 

Democracy gave Iraq the result, ie. majority rules. Unfortunately, the way the weak incompetent Malaki government interprets democracy meant winner takes all, and stuff the people who are not like them, ie. Shiites. 

Perhaps we can't blame the Sunni for giving the murderous ISIS the supports because they were sidelined by the Iraqi central government. Venting their angers by siding with the ISIS is one thing, but to have such a bunch of idiots who have no appreciating of history and human values to govern is another. 

ISIS with all guns blazing, killed and destroyed along the way, will not last when they enter the Shiites areas. For the Shiites, when backed into a corner, it is more about survival than religions. I do feel sorry for the defenseless minorities such as the ancient Christian mobs. What a mess the West had created !

Now the ISIS is the new rising star in the Al Qaeda rank, whatever happened to the "original" Al Qaeda mob? Has it joined up with the more blood thirsty ISIS, or it has turned soft ?I want to talk about library...Yes, George Brandis's library...

More often than not, a politician stand in front of a wall-full of books...Shiny, brand spanking new, totally and utterly aligned, with not a single book out of place. To speak in such a setting possible give the speakers an air of knowledgeably, some authority, a bit of credibility. It gives the perceptions the speakers are well read, as the entire wall of books bear witness. 

Being a cynic and a skeptic, I often wonder what kind of books are they? I even mischievously believe they are just book covers, with nothing within! Yes, a conspiracy theory of mine, folks. 

Yes, go ahead and laugh at my shallowness. Fortunately, the events last week had given some credibility to my "mad" idea. George Brandis spent a substantial amount of taxpayers' money to beef up on his private library. Yes, besides that, he was chastised for the "official" attendant of a wedding too. Anyway, a wall-full of books is supposed to make a wise man even smarter...provided that the books actually got read, of course.

The MetaData performance probably added a few millions "Likes"in UTube. Such "Likes" did not add to the LNP's political fortune though. "MetaData is the web address....Ummm...The electronic address...".

So it just confirmed my three suspicions.
(1). The books never got read.
(2). The books have nothing in them.
(3). Books...A wall-full of them do not automatically make someone smarter.

Then out of nowhere, Eric Abetz decided to catch up with the time by dragging materials in 1950s and waded into the abortion issues. Quicker than a jockey flashing past the winning post, he back-tracked. 

Meanwhile, Joe Hockey is tearing his rapidly thinning hair, and wonder when will these hombres shut the f-up. and allow his budget hard-sells some traction? 

Tony Abbott is only too pleased to have an excuse to get the hell away from the crazy mob, to personally thank the personnel working on the MH17 disaster, and more importantly, to demand more sanctions on Russia. One tough amigo he is.Economic sanctions did not work that well on the Saddam Husein regime. Remember the Wheat Corp corruption scandals? 

Cuba pissed off USA by kicking the CIA's ass. Cuba was not forgiven to this day. 

Vietnam kicked USA's ass. Again, sanctions were imposed but failed. Grudgingly, USA extend its hands to Vietnam because China is only too pleased to take up the slack.

Will Russia crumble ?  former Australian ambassador to Moscow and Ukraine Mr. Cavan Hogue reckoned that it will not amount to much for Australia. 

I believe Russia is different to the West. They lost millions of fighting men/women during the last world war, and won the war with the Western forces. Yes, people with short memory will want to claim all the credits for the Western alliance. The fact remained that Russia will, and can, sustain harsher punishments than the West could endure. 

As the Myth-Busters demonstrated...If you throw a bag of sh*t into a fan, it will splatter right back into your face. The fact remains that many European economies are still relying on Russia's energy supplies, and even military trades like France and, wait a minute, the UK. So the threat of more, harsher sanctions will be just that, a threat.I used to work with a man who took great delights in telling us about his sexual conquests. Being stuck in the same office, the rest of us kept our mouths shut while he carried on about his prowess. In private, we all wished he bloody well shut the F up and kept his "fantasies" to himself. Yes, fantasy. We all believe he was making it up. But what the hell? 

With politicians talking openly about sexual matters, especially on air, is quite something. In a strange way, I quite like it. Let me put it this way, I would rather Ms. Lambie talked about measurements than starting a new war with Russia. Men in high places such as politics and religious organizations would talk about morality, yet some would visit brothels. When found out, the will blame unhappy marriage or some bullsh*t excuses for their indiscretions. 

"...men to be sexual, to be shallow about it"

Well, this lady is a deep thinker, for sure. 

By the way, I collect whipper-snipers as a hobby. Ms. Lambie is most welcome to check out my collections.Isn't it rather funny that Julie Bishop thinks G20 belongs to Australia alone? 

She and Tony Abbott have been engaging in megaphone "non-diplomacy" over the MH17 disaster. The first thing she did was to run to the US for some directions. Then lots of hairy-chested "talking at" towards Russia. 

To ban President Putin from the G20? Perhaps she should put him on the Interpol list first.Things are the way they are for a reason. 

Saddam Hussein, a Sunni minority, managed to unify Iraq in ways he knew best. His tactics were not nice. In fact, in Westerners' angle, they were cruel, sadistic, suffocating, etc. Despite all the negatives, Iraq was a country, a functioning country. Mind you, it can't be that bad as John Howard traded with Iraq. 

With his network of spies among the population, good organization, and his reputation of cruelties, the population was kept under control. In exchange for their submission to his rule, the population was doing relatively fine. OK, one cannot compare the Iraqis living conditions to what we have here, but they did have a functioning society. 

Alas, according to the Western society, that was not good enough. They needed democracy, and we are ever so eager to give it to them, and we did. Ten years later, we have three Iraq. Sunnis, Kurd and Shiites. In fact, I believe there are more that just the three. Now we have the ultra-extremists ISIS who believe anything in the past is to be liquidated. 

Sitting on the sideline, the West scratches its head and wondering what did go wrong. Iraq was given a good dose of democracy which is supposed to sort out any social ailments. I bet the West also thought once Iraq is "democratized", it will fall into the fold of the West. Oil will flow freely. A tug on the string, and the puppets will respond accordingly. 

Now we know that was the fantasy of the dim-witted western leaders. Tony Blair wrote a long article denying any responsibility to the mess. George W. Bush is probably too busy with his high-school level painting. John Howard kept very quiet too. 

I believe ISIS will eventually self-implode. These nut-jobs knew only how to kill and destroy. Once they destroyed everything in its path, it will turn on itself.Come from a family with little cash to spare at anytime, we were taught to be thrifty. "Don't waste" was knocked into our heads. Now after all those years, I still adhere to the "Don't waste" idea.

Can I afford to waste? Can I afford to light up my house like a Christmas tree? Can I afford to have all the microwave ovens, TV sets, etc. on "standby"? Of course I can, but I won't ! But that is the point. Why waste the energy when you re not actually using it. Mind you, those un-used, wasted energy will cost you too.

Does price influence our usage behaviours? I believe it does. 

One of the failures the ALP, and indeed Julia Gillard's, was the inability to articulate the reasons of our electricity increases. I believe it was only near the end of her term that she finally cotton on to the fact that much of the increases were due to the infrastructure upgrades. I guess if you can't explain the real reason behind it, then she deserve to be constant kicked around by Tony Abbott with his "No Carbon Tax" mantra. 

Australia builds much of its wealth on Iron ores and Coal. It is even more so now as the manufacturing sectors are facing problems, and they are getting worse. Car manufacturing is doom. Ship building is in trouble as the recent cost overrun on some of the government contracts. Coal is a savior to the national coffer. As long as we still have plentiful supply, we will resist any measures to reduce the demand of coal. In a nutshell, it is pushing sh*t uphill.

Personally, I don't mind coal as long as we also spend enough resource on alternative energy generation. It is called "A bob each way.". That is our insurance policy for the future. But I doubt the LNP is as far-sighted as that.I hang around the beach a lot while wind surfing. Quite often I struck up a conversation of some of those "grey nomads" who roam around the entire country with their home towed behind an expensive 4WD. 

Through all those conversations, I learned that some had been round and round for at least four or five times. Each loop will take them a full year. In fact, I knew of a couple who had been doing that since 1990 !

Being ever a curious person, I asked why? What for? How much? Do they get sick of the never ending loops?

Basically, I believe costs are a major factor for them to do so. For them to stay in a caravan park with a permanent site is not really cheap. In the end, when they kick the bucket, they still own nothing as the site their house was on is not belong to them at all. Another misery they may face is the caravan park can chuck them out if and when the park is sold for re-development. They would then have to find another place to relocate their permanent home! 

To loop round and round will still cost them the fuels, but what the owned is truly theirs. Another interesting answer I got was that they would rather spend whatever they have and enjoy it. As for their children? Well, they can go and earn their own dough. 

It is incredible that as we get wealthier as a nation, there will always emerge a bunch of quick-witted sharks who are only too ready to rip off as much as you allow them to do so, or can get away with!Yes...those stupid "Wicked Vans". I saw them quite a lot when down at the beach. Overseas travelers use them because they are relatively cheap. They are cheap because the vans are, well, crap ! 

Are the rubbish written all over the vans funny? Well, not really. All of them are not originals. They had been copied from a dark corner of some public toilets. Persons who like nothing better than to dish out their "wisdom" for the amusement of others. 

But that is the point...If written in a dark corner somewhere in a filthy public toilet, then nobody will give too much of a damn as these toilet jokes are plagiarized anyway. It is a totally different matter if they are displayed publicly on our roads, our beaches and our supermarket car parks. 

So why do they do that? I suspect it is because the vans are such craps that silly jokes and messages are used to cover the blemishes on the vans. It is a detraction. Would I hire one? Well, I have no need to. However, if I do need to hire a van, I will think twice to go near one of those. This is because it reflects who I am in some way. To take my business to them is a way to endorse the van company's philosophy which is, well, toilet stuff.

I feel sorry for the company though. I bet we all know some smart-asses in the offices, pubs, or at BBQ. These half wits thought they are funny by telling "recycled" jokes. Ultimately, instead of being the centre of attention, people soon get sick of the endless stream of sick jokes and avoid them.I wonder if it is permissible to call it a "LEVY" rather than a "TAX"? 

It is understood that the Clerk of the Senate provides advices. Are those advices always have to be taken ?I like the good old days. I like it when you and if you are really rich, you can show off your wealth. 

Lets say I have ten cows, some fifty pigs, and a chookyard full of egg laying hens. I want my neighbours to see what I have accumulated. To see their jealous eyes would be worth all those years of penny pinching, cheating and lying.

I can proudly tell my son/daughter" "One day, all these will be yours, if you play your card right !"

Unfortunately, it is not possible as my money will be hidden away somewhere in a bank. Within one of those hard drives, on a tiny little sector, lies my money written in binary code, a lot of zero and one, spinning round and round and round...

Right now, I log into my bank account daily to check if anything goes amiss. I doubt I want to add an extra layer of complexity to what is a very complex financial system.Mr. Clive Palmer will make Tony Abbott's days miserable. Can the ALP be rubbing their hands in great joy because of that? No. If Palmer can do that to Abbott, he will do the same to whoever in government, in future. 

All the talk of budget black-holes, red and green tapes, lifters and leaners will come to nil as Palmer will exact as much pain as he sees fit to Abbott. Mr. Abbott definitely needed some good advice on dealing with others. Last week, the day the Carbon Tax was "supposed" to be abolished, he declared :" Today is the day!". And it wasn't. Then he informed us that: "The new senators are 'inexperienced'". How about waving a red rag ?

Ms. Jacqui Lambie took exception to the "inexperienced" comment. I bet many other new senators did too. 

Then Abbott did a spin of his own and told us, falsely, of course, that: "It was normal" for the senate to behave like that. Well, I doubt it.

I suspect some people are taking delight in the fact that what Abbott got is what Ms. Gillard copped regularly from the LNP supporters. 

I wonder what the political scenes will be like if Abbott and Palmer were mates. Perhaps Abbott should shout Palmer a meal in a Chinese restaurant. Give it a try. I doubt Palmer will decline a wholesome meal. What about a $3,000 bottle of 1987 vintage Grange ?One should never forget that what Mr. Clive Palmer does to the Abbott government will be equally applicable to the ALP, if and when it does win the right to govern.

The ALP does not have much room to move away from the LNP in terms of "sameness" in their policies. Take the asylum seekers for example, it was the LNP's idea to lock them up in a third world country, out of sight, out of mind. Unfortunately, that was also the general population's desire to keep boat arrivals away. The constant media footage of boats arriving on our shores during the ALP era alarmed voters. The LNP took advantage of such situations by declaring :"Stop the boats" did the job.

Now the boat arrivals had, well, "disappeared", and Scott Morrison triumphantly declared: "We have succeeded in stopping the boats as promised!". I guess he is right if the 154 stranded persons are just imagination. 

Asylum seekers are just one of the prickly issues which took much more public attentions than it really warranted. The real bread and butter issues that will affect our lives remained to be tackled. The LNP gurus thought simple slogans will always do the trick, just like the pre-election "No xxxx" war cries. "The age of entitlement is over!" "Budget black-hole" "Budget emergency" "Keeping our election promises" will meant to soften the population before the budget pains. It is the common practice to "leak" some details before budgets to the government's advantage. Unfortunately, I believe it has been overdone!

If Mr. Shorten thinks he can relax as Mr. Palmer is doing his dirty work for him, he can't be too wrong. ALP needs some daylights between its policies and the LNP. 

By the way, did anyone notice how silent Shorten and Abbott are regarding the massively dis-proportioned retaliation the Palestinians are copping?Sex...Or perhaps more appropriately, sexual orientation, is no business of anybody else but a matter for the individual. 

Lets out it this way, it is highly likely that any sex act is conducted behind closed doors, or in private. What goes on is no business of others. Unfortunately, famous persons are fair games. Mr. Ian Thorpe aspired to be a top swimmer, and he had achieved that very successfully. For his successes through years of hard work and dedications, he probably was reworded quite adequately financially as well as fame. 

Being famous also carries a penalty. The evil twins of success is constant media probing, and one's sexual orientation is definitely on the agenda of the media. Mr. Thorpe knew the society's response to a gay person, and it is usually not very nice. Understandably, he wanted to avoid the potential backlash if he declared himself being gay. In a way, he wanted to maintain that "perfect" image of a successful athlete, ie. strong, good at his sports, straight, and not a trouble maker. 

It must be hard to pretend who you are not. The comedy "Keeping up appearances" is a case in point. Mr. Bucket tried desperately to hide the fact that her family is not as perfect as she would have liked. Life was a sea of miseries for her, and especially her poor husband Richard. Out of the whole bunch, the happiest person was Onslow because he just wanted to be who he was, and didn't give a stuff what others think of him!

Remember Rock Hudson? That hunk of a macho man who had no hesitation in scooping up a woman into his strong arms. His screen image was a perfect straight man with insatiable desires for females. Alas, truth is far from the screen images propagated. He hid it from the general public even to the day he died. But then the adoring audience wanted to link the real person with the screen personality. 

What about Liberace? He was a extravagant as any performer can be. Fluffy pink coats and numerous diamond rings. Ladies, especially the older and rich ones, loved him as he was the "perfect" man with nice broad smiles. He could play the piano too. 

I think we place too much emphasis on sexuality. It is only part of a person's make up. There are other components that "define" a person too.Mr. Ian Thorpe was repeated asked about his sexual preference, or often times speculated about it. I must be hard for him. I reckon what he should have done was to take the nosy folks by their shirtfront, and tell them to "Fu*k off" as it is "None of their business". 

We are indeed a bunch of sad characters who want to care about others' sexual inclination. Would anyone volunteer to have an observer into their bedroom? I doubt there are many. 

Ian Thorpe was a great swimmer, and he is a nice chap too. His public life we knew much of. His private life, well, why can't it just be that, private?

Yes, it must be a miserable act for him to pretend what he wasn't. In the swimming pool, he showed the world he was the best. Unfortunately for him, in public, he was up against a wall of resistance. Some moral card holders hated gay persons. His supporters like him just the way they "wanted" him to be, a he-male, who likes females rather than one who is batting for the other side! 

Mrs. Bucket in the comedy show "Keeping up appearances" tried desperately to be what she wasn't. Her family was a constant embarrassment for her. Her poor husband Richard's life was made miserable by keeping with her false pretenses. Out of the lot, Onslow, the beer gutted, beer swilling, "don't give a stuff" character was enjoying life to the max. Perhaps we all have a lesson to learn from Onslow?

Liberace was a good pianist. He topped his acts with lost of extravagant props and fluffy pink coats enough to shame the Queen! But still, the audience loved him, especially those rich older ladies. Was he gay? No way ! He can't be as the old ladies flocked to him.Remember the constant mantra "Rollback the GST " by Kim Beazley ? Well, it wasn't that easy once a scheme of such nature was in place. 

Yes, repealing the Carbon Tax is going to be just as messy, if Mr. Palmer has his way! Mind you, if the utility companies slapped on the Carbon Tax on our bills, they would be just as responsible to take it out in the fairest possible manner. I guess the really messy bit is the other businesses that factored in a Carbon Tax to the consumers, they will need to give it back accordingly. 

I believe some councils imposed a Carbon Tax on their rubbish collection, now they will also need to deduct it off their rates? What about the supermarkets?

Ultimately, Tony and Clive will find a compromise. However, judging by the way Abbott described the new bunch of senators as ..."inexperienced" did not help one little bit either. He needs to learn a bit about how to massage egos.The news today about a large Portuguese bank is in trouble perhaps can serve as a warning that the EU is not a bottomless pit of free money. 

Ukraine may be only too keen to join the EU to access the benefits supposed to be freely available. But that was during the hay days when countries like Greece were rolling around in Euros. 

It took one GFC to wake everyone up that  it was a bubble. To combine nations of very different cultures, values and more importantly, unequal economic strengths, is a disaster. Yes, the EU is only too happy to give some morale supports to Ukraine, and even chucked in a couple of billions Euros just to show they do care. I believe it is more about ideology. For a start, NATO will not want to have a war, and neither does Russia. The puppet master in USA does not have much stomach for war either.

Russia will wait it out. If Ukraine can pull itself together without constantly asking for financial assistance from EU, then it will be fine. Otherwise EU will either get sick of constantly giving, and perhaps unable to give anymore, then Ukraine will fall back into the mess it once was.Clancy

You and I have very similar story to tell. I agree with you on Mr. Gough Whitlam especially. 

The current conservative government's hare-brain push to privatize higher education is certainly going to remove the likelihood of poorer people gaining a better education, and hence a better life !Meritocratic or not?

James Packer, and his dad Kerry Packer certainly had it easy. Rupert Murdoch got a decent leg-up from his old man as well. Even Kerry Packer had self-doubts. He asked his close friends whether he can make it on his own if it wasn't because of the wealth he inherited. 

If you have the time to scan through the list of movers and shakers, you will find that who they knew, what school they went to, and which political parties they belonged did have much influence on their path to riches and, well, success. 

Take Nick Di Giloramo for example. He attended an exclusive private school. His school mates included a son of Eddie Obeid. Di Giloramo became a lawyer, and then the mover and shaker in the NSW Liberal party. With his access to influential people, he enriched himself by ripping off the NSW government. So there is inequality for you!

Personally, I don't believe being wealthy is a crime, as long as you acquired it through hard work, and God forbidden, legally. Some wealthy folks did some very good things by handing some of their wealth back to the society. That is very commendable. Unfortunately, some never knew the word "enough" means, and went on to pile on more of it as wealth creation is an obsession. Worse still, some used their wealth to shape the society in the image of their ideology. Sadly, some politicians fell into their web of influence, and became the puppets to these rich and influential folks.

No one can deny that Australia is facing some budgetary problems. If your incomes are "consistently" less than your expenditures, sooner or later very unpleasant things will catch up with us. Yes, we needed some concrete remedial actions to sort it out.

Judging by the way the LNP approached the budgetary problems, especially the way it tried to "megaphone" the seriousness of it, it had failed miserably. Joe Hockey went overseas to declared "The age of entitlement is over!". I bet he received a standing ovation for his wisdom. However, I doubt Australians take much notice of what he said, much less be impressed by the way he carried on about "budget black-holes". 

Tony Abbott convinced us to give him the nods by constantly telling us "No big new tax", "No Carbon Tax". "Cut green and red tapes". He seemed to believe that simple one-liners will very quickly patch things up. Well, it doesn't. The slump in the LNP and his approval ratings may not be entirely accurate, and may need to be taken with a grain of salt. However, such consistency may actually tell us that he is indeed on the nose!

The population is used to being scared by the constant cries of "WOLF", they no longer take any notice of it. The new senate is even harder for Abbott to ram things through, as amply demonstrated by the rejection of the Carbon Tax repeal. I believe Abbott is very lacking in diplomacy. Today, he declared that the new senators "...are inexperienced". Well, talking about waving a red flag. Did anyone watch Jacqui Lambie's response? Being an ex-soldier, I doubt she will take that kind of put-down too kindly.

Undoubtedly the population is used to getting sweeteners that they will want to hang on to them for as long as they can. However, lives are not getting that much sweeter since Australia has near wall-to-wall LNP governments. Take the resource-rich state of WA, everything has gone up, especially utilities. It is boasted that only the LNP can manage finance. Well, it is not true in WA. 

The combination of the rises on state level, and the new budgetary tightening on the national level, will definitely leave a bitter taste in most people's mouth, more so to the lower income groups.That old wisdom: "Don't count your chickens before they are hatched." still rings true. 

Tony Abbott was riding on a nice wave. He became "matey" with Shinzo Abe. He is now "Shinzo" to Tony. Japan is now our best friend, and a free-trade deal was sealed. On an emotion high, he announced: "...today should be the day when the carbon tax is finally scrapped". 

Well, it wasn't ! All thanks to Mr. Clive Palmer ! Ahhh...Big Clive. He got the power, and he is not reluctant to use it. 

I remember that book my brother bought me a long time ago: "How to make friends and influence people"? Just imagine if Abbott was not to get into such a heated argument with Palmer which resulted the later called him "XXXX", and some other notty names? 

What if instead Tony wrapped his arm around Clive's generously proportioned shoulders, and called him "Mate" ? Perhaps even went as far as calling him "My best friend" like he did to Shinzo Abe ?

If they were "best friends", Clive may not even bother to waste so much money starting a new party called "PUP". He could have used his money for a good cause, and to start a "PUB" instead!

Ahhh...So much water under the bridge. I bet Tony Abbott is not incapable of personal charms. Big egos needed a bit of gentle massage.I wouldn't think Mr. Abbott's views carry too much weight. He is, unfortunately, unable to be subtle. Perhaps he carries his boxing and rugby playing attitudes, crash through first and then think later. 

Remember what he said about Climate Change? To his bunch of like-minded Climate Change skeptics, he reckoned it is all crap. He was as ready to turn around to declare that he is not a skeptic when pressed. My point ? He will tell the Japanese that he just found Australia's best friend while he was in the process of sealing the free-trade deal. I bet he would be equally quick to announce China is Australia's best friend ever when it is time to flog off the free-trade deal.

The trouble is, Abbott and Julie Bishop as well, went just that extra bit deeper than necessary. Unless Abbott never bother to dig into a bit of our history, Japan actually invaded Darwin and killed quite a lot of people in the bombing raids. The legendary stories about "Weary Dunlop" in the POW camps, when the brutal Japanese soldiers took much delights in dishing out sadistic treatments to the POW. The POW were reduced to near skeletal walking dead. 

If he was to cast his sights further North, the brutal killings of Asian neighbours, especially the Chinese peasants, said much about the Japanese soldiers' attitudes to human rights and human lives. What about forcing Korean and Chinese ladies into "Comfort Women"? 

To date, Japan still haven't fully acknowledged its responsibilities. The visits to the war shrine by Abe is just a clear demonstration of his attitude to Japan's "proud" war efforts? Perhaps trades will wipe the slate clean? 
How is it possible for Mr. Newman to throw away so much of his lead, so soon after his landslide electoral win? Well, There are many. He can take comfort by the fact that he is not alone. Mr. Abbott wither away so much of his popularity in even shorter duration. Mr. Colin Barnett over the West is not exactly the darling of the voters he once was. 

It is so true that when you are dealing with a smaller domain like Brisbane, things are so much easier to resolve as there are less problems to begin with, and probably much less chiefs. Now on a state level, there are many chiefs and far more prickly issues to deal with. Being the mayor, you are the king of the castle, albeit just a little one. Now he has a kingdom with many potentially grumpy knights all wanting to have a stab at you if you turn your back !

At a state level, there are interwoven political groups. The "can do" and "charge forward" attitude Newman is used to while in the arm forces will not work as well. The "Yes, Sir!" "No, Sir!" clear-cut approaches will not be applicable. 

Now his "crash-through' attitude is coming back to bite him. The recent mess regarding the appointment of a judge is a clear case in point.

Smile more, and open his mouth less? Can a leopard change its spots? 

What is happening to the current crop of LNP governments reminds me of the Howard government in its final term. It got carried away with its majority and attempted to dump the "Work Choices" on the lower paid folks.From talking to quite a few friends and acquaintances, I formed the view that many Australians take a dim view on the boat arrivals. The constant barrages of images on our TV during the ALP's reign did not help one bit. Mind you, some of the persons who opposed to the boat arrivals are recent immigrants themselves!

I believe it is the perception that our borders were becoming porous, and throwing in the threat of terrorists among them did help to sway their opinions.

So in come the Abbott government with its "Stop the boat", and they did. Well, to a degree as the two boatloads of recent arrivals demonstrated just how secretive the government has become. It is so secretive that even if someone drill a couple of holes in those boats and the refugees simply vanish under the water, and no one would know! 

Scott Morrison certainly applied his craft of driving people away well. Remember that horrible "Where the bloody hell are you?" tourism advertisement? The tourists stayed away.

Why the apparent effectiveness in stopping the boats did not convert into votes? I reckon it is because the Abbott government is a "One trick pony". To many folks who are dealing with the daily bread and butter issues, the refugee issue is like a tiny grain of sand in their shoe. It is annoying and even irritating. Once that "pain in the shoe" is removed, they still have the "real" issues such as job uncertainties, the budget, iron ore and coal prices, etc.

The tenants in my two properties are only willing to renew their rental leases to a shorter six-monthly one. I suspect they are unsure of their jobs. I am talking about the resource rich state of WA. 

The constant increases in all forms of utilities did not calm the nerves one bit. I also believe that because now just about the entire nation is wall-to-wall LNP, voters are associating the state LNP with the national LNP for the increases, and the assets sell offs. 

To convert the "NO xxxx" to "YES" is a lot harder now that the LNP is in power.I saw Dr. Philip Nitschke's efforts to help persons who are suffering from terminal illness as positive and necessary. Those unfortunate persons' pains are immense. They can't even manage their own personal functions. There is no longer any activity they can engage in. In other words, they are merely living in an empty shell. 

When a once thriving, energetic person reached a state where he/she is fully dependent on others' goodwill to stretch their miseries just that little bit longer, it has become, in my opinion, a torture. 

After watching the interview on the 7.30 Report, I believe Dr. Nitschke had gone one bridge too far. As I said in the beginning, if the patient is in deep miseries due to illness, then it is a charitable act to minimize that person's suffering. The common practice now is to inject the sick person full of pains killers which basically render him a zombie. For me, that charitable act may even be assisted suicide. 

The person in question in that interview was not suffering from a terminal illness, but depression due to some other social issues. Above all, he was young.

Dr. Nitschke's insistence that he was not his patient simply does not make sense as it is his duty as a doctor to help him to find the best outcome. For those terminally ill persons, it may be assisted suicides. For that particular person, it should mean a referral to some other qualified persons. 

Because of that instance, my view on Dr Nitschke is somewhat dimmer.I quite like this mixed bunch. How some of them got into the parliament in the first place is a clear case of democracy gone rogue. 

Take Mr. Ricky Muir for example, a mere 0.5% managed to shove him over the rest of the pack and got elected. Perhaps his now publicized talent for kangaroo sh*t throwing gave him just that extra edge? He was rather elusive, or perhaps even evasive, as he went AWOL for a long while, and no one knew where he was. The other quality, one could argue an admirable one, is he kept his mouth shut. Either it is "Still water run deep" or he has nothing much to say. I hope it is the former.  

Mind you, opening your mouth too often for no gainful purpose is not much good either. I am talking about George Brandis.

Ms. Jacqui Lambie is quite endearing. Not often you see a politician who dares to speak her mind, or even, God forbidden, went as far as answering questions directly. I bet soon she will settle in, and will just like all the rest of them, dodging and weaving around the questions.

Mr. Glenn Lazarus, a football legend. Anyone who dared to stand his ground knew how it was like being ran straight through. I hope he might unleash his shoulder charge on some of those wimpy politicians.

It is an interesting time we live in...The old saying: "If you can't govern yourself, how can you govern the country?" is very true. However, I believe it should read as : "If you can't govern yourself, someone else will govern for you !"

That is the situation the Palestinians are facing. The constant power struggles between the Fatah and the Hamas for being the number one amigo, and the sporadic pesky rockets fired into Israeli with next to nothing effects, simply plays into the hands of the Israelis. 

The power struggles meant a fragmented government. The ineffective home-made rockets simply gave Israel the excuses it needs to bomb the living crap out of the Palestinians. The kidnapping of three Jewish teenagers now also gave Israel the excuse to build more illegal houses on the occupied lands.

Yes, I do have a lot of sympathies for the sufferings they endure daily. However, such miseries will continue unless the Palestinians get their own acts together. For that, I doubt it will ever happen.

So the complains against Israel keep coming thick and fast, and with much justifications. The Israelis will keep doing what it has always been doing, as it has bigger guns, and the backing of the West, especially the US and Australia.It seems Australia is always only too keen to get involve with others' conflicts, in the past, the present, and potential future ones.

We followed the Yanks to teach the under-developed country like Vietnam a lesson in modern warfare, and came away with not much to show for it. Then we followed the Yanks into Afghanistan because the mad terrorists killed 3,000 American in the Twin Towers. Then mid-way through it, we rid Iraq of Saddam Hussein because it is good for democracy. 

Unless you are an idiot, you can be excused for believing all these campaigns were highly successful. So now Australia is very keen to form an alliance with Japan which, unless you are blind and deaf, invaded Australia. Can Japan count on us ? Definitely. Could our assistance amount to much in an all out war? Well, judging by those past wars we involved in, I very much doubt it. 

The only thing it will do is to embolden the Japanese to re-arm itself. I hope we still haven't forgotten that Darwin was bombed, and some of us died in those raids.Negative Gearing seems to be the favourite of Mr. Michael Janda, as I saw quite a few of his articles on such issue within this few months. But that is fine as that is his job.

Yes, I am guilty as charged. I "DID" negatively geared my investment properties. No, I am not a high income earner, but merely an average one. 

I faced the choice of seeing my hard-earned savings being eaten away by inflation. Whatever interest I received from the bank, the taxation department very quickly separated it from me! So I have some money that was peddling on the spot, going nowhere fast. Lets face it, time will catch up with you, and your employment can never be guaranteed. 

It took me years of "umm.. and Ahhh..." to finally decided to plunge into the housing market. Yes, you guess it, I negatively geared. Now was that a promised path to paradise? Far from it. I skipped the fancy restaurants, flash new cars, etc. My fists were so tight that it took much persuasion to open up, ever so slightly. Contrary to some false imagination, the many years I took on such risk was far from being a champagne and caviar affair. Mind you, the interest rate then was at an all time high, 17%. 

I pumped money into the investments despite negative gearing. Mind you, the constant worries about further interest rate hike did not help my raw nerves then.

Now, my investments no longer afford me any negative gearing benefits. If you care to know, there is one less pension receiver too. 

It is a life choice. If you want to rent, and bugger with the other issues such as council rates, insurances, water and sewage rates, land tax, constant safety requirements such as smoke alarms, RCD's, and constant maintenance to keep the house liveable, then go for it. To paint people who chose to negatively gear in a pale light is quite far from the reality.

Tim P

I can't name names, neither do I know too many as I don't go near them. However, "fancy restaurants" I am referring to are the ones that serve you a meal in a super-size plate, but with the few peas and some garnishes sprinkled over a tiny piece of food in the centre. For all that, you are charged over $100.With the ease of access of the online media, it becomes very easy to spread one's own propaganda to whoever wishes to read it. As the old saying goes: "Birds of the same feather flock together". People with the same outlooks and opinions will tend to congregate around the same mobs.

Take Climate Change for example. Everyone chipped in, regardless of how ridiculous their arguments, or the lack of them, are. So basically as soon as the topic of "Climate Change" is discussed, it would be like raising a red-flag to a charging bull which is frothing at the mouth. 

It became pointless to even join in the discussions as all the experts hiding under every gumtree suddenly emerged and declared their expertise in such area. In the end, it was nothing more than just :"Yes, it does" and "No, it doesn't".

Of course, the concentration of media ownership, and the owners' open bias because (1). He can, (2). He wants to be a king/queen maker, and (3). He is in it to corner the media market as well as to dictate the direction of the country he sees fit.

The politicians' keenness to exploit the media to advance their own causes as well as getting elected have resulted in them being the captive of the media. Tony Blair, Kevin Rudd, Julia Gillard, Tony Abbott, and many others, went to America to pay their respect as well as asking for the blessing of a certain amigo, does speak volume of how the media climate has changed, for the worse, I believe.Please believe me...I genuinely feel sorry for Ricky Muir. He received a mere 0.5% of the votes, yes, a zero and a decimal point in front of the 5, yet he copped possibly 80% of the attentions. The photo here illustrated just that !

Without a clue? Not too cluey? Well, that is the judgment only you can make. For me, he is someone capable to chucking a few kangaroo pellets at his mates, and able to maintain a perpetual smile. Better still, he didn't say much, not very much at all. Still water runs deep? Who knows. Lets put it this way, George Brandis, a professional politician, said a hell of a lot. Unfortunately, much of what he uttered were ridiculous stuff that only served to stir the pot for no gainful purpose. 

So perhaps Mr. Ricki Muir already has one great advantage over the rest of the "mainstream" politicians?

Democracy at its best, or at its worst? The string pulling, dealing making by some clever dick ended up with elected MP with less than a single percentage's votes, is either a cause for celebration, or alarm. But then, judging by the past, professional politicians aren't doing that much better either.I can't sing, can't paint, and I can't play the wobble board either. Worse still, I probably freeze in front of an audience ! However, I can imagine the energy, the adrenaline, the power channeled through from a large adoring and appreciating audience.

With the perception of power comes the feeling of invincibility. The believe that one can do things other common folks can't, or are not permitted to get away with.

Watching some of the old clips when bands boasted about groupies falling over themselves to get laid. But I suppose these are distinct to the band members going out of their way to sexually assault under-aged girls?

Harris, or now should be more aptly called "Dirty Harris" thought he was a superstar, and he probably was in the young kiddies' eyes. In his mind, he thought their adoration can also be converted into something sexual in nature. How wrong !

It is interesting that it was like a house of cards. Jimmy Savile was the most notable one, but unfortunately, only after his death. Now Harris is one of the few that followed Savile. Perhaps we need to revise they way we treat celebrities. Basically, we paid, and they entertained us. They are not someone who are special other than being able to do some of the things most of us can't do, like singing and dancing in front of a large audience.I want to talk about the Pyramids...

So what has the Pyramids got to do with our potential economic crisis? 

The pyramids in Egypt are a constant source of speculations, intrigues, scientific research, and above all, kooky theories.

It is believed that they were actually built by the humble human beings after all. Apparently, peasants were asked to chipped in their labour during the off-seasons when the Nile Delta was flooded. 

Archeological digging showed that the labourers were paid in flour, and lots of onions ! Yes, lots of the damn thing while they lived in those poorly ventilated stone buildings.

Perhaps we can solve the many problems we face by starting some huge infrastructure projects, or even some useless ones like the pyramids. The unemployed can learn some skills which they can take away for the rest of their lives. The nation gets to have some badly needed infrastructures for nothing. No more unemployment. 

As for paying the workers with onions, maybe not...So the cute baby has grown up and turned into an ugly monster?I think it is all about "brand name". 

Dirty Harris has the ability to turn a mediocre act into entertainment. He managed to turn a piece of crappy plywood board onto a "wobble board". Kids loved it, even adults fell for it because their kids loved it. 

His very public act of painting the Queen took him to the peak of his fame. Mind you, he is a staunch Monarchist. But that is not a crime. Mucking about with underage girls was. 

I am not a art aficionado. I like the way he gets his painting done, quick and dirty. Superior pieces? I can't really say. Perhaps he is more at home on the street corners, making and selling his pieces to appreciating tourists. Because of his "Brand Name" Rolf Harris, his paintings received extra marks 

Remember Starsky and Hutch? They squeezed in some singing in between their acting. Would the album sell if Starsky and Hutch are mere amigos on the street? What about Elvis Presley? His singing talents are un-disputable. However, his acting was far from impressive, but we do tolerate those sub-B grade movies. 

It is quite amazing that it took 40 years for the truths to come out. In fact, they came out not long after Jimmy Savile's posthumous convictions. Perhaps that says much about our society's love and fear of celebrities. These celebrities were put so high up the pedestal that they are almost next to God, untouchable. The persons who were wronged were too afraid to speak as they feared no one will believe them. 

It is time to peg the celebrities down a couple of rungs. They are just entertainers.If I am in the hotel business, I would be very alarmed. Imagine this... Drinkers can "recycle" the beer he drank. In other words, you only pay once ! 

Like the author said, it is foolish to put these tools up as role models. If they are indeed soft and cuddly, they wouldn't be out on the fields getting bashed up, stomped on, or break someone's nose. They are, well, what they are, and who they are. A bunch of rough and tumble guys who probably are likely to act on impulse. 

I guess you would need to be a bit impulsive when you play a game in which you get crunched by two or three 100 Kg gorillas running at, sorry, through you, at 100 KPH !

Time is changing. In the old days, the ADF didn't think much of those sexual abuses. Similarly, heavy body contact sports like rugby and AFL also regarded men behaving badly as part of the culture. It is no longer accepted, of course.

Personally, I don't buy the soft, cuddly image the rugby and AFL wanted to project. I also don't care that much about these games either."Why aren't you on FaceBook?" My good friends often asked me.

"If you are on it, we can exchange photos." They elaborated.

My reply: "If I want to show you anything, I shall email you some. Better still, I can show you while you come to visit me."

FaceBook is free. It was free right from the beginning. Now, we pay for its service by having advertisements popping up on screen. Is it still free? Well, it is if you don't pay any attention to these adverts. However, if your viewing profile is passed on to advertisers, then it is a totally different matter because you are now a "commodity", a "trade-able" item to FaceBook. 

My nice came to visit me at my holiday farm. Instead of getting outside to watch the Bobtail Lizards sunning themselves on the hot sand, listen to the bush birds, she chose to lock herself up in the bedroom to read, well, FaceBook ! 

What do I know about technology? I make a living out of working in IT, yet I don't see the needs to indulge myself in such "feelgood" gadget. 

TV advertising is becoming quite quite clever and tricky. In the bad old days, when Tim Shaw ruled the screens, he offered a free set of steak knives if you "order NOW" ! Now the TV adverts don't even want you to know how much it is to cost you upfront. They will throw in a few extras, like "two for the price of one", but won't tell you how much in total. Instead, you can "try it free" for $19.99 for 30 days. Basically, you got sucked in and by then, it is just too much bother to send it back.

FaceBook offers you a "free" service. However, the intrinsic cost to you is that you are now FaceBook's property.

Think about it..."...formally delivered to the HRC on March 17, 2014, it caused visible shock to the members of the Council."

Well, Justice Kirby, I am shocked that the HRC was shocked ! Where are they all these years? Did they follow any news? Are they deaf and blind? If they are "visibly" shocked, they obviously were acting.

I thought it is an established fact that the North Korean regime is brutal, callous and corrupt. To set up a commission just to see if such claims are facts or fictions, is to attempt to confirm if tigers do have stripes. 

I have no issues with Justice Kirby's past records are a fair minded and balanced judge. However, to waste UN's money for such nonsensical activity does nothing for the honourable judge's credit. To me, it seemed like the UN is using him to justify its existence. 

I thought Justice Kirby would do Australia, and the UN, a huge favour to look into the refugee treatments in PNG and Nauru. 

The reason the regime is propped up by China and Russia is mostly political.Whether we are living in a fool's paradise or not, we are definitely living off our family silvers. Mineral resources are not inexhaustible. For each bucket you dug up and send it overseas, there is one less bucket we have for the future. 

Yes, there are some clever dicks who will argue that new technologies will keep finding new resources in the most un-imaginable  to say laces. Yes, that is valid to a degree. Still, sooner or later, even those hard-to-find bits will be dug up and sold too. 

Take Tasmania for example. It is a perfect place to study a "closed" system. It is surrounded by water. It is even farther away from our main trading partners than the mainland itself. It did have some valuable mining ventures some 30 years ago. Its supposedly inexhaustible native forest will provide ample jobs, but low skill jobs. It has farming and of course, tourism thanks to its natural beauties and green and clean image.

To set up a factory will be more challenges than in the mainland by virtue of its location. So the native forest is the easiest target to extract some employment for the population. But trees take forever to grow. Ever sit in front of your lawn and watch the grass grow? 

Personally, I take a rather pessimistic view of the country. I am pessimistic because the heavy reliance on selling our resources to balance the book. But hen again, when we finally clean up every economically available resources, we can always migrate to our motherland, ie. England.

Sooner or later, big Clive will get tired of the game. By bringing in the clueless such as that "Motor Enthusiast" chap into his fold will bolster his circle on influence by virtue of numbers. However, such numb-minded amigos will soon get sick and tired of the game too, as they have very short attention spans. They will either begin to make lots of mistakes, or got tripped by someone like Mike Willesee, and found themselves the butt of the jokes.

Clive Palmer is much smarter than Pauline Hanson, in terms of intellect, business acumen, social issues, and I believe, a better empathy for people, at least superficially anyway. 

His business success helps his larger than life projection onto the political scene. People believe that being able to manage a business venture worth billions of dollar does count for much. To be honest, he a a billion dollars better than Tony Abbott, Bill Shorten, and The Mouth of South Australia, Christopher Pyne. Now whether such view is valid or not doesn't really matter. 

Ron Buswell reckons the majority of the politicians have next to nothing in real life work other than politics, and they play it hard as that is the only thing they know. How sad !

Like a shooting star, Clive Palmer will shoot overhead and he will find something more exciting to do that parading in front of the parliament house in his Rolls Royce or his "Bat-wing" sports car. One of benefits he leaves is to show up the futility of the politicians who argue and debate just for the sake of it.

Take George Brandis for example, following his foolish declarations in regard to free speech and bigots, he thrown another stink bomb into the mix by changing "Occupied" to "Disputed". No big deal, according to him. Everything remains the same. But one does not need to be a linguistic professor to see the difference between these two words. Why in heaven did he do it? Because he is now in charge of a very important department? Because he can? Too much pressure from the lobby group? 

Twerk away, Clive. Show them up !One of the more historical and symbolically significant event was the smashing up of the Berlin Wall. A group of young people armed with sledge hammers, broke up that dreaded wall which separated the East and West Germans. If one is enterprising enough, a small fortune can be made out of the fragments of the wall.

That moment highlighted the declined influence of the Soviet Union, and the triumph of the West. Democracy was hotly pursued by any Tom, Dick and Harry who thought the break-up of communist control regimes meant instant and guaranteed improvement in their lives. Unfortunately, reality usually don't live up to the promises.

Out played, demoralized, weakened by mismanagement and corruption, the Russians endured a couple of weak leaders who allowed the West a free run. But is it a good thing for the world as a whole to have a one and only super-power, ie. The USA? Well, the invasion of Iraq tells us that without a balancing power, things can go terribly crooked. 

Winners take all is the way things work. A weaken Russia meant NATO can expand its sphere of influence as close to Russia as it bloody well feels like. I don't know about you lot. But I would be very nervous if my neighbours have their weapons positioned right on my fence ! 

Hang on a minute...

I am "reliably" told that the missile systems now installed in the ex-Soviet satellite nations are to counter the "rogue nations" such as North Korea and Iran. So obviously there is nothing to worry about there, is it ?

Of course Ukraine can decide who it wants to go to bed with. However, in the global political scheme of things, the decisions are taken out of a small nation's hand. It is merely a pawn used by big players. 

Ask if USA wants to commit any troops to protect Ukraine. I doubt it cares that much about it. It has more spot-fires to put out now in the Middle East. Would NATO get involved? Well, a direct confrontation with Russia over a non-NATO nation? Get out of here !What I am going to say is not going to be fashionable, and goes against the democratic minded folks.

If we are able to jump into that Time Machine and cruise back some 11 years ago...

Iraq was not a nice place for many of us folks used to being able to speak our minds. Yes, there were dictators who like to lock people up and dish out tortures. Libya and Syria were also not far behind in terms of lacking of personal freedom. However, these are functioning societies where people can still go to work, get paid, and spoiled their children and wives with stuffs they bought from the myriads of shops. 

Then Freedom fighters thought they hated the idea of dictatorship, and they believed that by overthrowing these nasty dictators, they will transform the nations into ones where freedom and democracy are there for the taking. Unfortunately, these Freedom Fighters probably know how to use their weapons, but are seriously lacking in organization skills.

The end result is a serious of fragmented groups, no knowing head from tail. Then they began fighting each other. Out of all these chaos, the murderous regime ISIS saw the opening, and now they reign supreme, especially they were given free heavy weapons by the fleeing Iraqi army who are, according to our military trainers, well trained enough to face any outside challenge. What a load of lies !

So is it worthwhile to venture back to start all over again? Well, it is again a "half pregnant" situation. Bombing the crap out of the ISIS will help in some way, but how do you flush them out among the population? So it will mean group troops. We know it is not politically enticing, neither is it militarily. 

The neighbouring Arab nations will need to do their own digging as they are the ones facing a more immediate threat, geographically as well as politically. 

I reckon getting Syria and Iran to help out is the better of the worst options.JoeBloggs,

Many of the contributors on The Drum are probably at the stage of their lives where they had seen too much blood shed, and believe that there is no "best" option but "compromised" ones.

I am only too glad that we live in a peaceful nation, well, to a degree, if we are to ignore all the capers in the Parliament. In the troubled regions we are talking about now, many lives were sacrificed, valuable infrastructures destroyed, homes turned into ruins, limbs were lost, historical artifacts were stolen. In other words, total destruction. The question I often ask myself is : "What is the fair price to pay for freedom and democracy ?" 

No, I don't like the going on in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Gaza, and now Ukraine. But we need to ask what will it be like "after" the tyrants are removed? Take Libya for example, the "Freedom Fighters" flatly refused to give up their arms because for them, being armed meant power. And I meant power to each individuals. These "Indians" believe they ought to be the "Chief". The net result is there are just too many "Chiefs" and no enough "Indians". When that happens, the country become fragmented and lawless.

Iraq is another example where good intentions by the West went horribly wrong. Syria has a multitude of "Freedom Fighters" each with their own agenda. The only common thread between them is to get rid of Assad. Other than that, they don't see eye-to-eye. Hence they fight amongst themselves. Such chaos is a godsend opportunity for the ISIS who thrives on nothing but destabilization, and of course, kill and destroy.

So the simple question is : "Is the ISIS preferable to Assad?"

Ukraine is a situation I am a fence sitter. Their desire for choice between Russia and the EU is their own to make. However, one should not overlook the political aspect of it. Russia has suffering many set-backs when it lost many of its satellite states to EU. For Ukraine to go the same way will mean a serious loss of face and influence to Putin. Mind you, it is his job to look after Russia's "National Interest". 

It is fine for EU and NATO to encourage Ukraine to part company with Russia, but try to put yourself in Russia's shoe.

What really boiled down to, JoeBloggs, is "National Interest".I am not making excuses for that cafe owner, but he was probably not as up to date with the modern times as he should had been.

I suspect he still thought Australia is like the bad old days when the Aborigines were badly treated. Although the situation is better now, but one has to be rather naive or optimistic to believe that there is no "Black/White" differentiation in Australia still. 

Check out the success rates of job applications, if you have doubts.

By the way, why wasn't that Bailey woman gets thrown out of the train carriage when she racially abused an Asian woman? As far as I am aware, only a handful of people objected to her racial rants.Well, I am not so sure about Mr.Kohler's argument. For people who are at the stage of their lives where "slow and steady as she goes" is the preferred option, a safer investment option with a reasonably steady stream of income like dividends is the way to go. 

As we are well aware that quite a few older people who are near retirement age got burnt badly getting involved in those high returns, "too good to be true" schemes, or scams. If you are at an age when employ-ability is near zero, you want to protect your one and only pool of nest eggs. Messing around with them trying to be adventurous is probably not the wise thing to do. 

Lest say you have $100,000 sitting around. What would you do with it ? Chuck it in the bank, and you get interest returns just slightly over the inflation rate. You know your cash wont leak away like your superannuation in fees, but try living on bank interest alone. 

Invest in some riskier scheme, and be more adventurous? Well, you might get burned. And if you do, where are you going to get that $100,000 back? 

A decent dividend will not make you rich, but you know it will likely to be there in future. If you tailor your lifestyle accordingly, you will live without worrying debt collector knocking on your door.Words are cheap !

I reckon big Clive should make his apologies more substantive by including some physical themes. Take the old school discipline regime for example. I was told to put a heavy book on my head, stand facing the wall for half an hour. 

For more serious indiscretions, I was told to do ten squats. Of course, the number of repetition is proportional to the seriousness of the offense.

Push-ups is another form of punishments. 

Yes, I have a hell of a lot of such suggestions, as I have personally "road tested" all of them !

Now please don't give me the politically correct bullsh*t. Clive Palmer may come to appreciate the goodness of them as he jump on his bathroom scale.

So the more unrestrained gaffs, the more apologies in the form of push-ups, sit-ups he will have to make. Sooner or later, he will need a brand new wardrobe. Good for the fashion industries too.Yes, I am grumpy because I am pissed off !

The management of personnel was once called "The Personnel Department". It is now called by a rather cute name "Human Resource Department". Apparently, humans are nothing but a heap of resource, just like a pile of brown iron ore, or a mountain of coal. Being a resource, you pick it up and do whatever you bloody well pleased with it. The idea is to make as much profit out of the resource as you possibly can, or your conscience permit you to do so. 

We are in a profit orientated society. Profits must be made, or seen to be making, out of just about every damn thing, or you are not fit to govern. 

Water, electricity, toll roads, etc. are seen as potential budget gap fillers. "Asset Recycling" is just another name for flogging off public assets. 

Post Office services, despite its name suggests it is for mail deliveries, are more than just that. It is more so in the rural districts. One of the most essential services of a rural Post Office is banking. Just ask yourself where are you going to plonk your weekly earnings in big wad of $100 notes ? Or where to get money to pay for wages ? Or to buy fertilizers ? 

I admit I did have some issues with Australia Post when my parcel went into a sinkhole for a month. But it was more to do with one of the personnel who turned out to be not too enthusiastic about her job. 

I noticed many grey nomads use the post offices as a point to contact when they are a long way from home. If that is not essential, I don't know what isn't !

I know the local post office owner well, and he is putting his shop on the market after only a couple of years. He is resorting to a second business to make the post office viable. His posties are mostly part-timers as he can't afford full-time staffs.

No...It is not easy to run a post office.Steve_C,

Yes, profits are cool. Without profits, or the promise of profits, many people would refrain from plunging into a business venture. However, one also needs to differentiate between what is an essential service and a profit making enterprise.

Take the military for example. Since when it makes a profit. What about politicians? They bleed money from our coffers. What about the immigration department? And the Customs service?

Services that are essential to our civilized society such as water, electricity, sewers, roads, and many more, are what make Australia different to some countries in Africa, Asia, and even Europe. The standard of living of a country can be gauged by the efficiency of  service deliveries. 

If we are to try to squeeze every cent out of any human activities, I bet there won't be too many around except the banks, property developers, etc. and now, universities.I am an atheist. That does not mean I find religions disagreeable. On the contrary, I do find lots of goodness in religions. I have friends of many different faiths as well. 

I believe religions can make a good person even better. Unfortunately, religions can also transform a person into a total nutcase, or even downright evil. 

There are two streams of thoughts. (1). We are born evil, and (2). We are born good. I don't believe in either, but I do suspect the person's up bringing as well as the company one keeps make a huge difference to who he/she will be. Throwing into the mix some religions, will make interesting outcomes.

Again, the way a religion is interpreted and propagated also make a tremendous difference. If one is lucky, a preacher of peace, decency and respect of human values will churn out some nice people. Preachers of hates will more than likely to transform a decent folk into a raving murdering maniac.

Remember Jim Jones in the French Guiana ? He led a bunch of folks up the garden path, and most of them died by his order. Surprisingly, many of his followers were well educated professionals ! He used religion to exploit others, and he got what he wanted in wealth and sex.

Then we have the goodness spread by Mother Theresa who did her good work on the ground where it is most needed and relevant. None of those going to heaven and hell stuff.

Then you don't need religion to be good. One example being Professor Fred Hollows who brought eye-sights back to the poor folks.

The nastiest of the lot is the ISIS to date. Again, a dodgy character who resembles more of a Hobos than a respectable religious teacher. He has only one tool in his shed, and it is to destroy. That kind of wanton destructive desires draw in the kind of thugs who simply didn't fit in the normal society. I am talking about drug addicts, criminals, thugs, drug dealers. For them, joining up the ISIS makes them the instant hero. If they play their cards right, they might even stand a good chance to go to heaven, and greeted by 12, or is it 36 virgins.

Is it religions' fault? I don't think so. It is being used and hijacked by ill-intentioned people to achieve the evil ends for them.Mr. Daniel Grant was coming along just fine until he mentioned Tony Blair ! I thought this dude has done enough harm in the Middle East to last another 100 years. If we need some decent, unbiased opinions, we should first go to Abdul the "Magic Carpet Consultant".

Have we learned a lesson from meddling in the Middle East? Well, yes and no. We now know that it can be bloody painful, economically and militarily, to try to untangle the mess there. What we have not learned is that once you left them alone, you don't just take your eyes off the ball.

Ten years of fruitless attempts to sprinkle the M.E. with a liberal dose of democracy, and we come out with a bloodied nose, after nearly a $Trillion and huge human costs, and I am not just talking about our troop losses. The Arabs simply don't see a place for Westerners to be hanging around like the smell of a well-seasoned cheese. So we packed up and left the Shiite majority government to its own device. The Sunni are well and truly pissed off, and with good reasons, because they didn't get a fair deal. 

The Kurdish have been longing for its own independence, and now is probably the best opportunity ever. Beef up the supports for the Kurdish, according to Daniel Grant. What will happen then if the Kurdish do have success in holding back the ISIS? Will they be willingly coming back into the folds of the Iraqi central government? Obviously not. That will be two Iraq then, this is to discount the potential that the Sunni may not want to join up with the Shiite government.

After ten long years to fighting, the Coalition of the Willing came out empty handed. In fact, the situation there got worse. Obviously, any thinking person would be able to work out by now that it is not just muscles and tanks, it is the political processes. 

The Arab Spring was meant to be a moment the West can pull up a rocking chair, sipping gin and tonic, and gaze into the sun set with much satisfactions. But that turned out to be far from the truth. The Middle East is messed up badly, and the West can't disown its part in causing it. 

Sending in more SAS, Green Berets, Navy Seals will hardly help.When I was a struggling university student, my friends and I used to do the queuing to get our hands on the papers. Our motives were not about the Classifies, but job advertisements. Mind you, being near penniless meant you chose the charity shops rather than checking out some good deals on cars, or garage sales.

One of my friends was a keen horse and dog racing punter. So the first thing he did was to separate the form guides from the rest. Me being the ones who had little money to bet, and perhaps more sensible, will get the remaining of the papers.

Of course, those days we also had "The Truth". It was a rather interesting tabloid which invariably had some well-endowed lasses in bikinis. We blokes like that. Also, there were some rather out of this world stories, I really mean out of this world because space aliens were often involved. Besides the frequent rather far-out stories about intergalactic visitors, we were "educated" about half human, half dog babies, or babies with features resembled a space alien. "Alien mated with human" as the headline claimed.

We were rather curious about what kind of kinky sex the space aliens were into. However, we blokes were truly disappointed when told that aliens had done away with any physical contacts. It is all done in a clinical "high-tech" way !

I noticed the format of newspapers had changed a lot. Take the WA News papers for example. If you are to get a pair of scissors and patiently cut out the news bits from the advertisements, you will find there is very little news left. You need to spot the news between the encroaching advertisements. The papers are dominated by large supermarket specials promotions, or furniture dealers trying to flog their wares. Personally, I find that damn annoying. But then again, the reality is that news papers do rely a hell of a lot on advertising.

Yes, I am sadden by the loss of some of the more reputable, good and fair newspapers. I am also alarmed by the power wield by the major newspapers.The USA is a nation full of extreme contrasts and contradictions. There are the super rich, and the dirt poor. Yet it is supposedly the richest nation in the world, and is going to have the most sophisticated fighter planes "soon". 

It is my believe that some folks get as low as less than $3/hour, and they don't even get regular hours either ! People lived out of their cars. Folks with regular employment such as WalMart actually had to resort to food stamps. 

Detroit was once the centre of car manufacturing, and there were many songs written such a wonderful place. Now it is nothing but a bare, broken and hollowed out shell. 

Despite all these pitiful human tragedies, the USA has its aircraft carriers all over the world, ready to ponce on short notice from the Commander In Chief. 

Trickle down ? Well, it must be a very slow drip. Like most places, as poverty spread, people who have more time on their hands, and with ample grievances to match, will make a bad situation worse as all those ill feelings are vented out. 

I just hope Australia is not heading that way.As I sit on my $2 plastic chair purchased from a garage sale, and sipping quietly on a "2013 vintage Mt. Deception", I saw the sun slipped quietly down the horizon. A blood-red sky as far as my eyes can see. I ponder the meaning of life. Sorry folks, I just couldn't help myself to be a sentimental fart !

Ambitious politicians, even more ambitious property developers and mine owners, against the common folks, the farmers, and the people who are contend with a simple life, and some cheap plonks. 

An OK painting (according to the artist himself) has its value blown up substantially, and passed up as a gift. A $100,000 investment by the property developers can potentially turn into tens of millions, that is if the politicians kept their words. 

It is little surprise that many folks believe politics is crap, and politicians are a bunch of crooks. Well, I wouldn't go as far as that, but close !

I bet the LNP were cheering as NSW ALP politicians were dragged kicking and screaming over hot bed of coal. That Eddie Obeid chap was nothing but troubles. Instead of turning into gold, everything he touched turned into sh*t.  

Lo and behold, before the NSW LNP managed to recover from massive hangovers from over indulgence in champagne, the door bells rang. It was their turn to front up the ICAC. 

And folks, the rest is history...OK, dear The Drum contributors, here is your chance for a poll. 

"Are you ruling anything in, or out?" "Rule in / rule out ?"

Watching the foreign minister and Defense minister David Johnston prancing around the world stage, refusing to "rule in/rule out nothing" was quite morale rousing stuff. Tony Abbott was a bit more reserve, but was playing the... "Not ruling anything out at this stage" guessing game.

The Yanks, on the other hand, were more clear cut. No ground troops. Can't blame them as they have had quite a decade of fruitless pursue of evils, and unfortunately, the bad became even badder ! I am talking the step up from Al Qaeda to the ISIS.

But the world is getting more turbulent as the new infringe on the old. NATO wanted to carve away the sphere of influence of Russia by encouraging Ukraine to leave Russia's fold. Not content to let the big boys and girls to fight it out among themselves in Europe, Australia is ever so eager to get in the midst of actions. 

I nearly fell off my chair and choked on my cereals when Julie Bishop suggested "armed" personnel to be sent in to the MH17 crash site. Abbott was a bit more cautious in that regard, but was still keen as mustard to send a large contingent of AFP, possibly armed too. 

When bullets and RPG zip past their ears, and the AFP's side arms and machine guns will not be a good match. If some of us are killed, do we swallow our pride and pack up, or do we up the ante and send heavier weapons and more SAS? 

The question is, if we bought ourselves into a war overseas, will the Yanks be as ready to come and help us out? If the Yanks got involved, wouldn't that also meant a direct confrontation between the two great powers, namely Russia and USA ?

I like to compare Australia with Jack Russel. A small dog breed with immense appetite for a stoush, even with bigger dogs. Now whether it is a positive attribute, ie. courage, or negative, ie. stupidity, is debatable. Ultimately, the Jack Russel will get torn up badly by a big dog if he does it too often.Even if I want to know what the grisly murder may look like, I can't because my Internet is so damn slow. Perhaps that is one good reason not to have the NBN ?

Anyway, I don't really want to view such rubbish anyway. I guess those who wanted to seek out and propagate such craps are 
(1). To shock the readers, and thus boost sales.
(2). Potential terrorist recruits who already harboured such abnormal fascination for death and terrors.
(3). People who truly enjoy watching blood and gore. 

Whether you approve or disprove such materials, there is not way to stop them. It is the curse of the Internet. The gates are wide opened for anyone to walk in and out without much restrictions.

In the good old days, the mass media are mainly the newspapers and movies. Movies were used to recruit young people to join up to fight. Nationalism, heroism, idealism and racism were spread via such medium. But it takes time to make a film, and audience needed to come to the venues to watch. Now we can stay home and do that in total privacy and security. 

The reckless behaviours of the IS demonstrated these thugs have no human values, nor understanding of restraints. The wanton display of brutal acts will frighten some, but a successful organization cannot be sustained by pure brutality alone. It appears that the IS know nothing but terrors. So in effect, it is the only sharp tool in its tool bag. 

One should not forget also that most of the amigos in the IS are ex-drug addicts, drug dealers, misfits, ex-prisoners, with little education. By joining IS, they become instant hero as, according to the propaganda, their past sins will be washed off. Yeah, Jesus walked on water, and turned water into wine too.

Sooner or later, their zone of influence will be squeezed as more M.E. nations realized that the simplistic Sunni vs Shiite arguments simply don't cut it anymore, as the rulers found their own power is under threat. 

Should the West re-enter the war on terror? I doubt they have the political capital to do that now. Some air strikes will limit the IS's freedom of movement. Hopefully the Iraqi and Syrian troops will pick off the IS. It will be a long battle !

I wonder why we got entangled in the M.E. in the first place !A comprehensive list there, Mr. Jonathan Green. May I please add one little one?

"Poor people don't own cars".

During the first few months of the Abbott government, there was hardly any news. "Adults are in charge" was the reason given. "Doers and not talkers". "Still water runs deep". 

Now all that has changed. Eric Abetz was in the thick of self-inflicted wounds. So was George Brandis. Joe Hockey did his best to blow the budget Black-holes to pieces but his voices got drown out by all the other unhelpful and UN-necessary background noises. 

Julie Bishop and found some willing audience in the UN, and Abbott found a great talking platform in Europe to tell Russia how to behave. Such acts had certainly pleased our mates in the USA. 

Then the brutal image with a young boy and his crap father who was a half-wit back in Australia days. Abbott and co found an opening to rally Australians. Rallying he did. And what better way to do it than reminiscent his good old rugby days ? 

"We must play like a team." "We play for our team mates, and not ourselves." "Team spirit is the key".

That is all good on the wet, muddy playing field when you wedge your head between your team mates' bums. It is quite different in politics as words do carry different meanings, and it also depends on who and how it is interpreted. 

Perhaps Abbott should stick with the policy of the first few months, talk less...Yes indeed, we all are concerned about the human rights issues in North Korean. What Justice Michael Kirby did was admirable, so are Michael Danby's endless efforts in spreading the goodness of democracy and human rights. 

Would the two distinguished gentlemen cast their net just a little bit wider, and include Israel too ?It just goes to show that if you use statistics for an argument, you had better be very careful and sure of what you are using. Of course some people would intentionally choose to propagate a lie, while some simply are not clever enough to pick the right statistics in the first place !

I suggest the possession of cars has much to do with the tyranny of distance. Looking at the charts, it is not surprising that WA, Tasmania, SA and Queensland have more cars per 1000 people. Most, if not all, of these four states are resource dependent. Quite a large proportion of the population are scattered over a larger area because that is where the jobs are. 

Take Kalgoorlie for example, yes, people drive around in their expensive 4WD within a very small regional city. However, people do make longer trips to Perth, or the South West for holidays or to visit relatives. It is  probably the same in Port Hedland and Karratha. Sure, flying is almost as cheap as driving. However it works out cheaper to drive if you also have the entire clan coming along with you.

I believe the number of cars statistic does not tell the full story. A more useful story can be told by the distance traveled per person. The longer the distance to travel, the higher the fuel cost.

Due to the cost of housing, people with lower income chose to live in the outer suburbs, or even in the semi-rural areas. That of course means longer distance to travel to do most things like travel to work, schooling , shopping, etc.

Another thing people may not realize is that secondhand cars are not that expensive, especially the thirty V8. So owning a car is not a good indicator of one's wealth. Did anyone wonder why hoons drive around in noisy V8 ?

Joe Hockey is probably a reasonably good man. Unfortunately for him, the burden of wanting to prove himself to be a better treasurer than Wayne Swan, and the desperate attempts to sell a hard budget, had caused the silly slip, and the apologies. The constant unproductive, unhelpful yapping by his colleagues on the sideline perhaps forced him to be a bit more forceful, and thus the mistake.My own "FAT Checker" informed me that interest rates independent of the government. The claim that the conservatives are better economic managers is, well, "Not conclusive", or "debatable", if the current fiasco is anything to go by. 

I be the first to admit the fact that the way things are, ie. we spend more than we earn, is not healthy. Some forms of adjustments, belt tightening, tax reforms are needed to reel in the deficits. However, I think there are just too many reforms introduced with a scattered gun approach. 

Embolden by the massive win, the LNP thought it can bring out massive changes, and people will just swallow them. One of the major road block is of course the PUP party. The hard-sell of the hard policies didn't help one bit by the constant stuff-ups, and the unnecessary white noises made by Joe Hockey's clever mates. In the end, there are simply too many spot fires to put out. 

While Joe is busy labouring over the sales campaign, Tony Abbott is big-noting himself in Europe, with Julie Bishop telling Russia to better behave itself or face the consequences ! She is now selling Joe's budget for him too.

Whatever happened to that "Debt Truck" ?Alpo,

Please don't discount Julie Bishop outright. She had been deputy to so many leaders, surely she would have had plenty of experience ? Mind you, her performance on the world stage recently would also have given her plenty of exposure. 

She also proved to be a tough cookie by issuing warnings to Russia. 

Joe Hockey could have been a real contender, according to Peta Credlin, but I think he blew it !The ICAC reminds me of the old rusty corrugated iron water tank sitting in my garden. When I saw a tiny trace of water seeping out in the middle, I touched it ! All of a sudden, a hole appeared, and water rushed out. which made the hole even larger. In the end, the tank was a write-off. 

The ICAC started with Eddie Obeid and his grubby mates. The LNP cheered. "It is an ALP problem" they declared. As the ICAC dug deeper, Lo and behold, the LNP is as dodgy, if not more so, than the ALP !  The political system in NSW is like a rusty water tank, the rust started inside. A coat of shiny paint may hide the problems for a little longer, but that won't hold the water for too long.

The Eddie Obeid affairs had flushed out many of the grubs from their hide-outs. I am intrigued though that to date, no one has been charged. It is my believe that if they are to be dragged into the court to be prosecuted, the whole process of evidence gathering will start all over again ! Is this a way to enrich the legal eagles' pockets? Or perhaps the courts do not have confidence in the ICAC's professional abilities ?

Democracy is such a wonderful thing. One man, one vote. It can't be fairer than that, can it? Ahhh...But rich people, or people with vested interests, can out-spend the oppositions. The property developers, the mine owners, etc. wanted to get ahead by investing/inventing dodgy donations to get their preferred candidates elected. As much as I like and appreciate democracy, but I doubt the integrity of the processes. 

It is all about networking. Mates, or mates of mates, who went to the same exclusive schools, are to be included in the "loop". An envelop-full of cash in $100 notes, a bottle of 1985 vintage Grange, being entertained in an exclusive restaurant, are very persuasive indeed.

I think we are becoming like the USA where those with the most money, either by fund raising, or having rich backers, get elected.It is a good idea, Mr. John Hewson. However, would any government be foolish enough to relinquish the combination of the treasure chest ?

I recall the days when I worked for a large mining company. It wasn't doing well, and its shares dipped and dipped. So it was panic all over the shop. Manager would not usually last for a year or so, and was shown the doors. With each new appointment, a new set of company policies, new budget, and new department heads. So the middle management like myself had to relearn everything with each new manager!

It was definitely a tiresome and least productive as we were peddling on the spot, and the goal posts gotten moved ever so regularly. 

The way Australian politics is not unlike the scenario I described above. Each election cycle brings in a new mob. Unsurprisingly, the new mob wants to show they are better than the previous mob. So new directions, new policies, and of course, new personnel are the norm. It was like the first day of a new semester in the school yard. 

As much as we dislike the autocratic systems such as the Chinese model which has a long-term, medium-term and short-term budget, it sets a firm direction for the country to follow, regardless of who is in charge. 

In fact, the old mining company I worked for did have budgets, but they were dumped as soon as a new manager came in. I guess the new manager always thought he had a better idea than the previous manager.Lilly,

When a company is in trouble, it always look for quick fixes. Pressures from the share holders for positive results will become too much to bear. Mind you, sacrificial lamb is handy in a crisis too.

What companies do not understand, or in fact don't want to comprehend, is that it takes time to swing around a big ship. Constant chop and change will usually come to nothing.

The company I worked for was nick-named "Hollywood" because there are always "ACTING" managers to replace another acting manager who only lasted no more than a year !I believe that in the foreign affairs arena, diplomats are more refined than the politicians in our parliaments. Some words are best left unsaid than resorting to the megaphones. What needed to be said should be conveyed behind closed doors. That I believe, is diplomacy.

Yes, Julie Bishop gets some nods and pats on the shoulder by our mates in the USA. She was able to form the conclusion that Russia was behind the MH17 disaster before the data in the black-boxes are made available. The fact is, who gives a toss what she said or not said in the UN. Those who agreed with her, and those who are on her side, will always give her the thumbs up anyway. Those disagreed with her, or still have doubts about the whole thing, preferred to let diplomacy works its charms. 

Sanctions, and more sanction on a 1.75 Billions yearly trade will barely be a lot to do a song and dance about. But in some people's book, it is all about appearance.

I am not so sure that Joe Hockey welcomes Bishop wadding into the already turbulent water. Too many cooks, too many chooks ?I don't know too much about NSW's politics except the filth and grimes dug up at the ICAC. An honest person, let alone a politician, can be a rare find in our society. What Ms. Parker did was indeed admirable. 

She didn't perform well in the real pit-bull ring of politics. I suspect she had to work within the party guide lines. In the LNP case, pro-logging, pro-business, etc.

Perhaps she finds much better and more fulfilling pursues in life than politics.A potential loss of life is sad and, if preventable, it should. However, I believe the central character here is a bit more sane than the defense painted him to be. He posted a suicide message for all to see. Basically he is asking someone to come and rescue him.

Now if you fooled around with dangerous stuff like gas, then surely you knew there could be un-intended victims if they do come and rescue him.

Of course, it would be hard to laid a hand on him legally as he is supposed to be mentally ill. Perhaps in future, the emergency rescue crew wants to be more selective in who they are dealing with?

May be he should be locked up in a mental institution?The fact that Stephen McDonell wrote this article and not getting expelled is some indications that the new China is different to the days of old? 

Yes, corruptions, air pollutions, political freedom, environmental issues. They are all there to be tackled. Could it be true that Australia exported our pollutions to China in return for shutting down our steel mills and getting cash for our iron ore and coal? 

Corruptions are a big problem for China. Hang on a second...What actually happened during the GFC? In fact, what caused the GFC? Was it corruption in an even bigger scale? The banks and financial mobs robbing just about everyone, including outside of USA?

Mind you, the casinos are catering for the "high flyers". Where did the "high flyers" get their money from? By facilitating these big spenders, aren't we, a corruption free country, becoming a partner in crime? 

Here in the land of clean living and corruption free, Australia is a lone star among a mob of crooks and cheats. But wait...What happened to the NSW ICAC? Any conviction yet? To date, I am not aware of a single one !

"...how corruption works? You buy influence. You buy loyalty. People owe you."

Yes, that is a very true statement. Is Mr. McDonell talking about China or Rupert Murdoch in Australia? Or James Packer? Or Gina Reinhart?Like most things, there are winners and losers. Being ever a grumpy cynic, I didn't think the G20 will be much chop for the betterment of the world. I presumed that it will be nothing but a talk-fest with many photo opportunities with feigned smiles and back slapping.

Well, for once, yes, once only, that I was wrong! The G20 is not a talk-fest. It is a very constructive and productive meeting of minds, including our PM Abbott, to nut out ways to improve our lots.

Yes, many of you knockers will whinge and bitch about the $400 millions for just a few days. But I had managed to see it in a very different light. As Ms. Matthewson pointed out, "...an action plan with over 800 measures" was achieved. Now if you paid any attention in class, you can easily work out that each measure will only cost $500,000. That I reckon is a fair deal. 

We shouldn't just measure the G20 with dollars and cents. I also looked into the intangible aspect of it. What this G20 set itself apart from the previous, and possible in future, is the therapeutic aspect of it. Tony Abbott used the forum effectively to let all his frustrations hang out. The GP Co-Payments, the education reforms, the Direct Action Plan, the lot. Thanks to G20, the world leaders flew all the way here just to listen to our PM's grievances. I am quite certain that they left with a distinct impression that the Australian votes are nothing but a bunch of whingers, bastards and bitches. 

That is alright though as by letting his inner feelings out for the entire world to see, our PM will now be a better leader as to talk about it is the best way to deal with issues, rather than bottled them up. 

So the G20 not only cost $500,000 a pop in terms of "measures", it also gave our PM an outlet for his grievances. Fair deal it is, I believe.

I can't sign off without having a little whinge myself. I was rather disappointed when the drama promised by Abbott didn't materialize. I sat myself close to the TV when Abbott greeted each leader. The big moment I was anticipating was the meeting between the two tough guys namely Abbott and Putin. I want to see a dinkum "shirt-fronting". 

Ahhh well...It didn't happen. May be next time huh?I am not really a pop music fan. However, I do enjoy the sights of some young things in their impossibly tight outfits prancing around. Yes, totally politically incorrect.

One cannot bring up Count-down without mentioning the bell-bottoms and the platform shoes. The super wide bell bottoms flapping about when the singers prancing up and down the stage really add a bit of extra musical tones to the whole thing.

What made the Count-Down unique is the sometimes clumsiness, the appearance of being un-prepared, and mishaps, the embarrassing moments, and of course, Meldrum's deliveries. 

Compare it to the polished, heavily edited, sanitized clips nowadays, Count-Down would not make it for the young fans who fall for spins more than substance. Koshy and his co-host promoted that singing budgie Justin Bieber when he barely needed a shave then. I reckon Koshy was attempting to do what Meldrum was doing then. Unfortunately, Bieber is nothing but a dud. 

The modern day Internet instant promotions such as U-Tube gives us the instant gratifications like drinking some energy drinks. But the effects don't last !I recall a flight back from Tasmania to Melbourne. It was a medium size propeller plane. I was just a student who completed his summer holiday vocational training with a mining company. I had a rifle. 

The captain told me that I was able to get it on the plane as long as I remove the firing bolt and give him the rifle for safe keeping. No drama there. I guess in those days lives were more personal and terrorism in Australia was unheard of. 

The real drama occurred when we were in the air. A very pleasant air hostess went around offering tea/coffee or what ever. She very kindly asked me if I wanted anything and I declined as it was only a very short flight. As she turned around and walked away, an old fellow pinched her bottom! He must be in his late 60. 

The air hostess turned around sharply and looked in my direction as she imagined that only young blokes do such things. I indicated to her that it wasn't me. I guessed she deducted that it must be that dirty old man. The incredible thing was that old bugger simple pretended as if nothing happened. 

That is how things were in those days. Pinching someone's bottom is definitely a sexual assault nowadays. However, in those bad old days, air hostesses were fair games. Folks who paid to fly thought they were lords of the air and can do stupid things they don't normally do on the streets. 

Now that I am talking about it, I reckon I should have had stood up and clip that old fellow by the ears. and cable-tie him to the propellers.STOP the boat !

Scot Morrison is a star performer in this caper. He even has his eyes on the PM-ship, that is if Julie Bishop and Joe Hockey let him.

So what in heaven is a Russian ship doing in Australia's nick of wood? It must be doing something dodgy. Spying? Sending in divers under the cover of darkness? Perhaps it has a shipload of Russian refugees? May be it is preparing for the worse when and if Putin comes out second best when "shirt-fronted" by Abbott?

Ahh..I must keep up with the Valium regime. My mind is becoming hyperactive.Actions on Climate change are only meaningful if you really believe it is true. In other words, what you do is not just a superficial act, but you are going in hammer and tongs to deal with the issue.

It is a bit like a visit from the mother in law. (Sorry if I offend) You want to tell your wife that her mother is welcome to visit you anytime, and a red carpet will be rolled out. But deep down, you dreaded it as she will tell what an awful man you are, and her daughter had chosen the wrong man, despite her repeated warnings!

According to the LNP's ideologies, Climate Change is anything but real. Well, it depends on when and where too. When fronting the true LNP believers, Climate Change is "CRAP". When talking to others, LNP politicians are less definitive of this issue. Our PM's stance on it probably tells us a lot about what a mixed up bunch we are. He grudgingly declared that Climate Change is real during the election as even among his LNP supporters, there are some who thought Abbott's denials is wrong. So their votes do matter.

After the election, Abbott gave some thought provoking statements such as "CO2 is invisible. What you can't see can't hurt". "Coal is good for humanity" The Direct Actions is nothing but a "Climate Change Girlie-man" act. It is analogous to rewarding people for speeding less.

As I said, unless you really meant what you said, or do, the Direct Actions is nothing but a window dressing.I believe it is rather meaningless to categorize some leaders "left", "centre" or "right". What really boils down to is : "National Interests".

Yes, I bet we heard it many times form our own illustrious leaders of all parties. Take the disputes with East Timor for example, national interest dictates Australia takes a hardline towards East Timor, and we drew our boundary a hell of a lot closer to East Timor than it likes. Why? There is a rich gas reserve in the disputed area.

Sure, we came to blows with Indonesia over East Timor. We sided with the latter because, well, it was a "morally correct" decision. However, when it comes to money, it triumphs over everything, including moral, human rights, the lot !

Putin is the same. He looks after the "National Interests" of Russia. The expanding NATO is threatening Russia's security as well as its prestige. What would you expect Putin to do? If Abbott is put in charge of Russia, what would he do?"... NATO has refused to expand into Ukraine..."
"...These pro-Putin comments are not pro-Russian. They are just stupid"

Perhaps it might not look too stupid if someone take the time to do a search on "NATO members". Unless you like to dismiss the facts, then you will find that most of the ex-Soviet satellite nations are now in NATO's fold. Now whether it is a good thing or not will depend on which side of the fence you chose to sit on. However, if you are Russia, I bet you wouldn't be too relax and comfortable about it.

NATO refused to expand into Ukraine? Well, perhaps not for now, or even in the future. NATO has had more than enough ex-Soviet partners in its bed, it does not need anymore. Of course Ukraine would like to have the protection of NATO, and the EU's, but they know that last straw that breaks the camel's back may just be the trigger Russia needs to retaliate. In fact, the troubles in Ukraine is probably what is happening.

"...rattle his nuclear sabre"
You reckon Putin is crazy, then perhaps you are crazier than him. If anyone is to bring nuclear weapons into an argument, then it will escalate to the point of no return. So please cut out that nuclear talk.Imagine a boxing match between two heavy-weights. Despite the pre-match gung-ho sh*t talks, each boxer is fully aware of the potential of being beaten to a pulp. In other words, no one is underestimating the power and skills of his opponent. 

Because they are wary of the strength and punching power of each other, they have respect for their opponents. One false move, a split second of inattention can potentially be very damaging.

The heavy-weights on the red and blue corners are the USA and Russia. Russia is not regarded as a powerful opponent as it has neither the spins, alliance, nor the financial muscles as compared to the USA. However, Russia does have as many, and equally lethal nuclear war-heads as USA. 

A trick question to you all...How many nuclear war-heads are needed to send the entire world back to stone age? 

I recall vividly a scene just after USA invaded Iraq. An American was interviewed on the street about his views on the war, and especially USA itself. He answered that..."America is the MOST powerful country in the world. America can do ANYTHING. No one should MESS around with US." 

Perhaps that summarised what has been happening in the last 20 or so years. Reagon and Thatcher ganged up to squeeze Russia. Reagan with his hare-brain "Ray-gun" anti-missile system which promised to rid any in-coming threats. The problem is that if you believe you have the perfect solutions, you tend to dismiss others concerns. 

The installation of missile systems by NATO around Russia is anything but neutral. Well, not in the Russian's eyes anyway. 

According to the West, the Ukraine mess is caused by Russia. Fair enough. Ukrainians wanted to join up the EU. However, if you are to look at it from the Russian's angle, it is an encroachment by NATO, and hence the West, further into the diminishing Russian influence. The West had not been neutral in all these either as moral and financial supports were provided. No big deal. Russia is now a weakened nation. Hang on a minute, like I said at the beginning, it may not have the clouts the West has, but it still has the military mights...In fact, more than is required to blow the entire world into indistinguishable bits.

My point ? Don't ever under estimate your opponent !I hope my post is not seen as dismissing the real causes/agonies of obesity...

I believe I have strong self-discipline. Coupled that with my dis-interest in junk foods, I have kept my weight to the healthy level. Contrary to the common believe that a lean person has a "lean genes", I do put on weight, say about 5-6 Kg when I am not able to pursue the normal physical activities in the winter.

Fortunately, as soon as I start heading off to the beach, and jump on my windsurfer, my Kg drops off as fast as fleas in water. I also have a sizable hobby farm which requires much labour to keep the weeds down, for fire safety reasons. Instead of a ride-on mower, I chose a more physical means to cut down the weeds. I have a 1950 mechanical scythe which makes me work up a good sweat in a brief 5 minute run ! 

Within a month, all my 5-6 kg of fat was gone. I believe physical exertions do work wonders for weight loss. I don't like going to the gym as I think it is boring. You pedal/row/run/push/pull on the same spot, hours after boring hours. A physically demanding sport is a better way to rid your body of weight because you enjoy doing it. 

I believe many people thought that by going to the gym, one is "entitled" to be "rewarded" with some fatty treats. 

But why is a person get addicted to food? An alcoholic get stuck into the poison when he/she feels down. He uses alcohol to either drown the sorrow or to lift him up. On the other hand, when he has a good day, he uses it to reward himself for being such a genius. Soon he found himself dependent on it. I wonder if food addiction goes the same way?

Medical intervention will work for many obese people. However, I believe it is a coped out. How many people in the early/mid 1900 has the need for such operation? In fact, there wasn't such option available then either. 

Dieting is a quick fix. The trouble with dieting is that it promises rapid weight reduction. In many cases it did because of the strict calories controls. However, because it is strict, it soon becomes a painful act as your hunger is killing you before obesity does! Sooner or later, many will revert back to the old habits of over-eating, and the wrong kind of foods as well.Congratulations to Julie Bishop. Being awarded such honour by a respected magazine which caters for the Upper-Middle and upper class said a hell of a lot about what a powerful woman she is. 

To be honest, I don't even know what Harper's Bazaar magazine is until today ! It is still not too late to learn about the kind of stuffs upper class are interested in. More importantly, who it thinks is the most powerful woman, or "Woman of the year". Is it just for Australia only, or the entire world? 

Is Harper's Bazaar just a magazine pushing expensive outfits, or it is also a "thinking women'" magazine? I suspect it is both as Julie Bishop featured in it.

"Beauty and the Beast"...We have a boofy PM who is going to "shirt-front" an equally boofy Russian president. Then we have a smiling foreign minister featured in a clothing magazine. Yes...I like it !I can't call myself a thinking man, but I have read, sorry, I meant seen, some Picture magazines in barber shops. I can't say I was thinking very much while waiting for my turn.

At least Julie Bishop is getting some exposures in a well-known fashion magazine catering for the "upper-middle and upper class" folks. Perhaps an "Upper Middle Bogan" magazine may actively looking for a victim?I bet many of the contributors here do the same as I often do...I read through some of the post randomly to gauge the kind of moods the thread is heading. I found the opinions here are rather divided. 

I also believe it is clearly divided along the "Left" and "Right" themes. But that is alright. People almost always made up their minds what and who they side with, or to vote for, based on their ideological leanings anyway.

It was not really a big surprise that Mr. Whitlam was voted out. Of course, there were accusations of economic mismanagement, internal chaos, and some titillating sexual stories thrown into the mix. I believe no mater how good the Labour party was, the Australian voters are going to always pick the conservatives. As much as we think we are progressive, we are actually a very conservative bunch. 

Mr. Whitlam was given the nod probably due to the mood about the Vietnam war. The conscription of young and able men and some ended up dead did not please Australian families. Of course, the Liberal governments before Mr. Whitlam can't exactly be described as competent. 

I believe Mr. Whitlam did have the assistant of some tailwinds behind him, but his competence and charisma also played a big part in him winning the office. 

Yes, now that he is gone. History can judge him in whatever way the history writers please. For me, he was a great man with great vision, and he was not afraid to paint his visions with big, broad strokes, on a very large canvass. The gaps he left are meant to be filled in by his successors. 

Are they capable of doing so ?Individual rights, or more aptly, Women's rights gone mad? Well...This article appears to indicate that.

Imagine a car is driven by a woman, and there is a young baby in it. Now there are quite a few ways one can accommodate the little one. 
(1). Simply chuck him in the back without any safety restraints.
(2). Belt him securely in a purpose-built baby cocoon.

Now any sane person would believe option #2 is the way to go. No argument from me there.

Now imagine the woman is pissed out of her mind, and was speeding, and the baby wasn't restraint. Would anyone in their right mind come out of the bushes and argue on her behalf? I bet not. Why? Because now that she is not only endangering herself, but the baby's life also. 

Now imagine the car hits a tree, and the baby is injured permanently. He has brain injuries which required 24/7 cares. Now who is going to pay for the cares he is entitled to? Obviously the mother can't afford it, neither would she be volunteering to pay for it. She probably wouldn't care anyway as if she did, she wouldn't be drink/drive in the first place. 

So there goes my argument. A pregnant woman is drinking not only for herself, but for the unborn too. The unborn does not have a choice to refuse a drink, or five. He has alcohol forced upon him. Yes, where is the "human rights" for him in this case? Another argument is that he didn't take it upon himself to be conceived. She chose to, hopefully with her eyes opened. So she is responsible for the baby's well-being. 

As the cops said: "If you drink and drive, you are a bloody idiot." Perhaps the same goes for" If you are pregnant and drink, you are a bloody idiot and an unworthy mother."Yes indeed...Good algorithms, or good data analytical tools will take the sweats and tears away from a tedious task. However, I doubt that humans can be entirely replaced. Please allow me to elaborate...

I recall an incident at the mine planning office. One of the planning engineers nearly fell out of his chair as he was getting really uber excited. He ran to the geologists next door and yelled: "We are in the money this time !"

We all followed him to his office. He pointed at his computer screen which has a bright highlighted zone. That colour means an extremely high grade ore is located. We asked him to zoom in...And there it was, over one thousand grams per tonne. Mind you, then we were mining 3-4 grams per tonne, and it was considered good grade! So it was going to be champagne all round? Being ever such a grumpy chap myself, I am also known to be less liable to get excited about things. So I asked him to show us the data behind it. Yes, it was high alright. 

Still not satisfied, I asked him to show me the equation he used for the data analysis. All good there. But then, being a computer programmer, I have eyes for tiny mistakes one usually made, that includes myself. Then after some careful scanning, and there it was, a double counting recursive loop. The mistake was made worse by him entering a high number.

So instead of rushing to the director and demand for an instant promotion and cop a spanking for his careless mistakes, he settled down and was happy with a mere 33 grams per tonne of gold.

My conclusion? No computers and cutest algorithms can match a cool, calm human brain. But then again, the GFC was a creation of cute algorithms and sneaky humans. What about those new cars packed to the brim with technologies? It is more like a computer with wheels. That is one of the reasons the new Land Cruiser 200 series is not selling well because people are scared of the technology. I am one of them !Perhaps I am just being too upfront on my comments about those human rights lawyers and their hangers-on. My previous post was not accepted. I shall be more considerate this time round?

They learned some neat ideas from the West about human rights and democracy. So they helicoptered such neat ideas into the Middle East. For those activists, human rights and democracy come hand-in-hand with an election. Once an election is held, everything is going to be honky dory. Jesus, look at what is happening to those nations which had been touched by democracy? Libya, Tunisia, Syria, Yemen, Egypt, Syria, etc. Need to go on?

An election held in the Middle East will only benefit those in the majority. The trouble is that those in the majority don't really gave a toss about those in the minority. That is why the Middle East is in such a bloody mess. Egypt had a nice election and the Muslim Brotherhood won handsomely. Why? Because they are in the majority. The mobs who advocate human rights and the Arab Spring ended up with nothing because Muslim Brotherhood don't want to know about human rights. It is not on their agenda.

Syria is now such a divided nation with almost resolvable humanitarian crisis, thanks to the Arab Spring and the freedom fighters. Perhaps these human rights activists want to take stock and try to understand where did go wrong. If they can't work it out for themselves, please allow me to enlighten you...The Middle East is not ripe for such cute idea like human rights and democracy. What they want, and above all, needed, is stability. Without a stable and secure government, all elements of evil intents will come out to play. That is what happened in Syria.G20...What a beaut idea ! Joe Hockey will be whipping up his helpful advice to the leaders: 
"The age of entitlements is over". 
"Only lifters are welcome. Leaners need not apply." 

Perhaps he may even nick a few of lines from his boss Tony Abbott:
"Coal is good for humanity."
"CO2 is invisible, so there is nothing to worry about."
"Climate Change is crap."

Brisbane is in a virtual lock-down. Too many hairy unwashed protestors coming to disrupt the fun and games show. The mayor of Brisbane asked people not to be deterred by the heavy security build-up. He suggested that they should come out in their cars, go for walks just like normal. Why? To show the visitors how vibrant Brisbane is. Hah... If you like to be pulled over by cops and ask for security details, then go for it. Good for "Team Australia".

Some less kind folks suggested the G20 ought to be less disruptive to our everyday lives. A remote island. An aircraft carrier, they proposed. Me, I am more kind. I will suggest Bear Grill take them away to a little island a bloody long way, as far away as possible. They will have to survive on their own ingenuity and resilience. Eating cockroaches, scorpions, earth worms, etc. 

In ten days' time, those that survive will be lean and trim for the lack of food. So lets call it "G20 survival challenge".No doubt, like so many of us and politicians, Mr. Gough Whitlam had some failures. Thankfully, he had many triumphs too. I fact, because of him, many of us, including my grumpy self, have had some successes in life. Such successes will never be possible for me otherwise. 

His education reform had made it possible for me to go beyond the secondary school education. Back then, my highest aspiration was to be a building site foreman. 

Yes, it was a costly policy, so were some of his many others in health, foreign relations, and indigenous rights. Some of us would see him as a failure as he was sailing into a "perfect storm" in a time when oil energy crisis and the worldwide financial crisis. Yes, his "Team Australia" can do a lot better. 

Leaders come in many forms. John Howard like to concentrate on his pennies and pounds. His job was made easy too when China was buying whatever we can dig up fast enough. Could Mr. Whitlam take some credit in bring China into the folds of the world? 

I think Mr. Whitlam is analogous to a masterful painter. Some painters paint on very small canvass. He/she will paint every details, fill every nooks and crannies with colours and brilliants. One the other hand, A master painter like Mr. Whitlam used a very large canvass. He use huge paint brushes, and laid long powerful strokes all over it. He created the theme, the guts, the structure of the piece. There were gaps...many of them. These gaps and vacancies are to be filled by his successors...if they are worthy of the tasks.

Of course, there were Mr. Hawke and Mr. Keating. The crops after that...well...you be your own judge.A good mate of mine while we were at the university was a mad-keen horse/dog racing punter. He punted even while he was busy with his school work. 

We both graduated. He had trouble getting employment due to his less than impressive academic results. Now he is up to his eye-balls in debts because he simply didn't know when to stop in whatever he was doing. He went into various business adventures, and failed as his heart wasn't in it. Because of his risky behaviours learned from punting, he kept throwing good money after bad. 

Anyway, back to the Melbourne Cup...

Some spin doctors in the racing industry reckoned that people died in marathons, or on golf courses. That is very valid. However, there is one major and un-disputable difference...The marathon runners do not get pushed to the brink by a jockey, horses do.

Some also argue that these animals are bred purely and simply for one purpose, racing. So death is one of the potential outcomes. I believe the other likely outcome is being sent to the slaughterhouse if the horse does not perform. We are the master of the animal kingdom, or that is what we would like to believe. So how these animals are dealt with is basically at our discretion. That is such a comforting thought...Isn't it ?Back in the good old days...

For security, a caveman would simply start a fire at night to deter any hungry animals. For the lucky ones who do own a cave, yes, a cave, not a house, he would simply roll a large rock to block the entrance. No deadlocks, no chains, no movement detection cameras, or CCTV.

Now we have houses with the security measures coming out of our asses, yet still it is not secure enough. Why? Because according to the government agencies, it is bloody dangerous outside. Terrorists crawl all over the streets, hide in the bushes, or live within the storm water drains.

So how do they propose to keep us safe? More cops on the streets? Well, they have done that. Nearly every election, state or federal, a promise of some sort to increase the intake of police recruits were made. Can there be more cops than criminals? If they do keep their promises, then it will be, but governments seldom kept promises. So that scenario is out of the question.

So they look for the easier and far cheaper option...They go high-tech ! Yes, they will catch the electrons zipping around the wiring and go for the bad electrons. Scary stuff. No, seriously, they want our electronic records. How much and how often? Well, as much and as often as they can get away with. Now that is the problem...Who police the police?

There were quite a few cases where cops accessed illegally data on police databases. These were done to help out friends or lovers, or in some cases, financial gains. Sure, they were caught. However, how many were never caught? Since cops police themselves, would it be possible that they cover mates asses?

The latest 4-Corners amply demonstrated that the weakest link in the chain of crimes is human. The terrorist was allowed to passed through the custom with hi brother's passport. Well, it is possible as brothers may look very similar. However, his brother also has criminal records. No worries mate. Straight through.

So all the big-noting in media conferences mean next to zero as one stupid cop will stuff up the whole scheme of things. MegaData, IP addresses, electrons and neutrons...All these will be ultimately decided by one word..."COMPETENCE".Richard Branson is a man who knows quite a bit about spins. In fact, he is very often the character within the spins himself.

Remember he dressed up as a tarty air stewardess? Bright lipstick, long eyelashes, slinky black nylon stockings, red stilettos, and beard ! He is every bit a woman I ever dreamed of and more ! That  Austrian "Bearded lady" who won the recent Euro song contests probably can learn a few make-up tricks from Branson. 

But Branson is not just a bimbo. He is a real deal. The space travel at $250,000 a pop certainly got a few rich persons with a desire to dare, excited. Imagine being slingshot to the edge of the earth where a slight malfunction will mean you either die of suffocation, or you turn into minced meat in record time. 

Why would a perfectly healthy person dive off a cliff, with mere metres between him and the rock-hard cliff face? Is jumping off a highest tower in Asia enough to quench his thirst for being the first? I bet his next target will be the highest tower in USA. 

Personally, I see the challenges folks chose to make as quite fair because it is him/her against his own fears, and skills. The space challenge Branson is experimenting is a different kettle of fish altogether. Why? Because it is very energy intensive. Just to propel a small payload close to the edge of the earth's gravitational pull requires a huge amount of energy. Have you seen the size of the rockets, and the tiny payload it carries ?

How many people have $250,000 sloshing around under the sofa anyway? Why the hell do you want to get from one continent to the next in such a big hurry ? Who are you running away from? George Brandis? Scott Morrison? Budgie smugglers?The mess that is spreading across the Middle East is a product of just about everything good and bad on earth. 

It was democracy, and the strong desires to give the long suffering folks in the Middle East a taste of human rights, that the Western allies spent years, lots of pesos, and loss of considerable human lives (not including the Arabs themselves) bogged down waist-deep over there. Ohh..I forgot the oil...

Like getting lost in a mangrove swamp, the West desperately trying to extricate itself out of the sticky, energy sapping mess. They thought finally, ten years and counting, they can proudly march out of the troublesome Middle East, and declare to the world that: "Everything is under control." Marched out they did. According to the official song-sheets, the local defense forces are well trained enough to take on the enemies. 

The "un-official" song-sheets tell a very different story. The defense forces are way under-trained. Worse still, they are prone to dropping everything, including their expensive weapons, and run to save their asses.

So there you have a huge region with a tangled mess of self-interests, religious believes, and tribalism. WMD was never found, but they got rid of Saddam, and are still desperately trying to dislodge Assad. All the rules and orders established over many decades by sheer brutality and cunning, were disassembled. In a nutshell, a power vacuum.

In the name of Islam, the rebels saw an opening and went for it. Now they turn the rebellion into a religious war. Good vs evil. Islam vs Christian. Believers vs infidels. Anyone can see that it is not about religions, or about imperialism, but just nutcases out to grab power, money and territories, just like Saddam Hussein and Assad. 

Personally, I don't really give much thought to those half-wits going overseas to lay claim to their hoards of virgins waiting for them in heaven. However, I do care about the price we have to pay for the security measures being imposed on us. 

I reckon the most dangerous weapon one have is brain. It invented religions out of some bullsh*t myths and folklore. Now the dirty, rotten hates preachers turn religion into a weapon, against humans, the creation of, well. God !"Direct Action"...What a good idea ! 

To be honest, I still am wondering why we bother with any action on Climate Change. As our learned PM who is also a Rhode scholar said that:

"CO2 is invisible. What you can't see can't hurt you." 

So which part of his statement you don't understand? Since Climate Change is only a scam worked up by some academics, why don't we just ditch the half-ass efforts in battling Climate Change? Just to keep the hairy, unwashed Greens supporters happy? 

The Direct Action caper is silly to the extreme. Would the police pay me for obeying the law? Or would they pay me for breaking the law less often? It seems the Direct Action is doing just that. If you pollute less, we reward you for such good deeds. 

Our PM Abbott made an earth shattering statement a while back: 

"Coal is good for humanity." 

Can anyone top that? Of course it is good for humanity, especially for Australia, and the mining sectors. Jobs...jobs... and more jobs ! One can hardly be surprised to learn that Count Dracula sings the praise of blood. Imagine him going off blood and turns vegetarian? 

I would argue that we keep doing what we are good at doing, ie. digging and shipping the stuff we have shed-load of. Why worry about the environment? In about 200 years time, when we dug and shipped everything of value for the sake of jobs and our living standards, we just might look favourably at some of those "utterly offensive" windmills. But that is the decisions for our future generations. They are on their own as far as I am concerned. 

Perhaps that is how things work...The utterly offensive things may one day turn into a beautiful swan.Brand differentiation...

There were the much more clear cut distinction between the "free world" and the communism during the cold war period. The two biggest kahunas are the USA and the Soviets. It depend on which side of the fence, or which spin/witch doctor you are listening to, there were the good guys and the bad guys. 

While the good and the bad were at each other's throat, the rest of the nations took side, or perhaps shelter under the wings of one of them. Of course, during those days, the nations with rich resources will be exploited to the max. Willing puppets were installed as a de-facto government for one of the two bad amigos. The Middle Eastern nations such as Iran and Iraq gave the West the oil it so desperately needed. The ex-soviet satellite nations such as Poland, Czechoslovakia gave the Soviets the raw materials and even manufacturing prowess.

So everything was under control.

The end of the cold war saw a more fuzzy demarcation between the nations and the world as a whole. The once oppressed Islamic religious sectarians found the courage to challenge the old orders. 

The British, being so good at divide and conquer, found itself driven out of the usual sphere of influence. So now it changed tack, and advocate democracy all round for the long suffering ex-colonies. 

The Yanks are less subtle, they have powerful military mights, and had not been reluctant to use it. Like some said: "If you got it, flaunt it." The trouble is that the world order has changed a lot. Pure and unadulterated military force will get you nowhere as demonstrated in the Middle East. Sure, you have stealth fighters, precision bombs, drones. Against all these expensive toys, the enemies have more basic weapons, including suicide bombers, and they are all over the country, among the population!

Perhaps the good old days when the riches of the world are shared between the more powerful nations are gone. The likes of ISIS are not only fighting for Islam, (well...according to their spins anyway), but they are fighting just for the sake of it, and are fighting to die rather than to live. That I reckons is the most devastating. 

Remember the Japanese Kamikaze, and the viciousness and ruthlessness of the invading Japanese forces?The parliaments, the "Chamber of torture", or perhaps more aptly "Torturous chamber", will only attract certain kind of people. Imagine yourself sitting hours after hours listening to the droning voices ? 

How about Eric Abetz for half an hour? How about George Brandis? Perhaps Bill Shorten for a ten minute session? Or even Julia Gillard ? Torture to the max I reckon.

So who should we have to sit on the parliaments? I reckon we can get rid of the prisons, and send offenders to a stint in the parliament. That will teach them ! 

Are those current representing us the best of the crop? Well, that is long bow to draw. Unfortunately, the capable people would not want to be burdened by the "Order" and "Out of order" in the chambers. They have bigger fish to fry, and heftier rewards to go with their efforts too. 

Remember the Queensland Rugby legend Mal Meninga? He must be very good at motivating people, even the hairiest and beefiest knuckleheads in the game. He only lasted a bare 10 second when he had a microphone planted in front of him! "Ahhh...Bugger it..." That was all he could summarize everything about politics.Fruit picking? Shovel pushing? House painting? Building site labourer? I have done all of the above and many more other odd jobs. Yes, low pay and hard work. From doing all of these odd jobs, I cottoned on that getting a better education is my top priority.

I am not a member of the Mensa. I doubt I will ever make it. I guess much hard work did make up for the deficiency in my case. Unfortunately, for some young folks, their circumstances and intellect may deter them from advancing beyond menial and low pay jobs.

There are other more important factors that affect the employment situations. I believe these are some of the factors:

(1). Automation and computerization of the work place have basically replaced many employment opportunities for younger folks.

Some 20 years ago, one still frequent banks and post offices. Take the banks for example. It was more than likely than the tellers would be a young men/women. There will be long ques too. Now a days I hardly go to the banks as I have Internet banking and credit card. The banks boost their profits by reducing the brick and mortar, and essentially reducing the employees too. So there went the jobs. The post offices are probably a little different. Their curse are the emails. 

(2). Our demand for lower cost services.
Of course, the constant demand for cost cutting meant many of the jobs now went overseas. I believe for the wage they pay someone in Australia, it is possible to employ 6 or 7 people in Manila, or perhaps India. This is how the world operates now. It has become almost borderless. Low skill jobs can quite easily exported to a foreign nation as the expense of the locals. 

In some way, we the consumers are responsible for it because we demand lower prices for more.

(3). Share holders.
Share holders demand higher dividends. Companies will need to find ways to cut costs, which ultimately meant cutting jobs, or sending jobs overseas.From high-tech into fertility factories. I am not so sure about the ethics and the true motives of those executives...I bet they are mostly men too?

If I may look a bit beyond the improbable. If eggs are frozen for future use, why stop there. Why not use surrogate mothers. There are cheap as chip in third world countries such as Thailand. So the breeding functions are not abdicated to someone else while the high power female employees can continue on her ascendancy on the corporate ladder.

If I may go even one step further, why not employ some in-house surrogate mothers?

Yes, they are bloody ridiculous ideas, and I don't really like it. However, I guess the shock value is certainly there.

These high-tech companies seem to know everything and have a solution to every problem. I do want to know if the CEO themselves are willing to freeze their wives' eggs for future use?If we take a higher moral ground, would it mean other cattle producing nations will take up the slack, and we lose in the end? 

It is the same argument drug dealers used when told to stop their trades. Someone else will take up the slack. 

There are a few important issues we need to look at here.
(1). Why live exports?
(2). What alternatives to live exports?
(3). Who are responsible for the welfare of the animals?
(4). Who are liable to pay for the losses incurred by the farmers?

(1). Why live exports?
Speaking as a non-vegetarian, I don't believe in turning the entire world into vegetarians. Being an atheist, I failed to see why the practice of Halal is still such a holly way to slaughter an animal. Is a stunned animal less palatable or dirtier than one that was stabbed, sliced, chopped, whacked mercilessly and then bled all over the place? Halal ? Respect to your prey? I am yet to be convinced.

(2). What alternatives to live exports?
The common argument for live exports is the lack of slaughtering facilities. If you have that many animals sent on a cramped ship of death, surely there is sufficient throughput for a viable slaughterhouse to be set up. Perhaps it is the same mindset as the mining mobs...dig it up, truck it off and be done with it.

(3). Who are responsible for the welfare of the animals?
Now the farmers are suing the government for their losses. I bet Barnaby Joyce would be both pleased and worried. Pleased that the ALP will have to wear the blames. Worries because despite the budget black-hole, some big-figure cash will come off the coffers.

Should the government wear the blames, entirely? Well, I thought the live export mobs had everyone believed that everything is honky dory. The animal welfare mob also had their spins stitched up rather well. The National Farmers lobby was just as pleased to get the membership fees. The farmers of course are only too pleased that they get the incomes for their labour. 

(4). Who are liable to pay for the losses incurred by the farmers?
So should the government wear all the blames, or all of the groups along the chain of activities ought to share them too? Since the farmers paid those people to train, inspect, and to report on the happenings to the animals, and now they were found not really doing their jobs they were paid to do. Should these inspectors and live exports people be liable to the losses?
The night when Abbott was confirmed as the new PM, I splashed out on a bottle of 2013 vintage red at a princely sum of $8, plus a large pizza "with the lot". Too early to celebrate? Not really. I knew Abbott and Hockey will very promptly give me back $550 for the Carbon Tax reversal. So there will be many of those $8 vintage and pizzas down the track. 

Alas...Checked on my power bill...I don't even notice any significant amount worthy of a mention. I can't even buy a frozen pizza with that misery reduction! Being an optimist as ever, I am waiting and hoping that...It won't happen overnight...but it will happen !

The love of fossil fuels Abbott has is not a secret. As he so openly declared recently: "Coal is good for humanity". It sure is. I bet he doesn't mind if I am to add a little extra to his declaration: "...and we have shed-load of it here in our backyard."Before this compensation claim is made, there was another footage showing the cattle being amateurishly slaughtered. The big animal was way too big for the scared slaughter-man to tackle. So he tried to stab it in the neck. No luck as the now totally sh*t scared cattle is fighting for its life. So the drama went on an on.

Halal slaughtering? Treat your animal with respect? Well, hardly. I bet the slaughter-man did say his prayer, but it was more for his own safety than it is to thank God for the food he provide.

The treatment of animals reflects who you are. Some psychologists believe criminals, especially the violent one, often do not find any empathy with animals. Cruelty to animal is often one of the traits these criminals exhibited during their growing up. 

To see those hapless sheep tied up and unceremoniously thrown into the car boots hardly convinced me that the people involved have any empathy for the animals. Perhaps that explained why there are so many senseless killing over that part of the world? 

Farmers bred animals to be slaughtered for food, and in turn they get paid for them. That is a fair enough exchange. Unfortunately, once an animal left the farm gate, how they will be treated is probably very much out of their control. The question is: Do they care, or need to care at all, after cash changed hands? 

Perhaps we, and I meant the Western society, pretend that we are very different to the rest of them. Deep down, I doubt it. It is all about a business transaction. Cattlemen get paid, and they keep breeding more animals for the next round of shipment. To pretend that we do care probably is stretching it a bit.

May be we should try not to be a hypocrite too much as when the crunch come, we are just like anybody else, it is the cash that ultimately mattered over everything.Righteousness...

Whose side are you on? Lets compare the recruitment adverts by the defense department and the terrorists.

The defense recruitment adverts wanted the young folks to join up, promising good pay, good food, good future job prospects, and above all, mate-ship. Yes, the last promise probably is the most potent and desirable to some young kids. 

The terrorist groups did not promise good food, good pay, bright job prospects, but they trump the defense recruitment adverts by promising a sure path to heaven where endless supplies of virgins are there waiting breathlessly for their martyrdom. Before their ascendance to heaven, they have mate-ships as part of the rewards which many of these young terrorists never did have. 

Judging by the profiles of many of the known terrorist recruits, one can't say they are outstanding in anything. Drug addicts/dealers, thugs, car thieves, petty thieves, mental illness, steroid junkies, ex-prisoners, etc. These are the type of losers who will not find an anchor in wherever they live. They are the outcasts, on the fringe of a society.

Lo and behold...The sudden conversion to Islam gave them the tiny bit of connection to some relevance. Grow a beard, learn a few verses of the Islam, Kaposh...They are now legit...They are part of a big movement...A movement to kick the infidels' asses. 

I call this "Instant Noodle" Islam. Just pour hot water, wait for two minutes, and you have a meal. The trouble is, Islam, just like any major religions, takes more than growing a beard to become a genuine Muslim. There will be a lot of learning. Most importantly, the deeper meaning of a religion, ie. to spread peace. It is in your heart, deep inside.

Unfortunately, the "instant Noodle" terrorists didn't have the inclination to learn anything about Islam beyond the "killing" bits. That is hardly surprising as these amigos never paid much attention in school anyway. They are the lower percentile of the dumb in class. Learning makes their head ache. 

The initiatives by various groups to talk and to connect with Islamic bodies are good. However, I doubt very much that much good will come of it because those potential "Instant Noodle" Islamist will always stay on the fringe anyway. They find comforts in those shadowy hate preachers. I suspect they have already wanted to make a difference to the society...but in a very negative way.Every so often, I get an email from my bank, or PayPal, or eBay, advising me that there are new amendments to the current rules and regulations. The trouble, I don't even know what the previous set of rules and regulations were !

So politicians are elected to, well, make us feel relax and comfortable. The way to go about it is to clash heads together four days a week in the parliament. "Order" and "Out of order". Stood up to make a protest. Told to sit down by the speaker of the house, or get ejected for being a notty boy and girl. Red faces and interjections from the unruly mob on the backbenches.

All these commotions are to make up some more legislation. More power to the spooks. Better funding for them too. MetaData must be gathered. Whether one understand what it really is perhaps is not that important. What is important is that they must be seen to be doing something. 

So voluminous amount of legislation are stacked up. The opposition is under pressure to pass them. 

I often wonder...Is there a time when there is no longer any legislation to be made and passed ? I mean, we have all the bases covered. If so, what else would the politicians do without having to debate about legislation?I believe we have over-complicated the radicalization of youths. Please allow me to explain...

Have you ever noticed among just about any classes, or groups, there are bound to be a couple of kid who just don't seem to fit in? Outwardly awkward, even shy and find it difficult to connect with his/her mates, these kids will grow up to be youths that are neither here nor there. They are doing badly academically. They are probably loners among a sea of youths. In a nutshell, there are drifting.

Thanks to the Internet, the Messiah like hate-preachers gave them that little tentative thread to connect to a movement...a movement that requires little in-depth thinking. All you need to do is to convert to Islam, grow a beard, chant a few verses of the Koran, and guess what...you are suddenly one of them. You have finally found acceptance. You are transformed. You were a nobody, now you are somebody.

That 17 year old loud-mouth Abdullah Elmir probably fits in my description. Instead of a pen or a spanner, he found a sub-machine gun which gave him the courage and purpose he never once had. Better still, he found himself to be the spokesman among a group of equally clueless bearded amigos. Talking about dumb and dumber ! But that is how it works. In the terrorist groups, intellect is not required, dumb courage is.

So all this talks about "...the Greens' recent suggestion for a national Centre for Social Cohesion" is just a lot of hot air. Yes, the law abiding ones will probably be interested, but I doubt those on the fringe...such as Abdullah Elmir will bother, or give a damn about it. 

Pass as many laws as you want, have as many peace hugging sessions as you can organize, those societal drop-outs will always be there, to be exploited and used by the recruiters.I know it is within your rights to name whoever you please. However, to call Maggie Thatcher a "progressive" along side Mr. Gough Whitlam, I believe you re wrong there.

Maggie Thatcher was all mouths but no ethics. She told everyone that Britain stands for human rights and decency, yet she sided and defended General Pinochet till the day he died. That said a lot about what she stand for. Progressive? Yes, slash and burn, without a regard for the working class's suffering. 

You could have picked a better example, I reckon.Yes...That Stone...John Stone !

Isn't is strange that in a time like this, all those mouldy old pros come out to have a piece of their minds. Those men of tremendous self-importance. Sir John Kerr, John Stone. 

Mentioning of John Stone, it reminded me of his strong opposition of Asian immigration. I bet he must be hurting now. The fact that Mr. Whitlam took the bold move to normalise the relationship between Australia and China, before Henry Kissinger managed to "sneak" in a few days later, tells a lot about who and what, and the size of the man Mr. Whitlam is. I bet that definitely didn't go down very well for John Stone.

John Stone thinks very highly of himself. Unfortunately for him, the Australian public disagree with him on that !

What Mr. Whitlam had achieved in those few short years would have taken lesser PM decades to do, if they have the courage to do it at all.I am a mad keen reader of the MAD magazine. One particular strip really got me cracked up.

It showed a series of females (yes, all females in this case) all pointed to the picture of a famous actress on the wall, wanting to be as beautiful like her. The final frame depicted all the females looked "exactly" the same as they walked out of the clinic.

The late Joan Rivers was a keen fan of cosmetic surgeries. For her, being a public figure, in the USA where people just don't grow old, it was necessary for her to transform herself on a regular basis. Her fear that her audience will turn away from her shows may just be valid.

With newsreaders, or reporters, the advance of TV also meant "keeping up appearance" is quite important. Perhaps it is an indication of the TV viewers as much as the newsreaders/reporters themselves. 

The question I often wondered is when do you stop having cosmetic surgeries? For Joan Rivers, it was almost till the days she died because she was still a performing artist then.gd,

Quite list you compiled there. Well done. Yes, we should all be eternally grateful to Tony Abbott and LNP for giving us such peace and tranquility. As Mr. John Howard said so famously: " Relax and comfortable".

But hang on a minute please...Didn't he and his "Coalition of the willing" went over to the Middle East and stir up the pot of sh*t some ten or so years ago ?

Hell, am I grateful for the level of security around us. The sights of armed cops really give me a sense of well-being. For that I am very grateful indeed.I am a firm believer in self reliant. I also "was" deeply debt averse due to my own low socio-economic upbringing. 

So what did I do when I finally landed a job, thanks to Mr. Whitlam's revolutionary free higher education policy? I saved. And saved I did. For many years, I foolishly allowed my hard-earned money peddled on the spot as the bank paid me next to nothing in interest, and of course the ATO got into the act and further stripped away any remnant of interest earning. All these happened while inflation kicked me in the guts.

From being risk averse, and debt free, I took the plunge to invest in properties. Yes, I did take advantage of negative gearing. 

Instead of going out to nightclubs and burn my money on buying hugely expensive alcohol, I stayed home and enjoyed home-cooked meals. No, I didn't live life to the max like some others. The properties are my financial "anchor". It prevented me from being too free with my money.

Now, is that a positive attribute for being careful with your money and invest wisely? The many articles I read seemed to suggest that it is not. It seems that it is almost like a crime to invest in properties. What about shares ? It also gives you the benefits of negative gearing too. 

When people chose to buy into properties in or around capital cities because there are the full suit of facilities available, it also meant there are price premium to pay. Why? Because there are many others who also competing with you for a limited resource. It is called "demand and supply". I believe further out of town, one still can get affordable properties. 

Sure, many of us like to have restaurants and shops within walking distances. You still can...but you need to pay for the privilege.One can lay it on investors who chose to invest in properties. Guess what, negative gearing is one of the sweetener, just like share investment, or even running a business.

Yes, I am out to defend property investors because I am one of them. Yes, there are some incentives offered to the property investors that may ire someone who chose to rent. However, investing in properties is like setting up any business, there are risks and mistakes involved. One can choose to play it safe and park your money in the bank and received next to zero in net return, one can rent and let the landlords to shoulder the risk. But that is your choice, and your alone !

Regarding whether the public gets anything from an investment property, well, please allow me to tell you...The public do get benefits.

For a start, the real estate agents get a fee of 8.5% out of the rents. Of course then the real estate agents offer employment to folks. Then the maintenance mob get a slice of the action. Just to get a plumber to come and have a look at a potential fault, $100 before he even lifted a spanner! Then $80/hr after that. What about the reticulation guys? What about the mowing chaps? Carper cleaning ? Smoke alarms inspections ?

On top of all these, insurance. No, not like any insurance...you pay more for an investment insurance. Land-tax anyone? 

Surely all those outgoings will sustain some proportions of the economy ?I have been a leaner for a very long time. Not particularly clever, and very short on talent as well. So I scaled the job adverts on the Internet and newspapers far and wide, looking for just that one break. I dearly want to break that cycle of being a leaner, and for once, be a lifter.

Then that break came. I saw an advert for a professor in, guess what? "Poetry" !

"Nah...Not a chance." I thought to myself. I can barely string a few meaningful words together, and the speller is my constant aid. The only poetry I know of are the ones I scanned every now and then in one of those dingy, smelly public toilets one desperately try to avoid unless absolutely necessary.

Then just for pure curiosity, I looked at the advert more closely, and I suddenly felt a rush of adrenalin. "My God ! I can do that !" I told myself.

The advert goes like this...

"A suitably qualified professional is required to work for a prestigious education institution. The person we are looking for needs to be able to be funny. That is an absolute must. On top of being a funny person, it is highly desirable, but not essential, that you can also string words together to make it look like poetry. Yes, we are looking for a comedian come poet.

It is utterly important that you are steep in Judeo-Christian values as it forms the backbone of our institution. Please note that we are a non-discriminatory establishment. It means you are free to offend anybody with any ill-fitting, poorly considered words, as long as you are not found out."

Let me tell you...Was I delighted. I was delighted by the fact the Australia has move on. We are becoming more offensive and self-entitled. Most importantly though is the fact that I don't even need to write things that make sense and get paid for it.

God...I love this country. I hope you all do as well.TimL,

Quite right. "Snake in thick undergrowth is more dangerous than the ones in the open" ?I believe just about all private companies, especially the larger ones, have employment code of conducts plastered all over the walls. To use the company's communication systems, ie. computer networks, to transmit and share offensive materials such as pornography, is a sack-able offense. 

Once you are found to have receive, especially sent such materials, you will be escorted, yes, security guards and all, out of the company's front gate. Some employees did cry foul and resort to unfair dismissal arbitration. I believe most, if not all, lost. 

I actually knew of three emergency services employees on one of the mine sites I used to work in got the sack for such offense. 

In a nutshell, you are to use the employer's property for gainful purposes, in accordance with the company's policies. If you want to be cute and found time in between picking your teeth and mining your nose, and sent some "banned" materials to your friends, then you are an idiot. Not only will you get into troubles, but your friend will also cop it hard too. 

Perhaps universities are above such commonsense guidelines? Perhaps the supposedly learned professors thought they are untouchable? So a professor of poetry, yes, poetry, got himself and his mates down low into the gutters, and thought it is very poetic to outgun each other on being the most racist? wow...That certainly made my day!

Privacy issue? Well, I believe the company does have the power to audit all the computers that belong to the company. Basically the IT men would access the Internet browsing history and of course emails. 

Interesting enough though, I knew of a very high ranking manager did cruise the porn sites, a lot ! But he got away because, well, he is a good mate of the general manager. Different rules for different folks? Definitely.damon,

Argue and sue for all you like. The fact remains that the communication systems belongs to the employer, in this case the university. If you want to fool around, playing clever dick, then do it in your own time, use your own Internet. The employer wants to protect its own ass by not allowing its employees misusing its resources.

"...A university e-mail address, used as a means of private communication, should also be inviolate. If I use an ISP, does that mean it has the right to read my e-mails, or monitor my web usage?"

For a start, you are not supposed to use the university's network for private communication. Sure, most of us did, but very judiciously and sparingly. Because the university owns and pay for the network, it can and should monitor what is going on within it. Why? Because if it has been misused, then the university is responsible. 

As I said earlier, the code of conducts are provided to each employee pre-employment. One's chance of pleading ignorance is as slim as explaining to the traffic cop why you drink and drive. People got sacked for misusing the network because the employer is worried that other people may take offense to the materials floating around. Have you heard of the term "Duty of care" ? 

"...If I send some offensive views to someone in a letter, and that is intercepted and published, it is a punishable offence."

Your employer do not own the post office, while the university owns the computer network. That I believe is the major difference.

I hope he stays away from the noble place of learning. What he spewed out didn't seem like any substance worthy of a professor in poetry. More of a gutter stuff to me and probably to many others !There was a program on the ABC 22 about transgenders. It showed the happiness of being allowed to be themselves, especially among their own group. Unfortunately, there were much sadness too. In fact, I thought the amount of sadness probably outweighed the joy of being herself.

The individuals found themselves facing many hurdles. Finding employment was one of the most traumatic, I believe. That particular individual found that she can't get work in industries which serve female, eg. a wedding dress shop. The shop owner was worried that females clients may not want to be touched or seen half naked by an "ex-man". So there went one of the employment opportunity.

They were seen as some kind of novelty by some men too. 

Interesting enough, there are quite a number of transgenders in Thailand. Apparently it is more acceptable over there.

In India, the public views are very mixed. Some of them are regarded as semi-deity. They are invited to weddings to dance. Unfortunately, many also found lives very difficult and fallen into prostitution.There was an article the other day about Jesus. The main sticky point was about whether Jesus the man himself actually existed. 

My point was that it really doesn't matter if Jesus existed or not, it is the values he represented that really does matter.

Mr. Whitlam is a giant of a man in politics and in social reforms. a great leader no doubt. Unfortunately, like many great leaders and reformists, they are not good at handling details. That was probably his weak underbelly. 

To use Mr. Whitlam's image to associate the Greens is probably a touch tacky. But then again, like some said "...Imitation is the greatest form of flattery." Perhaps Mr. Whitlam may not object to it? Most importantly though, the ALP may need to ensure that it truly deserve the legacy of such a great leader, and a brave reformer ? The shape and form the ALP is in, I doubt it carries the Whitlam flag very well at all !Steven,

The main and most important point you missed is that ...

Free education allowed a level playing field. Kids in poorer households who harboured higher aspirations to achieve higher and better education can do so. Before then, Only those with parents who can afford to send them to university can do so. 

Yes, those who didn't go to universities paid for someone else' education. Well, what about the tax money you and I paid that goes into building roads and bridges somewhere in the never never. Should those infrastructures be fully paid by the users in the outback? How about hospitals? A healthy person may hardly need to go to a hospital, yet his/her tax paid for its running costs. What about the police and the arm forces? Should criminals pay for the service of a cop at the point of his/her arrest?

In case you don't know, it is called a "society".Isn't it rather sad that a giant like Mr. Gough Whitlam laid a bold plan to modernize Australia. He did it not for his own self interests, but for the benefits of all Australians, then, now, and future. 

He tried to implement all those reforms in a very short time, and despite some of the mishaps within his government due to the lack of attention to details, his government, and his leadership is no doubt the most invigorating and exciting of them all!

Like all things, some particular person/event sharpen and concentrate one's mind. The late Mr. Al Grassby was one such character. With the looks of a TV salesman on a late night furniture of kitchenware adverts, he did remind me of what the Whitlam era was like...Brash and daring, lots of times funny too.

Mr. Whitlam dared to challenge. He challenged the norm, ie. the USA dominance of our foreign policies. He paved the way for a normal diplomatic relationship with China. I bet the Yanks got rather put off by that. He laid the ground work for our future intellectual framework by a free university education. Kids from poor families had an even chance to gain an education. Many people, myself included, were touched by that bold act. 

Yes, he held office for a very short time. But God almighty, he achieved so much, so much more than those leaders who's main goal in politics is to hang on to power for as long as possible. 

Lead from the front is Mr. Whitlam's style. Contrary to his, leading from the back is style of many of the leaders nowadays.Oftentimes, we utter such aspiration that "...I want to make a difference...". Well, I believe Mr. Gough Whitlam had done that !!!

I am bloody certain that what he had done did make a HUGE difference in my life. I am talking about the "university education reforms". Thanks to his bold reforms, I dug my way out of the poverty pit. In today's spins, it meant "...from being a leaner to being a lifter."

His stroke of generosity and foresightedness had also enabled many persons like myself to be a contributor to the society, in terms of skills and economy. I want Mr. Whitlam to know that I have not forgotten the less fortunate in our society.

Please allow me to tint this moment of sadness with a touch of politics. I want the political minnows populating our parliaments to know that their actions will determine what our nation will become for the next many years. Narrow minded and shallow superficial reforms will condemn you to the rubbish heap of politics. Learn something from Mr. Whitlam, for God sake !maus,

I am truly sorry that you find such biases among the posters on The Drum. Yes, we can be biased. 

The norm is not to say something bad about someone after their death. That is fair enough, I reckon. However, despite all my efforts, I failed to see many good things to say about Maggie Thatcher. I scraped the bottom of the barrel for "Nice Things", yet come up blanks ! Perhaps she wasn't such a nice person to begin with? She intended to destroy the social fabrics of UK in the name of reforms and modernization. She harped about human rights and yet sided with that murderer Dictator Pinochet. She defended him to the end even when he was arrested in Europe for his crimes.

Mr. Whitlam is the complete opposite. So many nice things to say about him because, well, there really are many nice things to say about him.I believe the financial importance of Hong Kong has diminished from 18% of the Chinese GDP to only 3% in present days. When Hong Kong featured such an important financial role in the Chinese economy, the Chinese mainland probably want to be ultra cautious in avoiding uncertainties. The demands for democracy probably would be considered a lot more judiciously.

The characters featured dominantly on our TV screens are mostly students. Many barely needing a shave yet. Most if not all probably still live at home with their parents. Of course there are some older adults in the background, egging them on. I believe some of them were the ex-Tian-An-Men activists. 

Yes, demonstrate by all means. However, I failed to see how to reconcile the interests of the businesses and the demonstrators. Lets put it this way, it had lasted 3 weeks. I must say the police had been very patient.I am totally and utterly confused !!!

Tony Abbott jumped up and down, wanting to join the "Coalition of the Concerned" to whip the terrorists asses. 200 SA and a large proportion of our jet fighters went before the Iraqi government found time to sign on the dotted lines. Why? Because we need to install a bit of steel into Barack Obama's spines. In case you don't already know, we have a new PM now who is not shy from a bit of "Shirt-fronting".

But it does not compute...Here we are desperately trying NOT to get involve in the Ebola crisis in West Africa for fear of getting out health workers in harms' way, yet we are more than keen, in fact, keener than the USA and mustard, to send our fighting men/women to the Middle East. Are the defense personnel more dispensable? 

When it comes to symbols, Joe Hockey summed it up really well. "Those 'utterly offensive' windmills" basically summed up what the LNP thought of renewable energy. Of course, now the Queensland government is attempting to slash the solar energy bonus to make the electricity bills smaller. Then Abbott in his high-Visibility outfit, declared that "...coal is good. Coal means jobs..." Need we say more?I am an atheist. However, being an atheist doesn't translate automatically into anti-religions. Far from it. I believe there are times, place and situations where religions can be "useful". As we all know, we are made differently, outwardly as well as psychologically. Some people do find comfort and peace in religion of their choice, go with it, brothers and sisters.

Having said that, I do find it rather tedious to keep having the argument about who Jesus Christ is. Is he real or just a myth. Well, I know of someone who actually met Jesus. He had one too many joints. 

What does it matter if Jesus is real or not. What really matters is what he represents. As someone said, the physical being won't last forever, but the ideas probably will. 

Like most things, what one said can get twisted, woven, spun, cut, diced and sliced to the point that it is no longer the exact words or meaning. Jesus' many and varied disciples did a very good job in turning a good yarn even better. Credit to them all!

I reckon we should just take in the best bits and live our lives to the best way we can. It is the thoughts of Jesus that really matter, folks.Yes, it is such a bloody awful feeling after experiencing six days of mayhem. Imagine what it will be like when you live it for your entire life! Am I stretching it? No way. Just think of the children in the "occupied" territories. Yes, "occupied" and not to be confused with "disputed" please. Then what about the regions where democracy was so generously dished out by the West, and all the occupants ever got was nothing but utter miseries and, wait for it...PTSD.

At the beginning of the Syria conflicts, there were reporters climbing over each other's shoulders to be the first "exclusive". They followed the "freedom fighters" and gave step-by-step, bullet-by-bullet accounts of the war. The reporters became the activists themselves. "Freedom and democracy" are solely needed for these oppressed people. Where are the reporters now? Too dangerous to be hanging around? Deaths and destruction are becoming too commonplace?

Three long years later, they are still at it. It is now a dead-heat. The one and only winner is the ISIS. The rest of the them are all losers, especially the civilians who thought the spread of democracy, or at least the intention of such generous act, will bring them a better live. 

We talked about the devastating effects of PTSD to so many people who had been touched by wars/conflicts. We talked about the returned soldiers, and of course the peripheral personnel such as reporters. How often do we discuss the civilians' plights? Do we give a toss about them in the first place? Do they have the option or luxury of seeing a specialist? In fact, do they even know what they are suffering is a form of PTSD? Probably not. Life must go on. Mouths need to be fed.

So before any of us, especially those politician who believe they have spines of steel, please think about those who will be harmed by wars. It is rather easy for them to parked their fat asses on those custom-made leather-clad furniture, draw up war plans in their "climate controlled" parliament, . The war-affected folks have to content with heat, dust, flies, mud, diseases, and open-sewers. All these on top of lost relatives and loved ones.Hey you knockers out there...The politicians of course knew what they are talking about. I mean it is the Q&amp;A on our very own ABC... Or do they?

But then, the images of George Brandis struggling with the meaning of "MetaData", perhaps I am being too optimistic ?Life is boring...Even the G20 will not bring me much excitements as I knew, for a start, I can only watch the racket from a long way off, behind a high fence, patrolled by armed cops. Yes, the same....the same...

Then our very own "greatest treasurer in the making" Joe Hockey reckons he will talk a bit of optimism into the G20 mob. The only way is up, he reckons. That is very good indeed. Nothing can't be fixed with a bit of optimism and a few cleverly crafted spins. But still...just another talk feast, isn't it ?

Well, no ! Out of the blue, came our own Mr. Excitement in PM Abbott. It will be a very different G20 this time. It will have some footy actions thrown into the mix. Despite the fact the "Shirt-front" is a nasty bone-crushing tackle, and it is now outlawed, it is still a very dramatic "dirty" trick to watch in the good old day. The hapless receiver of such a front-on ram will still know about what it is like for the whole week. It will be painful. It might even be some broken ribs, and possibly a few missing teeth!

So President Putin...Now that you are fully informed of what a bone crushing "shirt-front" tackle is, are you still game, or "man" enough to come to the G20 ?

In case Putin does not keep up with the news very much, Australia now has a new PM. He is not the wimpy, weedy materials we used to have. This new amigo is one tough dude. He rides a 10 speed bicycle. He jogs. He swims. He played rugby. He even boxed. Now that is the kind of tough guy you don't want to mess with. The fact that he issued a "shirt-front" invitation to Putin, it doesn't mean that Putin need to accept it. In fact, I suggest Putin should chuck a sickie and stay home instead.

Yes, ditch the diplomatic bullsh@t spins, and quite wearing those fake smiles for the camera. Roll up your sleeves and have a go, gentlemen. Lets have clean, fair fight. May the best man win.Listen up folks...Simon Cowan does have a point. A publicly funded institution such as the ANU should not, and cannot be allowed to allow the issue of "ethics" muddle its investment decisions. 

Lets face it, money has the same colours. As long as the investors rake in the dough, it should never be a concern for the university to play that "environment" card.

Hang on a minute...What am I saying? What if the ANU divest its money from renewable energy, eg. one of those "utterly offensive" wind-farms, and pours its funds into fossil fuel industries, would Simon Cowan be bitching about it ?Yes...Prayers do help. In fact, it helps a hell of a lot. 

Just ask any soldiers who are about to go into a battle. The chaplain will give them a good speech to calm their nerves. "Don't you worry about that chappy. It is all taken care of. May God be with you". The men/women who are about to face a potential death will say a quiet prayer too. They ask God to please protect them so that they can come back in one piece.

The trouble is, the other side also had a few quiet words with their God about the same. Let me tell you, I don't want to be God in all this war caper because which side do you pick? In the end, wars being what they are, people die. Please allow me to assure you, no amount of prayers will suffice. 

Dr Kevin Donnelly mentioned the majestic cathedrals in London. So are cathedrals the only ideal places for some quiet contemplations? I am not a religion amigo. However, I do know that some places can inspire me. Not to think about the higher beings I am led to believe exist, but to lower my heart rate a bit. To take in a few deep breaths to sample the clean, less adulterated air. Zoom in on the bird songs instead of the bloody iTunes on the awful Ipod thing. 

It is called "NATURE". 

Yes, listen very carefully, you can even hear the bees buzzing around extracting the tiny trace of nectar from the well hidden, utterly inconspicuous wild flowers. Look at the ladybirds and the remarkable painted patterns on their wings. What about those spiders that are ever so ready to pick out the careless bugs?

Do I say a prayer? Well no. I do wish we humans slow down a bit and take in what is around us. You can feel and smell what it is around you because you are still alive. When you kick the bucket, you won't be able to do it again. Despite the promise of a better life after death, I reckon this current one will do me just fine.Todd,

The keyword here is "equilibrium". 

The strong knows that if he/she dares to push that little bit harder, he/she will get punished for it. The disintegration of the Soviet Unions due to the incompetence of some of the past leaders gave the West the window of opportunity to push the broken up Soviet Unions. Starting with Ronnie Reagan up to G.W. Bush, and to a degree, Barack Obama, Russia saw its sphere of influence was diminishing. 

Of course, the missile stationed around the once Soviet satellite states are not really meant for the Russians. They are for the rogue states such as Iran and North Korea? 

When you went ahead and break that equilibrium, things can go in many directions. Lots of times it may not even end up the way you initially designed for. Take Syria and Iraq for example. Now we have a nest of hornets zipping around, and no one knows how to put them back in the nest !What business of Sinclair Davidson to bother himself with someone else' money? 

Would the ANU be criticized for investing in tobacco industry? If so, why? It is a legal product, and the governments have extracted much revenues from them. I bet he is against the idea of investing in the tobacco industry. Why? Because there is a moral dimension to it. 

Why major sponsors pulled out of a sponsorship when a footy team went against the accepted social norms? Because it is the right thing to do. Furthermore, there is also another dimension to it, and it is about "perception". 

A professor in the School of Economics, Finance and Marketing perhaps should know that marketing is one of the most critical aspect of a business. Successful marketing also means public perception about who you are, and what you stand for.It is my own experience that one can "almost" never become rich by simply being a "salaried" worker. 

I recall I used to own a bicycle which cost me a princely sum of $250. That was my sole transportation to the university and everything else. When a new tyre was needed, $10! Yes, that chipped a large hole in my weekly budget. Now a new tyre on my 4WD cost $300. 

Yes, I have moved up a little on the ladder of wealth. But that was achieved by hard work and careful investments, none of the "silver spoon" stuff. I do believe that once you have reached a certain level of wealth, it becomes so much easier to get more of it. However, one needs to be careful that accumulating wealth does not become an all-consuming passion because then it turns into greed. When that happens, wealth alone is not quite adequate, you want influence. That I believe is what Rupert Murdoch is doing now.  

Greed and political ambitions seemed to have crossed path as demonstrated the recent NSW ICAC. It appeared that instead of hard work, political influence can also lead one to that pile of money. The more money one has, the more political influence one can buy. The more political influences you bought, the more doors opened for you to the money chests.

Eddie Obeid and Nathan Tinkler are just a couple of the good examples. These two amigos did it in a shadowy way. Some of the really bloody rich hombres do it in a more open manner. The casinos and huge developments surely have the governments on the leash. 

Yes, I do have much empathy for people who are struggling financially, and I have helped out when and if I can. However, I do believe that some people are unlikely to get themselves out of the debt quagmire due to their own inability to manage money or lifestyles. The welfare agencies can do their best to patch up the leaks, but it will be a recurring situation. 
V,

Well written. 

The difference between the other explorers/sea-travelers, and Captain Cook, was that the formers don't plant a flag on the land they "discovered" and claimed it for their own. Or worse still, put a few bullet holes into the natives.

I often wonder and never ceased to be amazed by the arrogance of some of the so-called experts. It seemed the world never did exist, nor was there any tangible trace civilization/culture until the arrival of Jesus Christ. The world calendar started ticking on the day of his birth, give or take a couple pf years, depending on who you are talking to. 

Perhaps the art of spins had been around long before the mobs in Canberra?Perhaps this is the bad bits of a democratic system. Education is like a lump of plasticine. With each new government, or even new education minister, it gets massaged and kneaded into the form almost unrecognizable to its former self. 

It is also the same with the direction the country. As soon as a new government is elected, out comes the axes and the chainsaws. 

If you ever owned a male dog, you know what I meant. He would invariably piss. or mark, any new lamp-post, car tyres, or even your legs if you ever allowed him to get away with it! It is about putting your stamp on it. Yes, if you want to know, Chihuahua also does it !

What is the point in get into politics and not leaving your marks? Imagine a politician in his/her old age, he would proudly tell his grandchildren that: "...I did that...It is all mine." 

The trouble is that each and every minister also wanted to tell their grandchildren the same thing. So the education is like a visitor's sign-in book. Ultimately, it got chopped, sliced and diced beyond recognition. 

So who are the losers in this game of play plasticine? The children who are meant to get a "functioning" education, and the nation which ended up with second rated workers.

Of course, what is the point in having a new, U-beaut education system without a tiny garnish of religion. Yes, not just any bloody religion, but the "Judeo-Christian" flavoured type. 

Perhaps the educators themselves are desperately in need of some proper education learning how "NOT" to f-around with our education systems?When Tony Abbott found "love" for Bill Shorten and backed him up and implied he is a "patriot", and gently slapped down Joe Hockey while he attempted to link his genius of a budget with Iraq conflicts, you know Shorten has a problem. 

Abbott has Shorten on the string. He pulled it a little, gave him a gentle pat on his head, and told him that he is a damn good boy. Rolling around and having a stomach scratchy, Shorten is happy.

Unfortunate for any opposition leader, wars will bring no political points for them. If you go against it, you are labelled unpatriotic, like Joe Hockey attempted to do. If you are for it, then you are nothing but one of the government numbers.

I guess Shorten is biding his time, waiting for the "Emergency Budget" to really become an emergency. In other words, he is waiting for someone to stuff up big time. The fact is that the current economic environment will bring no joy to either the ALP or LNP. You can't really budget for the money that doesn't come like it used to do. Despite the constant claims by Joe Hockey about the "myth" that the conservatives are better financial managers, it ain't true, especially when the income stream drys up.pete

Please let me guess...You don't like public servants? 

I don't know The Pav, but I am still trying to figure out if he is actually Con The Fruiterer or Arthur Daley The Used Car Salesman. Yet you already decided that he is a public servant! 

By the way, are you implying that only "socialists" have social conscience? I always thought conservatives/Tory are equally capable of such universal and desirable values?There are many political systems, and democracy is one of them , of course. The beauty of democracy is that I can write some rather nasty things about our leaders and get away with it. Not sure that you want to, or are game enough, to chance your luck in a dictatorship or autocratic environment.

So we vote for our MPs, and our MPs voted for a leader who is the PM. Fair and square enough. However, once the votes are in and counted, the leaders are basically "untouchable" for the next electoral cycle. 

Take the decision to bomb the living crap out of the ISIS for example. A "Coalition of the Concerned" was formed. The decision to send war planes and troops overseas was made within the "cabinet". Yes, that right. The boys, and girls (well, mostlyl boys and a few token girls anyway) decided that it is on. Many flights later, and only a handful of bombs were dropped. Those must have been the most expensive bombs ever !

We thought we are rather safe from being spied on as it is our "civil rights" not to be secretly monitored. Alas, fool' paradise we are living in. The leaks by Mr. Snowdon on NSA and the MetaData (George Brandis made it ever so crystal clear) told a very different story. Ahh...Don't you worry about that. Now the government just found a good reason to check you up. The "enhanced" terrorism threats meant the spooks will get an extra $600 millions. I guess the extra money is to make the new but unused ASIO building functioning?

With the autocratic government, we know that citizens will be monitored as a given. In a democracy, we are not supposed to be monitored and tapped, but in reality, we were, and will continued to be so. 

The real difference between the two ? Well, you can make up some placards, armed with a megaphone, and go demonstrate on the street. As long as you are not hindering the traffic flow, or not become a public nuisance, the cops will most likely leave you alone. You can't do that in an autocratic system. The bad news is that...You can scream and yell into your megaphone, it will make f-all difference as the government, ie. the cabinet makes the ultimate decisions anyway.Before I start my rant, I suggest we have a royal commission into ABS figure. Anyone seconds that?

I suspect it is all part of governments', and I meant both the ALP and the LNP, strategy to keep the public servants on their toes. One false move, one comment out of line, and you are out of the door. 

Take the head of the departments for example, they are being used as a government cheerleaders. I remember the head of the Treasury Dr. Parkinson was seen going along with Joe Hockey when he attempted to talk up his LNP policies. I also remember not that long ago, ie. just before the LNP won office, Dr. Parkinson was roundly criticized for being too closed to the ALP. 

My point? The public services are getting politicized. Even those public servant with the stiffest spines will want to think twice before contradicting the government of the day, as their job contracts are not written in stainless steel.

"Efficiency dividends" is the catch phrase now. There are many ways to achieve efficiency of course. For the politicians it would be straight forward and easy as. Cut jobs. The more you cut, the more money you save. If there is a stuff up, well, you guess it folks, blame the previous mob. 

Cutting jobs to achieve efficiency is not just the politicians forte. In the mining industry right now, many professional lost their jobs due to the downturn. A very senior chap lost his job and received a substantial redundancy payment for it. Guess what, he was hired back not even two weeks after as the idiots who fired him realized there was no one there to do his job! 

He was re-hired as a consultant. Yes...Consultant. He now makes twice as much and for less hours. Perhaps the pruning saw should start at the top rather than in the middle and below ?I had posted at least three times on matters related to ISIS and Islam, none appeared. I must be too radical, too right-wing? Anyway, I shall try and see if I get rejected the fourth times !

Because of my profession, I met Muslims folks sometimes. Most of them are Australian Muslims mainly from the Cocos Island. Unless you implicitly asked them, they would not give any hint that they are Muslims. That is fine by me as I am "religion neutral" as well as an atheist. 

Some of them I got to know rather well, and I had gathered enough courage to ask them what their views on the current mess in the Middle East. Unsurprisingly, they paused and looked at me very cautiously to suss me out. Then the common response was that...

"...Those guys in the Middle East are taking their religions too bloody seriously" !

That reply initially took me by surprise as I didn't expect such honesty. Then more than likely they will follow up with...

"...Why can't they just get on with lives like everybody in the world do ?"

Yes, too right brothers. Religions to guide our daily lives, by all means. But to turn it into a doctrine to destroy, like the ISIS had done, without any regards for history and respect for human values, then surely religion sucks ?

Perhaps we should all relax a little. Throw a few shrimps on the BBQ...Yes...You have one very arts deprived individual here...

To be totally honest with all the folks here on The Drum, I had not, and still have not, grasped the essence of operas. For a stater, I haven't a bloody clue what they are singing. Vastly exaggerated gesticulations, dodgy acting, and falling and rising all over the stage, all for that little "RING" ? 

But then again, I suppose we are not meant to understand a word what those actors are singing. Most of the time it was in a foreign language anyway! 

I once confided to a friend my lacking in arts, especially operas, appreciation. He looked at me and uttered: "You too ?"

So Carmen has smoking scenes in it. Not suitable for our modern day anti-smoking environment. Perhaps it can be replaced with a laundry scene. Wet T-shirts and all. I bet that will draw in the crowd !IMF is getting its numbers wrong once again? Well, it should learn to take a leave out of our ABS department...It blamed it on the budget cuts. There you go...Easy as...

Isn't it interesting that some once non-EU nations clamber to get on the EU wagon, believing that once you are on it, you are set up for good. EU is too busy telling Russia and other non-EU nations to get stuffed, and tells them how wonderful it is to be under the umbrella of EU.

Sanctions to all those nations dare to go against the EU. Perhaps it is a bit like the USA, too busy stuffing up other nations, and itself ended up not doing too flash either!

Germany is one of those "head down, ass up" nations busy having a go. It also is copping a 4% downturn. Perhaps it can be explained that the world is now very inter-connected.We all like the story of the "Magic Pudding". Apparently you can keep on chomping into it, it will keep on giving! 

No new tax...Such music to our ears. Half a billion is going to be taken out of our budget to fight the "Death Cult". Are you still half asleep, folks? It is :DEATH" and it is a "CULT". Scared already? Good. Now just cough up the half a billion dollars, and your mate Tony will sort it all out for you.

Hang on a second...Whatever happened to the budget blackhole? No longer an emergency looming? 

Don't worry folks. We have now a "Magic Ledger". This is a very special one. It is special because you can keep on taking from one side, you never have to subtract it from the others! Surely, the government is having us on? You can possibly take 500 millions without sacrificing something else.

Mr. Chris Berg wrote an article yesterday about the "estimated" costs of the "War on Death Cult". He reckoned correctly that like all estimates, a 30% or more "fudge factor" must be added on top. So it is more like 700 millions then ?The author said..."...The uncertainty and the weight of a huge 'foreign country' hanging over our little territory."

Perhaps some supposedly well-informed persons didn't know that Hon Kong is actually part of China until it was stolen by UK during the Opium War. It formed part of the "war compensation" to the UK because the Chinese didn't have big enough cannons to match its counterpart! 

It is fair enough that HK has become a strong business hub for the world as well as for China. However, the fact remains it is part of China. Would Australia tolerate Tasmania demand a separate governing systems because it wanted so?

So a bunch of students, many of them are high school students too, went on a week-long occupy business centre movement. Perhaps I am being cynical and sarcastic. What do they know about working for living? The businesses were paralyzed for quite along time thanks to the demonstration. Yes, it was for democracy for sure. However, I bet the business owners who still had to pay rents, but are desperately running out of customers, will not share the enthusiasms of the high school students who I suspect, still live at home. 

Democracy is something many yearn for. Some thought they already have it but not quite in reality. Some would die fighting for it and ended up with a worse outcomes. Some of those in power will want to shove it down someone else' throats. It is also used quite successfully to destabilize many countries causing more problems than we can ever manage. 

The Tian-An-men Square was used  repeatedly used as an example what length the evil Communist Chinese government was prepared to go to crush the democracy movements. Well, I guess we never know the real answer to what if the democracy movements then was allowed to run it full course. Would China descend into what Syria and Iraq are now? Would we be facing millions of refugees flooding our shores? If so, would Scott Morrison be able to deal with it? 

The contemporary China is doing relatively well as proven by the number of cashed up tourists arriving in Australia. Perhaps it is ample proof that there are many ways to Utopia. Democracy is only one of the many...low excitement,

"...looking at the history of "stability" in China since 1949; Great Leap Forward, Famine, Cultural Revolution, Gang of Four, Democracy Wall, Tian'anmen....."

This is precisely what I am about. All of those "experiments" ended up in abject failures. Those who had their hands on the pull-levels thought it was a good idea to have a go at something cute. Democracy is working reasonably well in the Western nations and some non-Western nations too. However, when you have over a billion people, and the same amount of mouths to feed, you don't really have such luxury of "kick it and see" option.

Perhaps China may not become the current Syria and Iraq if democracy was installed then. However, would anyone dare to try it out?

I have always believe in having your getting things in the right order. You can't really pontificate about democracy when you don't know where your next meal is coming from. 

I don't recall those colonists such as the UK were too hot on democracy for the colonies. I don't recall all those oil thirsty Western nations were too keen on having democracy for those oil producing nations such as Iraq and Iran. Remember the Shah of Iran? Remember Colonel Gaddafi? What about the main man himself namely Saddam Hussein ?I know it is not true...but I shall make such a tall claim anyway...

I believe wars are ways for the politicians to generate consumption demands. 

As Mr. Berg suggested, each Australian soldier sent overseas to fight a war will cost close to three quarter of a million dollars annually. Imagine the flow-on effect of such large sums of pesos slouching around our economy ! Yes, the immediate winner will be the defense hardware suppliers. Then the service suppliers which cloth and feed the hungry amigos. I am not sure of the soldiers have to pay tax. If they do, then the ATO will be doing quite well too.

Germany's economy under Uncle Hitler was turned around rapidly by the huge demands on defense related expenses. Of course, that mad man then raided and pillage those countries he invaded to pay for the defense expansion back in Germany. 

We were told that turfing out Saddam Hussein was absolutely necessary as he was a pain the the ass in so many ways, but the WMD was one of the most outstanding ones, as he had shed-loads of the gear. "We got him!" was such a cry of relief by the then Ambassador in Iraq. He was the #1 of the playing cards pack too. 

Gotten rid of Saddam was supposed to make us feel safe once again on the streets. But then the Al Qaeda turns out to be the badder than bad of the two. Lots of Pesos were spent to hunt and kill Osama Bin Laden. It was hoping that once he was sent sooner to claim his 72 virgins in heaven, peace will be upon us once again.

Then we are not quite done yet. We wanted to rid that other pain in the ass Assad in Syria. So we gave money as well as moral supports to the so-called "Free Syrian" army. Ha... It turns out that we have stuffed up one again. We created a power vacuum in Syria for that ever nastier mob called "ISIS". Not only we have to flush them out in Iraq, but Syria too! The trouble is that this time is dealing with conflicts garnished with stiff sectarian flavour. Sunnis and Shiites.

Impressive images of war planes being refueled, men in crotch hugging flying outfits climbing up the planes...All propaganda stuff. But who is going to pay for all this? At least Mathias Cormann  was being upfront about it and called it a "War Tax". "No...No...No...Don't spoke the horses" Tony Abbott told him. "No new taxes. We can manage. It is for out national security, peace and justice". Motherhood statement indeed. You know what? We actually are going to believe him too.

Bring it on !I want to talk about two issues...

(1). Fad activism, and
(2). The wearing of full-body attire.

(1). Fad activism
I do find it rather silly for that self-proclaimed Christian woman to dress up with head scarves. It reminded me of a story about the wearing of torn blue jeans. In the old days, some rich kids wore torn blue jeans as a symbol of being "In" as well as being wanting to look like the poor folks who actually had to work for a living. A famous commentator said that it is all very well for those rich dudes to pull on those torn up jeans while enjoying their music festivals, it is a different story if you have to wear those torn jeans all your life !

(2). The wearing of full-body attire.
I am not too sure that Islam actually directed its followers to wear such head to toe attire. I suspect it is a choice taken by the followers themselves. I want to be corrected on that though.

For me, living in an open society like Australia, you want to be able to mix it up reasonably well with folks around you, regardless of race or sex. It is the only way to function as a cohesive society. Of course, there will never be 100% inclusiveness between different groups of folks. 

Personally, I believe it is best to minimize the differences, and maximize on the similarities. It does not mean we all have to dress in dark jackets and blue ties, of course. To actively differentiate oneself from other by your dress is definitely not a way forward in encouraging social interactions. To me, to cover yourself from head to toe in fabric is akin to taking your set of values with you wherever you go. Yes, admittedly, you have your Islamic values which we should respect, as it is one's rights to believe. But is it absolutely necessary to tell everyone that you are so much different to the rest of us?

I heard of various reasons for such attires. Some said to discourage men from salivating over them, as their exposed hair can invite and excite those silly men. I bet many of us duded, myself included, will need more than the sight of hair to get worked up!

The other reason was to show their devotion to their husbands. No other men are allowed to get a glimpse of her except her husband. So either the husbands are the controlling brutes, or the females are the willing submissive partner.

Then it was claimed that covering oneself, you are serving God/Allah. I guess if you want to bring God with you everywhere, that is fine by me too.I took my dog for our daily walk on the bush tracks around my home. He knew his way around as we had been there many times. Be young and a bit gung-ho, he always walk in front of me some 20 metres ahead. Then something very strange happened. He stopped and sat down. He seemed unsure and kept looking back at me as if asking for directions. 

I caught up with him soon and lo and behold, a cloud of buzzing honey bees zipping around a newly formed nest on the side of the track. I called him back and we took a detour to avoid the nest.

You see, folks, even my dog had the good sense of avoiding a nest of angry bees, and stopped without being told to do so!

The Coalition of the Willing did not have such good sense. They poked a stick at a hornet nest some 11 years ago. Why ? Because they can ! Since that day, we are still having to deal with the angry hornets who are not very reluctant to have a go at us. 

"Shock ans awe" was truly dramatic. Precision laser guided bombs, smart bombs that can thread a hole in a needle, guided missiles. You name it, they have them all. More than 10 Years, the Coalition of the Willing were struggling to get a grip on the situation which is analogous to driving up a muddy slope on a wet day. So we spun our way out of a tricky situation. Many tall and obviously false claims were made about the combat readiness of the Iraqi troops.

11 years later, we now have a Coalition of the Concerned. Now we boost to have the wide supports of Arab nations too. Ha...I thought ISIS is nurtured by some of those Arab nations to wreck havoc in Iraq and Syria? Perhaps these nations finally waked up to the fact that the pup they nurtured has grown up to be a pain in the ass, and is baring its teeth at the handlers? 

So how much more training do the Iraqi army required? There were ample advisors, trainers, consultants, mentors, during those 10 years. The Iraqi soldiers must have been the most trained amigos in the entire world ! Ahhh...There is one element that is missing in the equation...It is the impartiality of the government, and army. If they look at themselves as only working for a particular sectarian population, then God help them all !Respect for individual freedom is something we all treasured. How you dress yourself, how you want to project yourself to other people is entirely your personal choice. Perhaps Islam has directed its followers to cover their women folks from head to toe, or is it something its followers decided how it is done, I don't really know.

I am a realist. Please allow me to use an example...

Lets say it is a bright sunny day. You are wearing a pair of dark sun glasses for protection. Fair and square, no worries there. Then you meet someone on the street and a conversation ensue. Do you ...
(1). Remove your sun glasses while talking to the person ?
(2) Keep them on ?

Most people with a sense of social etiquette will remove the sun glasses. Why? Because eye contacts are important while holding a conversation with a person. 

Another issue with a full-length attire is the practicality of it. How are you going to do sports? Can you swim in it? I know Tony Abbott is fond of his Budgie Smugglers, but I am not suggesting we should all follow his lead. 

Sometimes I believe it is a bit of a grand standing in all this. "Look at me...I am untouchable. I am chaste. No man is allowed to look at me except my husband. There is some "implied" accusations that all men are sexual brutes. They are forever ready to rip a women's dress off and have his evil ways with her. 

Then there is that silly woman who wanted to start a movement to wear such attires as a gesture of solidarity. A bit cheesy. Foolish to the max, I reckon.I am biased. I am an atheist. Personally, I do find it rather uncomfortable to be in the company of people who wear such "all encompassing" attire. 

It is my understanding that women who chose to wear such top to bottom covers do it for "modesty" reason. It was suggested that by showing her hair to men may result in sexual advances.

Hell, I don't know about all other men. I reckons it takes more than the sight of hair to excite me ! I do take offense by the accusations/suspicions that men are bloody animals. They can't control themselves whenever a woman with her hair exposed. I believe there is a degree of "assumption of guilt" by inference. Because you are a man, you can't damn well behave.

Of course it is the choice of individuals to dress the way they choose to. However, why would you choose to differentiate yourself from all others by dressing so differently? When I meet a bunch of folks in a gathering. We shake hands, we exchange names, we chat. No barriers. If someone dressed in a totally distinct way, what would you do? You automatically assume, rightly or wrongly, that she is going to be different. Straight away, you put up a mental shield...Do not say something stupid. In that scenario, it is easier for anyone to just keep a distance from her. If that is the case, how is it going to help with social integration?

Have religious faith by all means as that is out right to do so. But do you have to, or need to wear your religions on your sleeve ?When you have nothing worthwhile to say, shut up. When you do have something of substance to tell the world, think it through carefully before opening your trap.

So this little-know senator who was elected. perhaps more aptly, "preferenced" into the Upper House, thought he has something sensible to contribute. Thank smokers for paying taxes to enable me, a non-smoker, to have hospitals, schools, roads, bridges? "Are you being serious?" As the legendary tennis ace John McEnroe used to tell off the court umpires. 

Supposing this little-known senator does have a point, then may I please have my list of "Thank you" recipients? 

* Drug dealers who help to recycle our assets in the black market
* Bikie who pay taxes on their Harley Davidson
* Liquor stores
* Murders and rapists who help to keep the prisons viable, and the income taxes paid by the employees there.

How about checking out how much it costs the society to look after smokers who are in serious health troubles? Would the tobacco taxes be able to cover all that? 

frangipani,

You quoted a $400 Million figure to cover the costs of looking after the sick and dying smokers. Is that the real figure? I am not close to the health sectors, and I have no way of verifying that.

I also believe there are some other "hidden" costs above and beyond the hospital costs. I am talking about the "opportunity costs". By having someone's working life cut short due to smoke related ill health will surely cost the society a bit. What about the wives and carers who have to give away their full and productive lives to take care of the sick smoker ? For the carers to give up their work also meant a loss of productivity to our society.

I guess we are very likely to just at the bloody obvious.In my profession, ie. IT, there are a few golden rules we need to follow. For a start, we need to do a "Systems Analysis". This involves talking to the clients about how they do their daily business transactions. Then we want to see what kind of systems they have. Then we go away and tries to understand fully what and how it worked. 

We returned with a few proposals. Sometimes we cut our own jobs by suggesting not to make wholesale changes, but to merely iron out the kinks. Most clients are grateful for the honesty and  obliged. However, some insisted on ripping out everything and start from scratch !

Yes, starting from scratch after ripping everything apart is what the Middle East is experiencing. Saddam Hussein was not to the liking of the Coalition of the Willing, so the entire Iraqi systems were ripped out, and, alas, there was nothing else to replace them. Colonel Gaddafi was falling out of favour with the West, so a dose of democracy is badly needed. Libya didn't get the kind of democracy the West "believed" needed, but a total chaos as each power group wanted to be the Head Honcho. The "freedom fighters" refused to surrender their arms, and a myriad of militia groups roams the streets.

Yes, it is so easy to bomb the crap out of the folks below. Out of sight, out of mind. You fly home to the base, and return to your family. But has the war been won? Hardly. Unless you are game enough to do a carpet bombing to obliterate everything and anything on the ground, the enemies will hide among the civilians. it will take much serious efforts and potential troop losses to flush them out, if that is possible.

Is the world becoming a better place since the West took it upon themselves to rid the dictators? Personally, I believe it is far from being better. In fact, it has gotten worst. We now have tens of millions of refugees now flooding Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon. A strain on the world, and more critically, a bloody nightmare for the people who are directly impacted by such destabilization.If it doesn't get you the fish you are after, use a wider net. That is what the security laws are attempting to do, I believe. 

I watched a bit on the TV about the US security chief Ms. Pierson got some angry rockets up her bum during an inquiry over the White House security breach. Perhaps it says something about the vast gulf between laws given to do a job, and the competence of the jobs being carried out. 

The arrival of ISIS caught many people by surprise, even to the spooks world wide. One would think such vast amount of money channeled into intelligence services world wide, and the persistent troubles in the Middle East, the spooks would have been able tell what terrorists had for dinner the night before. Out came Obama confessing that the ISIS had been "under estimated". Well, perhaps if Syria was left alone before the "freedom fighters" were actively supported to destabilize the country, the current mess we are having may not be there in the first place !

Yes, cast a wider net. Use more nets. The more the better. That is the idea. Now we are told many more millions is needed for the spooks to do their jobs properly. Hang on a minute, didn't Malcolm Turnbull reckons that for the ABC to simply cut program to counter the budget reduction is "LAZY" ?The Yank,

I do share many of your viewpoints. As much as I appreciate and am enjoying the freedom a democratic system affords me, I believe it has also been the cause of many of the troubles we are facing world wide.

Yes, I have been harping about the massive failures and miscalculations by the West. Pushing that democracy wheelbarrow down the throats of the Middle Eastern countries without understanding and appreciating the deep-rooted mistrusts between the Arab countries. Dismantling Iraq was no doubt a monumental failure we are now desperately trying to rectify, and good luck with that. Trying to dislodge President Assad by encouraging disparaged groups of "freedom fighters" who are equally keen to slash Assad's throat as well as each others', is an exercise of foolishness. 

The waves of refugees we are having to content with were once living and working in Syria. Yes, they may be unhappy with Assad's rules, but that is how the Middle East is. 

I believe it was the unofficial doctrine of the West that blood can be spilled, as long as it is not on their home turf. It used to work. Now with the Internet, terrorists are able to get inside the mind of the young and gullible, and the so-called "lone wolf" are actually going to create chaos, well, unsettle, the West. So the spooks are screaming for more funding, and the governments are ever so obliging.Yes...The idyllic setting for a child to grow up in. A tree house. A roomful of toys. Birthdays with cakes covered in "hundreds and thousands". The candles. Parents glanced lovingly at the children playing on the lounge room floor. They hold hands with that much affections that the sofa melts !

But that is the ideal projected by the movies and advertisements. In the real world, I doubt such perfect scenario is even half true. About 50,000 couples divorce each year in Australia. However, there are probably many more unhappy couples on top of the 50,000. 

How one copes with a living in a troublesome family environment will vary greatly between individuals. Some just have that ability to cast the bad experiences aside. Some simply have great difficulties with the past and, unfortunately, resorting to substance abuse. In effect, such people perpetuate the cycle of unhealthy domestic situations.

I believe many people deal with a bad childhood rather well while they were working and raising a family. It come back and hit them when they have too much spare time to reflect on the past. Not good at all. Perhaps it is best to keep one fully occupied even after retirement. Flashback ?While I agree with Mr. Paul Ransom on many points, I also like to point out that such traits/weaknesses of both politicians and voters had been around since the days humans learn to divide and conquer. 

Remember those old cowboy western movies? Cons and ex-cons, killers and ex-killers,gamblers and swindlers, swapped their professional outfits with tailored suits and nice ties to match. They will stand at the back of a steam train platform, and told anyone who cared to listen to his (yes, all males - the superior sex) spins that the sun will rise from the West if he was elected. Well, perhaps not quite like that...but there would be promises of new halls, better security to protect them from the menacing Indians, and even free money handed out !

So how and why is it any different nowadays from the past? 

On the international level, politicians talk about "National Interests" while trying to get a bigger slice of the cake. For the poor voters, it is "self interests". Tasmania wanted to have a bigger slice of the GST cake. Any politician who can do that, or at least making an attempt to promise such, will be looked upon favourably. South Australia will want to keep its car manufacturing as well as ship building alive. So politicians who promised to boost subsidies will stand a good chance...Well...except when the promises are broken. But that should not matter much once the politicians is elected. 

I believe the way democracy works can be both a winner as well as a loser. One vote one value will empower each of us to vote-in/vote-out a person. But it is a catch 22 situation. Any politicians with a bit of brain will know that to tell the truth will mean only one certain fate...political death !

Despite the negatives the political system such as the Chinese have, there are also positives. For a start, there will be certainties. The path for the nation is already decided some 10-20 years ahead. Politicians are there to implement the budgets, and not to bloody well chop and change them to win office. One of the negatives is of course the rigidity of it, and obviously the lack of individual voting power.Most, if not all, of us like to get the best deal for less. Good for consumers, for sure. However, it will squeeze the be-jesus out of the company's profit margins. Take banks and Telli-communication companies for example, they are pushing for higher profits to keep the shareholders happy. They have to, as their big honchos who are drawing in multi-million salary packages will have to cop the "non-performance".

So what do they do? They cut costs to the bone. To do that, they send jobs overseas such as India and the Philippines.

Perhaps the ABC should consider seriously sending Lateline to India and the Philippines? Surely that will save us much money? It also get rid of those pesty inquisitive journalists who will stop at nothing to probe the innards of politicians. That will teach them for keeping a bunch of left-wingers, I reckon.

Two birds with one stone...You can't do better than that, can you ?
