Yes its the frog in boiling water thing again. 

For example, 30 years ago the when the national ID Australia Card was proprosed there were howls of protest and it quickly disappeared. People were outraged at the idea of carrying an identity card.

Now everyone carries an identity card and pays for one. Its called a SIM card, and not only is it an ID card, but it tracks our position for the whole time its switched on. Which is 24 x 7.

Without a warrant, we can be tracked, our phone conversations can be monitored, and even our non phone conversations can be monitored because whoever wants to can just switch on the phone's microphone at any time. 

One day we won't need to carry anything or charge anything, we will just be microchipped with a tiny device that gets its power from our bodies. So much more convenient.  For us. For our bosses. For the bureaucracy. Whats not to like. It will be efficiency plus.Yes, the issue is a complex one. Youth is under attack in Australia from this government. Jobs are disappearing, TAFES are being dismantled, universities are going to become unaffordable for the majority of young people, and the dole is being dismantled. Youth lose whichever way they turn.

So here we have anger simmering away. And then we have what is patently an unfairly waged war in the Middle East by Israel. The deaths say it all, around 70 Israelis and more than 1600 Gazans. Its a travesty.

This is the way of the world. The Nazis got into power in Germany because of the rage the Germans felt about losing their savings etc after WWI, in a war started by the royal families of Germany and Austria. They had to let their anger out somehow, and get back their self esteem. leading to horrific results. But angry people are not amenable to reason most of the time.

Its too hard for our young to attack the people who are making their lives so hard, but other targets are easy, like children on a bus.

To solve a problem we must first understand it. Simplistic he said she said stuff isn't going to do it.Not my point at all. 

The sad fact is that the jewish people have not been the only ones to suffer genocide. It has happened over and over again. Cambodia is a recent example as is Uganda. People seem to go mad in certain circumstances. You can see the same behaviour in monkeys and apes, where they literally tear one or more of their brethren apart.

Hundreds of millions were killed in WWI. Whole English villages were practically wiped out by the carnage of men and horses. Russia suffered terribly, and so did Europeans. All all for nothing. Hitler continued the war from 1939. Revenge.

The point is that these things are wicked problems. Did the Israelis start the war by throwing Palestinians out of their homes in the 40s and 50s. Has it all been tit for tat since then ? It looks like it to me. Just primitive behaviour.Mike. Can you point me to independent evidence for your information thanks. As in, not sourced from Israel or an Arab country.Yep, rising unemployment, smashed consumer confidence, rising prices that are stretching households to the bone, are all indicators that this government has got it right and we are all doing well.

When Abbott trashed the Australian car industry, it was pretty obvious how much he cares about Australian jobs.

When Abbott trashed Australians with the budget ( which Treasury told him beforehand would massively hurt the poorest in the community) it was pretty obvious how much he cares about the populace.

When Abbott trashes the renewables in favour of coal power stations (which have caused our electricity prices to go ballistic in the last few years) you can see how much he cares about consumers.

Abbott only cares about Voters. So he won't care about us until 2015, then we will all be showered with goodies. How many suckers will fall for the cargo cult eh ?I agree totally with you Peter S. Although its just entertainment value at the moment, the robotics industry is going gangbusters, developing mobile units that can run faster, think faster, don't require medical attention if bombed or shot, can deliver customer service to aged care etc.

In addition, non mobile units are being developed to do most of the work of lawyers and doctors. They will probably be able to cut hair and fix toilets in the next 30 years or less.

So, what jobs are going to be left for our children ? Probably robot repair, although they are developing self repairing robots as well.

This is the future our children are inheriting. It is the result of the 99% of the population being cut out of any discussions about what future we want. 

Only the military and transnational corporations are doing the futures planning and so the future will be the one they want.Michael should be willing to post his full name and include his address and phone number in his post. Otherwise I can only assume he has something to hide.Nah, the spooks want a much bigger spook empire with lots of lovely money to spend. And the pollies want to frighten us all so that they get re-elected.

We already have laws that cover this stuff. Its just what Schneier calls security theatre. They have a bunch of it in the US, making people take off their shoes and such things. 

The truth is that in 2001 the spooks were caught napping. With all the hundreds of millions that they spend, they couldn't catch pretty obvious middle eastern dudes even when their own agent said there was something suss happening in the flying school. 

Meta data, of which Abbott is clueless, is the destination IP address or phone number, the originating address IP address or phone number, the time the call took or the length of the message, the time and date sent. 

Looks innocent, but someone in the US tracked down a mayor just from his metadata and then disclosed his personal details to the press. Easy peasy. Why would the spooks want metadata if it was useless ? Hahaha.One way rulers stay in power indefinitely is to know what the population is saying and thinking and doing, and to head off any actions that would allow people to think of installing someone else.

So in some countries in this world it is a life shortening exercise to be heard to voice any opinions critical of the rulers. Some examples over the last few decades include Egypt, China, North Korea, Russia, Iran, Iraq, Chile ( which was a democracy before the dictators took over in 1973). 

And here we are handing it to our rulers on a plate, but I assume there won't be much notice of these changes because everyone is too busy tweeting what they had for breakfast, and sending selfies.

So while we amuse ourselves with trinkets, the obsessively acquiring and controlling people are taking all the money (the 1% are laughing)  and getting ready to give themselves perpetual power.  Its an old story.If we all had to put our full names, addresses and phone numbers with each post to prove we had no thoughts to hide, then there would be very few people commenting here.

But thats what Abbott wants, our full identities attached to every comment we make to friends, lovers, family and work.

Its not true that metadata doesn't identify us and our lives, a good programmer can put all this data together and identify anyone they want to, and get a pretty full picture of our health, habits, weaknesses etc.It seems that the young people are being geed up to believe that war is glorious etc. Just a short step then to recruiting them for the next glorious war. 

The old timers who fought in war knew what war really is like, and glorious is not the word. They are nearly all dead and their voice of reality has been all but stilled. Maybe this is why history repeats itself.

And if the recent series on the start of WWI is to be believed, it was just a bunch of dimwitted, insulated royals in Europe that caused the war. Millions killed to protect old men's egos. 

But you can see that playing out still as we speak all over the world, Israel/Gaza, the Crimea, Afghanistan, Iraq. Nothing has changed.Totally agree. 

So does this mean that young people who go to fight for Israel will be jailed when they return, the same as young people who have fought in Syria ?The game score is now 1600 to 65, and I'm wondering if we're into the second  half.

The players still seem a bit unevenly matched. Perhaps its the under 4s playing the under 17s. Maybe someone can tell me.Its always embarrassing to go to a footie match where one side belts the bejesus out of the other.

You know, if you went to a match where the score was something like 800 to 60, like sort of having the under 14s play the under 6s, you might say it isn't fair. Even if the under 6s were going nya nya nya to the under 14s as they were being belted.

So right now I think the Israeli deaths are less than 60 and the Palestinian deaths are greater than 800, including woman and children. Sort of says this might be an unfair matched game.Yep right, but it looks to me like the Israelis are concentrating the Palestinians into an area where there is no safety, no water, no electricity and no medical support. By bombing them.

Sort of like concentrating them into a death camp.Unemployment is rising. Jobs are disappearing. Each week I hear of another employer shedding jobs. In the past fortnight it has been Telstra and a manufacturing outfit in Qld and each time its hundreds of jobs.

Singleton and Muswellbrook are going under. So are other country towns in Qld as the mining companies pack up and leave for other countries.

So all these poor buggers who had mining jobs have gone from heroes to ?? Dole bludgers. And if they are younger than 30, with a family, good luck to them having a family still after 12 months of no money at all.

This is what happened in the Great Depression, men with no money hopping trains, walking roads, begging for food at farmhouses and living in shanty towns.The Great Depression started in 1929.

Gallipolli was 1914.

We need a bit of accuracy to argue our point believably.Terangeree, thanks for your additional info. My meaning was the Great Depression as it is commonly understood, but I stand corrected re the 1890s depression.I point out facts. I don't see many in your post.

The fact is that with jobs being demolished at a great rate, and people being thrown into unemployment, and no dole for people under 30, we have the situation in the 1930s, aka the Great Depression.

People used to laugh about Howard taking us back to the 50s, but it looks like Abbott is aiming for the 1930s.If there are twice as many unemployed as there are jobs, then someone will always miss out on a job. Unless its magic.

The people who miss out will be those who have problems around education (poor home life or ADHD or dyslexia), or around mood (depression, anxiety) or around capability (low IQ or autism) or around personality (aggressive, unsociable, psychopath etc) or around physical disability (blind, quadriplegic, MS, epilepsy etc). And its not all about ability, its about employer prejudice.

For all of you people who don't have any of the above, yes, its probably true that if you keep looking you will find a job because you will be shunting a bunch of people with the above problems out of the running.

A person with an IQ of 80 can't just grit their teeth and become a rocket scientist. A person with autism can't just get over it and stop whinging and get a call centre job. 

All you who are not worried by any of the above conditions should count yourselves lucky and stop putting the boot in.Rupert got his $800 million a couple of months after Abbott was elected. The ATO could have appealed to a higher court to stop this payment but they were prevented from doing so.

I'd support Abbott too if I was going to get $800 million of taxpayers money as soon as he was elected. But on second thoughts.......Have you noticed how Australia's senior banking economists are saying that there is NO budget emergency. AS well as economists from overseas, and the international bodies. But meh, what would they know.

Only politician Abbott thinks there is a OMG!! Budget emergency. But of course he doesn't really think that. Its another lie told to stampede the unthinking into voting for him. He's spending money hand over fist on things that benefit his mates, just like the ALP did in NSW.

Abbott pays over 60 media spinners who sit near his office and they bring out  new slogans every day. Bring Them Home is just one of them

For all of you who cannot  understand a sentence if it has  more than 3 words.Like everyone, I've heard stories of people staying at home, smoking dope and living 10 to a shared house, playing computer games and living on pizzas and grog.

Ravensclaw has heard stories of them being socialists into the bargain which makes it even worse.

Why would these stories be out there if they aren't true.

The Libs have been listening to the people and they know that the people are a lot more accurate than any research done by snotty up themselves researchers who wouldn't know a fact if it bit them on the bum. Evidence smhevidence.In the 1980s when unemployment took off and was really high in the western world, it was a problem for the pollies who had no idea what to do, and it was killing them in the polls.

But they hit on a very good solution, make the unemployed disappear across the western world. And they did this by reclassifying people who worked 1 hour a week or more as fully employed. If you work 1 hour a week you don't count as unemployed.

When there is 10 - 15 % or more unemployment voters get very antsy. But 5% ? Meh.

So all this rubbish about Australians all being employed is a smoke and mirrors game and the true unemployment rate if you go by the old stats which weren't doctored is closer to 10%.

Which means that the jobs aren't there and all these poor buggers who can't find a job will be punished over and over again. 

I wouldn't want to be a business looking for a storeman. Imagine sorting through 20,000 applications.We are a nation of people unparalleled in our generosity. Australians support giving away our wealth to others, a lot like Bill Gates or Warren Buffet do. We are an example to the rest of the world.

While the billionaires give their money to the poor and sick, we absolutely fall over ourselves to give away our money to the rich. We recognise that the rich are just people too with money worries, health problems, family breakdowns etc and they need our support. 

That is the virtue of us Aussies, we treat everyone alike, no discrimination. And good on us!  Like Jesus said, the meek shall inherit the Earth.Hockey said at Christmas that he was reading a book by Thatcher, as if this was a good thing.

What we have here is the Australian version of the Tea Party, maybe the billy tea party. In the US it is an organisation funded by billionaires so that they, like certain female billionaires we know, can keep all their money no matter how much it is. They can never have enough. A bit like a drug.

That is the end game, that ultra rich pay no tax at all to stop money going to the undeserving, lazy, stupid population (almost all of us). And Hockey and most of the Cabinet are on board this train. Woowoo.Journalism is becoming a very dangerous occupation. Although it always was in wartime.

But in an age where governments want more and more secrecy so that they can do whatever they like, governments are liking journalists less and less. All over the world journalists are being killed and imprisoned.

So its not surprising that the Australian government is playing hard ball with journalists reporting on MH17. And if one is killed, maybe thats not such a bad thing.

The Australian Government did the same with Paul McGeoch in Afghanistan when he tried to report on the real situation in Orizgun province where the Aussies were.

The only journos they want are their own media to toe the government line and put out glossy press releases approved by the Minister. After all, what right do we have to information not approved by the Minister ?Paul McGeoch got the same treatment in Afghanistan and he isn't an employee of the ABC. Its the Government trying to close down all journalists except those that toe the line.

A bit like Russia. And Egypt. And China. Heading that way.Pre-election Joe is big old friendly Joe, smart Joe. Pre-election Joe was never asked a hard question by the fawning media. Everyone loved Joe.

Post-election Joe. Poorer people deserve to be thumped. Older people deserve to be thumped. No dole if youre unemployed and less than 30. Cigar chomping Joe. Chauffer driven Joe. North Shore Joe. Whacking people is fun Joe, and dancing a little jig to the Best Day of My Life Joe.

The moral of the story. Its very hard to keep your real self secret once you are in government and you are the Treasurer. Thats when even the fawning media starts to ask questions and want answers.

Now we are getting poor me Joe, stupid Joe. Did he honestly think he could take the voters to the cleaners and still be loved. But I detect that he is revelling in his unpopularity. What we have now is the real Joe, Joe the badass hardass. It was there all along, but he only showed it when he was speaking overseas before the election.

I couldn't agree with you more John. Who amongst us believes that a bucketload of Libs and Labs have been on the take in NSW for years and years and years, but magically that all stops at the NSW/ACT border. rotffl.

What we need now is a Federal ICAC. It would sweep the place clean. 

I think there is at least one Federal independent who has raised the matter, and good for him. 

But,  will this be one of those rare events where the Libs, Nats and ALP pollies selflessly work together, to vote down any bill to get a Federal ICAC going ?Yes, totally agree Denny. Those ALP pollies caught out are total slimeballs, dishonest, greedy, would kill their own grandmother for a buck. They are the cause of all fraud in NSW.

But the Lib pollies caught out are unfortunate victims of misunderstandings. They are honest people who would give you the shirt off their own back, and would never knowingly do anything wrong at all or break the law. Its so very sad that they have been caught up in this ALP muck. 

If ICAC is at all even handed, they will all exonerate all the Libs and Nats and point out what decent hard working people that they are. Other wise the system is rigged.There was a report today that said that ISIS is not the threat it is made out to be in the media. It is being sensationalised.

ISIS could be bombed to kingdom come tomorrow if it really were a threat. But right now its just a bunch of lucky lunatics who are able to run amok in the disaster that is Iraq and Syria because the US has ruined these countries, put crooks in charge that most people hate, and now b*ggered off.

The Middle East was a nest of hornets that Howard and Bush poked a big stick into in 2002. And we keep murdering the women and children over there using drones and whatever, and stirring them up more and more.

Maybe its too late, but supporting killers over there isn't working. Maybe they need to try something else. I assume that the citizens of any country really want food, shelter, safety and honest leaders who aren't on the take.

But I suppose if we can't get that right in NSW, its not much of a chance over there is it.Lets stop calling it a co-payment and call it for what it is.

Its a Great Big New Tax.The Bank's record profits are due to how very good they are in enforcing and collecting fees from us. 

Application fees, late fees, hidden financial advice fees. Add to that scamming people out of their savings, found by the Senate enquiry recently.

Almost none of this huge billions of profit are due to honest hard work.Yank, you're right because the 6.4% figure is highly misleading. The way the unemployment stats are calculated was changed in the 1980s to make it that you were only classed as unemployed if you work less than 1 HOUR a week. It is a fix to hide the extent of unemployment across the western world.

The true measure of unemployment, if you want to compare the stats going back over the last hundred years, is the current unemployment rate + the underemployment rate.

From the Bureau of Stats themselves "In May 2013, about 900,000 employed people were underemployed (trend); which was around 30% higher than the number of unemployed people. The underemployment rate (that is underemployed as a proportion of the labour force) was 7.3%. Combined with unemployment at that time, 12.8% of the labour force was underutilised.

So the true measure of unemployment is around 12%.You are joking aren't you. The mining industry is one big sheltered workshop. They get government money by the bucketloads.

They get grants, tax breaks, industry assistance, fuel assistance, 457 cheap worker visas, you name it. Lol.So last week in the local paper an Aussie tradie said that he went to WA up to the mines to get a job in his trade. Was there 12 months. Got nix.

All the jobs went to the 457 visa holders. And why do you think that was ? Give us a break.She was out of line. However, a person with a Down's baby doesn't know until the baby is born how severe the condition is. I knew a teacher of children with severe learning disabilities who said that she spent a whole term teaching them to do up their shoe laces, and then when they came back after the term break they had forgotten. 

The reality of having a baby with intellectual disabilities is that there is precious little help from the state. It means that a woman without money probably has to stay home and care for the child. For the rest of her life. 

I also have known parents with Downs children. They are old before their time. They are never off duty. They have no social life and no money. The woman is permanently tied, and the child never leaves home. And then there are the gut wrenching worries of who will care for the child/adult if anything happens to the parents.

Oh, and the divorce rate soars in these families.

So thats what the sonographer might have been thinking in her ham fisted attempts to protect the older mothers.Well there are different tests and if one is positive you can confirm with a different test.

To say otherwise is just emotional blackmail. It seems to me that there is emotional blackmail on both sides of this.

We put our dog down recently. He walked to his grave, following the food we had in our hand, wagging his tail, and then the vet euthanised him and we buried him.  Any passerby who watched from a distance would have been outraged to see an innocent and very handsome family pet walked to his death of course.

And why did we do this while he was mobile. Because he was in so much pain from cancer that he could no longer sleep. His bladder and sphincter were going out of his control and that caused him great distress as well.

Same with human beings. If the suffering wrought by having a DS baby is greater than the suffering by not having one, then there's your answer. 

And btw, what about the suffering of the existing children as they get shunted to the side as the parents (or remaining parent) struggles to manage.

Its not all sweetness and light, and those who fight for the rights of the unborn are generally not there night after night after night to deal with the aftermath.Successful change is incremental as people come to terms with it. Revolutions are great, and they generally last a split second and then the previous regime takes over again.

Look at Egypt for a start, and the Ukraine, and any other place that has had a people's revolution. All dust very quickly. The old guard takes over because they know how to.

Purists go for all or nothing. The Greens had the power back in 2007 - 2010. And they were purists so they blocked any climate change policies that weren't pure. And as a result they now have no climate policy. But hey, that's better than one which isn't perfect.

If Rudd had got his policy when people supported it, people would be used to it now. They would have rightly seen that business and jobs were not obliterated. But no, we have a big fat nothing. Courtesy of the Greens. Big mistake to vote for them.



Sadly, its because ordinary people act like morons that Australia is going down the tubes.

When China dumps us for cheaper minerals in Africa or Mongolia Australia will be toast. But that won't worry the big multinationals because they will also own the stuff in Africa or Mongolia. They will just pack up and ship out, since they don't live here and don't give a rats ar*e.

If voters could tear themselves away from Facebook and online movies and the sports channel for just a tick, they would take a good hard look at the billion$ that are being sucked out of Australia from our minerals. 

And see through the major parties, one of which is complicit in the looting, and one of which acts like deer in headlights whenever these issues are raised. Then we have the minor parties which are playing games to stay noticed.

We need someone of the ilk of the bloke who started the MONA to get into politics and do some good. Not counting Clive because he's in the game to do some good. For himself.Interesting take on it Bruce, but what I see is the inexorable striving of rich people to just keep accumulating, no matter how much they have.

Look at Gina as a prime example. She will never have enough money and she will ditch anyone who looks like they might take some of it. Including family. Its a bit of an addiction, like cocaine or heroin. Same goes for Rupert and money and power.

And do you think she or Rupert would give a tinker's cuss about the social impacts of their actions. Mwa haha no. 

Not that I disagree with you on what we should have btw, its just that our society is accelerating into the other direction courtesy of the billionaires who control our politicians. Many of whom have no allegiance to Australia, don't live here and are not Aussie citizens. 

In the old days if people were in the pay of foreign nationals, doing things against the best interests of their country, they were called traitors.Ah yes, the Greens could have had a scheme operating for years now, a foot in the door. 

But instead they said if they couldn't get 100% of what they wanted, then they would only accept 100% of nothing.

Thats what they have as of today. Mission successful.Thankyou Alan for publicising this situation. 

I know perfectly healthy older people itching to join a retirement "community",  looking on this as a safe haven and it certainly looks to be nothing like that.Agreed. In the wild the predators always look for the weak and isolated prey to pick off.

And it seems to be so in this retirement village industry as well. People with declining memories, declining physical capabilities (bonus: no kids or kids overseas) are the perfect prey.

Not many elderly that I know of would like their savings, earned over a lifetime, to go to some scamming real estate operators. When I get to that stage, I will feel the same way. My hard earned is for my family, not for some scammer. 

It seems to me that Generality is saying that its survival of the fittest and when you get old you are a fair target for those younger predators. Interesting idea, but not very civilised.

Just think of the rich pickings that whistleblowers could unearth. I can think of a few. 

The secret files on the Australian Wheat Board bribery scandal is one. May of the people who authorised the bribery have great positions of power these days in Australia. One or two minions might have copped a slap on the wrist but they managed to bury it.

Then we could move on to the great East Timor oil and gas heist, which is now before the Court in Asterdam, and which this government is doing its best to bury and obstruct, since it happened on their watch.

And then we have the abuse of parliamentary salaries and allowances by all and sundry, flying off to see their investment houses and to weddings overseas.

And then of course there are the ?nknown unknowns", those scandals which the pollies and the big end of town know are timebombs just waiting to go off and which we ordinary folk have no idea of. Yet.

So, I can fully understand why this government wants to destroy whistleblowers. It's in their best interests to frighten the living daylights out of anyone who could shed light on any of the above.We have two major parties which as a result of their members life histories have very different attitudes to rules.

The ALP pollies are made up of people who were ordinary workers before they scored the jackpot of a parliamentary salary. As wage earners they had to follow the rules of their organisations (with the notable exception of some of the union crooks).

The LNP pollies are made up of the farmers and lawyers and the independently wealthy. They are used to making the rules for the others to follow. Following the rules is for mugs in their opinion. Of course they also have their fair share of crooks. 

So the ALP and LNP act fundamentally differently in government. 

The ALP tries very hard to show everyone that they are magnificent rule followers, very fair and evenhanded. Example being Rudd's approach to filling plum jobs where he gave a fair few to LNP supporters, and also didn't turf out Howard appointees from ambassadorships overseas and the like. 

On the other hand, the LNP comes in and dumps almost all of the ALP supporters from ambassadorships etc as one of their first acts of government. Payback time !! Thats how we have Lord Downer of the AWB in London now, instead of Steve Bracks. Although Bomber Beazley escaped a beheading due to his powerful friends in Australia and Washington.

Its why Abbott feels free to dump the rules governing diplomacy between countries ( turn back the boats), international laws on asylum seekers, international laws of the sea ( the East Timor gas field ). He knows that people of his background are the rule makers, not the rule takers.

So Brandis and his cronies are just being true to their wealthy origins in seeking to put harsh rules in place for ordinary people, and trying very hard to ditch the rules applying to banks, resource companies and the like.I think the author is being pollyannerish in his love of technology. I think that there was a bloke who lost hundreds of thou of bitcoins last year due to fraud by a bitcoin intermediary.

Wherever there is money there are fraudsters. And now you don't need good ole bank robbers to take the cash, just hackers who take it and wipe away any evidence of their existence.

Paper money might be fiat money, but you can see it, smell it, feel it and give it to people as you choose.

I think the security problems that  banks are having and probably hiding will be magnified with a currency that only exists in cyber space. 

Does the author seriously think that the Russian mafia, the Italian mafia and the chinese triads for a start, won't be falling over themselves to find a way to hack into the bitcoing repositories ?And also so very sad to see 80% of the profits going overseas, as stated by bankers in the last few weeks.

We only get 20% of the profits of our own minerals. Wherever was our Foreign Investment Review Board when this was happening. And ASIC. Whose interests exactly do they look after ?

There would be a lot of stuff for a federal ICAC to look at if they were given a chance. Who in Australia gets any of the cake, most of which goes overseas ?Surely the fact that these minerals are in Australia is worth more than a measly 20%. 

So here's the thing. If you owned a farm that had the best land in Australia, how many blokes would hand it over to some multinational to farm, knowing that the owner would get very little of the profits.

How many farmers would meekly accept that ownership isn't that important. A lot of people farm what they can and grow the enterprise as they get profits to expand.

So why haven't we in Australia done the same, funded what we could and taken the profits for the country ? 100% of half of it is still a lot more than 20% of all of it. 

In this modern age, some multinational would have built and owned the Snowy Hydro scheme, but back in the day Australians had foresight and guts to try something big. Not any more, we are a nation of wimps and losers.Reading something very interesting yesterday where the historians say something different about Argentina. 

Apparently Argentina  actually went down the tubes because of private sector and banking fraud, where the wealthy sucked all the money out of the country and left the debts for the ordinary people. During the military dictatorship. When no-one in their right mind would challenge how the country was being run unless they wanted a short life. Swiss bank accounts anyone ?

Sounds like a trial run for the last GFC. And the next one which is on its way.The Commonwealth Bank in Australia has been found by a Senate enquiry to have acted in a fraudulent way, conning investors out of their money.

Investors in the main weren't rocket scientists but ordinary retirees and near retirees who though that the Bank had a good reputation. Until Storm Financial. Until the Senate Committee blew the whistle. Narev has apologised. But words cost nothing.

This is how the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. You just need ordinary people with money, and unscrupulous people who know how to take it from them. 

As they say, when a man with money meets a man with experience, the man with the experience gets the money, and the one with the money gets the experience.

Honest people don't usually get rich.Are you serious ? Of course those with the money don't want to do anything about inequality, and those without the money do.

Those without the money have the numbers, but do they have the time, understanding and will to do something about it ?   Or even can they when the wealthy own both political parties which lie like there's no tomorrow without risk of consequences ? 

You even have to be rich to take injustice to court, so megalomaniacs like the Commonwealth Bank stripped assets from retirees with impunity. The media (only the ABC and SMH / Age) has levelled the playing field after many years of retiree suffering. This Bank was also a big part of the Storm Financial scam.

The Federal Budget was a text book case of a government owned by the wealthy, you just have to see who has been whacked to pay for the non-existent "budget emergency". Hint. It was the poor, the jobless, the young and the aged. Working people all.Well, this is the man who told Tony Windsor that he's sell his a*se to get what he wanted. 

His comments are disgraceful and a betrayal of every man and woman who perished or survived Japanese concentration camps in WW2 fighting for the freedom of the Australians back home. 
Some of these men and women are still alive and certainly their children and grandchildren remember.

Just wait to see him on Anzac Day next year lapping up the attention. Its all about Me, morals left at the door.Thankyou Eggman and Dr Goh, the Japanese soldiers were no different to the modern day terrorists.

Will there be a day in the future when an Australian PM praises the current day terrorists for being brave ? And I include the guys and gals who sit in the US dropping bombs on people via drones under this label, not just the usual suspects.Agree on the ignorance. 
How do they hand out Rhodes Scholarships ? I should have applied when he did, I would have walked it in.Of course there is rorting in aged care, its a sitting duck. 

To find out where the rorts are, follow these 3 simple steps:

1. Find an asset that is worth a lot to someone,

2. You need that asset to be owned by someone who is vulnerable and/or powerless in some way. It could be due to age, mental capacity, size, poverty, lack of access to decision makers etc.

3. You need that vulnerable person to be in a place where the crooks can go about their business in secret with no independent eyes watching them.

So, aged care. Lots of money, getting older and frailer by the day, no regulatory oversight. Bingo !!

So, corruption in politics. Buckets of taxpayers money, the crooks also pull the levers of government, no independent oversight (except in NSW ICAC). Bingo !!

The  interesting thing about this game is that you can use it to work out where the rorts most likely are, you don't have to wait for a whistleblower.

Also applies to child sex abuse, banking, superannuation, intellectual property owned by small businesses etc.Of course its simple. Every problem in the world has a solution that can be written on the back of an envelope.

Or did you mean simplistic ?No, its just that the electorate is a bit slow.

Tony's Budget went down like a lead balloon, industries are closing, unemployment is going up. The Libs want to give financial advisors open slather to lift the savings of retirees (lift as in pickpocket, not increase). When the Carbon Tax goes, electricity costs won't be going down.

Tony wrings his hands, what to do, what to do. How can he recapture his glory days when everyone loved him in his hard hat and budgie smugglers, he could say what he liked, and no media asked him any hard questions.

Then suddenly !! Look! Is it a bird, is it a plane, no, its  a boatload of asylum seekers. Faster than a silver bullet, able to grow Lib approval ratings in a single day. Tony's approval rating soars. Tony lights a candle and rejoices at the altar of xenophobia.

Now to bring on the increase in the GST.

Can someone explain to me the difference between:
#  taking a boatload of people and forcing them under military guard to go to a country they don't want to go to ?

# and piracy ?

When pirates off the coast of Somalia hijack freighters, take the ships to an unknown destination and hold the occupants and contents to ransom, that's called terrorism.

When Abbott hijacks a boatload of people, takes them to an unknown destination and holds them for sale to the highest bidder, thats called ?n water matters"".  Mwahaha.Not the second boat as I understand it, the one where the occupants have been sent back to Sri Lanka.

They have been kidnapped from their boat, forcibly detained and then forcibly returned to Sri Lanka. By the Australian government.

I don't think there is any international law that this was done under. So that makes it lawless.Asylum seekers are the gift that keeps on giving to Abbott. He knows that a good scare about asylum seekers, with a strongman Putin type response plays well with the voters.  The more time is spent debating the High Court issues, the more airtime this issue gets, the higher Abbott's approval ratings will go.

Most people are unaware of the issues of law and don't care. They can't see how legal issues put bread on the table,  but they think they can see how we will be swamped by refugees on boats. Its the visceral issue.

And it's a wonderful distraction. From ??  

The lies that Abbott told before the election, from the rising unemployment as he dumps industries, and from the budget which is taking from the poor to give to the rich.

My guess is he was justing waiting for a boat to come to play to his out. Strategy is everything.Its not that long ago that the white western women were not allowed to own property, and could be cast aside with no money or home. But its true that some cultures now have a terrible attitude to women, they are owned just like sheep or cattle and killed if they stray.

But not all refugees have this view and not all people of each culture believe the same things. Just look at the differences between Christians, enough to send them to war against each  other quite a few times.

Its not simple. But we do people a disservice to tar them with a brush if we dont know them. I've known muslim women overseas who  had quite a say in the family thank you very much, and the men took notice thats for sure.

The other issue is that we have had a huge migration of people by plane on 457 visas, so do we assume that these migrants are much better, kinder and more tolerant than their brethren who come by boat ?Most independent organisations that audit the financial sectors are being dismantled or discredited or ignored by the Abbott government. 

You have:
*  the ATO large company investigations being kneecapped,
*  the call by the Senate to have a Royal Commission into the Commonwealth Bank being ignored, 
* the charities regulator being closed down, 
* Discrimination Commissioner being given the chop.

There has to be a reason why the Abbott government is closing down the auditors and regulators.

The ordinary people of this country want a federal ICAC to get to the bottom of:
*  what scams are being done,
* who is profiting by them, and 
* what the politicians know about what is going on.

I don't think we are allowed to say any more on the ABC that we need a federal ICAC.

But we do. Corruption is rife in Australia, you can see this in the wholesale dismantling of the bodies which oversee the financial industries such as banks, charities etc.Something smells about the verdict. When the scandal first broke in the UK, Murdoch said that his first duty was to "look after this one"(Brooks).

So she has now been found not guilty. I think Murdoch has lived up to his promise. Coulson was a nobody and was jettisoned.

Justice has been subverted by money. Again.You get the most expensive lawyers, they vet the jury and get rid of anyone unsympathetic to Brooks, they tell Brooks to do what the pollies did at ICAC ie ? don't recall", ? can't remember", "That never happened"etc etc.

If Brooks is innocent then so is Obeid and Hatcher.Clifford, the Chair of the Board, is a right wing warrior, with his primary goal to trash the pilots union and all other unions, not to run an airline. 

Joyce was appointed to cut staff and make the rest work for overseas conditions (low wages, contracts, no holidays etc).

Joyce has been doing what he was asked to do. Pity he's killing Qantas too, I suppose thats what you call friendly fire.

But as long as Clifford is Chairman of the Qantas Board, Joyce will be the CEO.Very plausible idea. Qantas was nearly dumped by Jackson and Dixon onto a private equity company years ago. The GFC would have seen the end of it under that sort of ownership.

So maybe they are back to Plan A, as you say, load it up with debt and cause it to fail.

Of course Abbott would have to meet the worker entitlements, but such a victory over the employees would make that a lot sweeter.No, he's the right captain for Team Australia. Its just that when he turns around to see who is on his Team, he might be standing there pretty much on his own.

And this will be because the intelligent men and women of Australia will have twigged to the fact that Team Australia, any war overseas, and anything to do with asylum seekers is just a diversion so that we all forget the Budget which is the  unfairest Budget brought down in Australia in living memory, and based on lies. 

So while CEOs and Board Members get paid in shares, this problem will get worse. Every time Execs make the decision to increase the dividend, they make themselves richer. 

And there is no benefit to them putting money into a company they know they will leave at some stage.

The tax system, put in place by conservative governments, rewards execs who get paid in shares and dividends. 

And the now mega super funds love huge dividends. Makes them look good to their members and grow their market share.

There are too many people of influence with their fingers in the pie to change this. Mum and dad incestors are just along for the ride.*** investorsYes ICAC, the little exercise in ALP bashing now suffering from  a bit of friendly fire. 

As the NSW Libs self destruct, we should look at our Team Australia leaders, and ask them what they know about what is being unearthed under every rock at ICAC.

Its getting mighty warm near the ACT/NSW border. Perhaps a federal ICAC can find out where some of the brown paper envelopes ended up.Share house rent $360 per fortnight, leaves $150 pf for food and basics (soap, shampoo, toothpaste), electricity, phone -$15 pf minimum (for the job calls), clothes, transport to job interviews.

Peter NQ, I assume your definition of poverty must be living in a humpy in the bush with a camp fire. Makes accommodation and heating free.And I'll bet you don't do the household accounts, most likely your wife/partner or your mum, so that would explain why you have no freakin idea how much things cost.When you  look at the real figures, not the Murdoch figures, you see that there is no budget emergency. Private debt in Australia is around $1600 billions. Federal Government debt is around $370 billions. 

So the real problem is private debt. This is the one which is going to kill us, once there is a hiccup in China's economy. Very hard to pay $1300 per pay on the mortgage when you don't have a job.

And the rate of increase in pension payments is small. The big hit to the budget has been the Tax Cuts which have been squandered on cars and fridges. 

If we took the tax rates back to what they were in 2000, we wouldn't have a problem. And people were fed and housed back then, and there were fewer homeless as well.

What we have now is that the Liberal ideology is achieving its ends. Which are to stop the flow of government money and services average lazy, moronic worker. 

Its an unproductive use of capital to waste resources on old people, disabled people and the unemployed. And to educate kids beyond primary school when they are just going to serve coffees and dig stuff up.

sidlaw, this little gem refers to the fact that EU countries can't print their own currency like we do. This means that they are not able to respond to crises quickly and so crises turn into catastrophes very quickly.

Unlike the USA which merrily prints billions of dollars all the time to fund their wars. We aren't even in the same galaxy as the US as regards printing money. And we can't run out because we do print our own money. I didn't think that was news but there you go.Well. Tony is a businessman. He advertised himself as one thing but when you buy him you got something completely different.

All legal because there's no law against politician misrepresentation. Cars and fridges yes, pollies no.

So just by observation, you can get an idea of what you need to do to be on his Team Australia. 

First, do nothing that is explicitly illegal. Everything and everyone else is fair game.

Second, you are pro-business no matter what. Especially big electricity retailers, coal and minerals miners etc.

Third, dump the underperformers. Like the pensioners, the unemployed, single parents, university students. They add nothing in dollar terms to the Team, so they have to goOrdinary taxpayers aren't too fussed about the budget, because it seems to whack them the most. Like pensioners, unemployed, students, apprentices, anyone with kids in school, anyone needing to go to a doctor.

When Tony says Team Australia, its just a way of wedging Australians into Us and Them. Them being anyone we don't like. Anyone with ideas We don't like.

The gold star for Team Australia would have to be the white, church going, executive or senior management, married with children, man with the wife at home with her proper job of looking after the family.

A bit like a Monty Python sketch, where everyone knows their place.What a good point graazt. He wasn't even born here and yet he's trying to define who is in and who is out as regards being a good Aussie.

Did he come by boat ? Was he a boat person ? That would be priceless.Answered my own question. Yes, Abbott was a boat person, his parents were 20 Pound poms.

And his old man was a dentist when he brought the family out, so they wouldn't have been short of a quid. But they still managed to get boat tickets subsidised by British taxpayers.

What does that say ?Not where I live Virgil. No car, no travel for me. No buses here. One train that runs twice a day to places I don't need to go.

If you live in the city, fair enough.Yes the low income earners should be protected, not attacked as they are being at the moment.

But the real problem is that our major industry, mining, pays less than half the tax they should on their profits. Assuming the company tax rate is 30%.

Simple business accounting: Profit = Revenue - Expense.
Expense = Cost of (Raw Materials + Processing + Sales) 

For miners: 
Cost of Raw Materials = Royalties paid to state govts.
Rebates = (Diesel Fuel Rebate) + Deductions for Exploration + Accelerated Depreciation + Other Tax Breaks

Latest Figures from Minerals Council, Deloitte and Australia Institute:

Royalties = $10 billion paid to State govts
Rebates = $4.5 billion paid by State govts to miners
Gifts to miners = Free use by miners of State water, rail and port infrastructure].
Tax paid by miners = $12.7 billion
Tax Rate paid by miners = 14%

Comapre this to Tax Rate paid by small business = 30%,  and Tax Rate paid by working people = &gt; 25%

This is why we are in financial trouble. And 80% of shareholders live overseas, so 80% of profits go overseas.The effective tax rate of the miners is 14%. 

That is, they start off with the 30% tax rate like all businesses.

Then they deduct all the rebates that governments give them, amounting to $4.5 biilions last year. A not insignificant amount.

So, Miners tax = tax @ 30%   less  the $4.5 billion that goverments gave them last year

Ergo, their tax rate is effectively 14%.

Simple.I forgot to mention that the reports also say that the miners got an additional $13.1 billions last year in other mining sector assistance from government.

So that means that we effectively pay them to dig the stuff up in my opinion.I'm assuming that you are talking about expenses, which are taken out of profit by the mining companies. So this is included of course in their own figures.

If you have better figures than Deloitte, the Minerals Council of Australia and the budget papers of the State Governments, please correct me.

Otherwise you haven't added anything to the discussion, and the figures are still correct.You have a narrow definition of processing.

Processing includes digging the stuff up and transporting it to a centre, then getting it into a form for sending overseas.

The figures still stand, and the miners still pay an effective tax rate of 14%, which is much lower than small business pays.  

And the sources are the Deloitte report and the Budgets of State governments.

You are quibling about details which are already included.

For 2013-14, the miners paid $10 billion to the States to dig up the minerals(royalties), the States paid them $4.5 billion in subsidies and another $13.1 billions in other assistance, the miners paid $12 billion in tax.

The effective tax rate was calculated at 14%.

If you have an argument with these figures, you need to contact Deloittes and the State Governments. I am merely pointing out what they say.

You haven't given me the source of your figures. It is very easy to debunk figures by making stuff up.Not so. Until the tax rates were slashed by Howard, I don't recall captains of industry taking their bat and ball and going home.

They were quite happy to work for say 10 times what their average employee was earning.

Now it has to be 100 times or they won't go to work ? Have younger people become so fragile that they can't bear to work for the measly amount of $1 million a year ?Totally agree with you Bob, but I've come to the conclusion that money for the greedy is like heroin, and they are in the grip of an addiction. This makes greed a mental disorder.

They can never get enough, it's the only thing they think about, and they would sell their grandmother and their kids rather than go without a fix.

We have a fine example right here in Australia. And these damaged people are the ones we are supposed to take advice from, as they fling it around with gay abandon.More than that splod

The LNP gets a lot of its election funds from big businesses like big banks. And so its perfectly understandable that the LNP will never allow a Royal Commission into the Commonwealth Bank, no matter many millions have been stolen from ordinary people who have been made destitute.

Both sides protect their election donors. But, the corrupt union officials get jail for what ? For Craig Emerson it was $5500.

The Banks have pinched millions, so on a matter of scale, its the LNP who are the truly great supporters of fraud against ordinary taxpayers.Rockpicker, you aint seen nuthin yet. The Trans Pacific Partnership will mean that we have no rights to make any laws that inconvenience US multinationals.

Proof ? Canada has the NAFTA free trade agreement with the US with the same laws included.

And the impact ? Canada has paid more than $160 million in fines already and is facing another $4-5-billion worth of NAFTA lawsuits, including one from Lone Pine Resources, which is seeking $250-million compensation for Quebec?s publicly supported moratorium on fracking in the St. Lawrence River Valley.

Under TPP, Australia will be sued for billions because we are stopping fracking on our best farmland ( "Lock the Gate"). We will be sued if we ban any medication that causes heart attacks (like the arthritis drugs). 
We will be sued if we ban the neonics which kill the bees.

Our govt will be powerless to do anything to protect the voters.When Rudd was unpopular the ALP back room boys installed Gillard. When Gillard was unpopular the ALP back room boys installed Rudd.

But now Abbott is unpopular, and Bishop is grooming the world for a new Aussie female PM. The LNP wide boys will be acting before the next election.

Aaahh, sexism. I have yet to hear Senator Heffernan smearing the unmarried with no kids Bishop for being deliberately barren, as he did with Gillard. 

I have yet to hear Brandis smear her as "she has chosen not to be a parent ? she is very much a one-dimensional person" - his public comments about Gillard.

I have yet to see a Mal Brough menu with a dish of Julie Bishop Roast Quail "small breasts, huge thighs and a big red box".

So maybe Bishop isn't fighting sexism because her ALP opponents aren't putting the boot in, like her fellow LNP comrades did to Gillard. Easy to be above the fray when no-one is taking potshots at you.Triple whammy actually.
The govt basically gives away resources so 80% of the profits head offshore also. 
Marginal revenue gains from royalities soon overwhelmed by slick accounting, write-downs, slim capitalisation, etc.Is this the same LNP which excoriated the ALP govt for wanting to stop the press (Bolt in particular) indulging in racist statements ? This was an outrageous attack on free speech Brandis said .

So now Brandis wants a secret service which is answerable to nobody, which can run amok and disappear people whenever they like. Can accidently kill people with no consequences. 

And if the family of the disappeared or killed goes to a journalist they will be thrown in jail. And if the journalist mentions it, s/he will be thrown in jail.

Hey, haven't I seen this sort of thing somewhere ? Oh yes, I remember. Russia. China. North Korea. Nazi Germany.Ahhh, gbe, go and see Rap News episode on Net Neutrality. Mate, you star in it, hashtag, selfie, whatever.

And all Alan is trying to do is alert people to the fact that their jobs are going south. Not like there could be any massive upheavals in what jobs are available. 

I mean, like, lots of people can't get a full time job these days, but hey, not my problem. And who needs a full time job ? Who needs to buy a house ? Or get partnered ? Or have kids ?

Couch surfing rules man.Australia is rapidly becoming the new Egypt, probably with the same encouragement that Egypt has been getting. 

We are voting for, (LNP + ALP), the same sort of laws that allows the Egyptian military to try people in secret, to snatch people off the streets and make it illegal to report on disappearances. 

We have laws in Brisbane which the Egyptians would also recognise, making demonstrations illegal, also illegal to carry eggs.

If Egypt has gone back to the 7'th century, we are rapidly following them. Next, slave trading.In fact, the solution to this problem is to cut out the middleman. The police and military should just take over Australia and abolish Parliament. 

Much more efficient, cuts red tape, costs less because no pollie salaries and pensions.

Has a proven track record in many countries, Chile, Iran, Thailand, Egypt, Greece on occasion,  to mention a few.

Whats not to like ?Hang on, I pay for Medicare every year in my tax, 1.5% of my taxable income. And so do millions of others.

And how does that make Medicare unfunded, exactly ?I was here yank, and it was a turbulent time. The Murdoch press whipped up constant hysteria against the Whitlam govt. 

Shadowy men offered to raise money for the Whitlam government programs, and as it turned out, the shadowy men were from the Nugan Hand Bank, run by two ex-CIA assets.

The Murdoch press blasted Whitlam for being involved with dodgy men, but neglected to mention the CIA Bank which was associated with them. In retrospect, the whole thing looked like a setup.

Also, the Pine Gap Treaty was coming up for renewal and Whitlam was demanding to know what they did at the US Pine Gap facility outside of Alice Springs. It being a CIA base on Australian soil, and all. 

Whitlam was due to speak on Pine Gap in Parliament on the afternoon of 11 November, but was dismissed by Kerr hours before he could. Thats the same Kerr who met with DSD (our equivalent to the CIA) a day or two before he sacked Whitlam.

I read a US nuclear power industry magazine in 1975 a week before the dismissal and it had an article that said the Whitlam govt would be gone in the next few weeks. They must have had astrologers working for them.

The Murdoch hysteria on the problems of inflation and deficits stopped as soon as Fraser was elected. Because they were always red herring issues to stampede the people. Just like Murdoch's hysteria about the deficit last year stampeded people into voting for someone they didn't like or trust. And with good reason we now see.First of all, AG, the Libs were conceding that they were going to pass the Budget. So blocked legislation was not a reason.

Second, the deadline for the passing of the Bills was a week or two into the future. So reaching a deadline wasn't the reason.

The Snowden of those years was Christopher Boyce, ex-CIA analyst who blew the whistle, on 60 Minutes in 1982 and SBS Dateline in 2014. He was jailed for 25 years for telling the media what the CIA and NSA had done to the Whitlam govt in 1974 and 1975.

The movie, The Falcon and the Snowman, starring Sean Penn, is a  movie about what happened.

And your evidence is ???Mate, go and look around. Even look at Wikipedia. 

The reason for Boyce going rogue was his anger at the fact that the US CIA and NSA were playing dirty tricks on an elected govt in a democracy and ally (the Whitlam govt). 

You have no evidence that he was lying.  There is ample evidence that something was going on. I read in a US magazine that the Whitlam govt was going to be out in a few weeks time. Myself. With my own eyes.

You just have your political blinkers that the big ole friendly US would never ever use dirty tricks on another country. Mwahaha. 

Kerr was an ex secret service employee, and was stampeded by his secret service mates into an illegal act to protect Pine Gap. He was the patsy, and once he knifed Whitlam, he was of no further use. He died a bitter and sozzled old man because no-one respected him even on his side of politics.The problem is, where is this issue on the hierarchy of concerns ? Who is willing to do something effective, and what ?

And to all the green households, sorting your garbage into recyclables and switching off on Earth Hour day are absolute do nothing actions. Sorry.

Useless actions because every bit of paper recycled is nothing compared to the pollution being spewed into the environment by businesses, coal fired power stations etc.

This is a political problem with a political answer.  

People have to get over the non existent red herrings being used by coal governments (like ISIS, asylum seekers, budget emergencies). The absolute need is to find/grow leaders who are willing to make the hard decisions to save the planet, and ditch those whose major interests are their pensions and bank accounts and investment properties in Cairns. 

Brian Cox thinks we might be alone in the Universe. Shame if we disappear and leave the world to the amoebas.What buisnes owners and multinationals and the military tell us, and what they really think, are two entirely different things.

The Pentagon has done studies showing how disruptive global warming is going to be to the current systems of political control. A copy is available at the Climate Institute.

Corporates might wheel out nutters like Monckton, but thats so that we are all dumbed down while they work out how to keep things going their way as things go to hell.What could go wrong ? Say in 30 years time our country is ruled by a government very against any religion. Or very against democracy. 

And so also very against paper books because people might be reading subversive books on religion or democracy. They would ask, "What have you got to hide that you are reading paper books, not electronic books that we can track ? ".

So the new government asks the public service to go through all digital records for 40 years, to see who bought paper books from Amazon and other booksellers. 

Then everyone would be asked to willingly bring their books in to collection points for burning.

Then they would come to your house and demand all your paper books if there are any unaccounted for. And you might get thrown into jail for particularly subversive books on democracy.

Has book burning ever been done anywhere in the world by governments ?  If the answer is yes, then it could happen again.The road to totalitarianism goes two ways. Either invasion by another country. Like China into Tibet.

Or by the tiny tiny changes to the laws, one at a time, not so anyone would get upset or notice.

So if in 30 years time there was a totalitarian govt achieved by the latter method, then every little loss of democracy would have got us there. 

The price of liberty is eternal vigilance by those who believe in democracy. Thats not an empty saying you know.I believe the German people voted Hitler into power in the early 1930s. Or at least they gave him enough power to be able to take over the government and end democracy.Once its there its fair game. Just need to demonstrate that it would help a court case. Or a police fishing expedition. Or you haven't paid ur rates. An overdue book from the Library. A parking fine unpaid. Ur dog crapped on the pavement.

Like the head of the AFP said, also useful in tracking down illegal downloaders, say Game of Thrones. We have ur IP address in the database.Has Orwell become the new Jesus ?

Jesus supporters support things like pacifism, anti-nuclear campaigns, the war in Iraq, capital punishment etc. That is, whatever you believe to start off with, you can find a passage in the books of Jesus to support you.Us = lawyers, business owners, high earners of any industry

Them = manufacturing workers, admin workers, child care workers, aged care workers, transport workers, health industry workersIn my work a long time ago, I was told that if no matter what you do, you never succeed at getting a certain outcome, then look for someone who is working for the opposite outcome.

The ordinary people of the Middle East want peace. They want to send their kids to school and have working hospitals, they want to go to the shops without being killed.  They don't really want to get on leaky boats to get away from the carnage, they want to grow oranges and make baklava.

But, No matter how much war has been waged, no matter how many billions of dollars have been spent on bombs, nothing has changed for them. They are still in Hell.

So who is funding the opposite to a peaceful solution ? If you work that out, you may find out how to stop it. But imho, those doing this have more money today than you would ever see in a lifetime. 

And they ain't a ragtag bunch of nutters running round chopping off heads either. No, these are just the messengers.If the whole system is corrupted by money, as it seems to be, then corruption has to be taken into account when working out a new way.

How do you stop the boys with the money buying any elected official ? Like the boys in real estate, coal mining, iron ore mining, coal seam minng, any other mining, banks etc etc etc. 

That is the flaw. The existing major parties are never going to allow a change. Its the one thing they will vote together on, no Federal ICAC.The policies that the LNP and ALP governments have brought in over the past 30 years, paid for by business and rich shareholders, are no accident. And its no accident that the Treasury is running out of money.

The old men making the laws today got free university education, cheap housing, good access to permanent jobs and good wages. Courtesy of Gough Whitlam.

These old people are now starting to strip mine their children and grandchildren with massive HECS fees, defunding of public education, stealth fee increases for medical, and policies that cause massive increases in housing prices.

But what else can the olds do ? Otherwise how can they fund negative gearing on their investment properties and superannuation tax concessions. Surely we wouldn't want to ruin their retirement, given how hard they've worked ?

All leaders have to be egotists or they would fold under criticism. Menzies, Whitlam, Hawke, Keating, Howard, Rudd, Abbott all egotists.

The problem is that our politicians have been bought by the wealthy. The wealthy themselves have big political meetings every year to progress their own agenda of owning more and more with less and less opposition. At these meetings they interview candidates for UK PM and the US Presidency and give the nod to the right candidates to proceed. Much like China is doing in Hong Kong.

The question is, how can an alternative to the big corporate + military political parties survive ? The alternatives haven't survived in Egypt, or Thailand or China. Ordinary citizens can be tossed aside by GFCs, home repossessions and coups.

The US police is being militarised in preparation for the internal threat of citizen unrest due to poverty and homelessness. And the massive data surveillance has the same aim, nothing to do with terrorism. 

So what can ordinary citizens do against this? Its like the Matrix in real life.Nah, the policy is made in both parties by the Head Offices. The branches have little to no say. 

The only glimmer of light is when the branches were given a say in the new leader of the ALP Opposition, but even then the numbers were rigged to give it to Shorten.There is a conservative rule book for getting elected, that if you terrify people then you will get elected, you must be divisive and aggressive. Abbott took to it like a duck to water.

So Abbott plays the fear cards every day: fear of the nation becoming like Greece with massive debts, fear of being swamped by refugees on boats, fear of being blown up by Muslim youths fresh back from Syria.  These are just made up fears to make us all cower under our beds.

And the shirtfronting of Putin ? The Dutch MH17 investigators have just said that they have an open mind on what shot the plane down, and can get no evidence that it was a Russian missile. So the jury is still out on this, whether it was a Russian missile or Ukrainian fighter jets. 

The really funny thing though is that now we have a real fear, like the fear of Ebola, Abbott runs scared and so do we. No Aussies will be going to help the Africans. Heck, we might catch it.

Aussies are no longer brave bronzed Anzacs, we are more like Anzac cookies dipped in white tea.
Geez, what history books do you read ? Menzies never lost to Whitlam, he was retired for 6 years before Whitlam was elected.

Politics has always had a certain viciousness. Menzies amped up the fear of Communists to good effect. That served the LNP well until Whitlam went to China, then Nixon followed him.

Murdoch went in for the kill with Whitlam, in conjunction with a well documented misinformation fear campaign carried out by the US Embassy in Oz, to get rid of Whitlam because he wasn't subservient enough to the US. Particularly on Pine Gap.

What we saw with Gillard and Rudd was a similar sort of misinformation campaign, not helped by the internal idiocies of the ALP. They shot themselves in one foot and the US shot them in the other.

Abbott's feared "Debt and Deficit Disaster"has suddenly disappeared since he was elected and we now have buckets of money to blow up stuff in a religious domestic half a world away. Because the US has ordered us to go there.

Isn't it intriguing that every Australian PM without exception  now makes sure they attend an audience with Rupert whenever they go to the US. The strings are not in Australia.Total rubbish. We don't like what Abbott is doing. 

He lies about the budget situation and Nobel prize winners say this. He lies about the Carbon Tax, I can tell you my power rebate for the ending of the Carbon Tax is risible. 

He  lied about what he wasn't going to do. He wasn't going to change education or health, and now we have the big new $7 tax every time you go to the doctor. He was not going to have new taxes. Apart from the increased tax on petrol, and the increased GST on EVERYTHING.

Gonski is out the door. All of the good work on Australian education, contributed to by educators all over Australia, has been ditched in favour of a Catholic curriculum. And we can't have social workers in schools they must be religious spruikers. Brought to you by our mostly Catholic government.

I'm a live and let live sort of person. If you send your kids to a religious school, well thats your right. But to have both a Catholic educator and a racist redesigning the curriculum for public schools is a disgraceful abuse of power by religious politicians. 

Are we living in Iran, they are run by a religious mafia as well ?So, I assume that you think that the "mature conversation "that Abbott wants on the GST is in relation to decreasing it ?

The ATO has just released its report on taxes of big business. So, the ATO collected $40 billions in tax.

But then there is the question of  $400,000,000,000 that we missed out on. Due to the ducks and drakes games that multinationals play to hide their revenue using loanbacks, transfer pricing and all the rest.

So, we got about 10% of what we would get in tax if the multinationals weren't hiding all their money in tax havens.

Can I pay 10% of my tax and keep the rest ? Pleease sir.Yes, and one media baron in particular who willingly threw away his Australian citizenship years ago to make more money overseas. A great patriot.

But funnily he still feels free to run our country. But then of course, its not him so much, its his great and powerful friends, Murdoch's just the errand boy. 

All politicians in Australia took the lesson of Whitlam to heart, they saw what happens to a PM when he doesn't serve the interests of the greatest nation on Earth. 

Look at Shorten, he's afraid to tie his shoelaces without getting authorisation first. We no longer have an Opposition. And any one with any spine, like Whitlam, would be hounded from office again by the US Information Centre. Mwhaha.Agree supe, that slip is like saying don't look over here. Thats exactly what all this data collection is about, nuthin to do with the terrorists thats just a smokescreen. 

And the TPP ends Australia as a sovereign nation. It appears that we will no longer be able to make any laws without reference to the multinationals who might be affected by our laws.

So, if we want to close down Nauru for example because its costing us millions of dollars, then the multinational who has the contract will be able to take us to the World Court, as specified in the TPP, for damages caused by loss of business.

Does anyone care ? Except me ? And you ?Yes, agreed. Gough Whitlam's death highlighted all that we no longer have in a political party that says they are for ordinary people. The ALP is now a travesty.

In the early 1930s, Germany with a large US computer company, did a census of the Jewish people and kept it all on computer. That is why the Nazis could go to houses directly and take Jewish people when they decided to exterminate the lot. 

So for anyone who has any views criticising "business" in Australia, or criticising anything in the US, or who is ethnic or religious (not Christian), then everyone you talk to will now be in a big database, easily searched.Even Australia's top scientists, winner of the PM award, are very worried about the loss of future scientists because of funding cuts.

But of course we have buckets of money to pay for some Middle East War which is never going to stop because they are fighting amongst themselves over there.

Does that really mean that university cuts are funding wars. What a sad, pathetic loser, visionless government we have !!!Its a gigantic con, that we are sliding inexorably into poverty and only an increase in the GST will save us. That GST of course being funded mostly by ordinary wage earners.

Here are a few alternate suggestions:
1. How about we get Google to pay its fair share of Oz tax
2. How about we get Amazon to pay its fair share of Oz tax
3. How about we stop giving back billions of dollars in "rebates" to the mining companies ( thats the ones rolling in dough)
4. How about we hike the taxes to where they were in 1997. You know, 1997 when we were all in poverty.

That should solve our financial problems.

And hey, the G20 is going to do something about suggestions 1 and 2. I'm holding my breath.Yes, its illegal under WTO rules to subsidise Oz farmers and have tariffs to protect Oz manufacturing.

But the USA, home of the WTO, gives their farmers billions in subsidies and nothing is said by the WTO. 

Of course WTO headquarters are in New York, but that wouldn't influence them. Would it ?Labour voters are workers. They are used to abiding by the workplace rules. They support pollies who obey the rules.

Liberal voters are owners, they are used to making the workplace rules and support pollies who make the rules. They do not support any workers making rules, that is not their place !

The Parliament is the workplace for pollies.

So it will always be true that the LNP pollies make the rules that the ALP pollies always obey. The LNP know their place. The ALP knows their place. 

So Whitlam followed the rules unreservedly. When he was sacked by an unelected Queens appointee, a very civilised coup, as you would expect when we all follow the rules. Nothing as cheap as sending in the military, not done old boy.

And Shorten follows the great tradition. Hell would freeze over before Shorten stands up to his betters. He might grumble like workers do, but he will not disobey.Maybe we are to blame. There was a poll on the Drum the other day showing that 80% of Aussies are happy with no action. Probably a NIMBY reaction.

And Abbott is a biffo type of bloke. The biff is in Iraq and Syria and Afghanistan. He can muscle up there and support his security sponsors at the same time. Win win.

But where's the win in a plague ? Whats in it for him ? And since we don't care really, there's no polls to push him.

This is a position based on scientific fact, so is a red herring.

The real issue is why conservative governments use fear as a weapon to further the agendas of their sponsors. Like the coal, oil and gas industry (the carbon tax scare) and the security and arms industries (the terrorism scare).

To peddle fear, the LNP needs infrastructure. They need 
# a compliant press across Australia (News Ltd), 

# a security apparatus wanting to expand their powers and willling to do anything to do so (ASIO, ASIS, DSD), 

# politicians so deperate for power that they will say or do anything to get into power (Abbott and his compulsive lying who told Windsor he would sell his own arse if he had to to be PM 
( I thought that was illegal in Australia except in a licenced premises )).

And then we have the fear of the Budget Emergency. 

The debt has been increased under Abbott/Hockey. They put a Bill thru Parliament to increase the debt to half a billion dollars. And we seem to have buckets of extra money to go to war. 

Its just health, education and pensioners that contribute to the Budget Emergency, apparently. 

But then voters don''t have buckets of money to give them for re-election. The Chief Minister of the NT said yesterday that giving money to his CNP Party would get you in to see him a lot faster. At least he's honest.Ho hum, another terrorist attack out of the blue. Another failure of intelligence. Or not.

The negotiator between the US and Iraq in 2001 knew for months that there was going to be an attack in New York by terrorists. She says so herself. 

So it makes you wonder what goes on with these intelligence people. And WMDs, that caused us to go to war in Iraq, was what ? They know stuff they don't tell us, they make stuff up? Pardon my growing cynicism about the whole thing. 

And the plastic sword was priceless !Seriously, they knew about this guy ? And they didn't keep an eye on him ? True to form.Honestly, Abbott sounds like a long running ad for the coal industry. And my question is, why ?

We need a Federal ICAC asap.Last point. Yep, theres a lot to be said for burning the floorboards because its cold tonight.In 2011, The Minerals Council has estimated there will be an additional 86,000 jobs in mining by 2020 in Australia.

Hows that working for everyone ? Have any miners been thrown out of work lately ?
Oh yes, Abbott and co falling over themselves to remember Gough.

While doing their best to kill affordable health care by making everyone pay $7 (thin end of the wedge) to see a doctor, and by selling Medibank, the health insurer that keeps the brake on fees. 

Its just all hypocrisy. The masters that Abbott bow down to were the ones that got rid of a true patriot, Gough Whitlam.Honestly, is that all you've got ?

Well, the GST moved more tax onto the shoulders of ordinary working people. So that benefited me how ?

Gun buyback ? Australia is awash with thugs with guns. And what does the Shooters Party do, use slingshots ?

What Whitlam did, he did to help ordinary working people. 

Like Medicare, free University education, ended conscription so that no more young men were forced to the killing fields of Vietnam, made it easier for people to end bad marriages, started funding the regions to increase their industry and prosperity, and thats only half the list.

Yes luck wasn't on his side economically. Nor politically.

The US to be Ambassador to Australia, Marshall Green, was one of the most accident prone ambassadors around, as regards democracies.

He was the senior American diplomat charg? d'affaires in South Korea at the time of the 1961 coup d'?tat that brought Major-General Park Chung Hee to power.  

He was also US Ambassador to Indonesia when Suharto led a coup against Sukarno and in the course of which an estimated 500,000 Indonesians were killed. 

In 1973, Nixon hollered for a Marshall as US Ambassador to Australia, a post he held until 1975, the year Whitlam was undemocratically dismissed by the Queens rep, Kerr.

So although the US loves and promotes democracy, they just couldn't take a trick when the Marshall was in town.

Whitlam bowed before no man or country. He was a patriotic Australian through and through and no-one pulled his strings.
He worked for us, the citizens.

Which is why he was ousted in an undemocratic fashion. Contrary to Bob Hawke.

The banks involved were the Nugan Hand Bank and Commerce International, both staffed by ex CIA personnel. Khemlani was a front for them. You can look this up for yourself and draw your own conclusions.Thats right Albo, one man appointed by the Queen threw a democratically elected government out of the Parliament and appointed the Opposition Leader as the caretaker PM.

Now thats what I call democracy !Ben, you  need to read your history books. 

Whitlam was dismissed by the Governor General Sir John Kerr on Nov 11 1975, and yet  the Whitlam govt had 2 years left of their elected term . Kerr, acting as the Queens rep, dismissed Whitlam and installed Fraser as a temporary PM.

Malcolm Fraser acting under Kerr's instructions, and Fraser who took the country to an election in 1975, 2 years early. So there were elections in 1972, 1974 and 1975. 
Nah, Hawkey had friends in Very High Places. And he promised not to rock their boat. Thats how he got the job, the interview wasn't part of the election process tho.

His mate was Lindsay Fox of LinFox Transport, who also had some very interesting friends, and they both went on some very interesting trips with these friends.Yes true. The downing of the plane was a terrible terrible thing. 

But there are photos floating around which show that the cockpit has bullet holes in it, from both sides. A missile doesn't leave bullet holes. A few pilots have commented on this. And the air traffic controller on duty at the time in the Ukraine has disappeared.

Holland has been tasked, I believe, with getting to the bottom of what happened and they haven't reported yet. 

The certainty with which Obama and Abbott say that the Russians shot the plane down  is premature, given that it was a war zone on the ground with both sides using it to score a propaganda win. The downing of MH17 is caught in the political spin machine in my opinion.So there are two theories as to what shot MH17 down. One theory is a Russian missile, the other is Ukrainian fighter jets thinking they had Putin's jet. Livery is apparently similar.

The evidence is inconclusive and there are holes that look like bullet holes on both sides of the cockpit. 

And the Dutch haven't come to a conclusion. But don't let that stop you jumping to conclusions.So according to CNN, the preliminary Dutch report has been released.

In CNNs own words "It tells us that MH17 was brought down by "high energy objects" which were of "external causes" and never once uses the word missile."

But to all you conspiracy theorists who are sure it was a Russian missile, keep going,  after all what would the Dutch know.The real saying is ?It is the common fate of the indolent to see their rights become a prey to the active. The condition upon which God hath given liberty to man is eternal vigilance; which condition if he break, servitude is at once the consequence of his crime and the punishment of his guilt.?

It has to do with the incremental tightening of laws by the State until the people have no rights left at all. 

The laws we have are perfectly adequate to deal with terrorists as they stand, but the security apparatus of the Australian state wants unlimited powers to make people disappear without trial or media attention.

All under the pretext of not having enough laws to deal with terrorism. But I predict that the terrorism laws will never be enough for them.

Totally agree. We all like to say that Australia is nothing like Russia was, or Nazi Germany was, or China is, or North Korea is.

But if we have the same laws as them, where people can be arrested in secret, held in secret, and any reporter who mentions them is jailed in secret as well, then what is the difference ? Will artists and poets be next ?

Abbott will be swanning around the G20 with countries which would never allow laws like this. You could say he will be putin on the ritz.Jeez, the real issue here is why the ALP has almost ceased to exist as a voice.

First, they have no media outlet that is supportive of them, like Murdochs press is of Abbott who can almost do no wrong. The independent papers are more even-handed but they aren't a rah rah ALP club. All our PMs and Opposition Leaders have an audience with Murdoch every time they go to the US. It is more important than seeing the President.

Second, the philosophical narrative has been won by the business community. There is almost no debate around the issue of what tax money should go to big business. Here in Oz we have US businesses making billions but paying almost no tax because of all the tax breaks, grants and rebates we give them. The pollies have given them a tax holiday. And to make up the $$ difference, the ATO comes after us.

Third, we host a major US military base in the middle of Australia. Its role is to spy on the communications of South East Asia, and also to direct drones to their targets in west Asia. So the question is, how much influence does the US have on our politicians. Thats our pollies who who are members of  US "Friendship Clubs".  Perhaps both sides of our Parliament get their marching orders from the same source as regards business and security.

So the G20 will do nothing on tax of big US companies. Bill will stay welded to the US position on security, same as Abbott. And all pollies will continue to ask permission to do anything,  from US citizens, including Murdoch. Until we wake up.Not yet. But now a health worker in the US has come down with Ebola despite taking all precautions.

If this follows the pattern of swine flu, it will be pretty much ignored while its in poor countries, and only recognised when it gets critical mass in the western countries. Then the WHO will broadcast a pandemic is underway. The media will panic everyone with deaths and worst case scenarios.

Then the WHO will recommend that everyone be vaccinated asap, and the drug companies will make a fortune. Their shares are already going up up up btw. 

A very neat process, well executed. We just have to wait until Ebola gets critical mass in western countries to see the rest play out. There are  no profits in Africa.
Hard to know. Ebola as it currently stands is only transmitted thru bodily contact. Tho I suppose they could make bodily fluids into aerosols and spray them over enemy areas.

Research says that the anthrax that was in envelopes sent to the Democrat House Leader the month after 9/11 was micronised to a level that only the military had the resources to do. 

Even the laboratory at Ames Iowa didn't have the resources to produce this. And certainly not tin pot terrorists.

A bit of a puzzle really, what goes on in the military and secret services in the US.Tony pronounced that the role of the Opposition is to Oppose. That was while he was in Opposition.

So the ALP are doing their job according to Tony.Too true gbe! And the corruption in the NSW Lib/Nat Government where they are losing Ministers and MPs galore.

And the Federal Lib / Nats have an honorable mention or two at ICAC.  

Wherever there is money, wherever there are opportunities, wherever there are ways to keep activities secret, there is corruption. 

In Australia, banks are an example. Unions are an example. The Coalition is an example. The ALP is an example. The police are an example.

My question is, what other organisations have corruption that we don't yet know about. To those who see it, report it.

But which law enforcement agency hasn't been captured by some form of corruption themselves?To make it fair, the pollies ride shotgun on public service wage increases.

And the wider public, including public servants, ride shotgun on the Politician wage increases.Same in big federal depts I hear. Abolish the Security Team I say ! Don't worry if your private data is spread around Russia or China. Hey, its only privacy, get over it.Yes there have been a bunch of independents who could walk all over this lot of churchy sad pathetic losers. Like Mack, Windsor, Oakeshott, Hatton. 

Why does party politics saddle us with such throwbacks and know nothings. There are a few in the ALP that are worth listening to, and maybe one or two on the Lib side occasionally.

And I fear the PUP is there to enrich Palmer, but my jury is out on this.Grant Thornton International, 6th largest accounting firm in the World.  

Every year assesses the business growth environments of 60 of the largest economies in the world, ranking them on 22 indicators of dynamism across five categories. Dynamism refers to the changes in an economy over the past 12 months which are likely to lead to a faster future rate of growth.

They did this in 2013. And where did Oz rate, with that sad pathetic ALP govt since 2007 ?

Number 1. 
In the World ! 
For business growth environment ! 
And future growth !

Lets see the  Libs stuff that up. Oh wait, thats whats happening as we speak. Duh.Maybe the people who knew what they were doing were all offered VRs and have gone.Indeed. All western governments were being hammered by high unemployment hurting their chances of re-election in the 1980s.

So the solution, of course, was to doctor the western unemployment stats so that unemployment disappeared as an electoral liability. So that if you worked one hour a week you were no longer counted. Worked a treat.

Just because it comes from overseas doesn't mean its a pure action with no political agenda. In fact, most times its the reverse.A vexed question. I understand that the biology of "depression" isn't understood. There's no evidence that it is, as commonly believed, caused by an inbalance of serotonin in the brain. 

And its been found that anti-depressants are no better than placebos (but only when the tests are done by an independent research facility). Drug company tests generally find their anti-depressants are extremely effective.

Then we have the issue of who decides. So in Norway, a man killed a lot of people. He insisted he wasn't insane, the State insisted he was. But if you look at suicide bombers and beheaders, the State insists that they aren't mentally ill, but that they are evil.

So it appears to be a question of politics and drug sales. To me.You missed my point. Which was that the State can define mental illness anyhow they like.Its a win-win-lose situation. 

Win: The security services, politicians and police to further their own agendas. Like expansion of empires of staff and money, or re-election. Or did journos just happen to be in the area when the raids were made a couple of weeks ago ?

Win: The media. Sensational fear-mongering news sells like hotcakes. The (plastic) sword, the Jihad youth, the plot to kill the PM, the "news"that someone is going to be beheaded. People I know were freaking out, wanting to send every Muslim in Australia back to the Middle East. This took over their brains.

Lose: You and I. Having our days ruined by threats with infinitely less probability than being in a car accident or falling off a ladder. Dealing with kids and relatives freaking out. Having to listen to racists rant on and on and on. Having our tax money spent on bombs and missiles, not schools and hospitals and pensioners.So I read a funny comment in the paper yesterday. 

It was that if hostilities break out again between the Catholics and the Protestants  in Northern Ireland, then the Muslims should send fighter jets, missiles, drones and troops to Ireland as a peacekeeping mission to bring order to the country. Just bomb the country until the fighting stops.

Also imho, this would teach the Muslims to have responsibility for peacekeeping, a very civilising thing to do.While ever the West bombs the Middle East with lots of civilian deaths of women and children, young Muslim people will be radicalised. Because they see themselves as David fighting Goliath.

And the bombings will not stop, they will just keep moving on. Why ?

Because the fighting is needed to provide business certainty to one of the world's largest industries. Armaments multinationals make the bombs, guns, tanks, missiles and they are tooled up for perpetual war. And they own the politicians. Just look at the NRA in the US. 70% of citizens want gun control, but the gun lobby trumps the voters.Compared to ISIL, the West has massive firepower. ISIL don't have aircraft with missiles, nor do they have navy ships with aircraft and missles added on. 

The big bucks are with the West, and that is why we will always be in perpetual war, and since we aren't directly threatened, we will involve ourselves in the wars of others. To give business certainty to the armaments corporations.

The ISIL/ISIS war is a war of muslim against muslim. We took a stable dictatorship in Iraq and blew it away. Now we have a patchwork of Middle East wars as they all fight for supremacy. Like the Christian religious wars, this is one gigantic muslim religious war.

And the winners are:
1. The multinational armaments corporations
2. The politicians who use war to increase their polls.

The losers are:
1. Ordinary people whose taxes go on weapons not schools and hospitals
2. Ordinary families who suffer when their partners / children are in a war zone, and undergo immense suffering if their partners / children die.If you are an intelligence employee and you blow the whistle on illegal activities, without evidence, then you are portrayed by the government as a nutcase with personal problems (eg Andrew Wilkie). To neutralise you.

If you are an ex-intelligence employee and you blow the whistle on illegal activities, with evidence,then you are portrayed as a traitor and a danger to national security and someone who must be captured and put in prison for life (eg Edward Snowden, Bradley Manning).

In either case, the security services can run amok and be protected by the government  no matter what illegal activities they do. 

East Timor fraud is one on the boil at the moment. The book will be thrown at the whistleblower and I'll bet they're making his life hell as we speak. And his lawyer too.Abbott spoke one sentence to detail his conservative ideology in his election winner speech. Which was  "Australia is open for business"

So one of the richest industries in the world is armaments. So in 2011, the top 10 weapons manufacturers sold $222 Billions of military weapons to governments, mostly the USA and some to us. 

Thats $222 billions  of  taxes which just blew stuff up and shot people. Which is why the health care in the USA is abysmal, and why Australia can't afford decent hospitals or public schools.

And $222 billions buys a lot of political influence as politicians decide whether to go to another war. Since WW2 the armaments corporations have kept the war machine rolling. 

General Eisenhower called them the Military Industrial Complex and he wasn't a fan. So many wars, Korea, Vietnam, Middle East with no result. Except for the weapon manufacturer bottom lines.

And it will continue while the Military Industrial Complex can buy political and military influence.

We need a Federal ICAC to see which pollies and military  has been talking to which vendors about this ISIS situation.This war shows the "Budget Emergency "for what it is. 

A country with a true budget emergency wouldn't be trotting off to fight wars for people that we think are not fit citizens of Australia. 

So the people we are going to fight the war for are the very same undesirable boat people and we don't want their sort in Australia.

hahahah.Since the start of the US war in Iraq, over 130,000 civilians have been killed, that is 70% of the death toll. The rest are soldiers.

Over 50,000 civvies have been killed in Pakistan by the US and its allies. And apparently the US isn't counting civilians killed in the latest Syrian adventure, many of whom are women and children. So these killings will be a secret.

Yes ISIS is barbarous. Yes ISIS is killing people indiscriminately. But killing of civilians has been going on for years, by the US, by the Iraqis, by the Syrians etc etc. Its just another chapter in the misery that is the lot of the ordinary Middle East people.

And interesting to note that Turkey is sitting on its hands as a town on its Syrian border is captured by ISIS. 

Well not quite. Turkish troops are attacking and teargassing Kurds who want to go back over the border to Syria to fight ISIS, according to the weekends paper. And it wouldn't have anything to do with the fact that ISIS is Sunni and Turkey is Sunni. Would it ? What sort of mugs are we ?

Whose fight against ISIS ? Its our fight against ISIS. The USA's fight against ISIS. 

Why is Turkey, which shares a border with Syria, given a get out of jail free card. We fight the war for them, it costs Turkey nothing.Memo to the Head of Marketing, ABC Armaments Corp.
Brian,

The ISIS scare has come at a very opportune time for us. Our sales figures have gone down alarmingly recently. 

We both agree that business needs certainty and this certainty has been lacking for the past 2 years. As Abbott said on election night, Australia is open for business. And the weapons business is the biggest in the world, bar petroleum.

Abbott and Obama's genius has been convincing the voters that tax money needs to go to weaponry rather than on domestic expenditure like education and hospitals. I'm not sure how they got their information on terrorism, I always say best not to ask. Like the weapons of mass destruction, a masterstroke. But I think our Agency guys in Australia may have worked their magic.

Fortuitously, it has had the desired effect of making the voters  demand that troops and munitions are sent to the Middle East.

We are sending the senior sales team on an exec jet to Australia this week to showcase our latest products and take orders. I think that this one will be going for a long time, so we may be able to break out the champagne.

For Your Information
John

Professor Saul's article is one of the clearest and most articulate analyses of the situation I've seen.

Australians are being played like mugs by an agenda which is much bigger than this country.

Interesting to see that Brandis has said that we won't be directed by others from places outside this country. Interesting because the Trans Pacific treaty will set up an international tribunal which will trump ALL Australian laws. 

A plausible scenario would be if a post Abbott government decides to close Manus Island, then the US contractor managing it could sue the Australian Govt for millions for loss of revenue. Or if we turn away boat people who would otherwise have been sent to Manus, then we could be sued for loss of business by the Manus Island contractor.

The list is endless. And our laws would be ignored as irrelevant under the TPP treaty.Its a well worn business path. Find out who is policing your patch and then capture them somehow. Get your guys onto the regulatory body (how many cops are Catholic ?), get your guys and their guys to be best mates, a little money changing hands maybe, favours to be done to the regulatory staff, make them feel like kings.

What I find really really interesting is this. 

That the lawyer chosen by the highly Catholic government to head up the Hunter Valley Child Abuse Commission reported that what the police whistleblower said about rampant Catholic child abuse and total police inaction was absolutely correct. Catholic abuse  was going on in spades and police turned a blind eye to it all.

But even more interesting, she also reported that the policeman who got this into the media was not a credible witness. Because he didn't obediently ignore all the reports of abuse. Like his police colleagues.

So she didn't report that he was a man of decency, a man of conviction, a man of real Christianity. A good samaritan. No. He was a troublemaker. Makes you wonder when she is going to be promoted to a very senior role. I expect very soon.So Gillard flip flopped on the Carbon Tax to form a Coalition with the Greens.

So what excuse does Abbott have to break nearly every promise he made on the way to the election ? And even now the man is lying. We aren't going to war, no way, we are sending planes and troops to sort out a disagreement.Yes its easily spread between countries with air travel.

What we have to fervently hope is that it doesn't mutate into a virus that spreads through sneezes or coughs. Then we would really be in trouble. Air travel would be stopped under those conditions.The polls and focus groups killed it. Nothing to do with high minded principles. Only 24 months (max) to the next election and things aren't great for Abbott.Alan talks about free market and negative gearing. A truly free market economy has no negative gearing. Profits are taxed. End of story. 

A free market economy doesn't favour asset classes as part of the tax system. Negative gearing is socialism because it is a state subsidisation of a private transaction. Money is transferred from taxes to the private individual. This is the same as the dole, or parenting payments or aged pension. Landlords are being given a welfare benefit.

If someone buys a rental property, then free market means that they are responsible for the costs. Period. I should not being asked to subsidise them out of my taxes.Abbott said when in Opposition that the role of Opposition is to oppose. And just where did that get him ?

Shorten knows that focus groups are king, the ALP has used focus groups to the max, certainly since 2007, and what a success that has been ! So we have InvisiBill, and the Australian Small Target Party.

Abbott is no loser. And he knows that the winners have massive internal security forces to use against losers who disagree with the government. 

Just look at the countries to our north, making money hand over fist. So what if a few schoolkids are killed by collapsing schools. The laws are in place to deal with snivelling oppositionist parents. Thats the price we pay for progress.

Opposition politicians cost money, they create unhappiness, where none should exist. They are inefficient and a burden and the best countries have laws to make sure that they either keep quiet or they disappear. No money wasted.Nah, global warming is a done deal, as well you know. Farewell to the human race. 

As Jonathon points out, the Opposition is in goosestep with Abbott over the new security laws .

Little bit by little bit our laws are becoming the same as the laws of religious states and huge dictatorships.

Maybe democracy is outdated and we should just move on. After all, some of the biggest dictatorships make money hand over fist, without the cost of elections. 

People with gripes just disappear. Very cost effective.The Labor Party has lost its way. Hawkie started it and its been downhill ever since. 

Keating, the "world's greatest treasurer" in his humble opinion, was just a wolf in sheeps clothing, not an original thought in his head, just parroting what the big banks told him. And he led us to Australian recession 20 years ago. Lots of people were thrown out of work.

The conservative economists are emperors with no clothes. They get into the media because they support massive fraud at the top levels, handing all the profits to the big banks. The GFC showed how good they are.

You don't have to look far for the evidence. Here in Oz look no further than Storm Financial and the Commonwealth Bank. In the USA you have the big banks which own the Federal Reserve. 

We need the voices of independent economists not supporting massive fraud. Aussie Steve Keen would be one, there are many others. 

While ever InvisiBill is captured by economists skewing our laws for the rich, we are scr*wed.Good try Malcolm. But the reality is that your government, in which you are a very senior minister, is slicing the ABC budget to the bone. 

And the ABC would know which programs they have to cut not to have it happen every year. Getting them to censor themselves is what you would expect of suave, slimy policians, so that you can say "nothing to do with me". Bravo !Money and the free market is what drives the Coalition. It is their philosophy,'and its where they get a lot of their campaign funds to get re-elected.

You cannot argue with someone's core philosophy. The more facts show its wrong, the tighter they will hold their view of the world.

There is no point debating science with people whose best interests are served by denying it.Academics whose interest is China are saying that it won't end well in Hong Kong.

China is a growing superpower. They are spending up big on weaponry. And cyber war infrastructure. China is going to reclaim their place as head of the world. In their eyes.

They see us as weak because we depend on them economically. And the weak must always give way to the strong. And as we see with their own citizens, any dissent is met with deadly force.
