Oh dear me! ...all these huge conspiracy theories! 

Before they privatised the Public utilities (electricity, gas, water), public transport (roads, railways, harbours, airports) and telecommunications and what not, they said "This is for the benefit of Australian people because privatisation is going to increase competition and then competition will drive the prices down and customers will benefit from cheap services and products." 

Then we said, "Bulldust! Privatisation Policies will benefit corporations and screw the people" and the-right-wing accused us for believing in conspiracy theories.


Look where we are now! Prices went up, people pay more today than yesterday and corporations make huge profits.

Hah! conspiracy theories.....
"also according to international law, a combatant has the responsibility of identyfying a target before committing any action against it."

Peter,
There have been multiple US drone attacks that hit wedding parties and civilian groups in Afghanistan killing hundreds of women and children. After each murderous attack, the American military commanders call Afghan authorities and apologize for their criminal act, and then everything is hunky-dory again.There is a war going on, what a great thing these idiots did by killing innocent people.

Really? 

Do you have any compassion for innocent civilians who are being killed by US Drone strikes ?

 ....Mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunties, sons, daughters...."The latter are also not totally innocent because they have not placed a distance between themselves and the terrorists."

As usual, a typical response from a heartless right wing who sees nothing wrong when U.S. drones kill ...Mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunties, sons, daughters - innocents -"I believe the the shooting down of Air Iran 655 was deliberate,"

If this is true then I should not be surprised. What else would I expect from cold blooded murderers?"The Vincennes was in the middle of a battle. 655 was a dual military-civilian aircraft - thus it squwaked military codes. Vincennes hailed her three times with no response. The Captain had to make a decision to risk his vessel and crew or risk shooting down a commercial aircraft. He took the only decision a military officer could, or should, take."

That, in itself, seems to me to explain why some Arabs plotted to kill American innocents with the same brutal inhumanity that the US always displays to its victims. And then the Western media hatemongers pervert the meaning of words, as they so often do, by claiming some non-existent 'morality' that pertains to Western actions.

You end up with the deranged assertion that the USA was attacked because of its adherence to morality, when the 9/11 atrocities occurred after the massacres of the 'turkey-shoot' on the Kuwait-Basra Highway in 1991, when thousands were incinerated in a cowardly orgy of bloodlust by the US airforce, and after Madeleine Albright averred that the deaths of 500,000 Iraqi children under five, caused by the US/UK sanctions regime, were a price that was 'worth it'.

A terror state capable of such crimes and its propagandists, have no right to criticise any barbarians in history.

Oh dear me, FG... 

So, figuring out your screen name is the baseline measurement to test the smartness of Labor Fans! 

In reality, you got so confused that you didn't know how to reply back to Lehan and you came up with this ridicules statement.

Well done!"I, too, would like to know how to get every semi-coherent, off-topic, meandering piece of gibberish that comes to me in a drug-induced stupor past ABC mods."


mike j,

The eye sees only what the mind is prepared to comprehend.

So, try again!
Funny how, all of a sudden, the right wing supporters want to discuss about Child poverty IN Australia, Energy poverty IN Australia and poor Australian families in economic distress etc. when the "Boats, Asylum seekers, Refugee" issue pops up everytime! 

And the same people forget all these and come to defend rich 1% unashamedly, who are exploiting Australian workers and their families by selling our natural resources and allowing mining profits to go off-shore, when the issue of "corporate greed and selfish business interest in market capitalism" pops up !!!
Would it have anything to do with both our PM and Julie Bishop receiving a lot of worldwide praise for their handling of the MH17 incident?

Oh yeah! One minute Abbott is saying "sh.t happens", another minute he is trying to score cheap political points out of a tragedy.

Love it!!!If the evidence, after the end of investigation, is contrary to what the MSM and Abbott has been telling us so far, yes MH17 will be forgotten."The USA as a country is too broke even if the itch for invasion is still there."

War with Russia?.. Noooo.

The USA is stupid but not that stupid!Romans sure knew a thing or two about fires. They sacked and burned Carthage to the ground. A well known imperial genocide in history.
No, Alpo, hardly genocide. It was a brutal battle which went on for months. And as for Hannibal, he had a couple of years holiday in Italy discovering the countryside and had no intention of burning down the city of Rome.However, The Roman Empire had vanished into thin air.

...puff, gone!"both Saudi Arabia and IS are Sunni. However, the differences between them are political, as each claims leadership of the Muslim world."

Yes, political.

No, it has nothing to do with "leadership of the Muslim world."

The corrupt regimes in petro-dollar-rich-kingdoms, such as Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and UAE, have no other option other than to be subservient to the Western powers because this is the only way for the present rulers to hold on to their power.



What is the difference between IS and Saudi Arabia? 

Sharia Law and Wahhabism is the rule in Saudi Arabia - close ally of the USA 
Nothing has changed in Human mindset.

The two most common elements in the universe are Hydrogen and stupidity."...new intolerant generations are already on the march in that area of the world.... we should leave it to them to work out... I'm bored with it, and I don't want the rest of my life filled with headline news stories about the awful things people do to each other in that area of the world...."


And from this statement we must assume that it's all peaches and cream in the other areas of the world.When you say "patch of sand" you mean oil, right? When you say "weapons" you mean weapons supplied to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman and UAE etc. by The West, right?It is simple really. We have given 'power' to Corporations.

The message is : 

"Conform our ways. Or else..."


The life in the 21st century for human beings.
The focus is to keep us in a state of fear.

The first principle of people control is not to let them know you are controlling them. If people knew, this knowledge will breed resentment and possibly rebellion, which would then require brute force and terror, and old-fashioned, expensive and not 100% certain method of control.

Hitler &amp; Stalin was very good at it.

It is easier than you think to control people indirectly, to manipulate them into thinking what you want them to think and doing what you want them to do. 

Now, the rich 1% is in control of our minds.

"Then I ask them what they think and their reasons."

Why do you ask them what they think and what their reasons are?

Yes but, what do children know about international politics?

Jimmy was replying to Zing's assertion: "I'd then explain that Russia and Syria are villains,.."
I bought a cd. Made a copy of it. Gave the original one to a friend.Rupert Murdoch wants every household to subscribe to his Cable Entertainment/News Network Industry. When people download 'entertainment' free on the internet the poor bastard is losing money/profits."...there is little incentive for people to produce content unless there is some way to profit from it."

you mean 'to create' don't you FG? There is a big difference.
"HPH - what Fred said was 'neo-liberal economics'. There is no such thing"


ps. I looked up the definition of "Neoliberal economics" in the Online Dictionary. It is there...


Aaron, nobody understands economics, ...not even 'economists.' 

Economics is not a science. It is a belief system full of theories and concepts.

My beef is with free-markets and its supporters.

Unfortunately you didn't fix anything, Aaron.

Read again what Fred said: "...free markets..." , "Instead, economic policy today consists of :"Privatise, privatise, privatise. Casualise, casualise, casualise. Privatise the profits, socialise the losses" .."

Are you saying that "free markets" is about "a political ideology," and not about "economics?"

Is not "neoclassical economics" applied in a Free Market environment?


Neoclassical Economics is a thought, is an idea, is a belief. That's all.


In the headlines of the MSM, Ray.

...people are brainwashed.
Talk about hatred and issues!

Hatred of Humanity is deeply ingrained in the right-wing-conservative-DNA, spud. Look how Tony Abbott is using dead bodies for political gain.

A truly despicable man!
...and I agree with you SO.

Tony Abbott &amp; Co. is only good for scoring cheap political points from tragedy. "Stop the boats", "Bring them home."Tony Abbot, MSM and the heartless right wing conservatives are full of themselves, thanks to a terrible tragedy. In the words of a compassionate human-being: "The Australian [newspaper] plainly sees this as an opportunity, a 'Tampa Moment' for their 'asset' Abbott, deeply unpopular after his vile Budget, to pose as a statesman, so the deaths are being exploited for all they are worth, in the most morally putrid manner imaginable. Just another day in the sewer/office for 'The Australian'."
Sorry SM, but you are a self-parodying phenomenon. Who cares if you vote for this-or-that party? Certainly not me. And that's a fact.Concerned,

When you say "...came from our Iraq hangover" whom do you mean exactly?

Why don't you state clearly those who opposed (an international) intervention in Syria to topple Assad from power? 

Which politicians and political figures.

However, the facts on the ground are different;

There is no need to invade Syria with a US-led coalition: 1) USA is broke 2) USA is supplying foreign mercenaries to fight in Syria, USA don't have enough combat soldiers left in the military - now most of them are civilians and having therapies 3) USA is supplying (thru 2nd and 3nd parties) funds, medical help, arms &amp; munitions to the ISIS and other rebel groups in their war against Syrian Army.

Those in the know in political circles in Australia are well aware of these facts but the MSM is telling us a different story.

example: LIBYA : the same *different story* 


What people don't realise is that we are on the same insane economic-path as The United States. If Hockey's budget-policy is implemented, it will result in the creation of more disadvantaged communities and ghettos. As a consequence, younger people will turn into crime and some of them will be radicalised towards violent extremism.

We are being Americanised slowly.

Look at our Prime Minister. He is playing a dangerous game of Cowboys &amp; Indians, just like a U.S. president.


Maybe he was thinking of 'equidistant projection -map' that maintains scale along one or more lines, or from one or two points to all other points on the map. Lines along which scale (distance) is correct are the same proportional length as the lines they reference on the globe.


Did you I ask him Erich?Billions of dollars' worth of heroin cannot reach to the U.S. &amp; European streets homes and offices without the cooperation of the International Corporate Mafia. The farmers and warlords in Afghanistan get very little pocket money.It is, V. It is.. 

Not to mention that it worked much better when more poppy fields flourished after the U.S. invasion and occupation.

"There hasn't been a lot of discussion about the strategic significance of transcontinental pipelines,.."

Henry Kissinger of Rand Corporation was heavily involved in these projects back in the 1990s. Americans invited a group of high level Taliban representatives in, if I remember correctly, 1994 to discus such plans. It was funny to see them on TV screens at the time, dashing in-and-out of brand name high market fashion stores in New York with their black turbans.

Yep, it's wonderful how the free market works.

Representatives of the Taliban were invited in 1997.
You've got it wrong again, FG.

Credit goes to Dick Cheney.

Hamid Karzai, a former paid consultant for Unocal, is Dick's Oil representative in Afghanistan."your life decisions may have put you in that frame of mind,"

to be born into Hancock Family, or a disadvantaged family in a poor suburb is not an individual choice.


"..but some of [them] have done very well and our children and grandchildren are very proud of our accomplishments."

Yes Mick, that would be the rich 1%. 

Feel proud. Only a minority enjoy the fruits of life while the majority is suffering in a land of Milk and Honey.

A resource-rich continent with a 24-million-population is sold out to the biggest bidders in the New York Stock Exchange and all you have to say is "Oh boo hoo .."

Well done.

The Rule makers of Baku oil-fields are cooperating with the demands of the US Oil Corporations and are doing business together. Most profits go to off-shore bank accounts; Rich 1% gets richer; environment gets destroyed; people of the land get shafted thanks to the unbridled-market-capitalism. The USA rules in that part of the world.Rich?? ..Do you know where Baku is, Gordon. Do you know which U.S. Corporations are operating there? 

google it, you may learn something!"In fact Whitlam came up with no end of dopey ideas."

What a gumpie thing to say, FG !

Prime Minister Gough Whitlam was Australia's greatest ever visionary and the US foreign policy makers never liked him..."The scale is too vast"

Of course the scale is too vast.

Because the Business and Political entities of Norway care more for the well being of their general population and communities. 

Unlike here where the bottom line is always about money and profit. Selfishness and greed are the rules of the game.Yes yes SM, Peterof the Lawyer has a point. We sell energy &amp; iron ore to them, then they make automobiles and motorcycles and sell it back to us. 

The rich 1% is the import/export middleman. Kill two birds with one stone. 

Brilliant economic strategy.
We are not all stupid, Paulm. 

Some of us can see the theft and are powerless to do anything about it. Some of us duped by the MSM into voting for The Liberals. And some of us just don't care as long as we are fed with "football, meat pies, kangaroos and Holden cars" 

...oops no more Holden cars!V,
It's good to see that apartheid has disappeared from South Africa. She is another resource-rich country.


Guess who is benefiting most from those natural resources?When you allow military-industrial complex to make this assessment.

Remember the '50s America when the population was subjected to fear and scare campaign?

And now Islam has replaced Soviet threat. 

After the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and The CCCP , the military-industrial complex needed to create another  *monster*  to justify their existence.
Maybe he chose to go out his own way. Maybe he couldn't say what he wanted to say thru Hollywood. Or you can go quietly and say what you want to say in a jim jarmusch or aki kaurismaki movie.EcRat:
"Unemployment is neccessary. Otherwise there is no labour market to recruit from, this pool of resources is required for any economic growth."

TY:
"Unemployment is absolutely necessary. [...] We're setting up a real life laboratory now, with unemployment at 6.5% and set to rise and work or die policies on the horizon we'll see what happens with wages and conditions. "




Excellent observations.

The late capitalist system of sado-monetarism is dedicated to exploiting the 99% to the benefit of the insatiably avaricious parasite elite. Exploiting people's labour into old age is on a par with legislation like Serf Choices that displayed unbridled hatred and contempt for working people, reducing them to mere chattels without power, rights or dignity, at the disposal of their masters. They and other measures such as the increase in slave labour where welfare recipients are coerced into working for corporations for nothing at all and the continued destruction of unions and diminution in the share of GNP going to labour all signal that the neo-feudal project is well on track. Fortunately that other Rightwing obsession, destroying the natural world and turning it into money, is about to abort the Right's best laid plans.

Yep, it looks like Europeans will be busy stocking up with firewood in the summer.Indeed, poor old Saddam and poor old Gaddafi! ... Imagine if they had been allowed to sing, what they would have revealed at The Hague if it wasn't for the immediate disposal of one by a kangaroo court and the other by mercenary assassins.
The March 20, 2003 invasion turns out to have been born out of a mix of political opportunism, willing credulity among the Bush administration at what it was being fed by Iraqi exiles, neo-liberal delusions of imperial grandeur, an irrational obsession with Saddam Hussein, psychological issues between papa Bush and junior Bush - and somewhere in there, Dick Cheney's abiding interest in oil. 

Subsequently, the invasion has killed and maimed hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, sent millions sent into exile, taking with them the skills and education that will take generations to replace. Women in particular have lost social and educational opportunities amid the rise of religious fundamentalism and -reportedly- thousands of widows have been rendered vulnerable to sexual exploitation and prostitution. 

To the Americans, the likely financial cost has been estimated in the region of $2 trillion, vastly in excess of the fifty or sixty billion that was confidently projected on the eve of the invasion. And, it seems, China is now positioned to be the main foreign beneficiary of Iraq's oil bonanza. What Dick Cheney and George Bush have wrought at the cost of vast amounts of American and Iraqi blood and wealth is the provision of energy security for its only rival as a 21st century superpower. 

Add that to the domestic chaos that the legacy of the Bush-era tax cuts continue to wreak on the American economy, and one can readily regard the Bush presidency as a curse upon the planet.
"it's time to develop our shale oil and gas fields, wean ourselves off Middle Eastern Oil and walk away...just leave them to the glories of the 7th century. .. and I mean really walk away...no more trade, no more interference and no more importing of such a corrosive and dangerous, Medieval mindset through immigration."

Oh Lardy,
[economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China combined] - The BRIC thesis posits that China and India will become the world's dominant suppliers of manufactured goods and services, respectively, while Brazil and Russia will become similarly dominant as suppliers of raw materials. The US dollar is going to be "Killed" and the US economy is going to collapse unless another planned state-sponsored terrorism is yet to come to prop up broken American dreams.


There was no more forceful intellectual voice in support of the Iraq War than Hitchens. He became an unpaid US-administration propagandist. 

Hitchens was the perfect shill for an administration looking to cast its half-baked invasion plans as a morally righteous intervention, because only he could call upon a career of denunciations of totalitarianism and defenses of human rights. The fact that the war was supposed to be justified by weapons Saddam was supposedly developing didn't really matter to Hitchens."got half way down the comments and that was enough. It's good to know the majority don't know any more about economics than I do, but sad that they don't realise it."

I don't know much about economics either, Jimmy, but I realise one thing: Privatizing Telecom was a stupid decision. With all these millions of texting, sexting, liking, tweeting and re-tweeting each day, the government would have been raking in millions of dollars every day.
"As with history being written by the victor, I expect the 'Owner' gets the final say on things throughout the media."

History is written by the rich, and so the poor get blamed for everything."Political discussion has descended into name-calling and fundamentalism, so much so that it is now difficult to distinguish reasonable discourse from radical over-statement."


Huh! Reasonable discourse about what? 
 

With Free-Market Capitalism, the bottom line is always MONEY/PROFIT.
Market capitalism, being a type of cancer, based on endless growth within a finite host, was always going to cause an ecological collapse one day, as it is now. Moreover, as a totalitarian and homogenising system, it was always going to destroy all other social values but greed and self-interest. And as the acting out in the world of the mentality of the psychopath, with their mendacity, egotism and total indifference to the fate of others, it was always going to cause the moral and spiritual collapse of humanity, which is also occurring. We have destroyed ourselves, or are in the last stages of doing so, as a civilization and probably as a species, by allowing the worst of us to rule, and to shape a globalised system that advantages their type while degrading, immiserating and humiliating all others. The US, its ruling elites and their compradore followers around the world symbolise this debacle in their every action, and in every facet of their being.



"It kinda was though"

"kinda" is right..... In name only.

In reality, it was a fascist system: combination of industrial, political and military power."Ahhhh... the irony of making the simple things appear so complicated, when they are in fact so simple that those who comprehend how simple they are sit back in wonder at all the fuss being made by those who can't go through life without making the simple things seem complicated, going through all the effort to make them complicated."



The aim of the robber barons is to confuse and mislead the public to make sure that there will be no unified people's opposition against their rule; to keep them busy in the trivialities of life such as 0.03 dollar increase in the price of a litre of petrol and invent innumerable schemes such as in the TV news/entertainment/sport industry to occupy their minds; Feed them with dreams and propaganda to make sure they are docile obedient servants to the system so that they will not rise one day with pitchforks and torchers to storm the castle.

Arthur Sinodinos became one of four directors of Australian Water Holdings (AWH) in October 2008. 

Assistant Federal Treasurer Arthur Sinodinos was on the board of the Obeid-linked infrastructure company Australian Water Holdings when it was stonewalling attempts by Sydney Water to inspect its books.

AWH had its expenses covered by Sydney Water under a lucrative contract to provide water infrastructure in Sydney's north-west. By late 2008, the utility was footing the bill for up to $800,000 in monthly expenses, including $7333 paid to a slush fund linked to former NSW energy minister Chris Hartcher and more than $75,000 in donations to the Liberal Party.

Fairfax Media can reveal AWH donated a further $10,000 to Treasurer Joe Hockey's campaign weeks before the 2010 federal election. But the donation was returned in February 2013, after reports began to circulate about corruption concerns at AWH.

When he was questioned at the ICAC inquiry, Mr Sinodinos did not declare he stood to make $10-20 million from a proposed public private partnership (PPP) between the state-owned Sydney Water and AWH while lobbying Premier Barry O'Farrell and former finance minister Greg Pearce on the contract.


Arthur Sinodinos is a morally corrupt man.

FS, What is wrong with the second sentence? 

Are you expecting that Obamacare -which was by the way, clipped so much, one cannot call it a Universal Health Care anymore- will be implemented? The Walton family will pay their workers more wages? The US industrial-military complex won't start a war or two? Halliburton shareholders won't get richer?Irrespective of who becomes The President, The U.S. Foreign Policy never changes - Business as usual -...and becomes one" 

So do I. The quickest way to ensure the end of the human race!"Mate,
For a war to have occurred, there needs to be significant battles and defeats and victories. A declaration of war would also help."




"All Aborigines from Sydney onwards, are to be made prisoners of war and if they resist they are to be shot and their bodies hung from trees in the most conspicuous places near where they fall, so as to strike terror into the hearts of surviving natives."

-- Governor Lachlan Macquarie's orders to soldiers in 1816.

(Macquarie is one of NSW's earliest governors who was proclaimed a visionary and the state's finest leader by the SMH, and now bears the name of one of Australia's premier investment banks, as well as an university and several suburbs in Sydney.)
Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz: They are solely responsible for what has happened in Iraq. This isn't Obama's fault. It's the fault of the neo-cons that wasted $1.5 trillion, killed or maimed 50,000 American soldiers, murdered hundreds of thousands of innocent Iraqis, and have unleashed religious wars across the Middle East. The military industrial complex thanks them heartily. Colin Powell said this to President Bush before the Iraq invasion:

"You are going to be the proud owner of 25 million people. You will own all their hopes, aspirations, and problems. You'll own it all."

The dark lord -Dick Cheney- will be wheeled onto the set of neo-con warmonger Sean Hannity to blame Obama and his weakness for this disaster. The neo-cons will circle the wagons to deflect blame for the worst decision in modern US history. Oil prices were $25 per barrel on the day The U.S. invaded Iraq under false neo-con pretences. Today it is $107 per barrel. That was only 11 years ago. The amount of blood on the hands of Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld and the rest of the neo-con warmongers is too large to calculate. Do you think the Iraqi people have any hopes or aspirations left?

Cool stuff: "And yet Labor, whatever that was, enabled it. It's blind spot is the problem of the 'left' in that the 'left' stands for far less than it stands against. This is the very criticism leveled at Abbott. In effect, the 'left' is very negative, and thinks it's not."

You should make a distinction between Labor and 'left.' The Labor Party has lost the plot a long time ago.  There is not much 'left-spirit' left in Labor anymore. Labor has become another word for a right wing party which stands to the left of Liberal who, by the way, moved way too much to the right. That's all. 

The only branch left for Labor to hang on to before falling into nothingness is Medical Care &amp; Education. And this branch had already been half-sawn.Hey closed mind, The reason why the cleaning workers are from China and Africa is because the company you work for is hiring them from an employment agency at overseas. Your company pays part of their wages to the owners of the overseas employment agency and the rest to the overseas workers. Did you ever wonder how much those 457-visa-cleaners are getting paid per hour? Ask them. The answer may open your mind!The goose that laid the golden egg -Telecom- had been privatised a long time ago. Private Telco companies are raking in billions of dollars today. The fate of Australia Post and many other government services was sealed since then.
:)"I have a pro business view - but am deeply concerned about the environment. The environmental issues in Australia have been commandeered by the Greens Party and I can give no support to a movement who view business as the cash cow to support all and sundry and whose social agenda is entirely out of my demographic."

It's good to see that you are concerned about the environment.

I have a very simple question to you, AJS: 

For a minute forget about the Greens Party. From WHOM do we need to save and protect our environment?
Everyone and Human Activity. 

This is an obvious answer even a first grade student can provide.

....
In the late 1990s attention was drawn to a United Nations (U.N.) project to get corporate collaboration/sponsorship in development projects, supporting human rights and the environment, and being generally more responsible and accountable. However it fell under a lot of criticism for involving corporations that are known to have contributed or caused some of the more severe human rights and environment problems, allowing these companies to attempt to repair their tarnished image, while not actually tackling the problems.

In May 2002, the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) released an extensive report saying that, "there was a growing gap between the efforts to reduce the impact of business and industry on nature and the worsening state of the planet" and that "this gap is due to the fact that only a small number of companies in each industry are actively integrating social and environmental factors into business decisions." (The actual quote is from a U.N. News Centre article, 15 May 2002 that introduces the report.)

One sharp example of environmental problems caused by multinational corporations is the drive to extract oil from Nigeria. The Oil corporations have even backed the military to harass, even kill local people who continue to protest at the environmental and other problems the activities of the various oil companies have caused.

The interests of the various big polluters, such as the auto, mining, oil and chemical corporations influenced the Kyoto Global Climate Change Conference outcome.

And with biotechnology and genetically engineered food production, companies are accused of following a profit motive even as they promote the technology as a means to address world hunger. Environmental concerns also feature quite strongly on this issue.

"I rather think a first grader, who is yet to develop morally, would attempt to pass off blame to a scapegoat and reject the notion of their own responsibility."

Adults do it every day, too. Read some of the comments of LNP supporters on these pages: "Everything is ALP's fault."
From WHOM do we need to save and protect our environment?

The answer is: Follow The MoneyMy thoughts precisely."...and horror and injustice is mere collateral damage in your obsessive ideological war with all things American..."


Don't thank me, Oh Lardy;  thank to America for liberating the souls of thousands of Iraqi women &amp; children from their bodies.

A killer is telling another killer not to kill. 
I'm asking you Scott: Is this okay?Oh Lardy, I was responding to Scott's premise.Oh Lardy,

I am brave enough to condemn the supreme leader of North Korea.

Are you brave enough to condemn the war criminals Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz and Blair?
Hizb ut-Tahrir is a dangerous organisation. 

"Hizb ut-Tahrir is a political party whose ideology is Islam, so politics is its work and Islam is its ideology. It works within the Ummah and together with her, so that she adopts Islam as her cause and is led to restore the Khilafah and the ruling by what Allah  revealed. Hizb ut-Tahrir is a political group and not a priestly one. Nor is it an academic, educational or a charity group. The Islamic thought is the soul of its body, its core and the secret of its life."
Creating an argument around the idea of honour killing and presenting it in a public forum with the help of the festival organisers, to be debated, has nothing to do with the freedom of speech. This is crazy and it is wrong.

Honour killing is a crime against humanity. 

Is this concept too difficult to understand for some people? There is nothing here to debate. 

In a civilized society there is no room for Hizb ut-Tahrir and Sharia Laws. They are welcome to go to Wahhabist Saudi Arabia, Qatar, or UAE and stay there (incidentally those countries are all valuable allies of The United States in The Middle East) .... Please go.

But if you decide to live here please change your philosophy or seek help of any kind, including therapy.





What do you mean "allegedly" ? .. invasion of Iraq &amp; Afghanistan did not happen?All those Wallstreet-banksters, robber barrons, CEOs, Politicians and Generals who are advocating war for western economic prosperity to go to the frontline with their son's and fight the enemy.The workers, the farmers, the peasants and the poor shed enough blood for the rich 1%.The wealthy Arab states are deeply involved there already Judy.Hi Andrew,

When you say "our media"

do you mean The Mainstream Media (MSM) ???heh heh, for what reason did they privatise the airports?Tribalism exists in the Western countries as well. Go to Spain, Portugal, Italy and some European countries and you will see plenty of examples in the rural areas - same in Latin/North  America and Asia, Africa.

The violence in the Middle East is about oil and land.It happens all the time Al. Just over 200 years ago Christian Europeans came over here and invaded Australia. What is your point?A ton of words again Brian!

I was going to ask you a few simple questions but I changed my mind. So, I will simplify it for you:

The US oil interests in Iraq are in jeopardy. Obama needs help. He is counting on Tony's support. Being a gentleman and a Rhodes Scholar, all Tony has to do is ask politely how high he needs to jump.Brian, for a narrative, read The End of History and the Last Man (1992) by Francis Fukuyama. 

The man who changed his mind.  Francis Fukuyama, displaying his usual knack for capturing the zeitgeist, has abandoned the neocons and recanted his support for war in Iraq.

His other book, America Right or Wrong: an Anatomy of American Nationalism (2004), displays no triumphalism, but chimes equally well with the growing sense of unease in America about where the Bush administration's reckless policies are leading the country. There are policies that Fukuyama formerly supported, but has since publicly disowned. He was among the first to call for war in Iraq, he was also among the first to jump ship.
Tell that to the grandchildren of the 12 million slaves transported from Africa to America."I think you are trying to compare apples with oranges here"

Am I?

...and European slavers sold the slaves to whom? 
"If you owned a newspaper the yank (an unlikely event) I would expect that your paper might reflect your views."

They always do...

Italy's then prime minister Berlusconi was able to influence between 85% and 90% of Italy's media. Possessing such power in a country in which nobody really reads newspapers meant that Berlusconi could more or less ensure Italians only heard what he wanted them to hear. Media savvy and an entertaining clown, Berlusconi, used his television channels to control the hearts and minds of Italians, or brainwash them. Today, 75% of the people over there don't read newspapers. They get their news from TV. The intellectual and technical quality of Italian television leaves much to be desired, is strictly for the brain-dead. In between right wing propaganda news, there is a simple production formula for popular Italian TVshow/entertainment to keep the ignorant masses occupied: Get a large studio. Fill it with chairs. Invite a studio audience from the public to put them backsides in those chairs. Schedule two or three minor celebrities. Hire a compere and a troupe of dancing girls in bikinis. Let the celebs sing while the girls dance. The end result is utter schmaltz!
This is not an issue between Black and White,

This is an issue between have and have-notThe white poverty rate does run much lower than the black rate, just under 10  percent, one-third of the black rate. But the white poor outnumber the black poor considerably, 19 to 7.8 million. White people make up 42 percent of America's poor, black people about 28 percent.Not so Rachel.

Google: inequality.org/poverty-matter-black-white/education costs money so does ignoranceFree market capitalist system.

The harsh realities of a society defined by the imperatives of punishment, cruelty, militarism, secrecy, and exclusion can also be seen in the emergence of a growing rhetoric of insult, humiliation, and slander.Of course he is not. 

Abbott is trying to be a great salesman.What did US and Europe do when estimated 800000 people were massacred in the Rwandan genocide?"A combination of airstrikes and special forces units on the ground to direct the strikes and coordinate the various Iraqi government and anti-IS militia groups can defeat IS."


Can you defeat stupidity with stupidity? You can never defeat their religious ideology.
Unfortunately, war is a permanent state of affairs in The Middle East. None-stop. I's good for The U.S. Economy. More bombs go off means more profits are made at Wall Street.With the discovery of huge OIL reserves in the Middle East came the puppet-dictators who were set up by The Western Powers after the end of The Great War. England, France and The USA divided the land with a straightedge and drew the map of The Middle East. This region was relatively more peaceful under the Ottoman Administration before the War.But they are saying it! - "it's all about OIL"War is good for Wall Street Corporations. The US Economy is a war-based economy. Without wars it will collapse. In 1961, US President Dwight D Eisenhower used his farewell address to warn the nation of what he viewed as one of its greatest threats: the military-industrial complex composed of military contractors and lobbyists perpetuating war. Eisenhower warned that "an immense military establishment and a large arms industry" had emerged as a hidden force in US politics and that Americans "must not fail to comprehend its grave implications".

it's a pity some people cannot comprehend!Human Nature is the same wherever you go on this planet.

Barbarity &amp; Barbarism exists everywhere. But you won't see it if the MSM focuses on one region only. There are thousands of children (thousands of orphaned children) in the Middle East who have no chance of gaining a decent life style, education and health care in a conflict zone where bombs and bullets are exploding all around them. If the Barbarian USA keeps on killing their parents then I can't blame them for growing up to be the next generation of martyrs and fighters. While the children in the USA are playing with barbie dolls, the children in the middle east are playing with bombs.
The Mexican drug cartel is one of the most brutal organisations in the world. More than 35,000 people were killed in Mexico past five years.

After torturing and killing people, they leave dismembered and mutilated bodies dangling from the overpass bridges for everyone to see.

Let's see US and NATO intervene in Mexico as well. There is plenty of oil there, too.
Yes.. I listened to him just now.  It's true.  Americans had no idea what they were fighting with. Almost what the anti-war people have been saying all those years. What a mess!"Team Australia"

Corporate speak, 

Corporate lingo,

Corporate jargon.


"Why bring in mandatory sentencing for an assault of one punch, while violent offenders are allowed to bash people repeatedly and walk free?"

This is a very good question indeed. Can a lawyer answer this question please?"It needs people to stand up for their own rights as citizens.."

Stand up for what rights?

'...and protect their children from such dangerous behaviour."

How do you protect children from such dangerous behaviour?

"it is for is as the people of a Community to set standards and require the next person to abide by them."

What are these standards that needs to be set by the Community?


"Our children and the children involved in these acts of violence, are largely the result of our own parents letting decisions be taken for them about situations requiring parental and community input."

Sorry I don't understand what you are trying to say here, Brian. Can you please explain?

Rather than "crime", it is "why violent behaviour occurs?"

The answer is simple. We perpetuate the myth of the warrior spirit/class, silverback gorilla!
I watched many sporting activities of young children from the sideline with their parents, Jimmy.Then the rational decision the person can make is....  Not to get in that condition.People, if you believe that any one of these shameless rotten characters is going to spend a single day in jail then you are dreaming.

It will NEVER happen.

So, you can talk and discuss as much as you like.

Nothing has changed since the days of the Rum Corps.
The U.S. Foreign Policy always remain the same irrespective of who the president is. The White House never changes its colour.Why did The U.S. President address the crowd at the university? Why not at the Entertainment Centre? ..You are ok after you board a plane and take your seat.

But before that, it's Hell!
...sells papers like that gutter rag, The Australian.@JoeB

"Greed, war and hatred is just a small component of the history of mankind."

Wrong! 

Historians and archaeologists will disagree with you. Hundreds of millions of people died in wars defending the interests of their masters. Human history is full of war, violence and aggression. Greed for power &amp; money and selfishness is the driving force for human beings. Human beings are still primitive. The same Nazis scientists who helped bomb London with V1s and V2s also helped Neil Armstrong land and walk on the moon. Funny that!
@JoeB
"Which by itself is a good reason to colonise the solar system."

Human Beings, in present shape and form, are going nowhere! As species we are here to stay until the end. Whatever end that might be!

@JoeB

I like other species more.

The existence of our species depends on the survival of other species on this planet. Take bees for example...

Without them, we cannot survive.Most scientific &amp; technological developments happened because of the competition between the warring parties."If it was left to people like you, we, as a species, would still be looking at fire, and saying 'oh no, that's a waste of effort'."

Are you kidding me? Did you not see all those "Shock and Awe" videos and images?


"...I often wonder how we ever managed to progress at all."

Progress to what end? .. by spending more than 1.7 trillion dollar a year in military costs worldwide?

The U.S., alone, spent 1.7 trillion bombing the hell out of Iraq!

This is nothing.

The real challenge was back in 1969 in the Apollo 11 mission to the moon -- calculations were done with the computing power of a handheld scientific calculator a high school student is using today for his homework.
The mystery is what else human beings can discover and create - scientifically speaking. The cosmos is made of the same elements that we have already discovered on this planet. Our very bodies consist of the same chemical elements found in other stars. We are literally made of star stuff. The question is, are there other chemical elements out there that we don't know yet? 

According to the scientists, the laws of physics are the same in every corner of our universe. Also, theories of the existence of multiple universes are also being discussed in scientific circles. Another exciting area is the String Theory and smaller and smaller universes. Furthermore, there are theories of Dark Matter, Dark Energy and the Black Holes.

Yes, science is becoming more astounding, Jerry. I agree. Humans can discover and create.

But, I can also understand what Bruce is saying which is related to the Human Nature. Humans can, and will, destroy for as long as they exist. For selfish reasons!

"One small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind."

Big deal! Man was still killing man at the same time! At the very instant! For profit, money, material gain...

Doesn't matter how fast and how far we can travel into space, to reach other stars and discover other planets to colonise; we will never be able to run away from our own nature.

:)@Bruce

Ahhh now I know where you're coming from. You are pro-small-government. Small-government egalitarianism. You are Libertarian! Why didn't you say so before, Bruce?"if you think Berg is not motivated by "Selfishness", on behalf of those the IPA represents, I think you are very much mistaken."

Anote is telling the truth, Bruce. 

"Christ Berg described a shonk. I think there is no 'usual way' out of that situation and have suggested something of where a better path might lie."

According to Chris and his Libertarian-free-market philosophy, the solution is to have a very small government with limited powers. But he won't say this openly and courageously. 

"Feel free to join in."

But no thanks, Bruce. There is hardly any new information from Chris on this occasion that I find worth discussing. Corporations, political donations, rent seekers, lobbyists &amp; lobbying and their influence in the government, big government, small government... Heard it all before. Bear in mind, rent seekers are in the same club as the rest of them banksters, robber barons and profit seekers. 

Hypothetically speaking, one day Chris is going to declare that the Earth is round and many people will be falling over each other to agree with him first.
I do.What about Bahrain? 

The forgotten revolution!
What about Saudi Arabia?

Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, United Arab Emirates ???Life must be all peaches and cream for women in these kingdoms! no complaints?
This is weird! I asked, what about Bahrain? The forgotten revolution! 

...there is not a peep from anyone.
Not bad for a man who supports free market capitalist system.It's funny that none of the Liberal Party supporters on this page is supporting a Liberal Party supporter.
:)If we have come to the stage when police are explaining what they are doing then this is indeed a sad state of affairs. The role of the police is to uphold the rule of law. They have a standard set of procedures to carry out their mission set out within the law. Police don't make the laws. They should not be in politics to discuss the legislation. The discussion of legislation is done by a politician or other elected officials.

See the difference?
Yes Hub, so am I.

But my guess is we won't see any sign of it for a long time... Not with this Government anyway, and the opposition are no better either. The Bush Legacy will be hanging over our heads like a dark cloud regardless of who's in power.
Colvin [...] will support policy to give the AFP more powers irrespective of which side of politics proposes them.

This is madness.. This is politics!

"...but I don't see any problem with Colvin speaking in public and saying his department wants them."

There are proper (official) channels to communicate with higher authority when he needs something. And this isn't one of them! Also, there is a big difference between asking for RESOURCES and asking for MORE POWER, IN PUBLIC!




Someone told The AFP Commissioner to stand in front of a microphone and a camera to defend the Abbott-Government's proposed legislation.geeez Gerard, I asked the same question too!
:)Security and Data collection/storage companies are going to make big money from this...

In the US, the government is paying money to private business for 'homeland security.' It's a big industry in The United States today.

Authorities have the *keys* to open everything. Even to open every luggage, bag and suitcase in all major airports. The manufacturers of the encryption software have to provide the keys to the security agencies of the government. Most people don't know this.@OUB

You can create your own "virtual enigma machine" for encryption with materials available at your home. How many books do you have at home? How many books in English language are available out there? How many Languages are there and how many books in these languages are available out there. Those in the know will understand what I am talking about. There is not enough computing power in this universe to crack the encryption of the set-up I am talking about. Not even for 1000 million years.

All this talk about catching terrorists by collecting metadata and using security laws is pure crap! This is about creating business and jobs for a selected-few to make lots of money in this industry, and to keep track of ordinary people's activities to make sure that they are behaving as loyal, obedient citizens.

 
Reproduction of material is easy, Dove."How much of this metadata will be available to foreign entities seeking to sue us and our Government over perceived breaches to trade agreements -like the proposed TPP?"

This is the most important question! 

Since The U.S. and Australian security agencies are working together, all our private data will also be available to them whenever they want."My understanding is that metadata is how many pedophiles are getting caught overseas-"

You are extremely confused, TC.
 
Metadata is not "how many pedophiles are getting caught overseas." Look up the definition of metadata. 

Plus, there are already existing laws to deal with criminal activities such as paedophilia. 

"complete freedom and liberty is not really that fantastic when this kind of thing is going on."

I regard it as a psychiatric-animal-primitive disorder and it has nothing to do with "freedom and liberty"
 
"We need to be careful that some ideological pursuit of 'freedom' is not pursued at the expense of enabling the police to get the bad guys, who do exist, whether we like to admit that or not."

As I said before, there are laws to deal with criminal activities. 

Don't mix "ideological pursuit of 'freedom'" and criminal minds, and put them in the same basket.

Queen Isabella of Spain supported and financed Christopher Columbus' 1492 voyage.Our species will be finished one way or another. Human body in present shape and form is not suitable for intergalactic space travel beyond our solar system, and we are a long, long way away from a nearest earth like planet. But first tell us what do Moon and Mars have for our survival that Earth doesn't."Without seeking new horizons (pardon the pun) we are nothing."

Huh! the destruction of the planet Earth is not good enough for you?

:)Spend a couple months in a submarine without resurfacing first, Jimmy :)Hah! Human Nature is the same wherever you go.@OD

It seems you swallowed right-wing propaganda over the years. Conflicts involving the 'West' are NOT about "fundamental human rights" or "cultural differences."

They are about natural resources and profit/money.
My advice to young people:

If you don't have a secure permanent job with a reasonable income, don't even think about buying a shoebox even if it is in the middle of the Simpson Desert."No sean, revolution isn't the answer."

Funny how when it comes to having a revolution in the Western countries, the people suddenly reject the idea but the same Western people support other revolutions in other countries passionately - such as the 'orange' revolution, 'spring' revolution, that revolution or this revolution. They even support terrorist organisations and call them "freedom fighters" or "separatists" !!!"It will take, I guess, around 100 years or so to work out the rest of it."

That's what they said 100 years ago, and 100 years before that, and so on.

You can guess as much as you like. You can never change this system of Master and Slave."Democracy generally means that your view is not followed but the collective norm is."

Democracy must be something more than two wolves and a sheep voting on what to have for dinner.@Dave Davis

Exactly.Bill, I agree with everything you say but allow me to correct you here: "Soon we will be just like every other 3rd world country." No, Bill. We're not going to be a third-world-country. We're going to be just like The United States of America where illegal Mexican immigrants are hard-working for $3 dollars per hour picking strawberries.Listen to the heartbreaking stories of the right-wingers, how hard they worked in the past, and, implicitly telling us how lazy the people of The Left are... Sheeeet! .. I almost cried out in shame if it wasn't for the fact that I also worked hard in my life. I worked at sea on ships, I worked on land in the mining industry; I worked in the kitchens in restaurants; I worked in plastic manufacturing; I worked on the assembly line of a car manufacturing plant; I worked in the household appliance manufacturing industry; I worked in the shipbuilding industry; I worked in the brewery; I worked at the steelworks in front of a blast furnace and coke ovens at 1000 degrees Celsius; I drove buses, trucks, taxis; I picked grapes, oranges, apricots; I worked days, I worked nights, I worked on Christmas days and I worked on new year's eve. Oh! I went to university too. I have a Diploma and a Degree (science, not basket weaving) ... So, my fellow right wingers... Put that in your pipe and smoke it.@Forrest Gardener

"The quotes in this article suggest that Murdoch was speaking out about a problem."

Of course it's a problem for Murdoch. Imagine a People's Revolution against the rule of The Emperor and The Establishment!@Maryanne

Oh - I understand Murdoch very well. The Establishment is (and has been) always scared of social and political upheaval. They don't want to see their empire to crumble into dust - just like all other empires before it.@AE
"How has Murdoch got the power to force people how to vote? It's one preson one vote, no matter how rich you are. I made up my own mind on election day, nobody put a gun to my head about how to vote."

You did. But what about the rest of the dumb-people?

Are you pretending that you don't know the persuasive power of the 'word', of the MSM, of the propaganda machine of Rupert Murdoch's media? What do you think you are doing here by posting comments? Do you think that you are here to participate in debates? Well, Let me tell you why you are here. You are here to sell and defend right wing ideology and the culture of greed and selfishness - for power and money. And where are you getting your ideas from? Well allow me to tell you again. You are getting your ideas from the instruction manual of The Liberal Party. Ideas for how to screw the unions, workers, unemployed, disabled and disadvantaged-poor people for the benefit of the rich 1%. So please, don't pretend that you don't know what you already know.

Jimmy, the widening gap between the rich and the poor proves that the exploitation of the poor by the rich is happening at a faster rate. Is this simple enough for you to understand? You want to play with semantics now?

You knew exactly what Aeon meant.

If you're really concerned about semantics in 'comments' then why don't you pick on other people's comments as well? Particularly those who are right wing supporters and/or libertarians such as your good self? 

Oh by the way. If by any chance you happen to meet Gina Rinehart or James Packer or a Bankster or a Robber Baron one day, and tell them that "exploiting people is hard work",  they will all laugh at you. They will think you are a stand-up comedian.
Look Jimmy...  mt_syd asked very important questions. Answer them now instead of avoiding them. You seem to have all the answers for the unemployed youth! You've been yapping none stop here at the drum about what the unemployed people can do or should do, do this or do that and all that jazz.

Go ahead. Answer the questions. C'mon big daddy!

QUESTIONS:
"If you are on the dole and you move to a city no landlord would ever rent to you, and even if they did how would you pay for a bond and city rental prices?"

I advise everyone to check out this documentary: Ivory Tower. As tuition rates spiral beyond reach and student loan debt passes $1 trillion (more than credit card debt), this documentary asks: Is college worth the cost? From the halls of Harvard, to public colleges in financial crisis, to Silicon Valley...A friend's son is in Denmark as an exchange student studying at the University of Copenhagen. He is having such a great time that he wants to stay another year to complete his studies...Well said, Atomou."There are so many lost boys in Australia,"

Yes Helvi,

There are so many lost boys in Brazil, Mexico and The United States, too. Born into poverty, most of them join a gang just to survive.They became front page news when ISIL came too close to threaten the US Oil interests in Kirkuk. That's when the proverbial word hit the fan."Perhaps the crucial thing to be feared is ignorance and incompetence that comes from the absence of proper public policy debate. In the meantime, some new slogan will be found to draw us in and drag us along."

Rupert Murdoch's right wing propaganda machine is running at full speed.

Among all the noises generated about a plane crash in Ukraine, shirt-fronting Putin, the ISIS in the Middle East, sending troops, Australian terrorists, burqa in the Australian Parliament and now the 'security laws' that passed as news for the last few weeks and occupied everyone's mind, there was one news item that caught my ear and went unnoticed among the general population. It is the one about Joe Hockey's call for further privatisation of The State Government Assets... For The States to privatise billions of dollars worth of unsold assets such as power utilities and ports.


Hello? Are you still there, People? Can you hear me?
"Remember the Government wants them there so that they have someone to distract us from their budget and other failures. It's like Nazi Germany - if the Jews hadn't been there, we would have had to invent them."

All over the place, from the popular culture to the propaganda system, there is constant pressure to make people feel that they are helpless, that the only role they can have is to ratify decisions and to consume. - Noam Chomsky

The smart way to keep people passive and obedient is to strictly limit the spectrum of acceptable opinion, but allow very lively debate within that spectrum... - Noam Chomsky

No. Where do you get these lies from? give us the source please, mike. Do it!In this, he basically denies the stories of the survivors and paints a picture of a glorious revolution against imperialism

No he doesn't. Either you &amp; mike's reading comprehension is very poor, or, you are deliberately lying!

"Only someone convinced that all the ills of the world are sourced in the USA would even ask the question."

All the ills of the world! No, no, ...most of the ills of the world since Americans wiped out the local population first, enslaved millions of Africans later, and killed 600,000 of their own people in a civil war and then later spread all over the planet like the Ebola virus.

Read what Smedley Butler had to say: War is a racket


Hello Mickey,

You know that he is a Professor of Linguistics (Emeritus) Linguistic Theory, Syntax, Semantics, and Philosophy of Language.

Please provide his exact words about "Cambodian genocide" and "Mao." If the evidence, with which you claim that he disputes Cambodian genocide and his support of Mao, is easy to find then you should be able to post it for everyone too see.


No, JoeB. This is not about civil liberties or terrorism.

As Cangaiman stated above:
"the government is trying to divert our attention (quite successfully) from the impending Trans Pacific Free Trade agreement" [and I'd like to add to this here: more privatisation of Public Assets and Services]. 

"It is also protecting itself from when the ramifications of this start to appear within our country" [such as people's revolution against Corporate Power &amp; Imperialism].


I'm glad you mentioned Peru. 

If you google 'Peru and privatisation of water' you will see that there are more than 78,000 entries -- Corporate control of water in Latin America.@Joe
"Part of the problem is local corruption, nepotism and despotism (which is why they have no health care system to speak of)."

They have no health care system, no education, no decent jobs and no decent lives.

The only way to pull these people out of misery is to use the nation's resources for the benefit of the population. But this is Socialism and The United States don't like it.

So, the US Corporations support the corrupt regimes in Africa and exploit the land, the environment and the people. The people of Africa are dammed in the name of free market capitalism.

Witness the poverty in the oil-rich West African countries and see how the western-backed corrupt elite live in posh suburbs.

"The fact of the matter is that we all say things in private that we would never say in public, that's why we say and write them IN PRIVATE."

Speaks volumes for the character of a person who thinks like that. In this case a coward as well as a closet racist.
"The professor would not have used these words or sentences if addressing the public on these issues."

Only an idiot would use these words and sentences when addressing the public on these issues. Do you think that he would be stupid enough to reveal his innermost racist-feelings so easily?
"A question to all those on this site who believe the Professor's comments are offensive. Do you take offense at other comedians who denigrate Christians, heterosexuals, nuns, priests, Irish, Scots,..."

Not unless if he is a stand-up comedian, doikus.

Do you think that Professor Barry Spurr is a comedian?"Although it baffles me, it seems that sections of the public are interested in what Kim Kardashian is up to every waking moment, but to know about this is certainly not in the public interest."
 
Kim Kardashian is a product and she has a media agent. The Media sells this product to stupid people and she makes money without lifting a finger. This has nothing to do with "public vs private" information. This is show business.
If what you say publicly is opposite to what you say privately, then you are not a trustworthy person.1) Your analogies are wrong and meaningless.
2) Underneath each joke, lies a truth.I wouldn't be surprised if they were taking sponsorship donations from some of the sugar companies as well.

Gough Whitlam was way ahead of his time! A brilliant human being."That's the challenge of modern Social Democracy as Neoliberalism is slowly rotting away."

I disagree, Alpo. Neoliberalism won. The ALP no longer represents The Left in Australia today. Since The Dismissal, the ALP morphed into an Australian version of The Democratic Party of the United States. Most of our public assets and services have been privatised. Even though The ALP says that they will fight to the death to preserve our Universal Health Care &amp; Education, I don't believe them anymore.

Gough Whitlam was a great visionary, reformer and a true Labor Man. Unfortunately those who have followed him have forgotten the people they were supposed to govern for. The ordinary Aussie.

Rest in peace Gough.
There is no need for a "conspiracy theory."
The United States have gotten rid of Socialist head of states of other countries by force (or by political trickery) in the past and they continue to do so today. This is a known fact.
"Never understood the "too big to fail" mantra"

Paul, Let me explain it to you:

Although called "Federal," the Federal Reserve System is privately owned by member banks, makes its own policies, and is not subject to oversight by Congress or the President. The Federal Reserve Bank was born in 1913, the same year US banking scion J. Pierpont Morgan died and the Rockefeller Foundation was formed.

Ten banks control all twelve Federal Reserve Bank branches. N.M. Rothschild of London, Rothschild Bank of Berlin, Warburg Bank of Hamburg, Warburg Bank of Amsterdam, Lehman Brothers of New York, Lazard Brothers of Paris, Kuhn Loeb Bank of New York, Israel Moses Seif Bank of Italy, Goldman Sachs of New York and JP Morgan Chase Bank of New York. William Rockefeller, Paul Warburg, Jacob Schiff and James Stillman are individuals who own large shares of the Fed. The Schiffs are insiders at Kuhn Loeb. The Stillmans are Citigroup insiders, who married into the Rockefeller clan at the turn of the century.

The Four Horsemen of Banking (Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo) own the Four Horsemen of Oil (Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch/Shell, BP and Chevron Texaco); in tandem with Deutsche Bank, BNP, Barclays and other European old money behemoths.

But their monopoly over the global economy does not end at the edge of the oil patch. According to company 10K filings to the SEC, the Four Horsemen of Banking are among the top ten stock holders of virtually every Fortune 500 corporation.

Do you understand now, why they are "too big to fail" ?

The control that these banking families exert over the global economy cannot be overstated and is quite intentionally shrouded in secrecy. Their corporate media arm is quick to discredit any information exposing this private central banking cartel as "conspiracy theory." Yet the facts remain.
@SM "Subjective interpretation might also be called half truths and willful distortions."


This is no conspiracy theory. People can make up their own mind.  

"Give me control of a nation's currency and I care not who makes the laws." - J. P. Morgan

"We fix the price of gold and silver to make them valuable or not." - J. P. Morgan, in a letter to his son
"Bankers are no more greedy or conniving than the rest of us. [...] the point is not whether bankers are evil or good."

Speak for yourself. They are evil. People get into debt head over heels because banks make it so easy to do so. Then the banks come along and act like these people who can't or won't pay their bills are the dregs of society. 

They sell loans to collectors, and collect loans themselves, and resell loans, each time tacking on charges and fees. So, if you started out with a $20,000 college loan it's quite reasonable, in our society by and for the wealthy, that you could owe the lenders 400% in interest charges accumulated over the years. Can't make your payments? No problem. The interest charges keep on coming. In fact, banks prefer it that way. More money for them. The government guarantees it.

The banks will seize your possessions, cars, homes, bank accounts. They'll attach your wages. They use underhanded, illegal tactics, especially with those who can't afford a lawyer, because people can't fight back and banks can get away with it.

They're ingrained into the law and the 'less than rich' man or woman has no recourse. No recourse, but to pay and pay the rest of their lives because the debt hasn't been paid off and the interest must, by all means, accumulate. The interest must never stop. Not war, not gloom of night, shall stop the interest charges from accumulating. In fact, war is a profitable venture so, by all means, fund it, at an acceptable interest rate, of course.

Although there is one other way to escape your interest charges, if you can't pay them. Die.

And so bankers of the world are the evilest of people. The root of all evil, indeed. Take Mr. Pennypacker in It's a Wonderful Life. Typical heartless banker.
Hahaha. I discovered how human [the bankers] are when one of them was interviewed on national TV way back in the 1980s. 

When asked if a customer would save a lot of money by making weekly (or fortnightly) home loan repayments instead of monthly, he said "Yes. They would." The next question was "Then why don't you tell your customers that this is a better option for them and far more cost effective in the long run?"

His answer was: "Because they don't ask."

Because they don't ask. !!!!!!!

Hence, the banker will not tell them.

:)
Your children could be working as janitors in a bank for all I care. This doesn't mean they are evil people. Did I say that the employees of a bank are evil? .. No.Pop quiz. What industry, sanctioned as legitimate by law, is also a very popular criminal enterprise? 

Hint: it has to do with money. Hence, people in this business could easily move between criminal and legal circles of this industry.The author of this article thinks that The ALP represents The Left. Hah!Alpo, read again: "self serving politico-economic complex that controls our lives."

Under this system -a system of master and slave- the problems we are facing today will still be the same even if we have a world population of one billion today. Look at Human history!

If there are no wars, and if we are good to each other and the environment, and if we share, and if we are not wasteful then our world can sustain 10 billion people today. Simple.
@ V
"comradeship, unionism, multiculturalism, hospitality, openness" these are shared by many humans around the world. As for the "tolerance", it depends on the circumstances. If a foreign tourist gets drunk and climbs up to the top of the statue of Buddha in Thailand I don't think the locals will be tolerant. They will call the police to restrain the offender.

"hostility to authority, hostility to bosses" Again, depends on the circumstances. A ship can only have one captain :)
@Traveller
"The truth, unpalatable as it is to some is that we can't compete with such countries as China and India."

The unpalatable truth is, every profit-seeking-greedy-capitalist-businessman wants to pay ten dollars a day, or less, to Australian workers in Australia but cannot do it. So they shut down factories in AUSTRALIA and take their businesses to OVERSEAS where labour is cheap.

"If you don't love it, leave..."

So they Leave.



Because you don't know the difference between a Statesman and a Politician. 

When Tony Abbott -an ordinary politician- made that "shirtfront" remark he was just playing to the gallery.
"We live in strange times."

Not yet. Wait till you see a couple of billion hungry-people at your doorstep.

Democracy, Freedom and Market Capitalism will be empty words for many nations when the planet's population reaches to 10-12 billion in the near future. Feeding 1.3 billion people every day is no small feat in China. Especially when you consider that they are doing it without invading and destroying other nations.What about the Bahraini protests for greater political freedom, equality and a call to end the monarchy of the king? 1000 troops from Saudi Arabia and 500 troops from UAE arrived in Bahrain to quell the protests. More than 2,929 people have been arrested, and at least five died due to torture in police custody.

How many articles were written about it? One, two ???
Humans are the most dangerous animal on earth. We have killed more of our own kind and other species than any other animal on earth."Have we now created a sub-class?"

Yes. Are you deaf and blind?"But more than peace, I hope it finds legitimate freedom. And a power to call its own."

population of Hong Kong: 7 million

population of PRC          : 1360 million
There is Democracy and Freedom in Mexico. But look how many millions of Mexicans crossed the border into The U.S.!"The author of this blog has written off Ataturk as a dictator and alcoholic."

Not only this, he made a great error of judgment in comparing the revolutionary ideas of Ataturk (to modernise Turkish society of 1920s Turkey) to the sneaky ideas of our politicians in today's Australia. The word 'historicism' comes to mind.@Simon
Using a scale balance, you can have a bag of fresh apples in one pan and equal amount of rotten apples in the other to achieve equilibrium. But rotten apples will still be rotten apples."The globe we have now was divided up by great empires and their wars many decades to centuries ago, and didn't necessarily have much to do with local populations anywhere."

"Many of the borders in Europe have been just as crazy and arbitrary, set by discussions between royal families long since disappeared and forced on local inhabitants." 


Dear HNW, would you please rephrase those two sentences above so I can understand what you are trying to say in relation to Dave's statement "Many  national borders in the middle east are western inventions."


"..Asia and Africa, likewise"

"People are more likely to feel tribal loyalties based on language, ethnicity and religion than national borders.


Okay. Then who gets the waterholes and the oil fields?
"I've no doubt many middle eastern people would be happy to form new countries based on their real communities rather than artificial borders"

How will they be happy to form new countries? 

Based on what?  

This the reason why I asked the question "who gets the waterholes and the oil fields?"The American dream is a myth.Graazt, the author of the article states "The lack of mobility wasn't just unfair - it was extraordinarily inefficient. Imagine how many talented youngsters from poor backgrounds lived and died without a chance to use their skills. How many potential Mozarts were lost because they never got to hold an instrument? How many would-be Darwins were denied a decent schooling?" 

Of course. 

Many talented youngsters who can be productive-members of our society as musicians, writers, poets, engineers or scientists from ANY background will live and die without a chance to use their skills in a dog-eat-dog capitalist system. Because, if you don't attain the right philosophy to fit in THE MACHINE, then you will never be given the opportunity to get your hands on a larger slice... No matter how smart you are.

"How many budding Bill Gateses languished because they couldn't get financial backing for their entrepreneurial idea?"

This is very strange since Bill Gates, a right-wing poster boy, who dropped out of Harvard and became a billionaire now hides his money in offshore bank accounts for tax reasons.

(I wonder why the moderators did not put up my other comments!)
"in the three decades after WW2 the US was living the dream."

You are referring to a period from 1950s up to 1973 oil shock.

A study of social and economic history of the USA for this period will reveal otherwise in terms of civil unrest and poverty in the communities, black or white.
Upstairs balcony.
"If ASIO wants to get access to data on a computer, it first has to obtain a warrant from the Attorney General,.."

I bet all hackers are laughing at this."Whilst hackers may be laughing, but I am not."

Neither am I, Who. But the truth is, we lost our "personal privacy" a long time ago. The eyes and the ears of Big Brother are everywhere.


"Justice is free in Australia"
- Veganpuncher


"I should like to be able to love my country and still love justice."
- Albert Camus@John

"One example was someone being asked if they were a Peronist, left wing or right wing was the next question, after giving an incorrect answer he was shot dead. Peronism is rather like Nazism it is actually hard to define as a philosophy."

Instead of mincing your words, why don't you say clearly as to what really has happened in Argentina in those years: 

"CIA backed right-wing goons were executing left-wing university students everywhere. Thousands of them were killed by right-wing junta."

There. I fixed it for you!

"Peronism is rather like Nazism it is actually hard to define as a philosophy."

Don't make silly assertions! People know how to 'google' and find out themselves.


"Taking money off people who do work and giving it to those who don't work is a perfect strategy for world prosperity and happiness. And now I will perform a three hour pantomime about sadness."

Fiat money; It allows banks to generate money -TRILLIONS- from thin air and then charge interest which leads to the de-evaluation of money, which causes inflation, and expands the rich poor divide.

Financial Capitalist System of the rich, for the rich, by the rich. ...Crocodile tears!
He knows the truth, EG. He is lying deliberately. What do you expect from the storm-troopers of the Liberal Party?"To attempt to imply that our rejection of the horrors of our own fascist government's attempts to sell this country off to giant multi nationals and to rip our money from social and infrastructure causes to the pockets of the ultra rich would result in economic disaster is not only a stretch, it's a downright lie."


Well spotted.The conflict in the Middle East is not about religion.

It's about real estate - the waterhole -

Thus has it always been, and thus shall it ever be.
@Tim,
"..Peoples' Republic of China, an [atheist] country,.."

I know you are not asserting that China is an atheist country but this is a good opportunity to remind everyone that China has been a multi-religion country since the ancient times (The major religions are Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, Islam and Christianity)

It is well known that Confucianism is an indigenous religion and is the soul of Chinese culture, which enjoyed popular support among people and even became the guiding ideology for feudalism society, but it did not develop into a national belief. It makes the culture more tolerant to others, thus, many other religions have been brought into the country in different dynasties, but none of them developed powerful enough in the history and they only provide diverse people more spiritual support.

According to a latest survey, 85% of Chinese people have religious beliefs or had some religious practices and only 15% of them are real atheists. (The real atheists here refer to those who do not have faith in any religions nor had any activities related to religions or folk customs.) 185 million people believe in Buddhism and 33 million have faith in Christianity and believes in the existence of God. Only 12 million people are Taoists, although more than one hundred million have taken part in Taoism activities before. Thus, it is obvious that the Buddhism has the widest influence. 

Buddhism has developed into the most important religion in the country. The latest survey shows that 31% of the people who do not believe in this religion have participated in some Buddhist activities and about 17 million people have already become converts. Now more of those followers come from different walks of life such as the intellectuals, business elites and the common people. Recently, there is a new report, The Chinese Luxury Consumer White Paper 2012, jointly published by the Industrial Bank and Hurun Report, which shows that 39% of the intellectuals and businessmen have faith in Buddhism. Not only the number of the followers is increasing, and the education of Buddhism obtains more attention from the society. Under the Buddhist Association of China, 34 different levels of Buddhist academies as well as almost 50 magazines can be found. Now in mainland China, there are about 13 thousand temples and 180 thousand monks and nuns.
"Jash137. I'm genuinely curious to know the pre-Christ sources of 'the sentiments of humanity' you refer to,"

Here is the source: 7500 Generations of humans since the emergence of Homo sapiens, 125,000 Generations since the emergence of the first Homo species. If you think that humans with good sentiments, with goodness in their heart did not exist before, or good mothers and good fathers did not exist and did not pass 'the sentiments of humanity' to their offspring and they in turn to the next generation before the concept of omni god was created 4000 years ago, then I say you are a fruitcake. So, bless me!
"The author is trying to encourage us to UNDERSTAND things and to reach out to Muslims in peace."

Tell that to the warmongers &amp; military-industrial complex.

We, the ordinary people, already understand "things"
Hi JB,

Why don't we see a similar demonstration in Macau?
:)Was it to prevent future unrest and to provide a safe and secure environment for the thrill-seeking tourists to enjoy losing their money at Macau's flashy casinos? 

I bet a million bucks that Packer is happy with the status quo.
:)"I was under the impression it was where the Chinese mainland communist party officials et al went to launder/clean their corruptly obtained funds."

No impression is needed there, Joe. It's true. Regional communist governors admit that there is a wide spread corruption within the system, just like in our system, after all it's in human nature, is it not?, and they are making every effort to clean their house. There are thousands of court cases right now in China to sort out corrupt people.   

"You can bet your bottom dollar that Packer wasn't happy with the recent (August) protest/march by the local Casino workers demanding an increase in their wages and greater guarantees that foreigners do not replace them as workers."

You bet! No capitalist in his right mind wants to increase his employees' wages. 

But I bet another million bucks; he is happy that corrupt party officials gambling and losing millions of dollars which rightly belongs to the people of China, in his casino.
There are many demonstrations and protests against local government plans &amp; decisions and unfair property developments and about many other issues in China, Joe, Just like in any other western country.@Zing
One of the primary objectives of the Bush invasion was oil. The Bush administration, with the help of Western oil companies drafted a 'national oil law' for Iraq that granted access to foreign oil companies to Iraq's oil. Where the central Iraqi government refused to pass that law, the Kurdish region passed it and said, we'll give you the access that you want if you help us out. (Later on central Iraqi government was forced to grant access to Western companies)

In Kurdistan smaller companies like Hunt Oil, went in early, started producing. Another company that went in and started producing in a big way is Genel Energy, which is the oil company of BPs former CEO Tony Hayward, who was kicked out due to the BP oil spill. (Genel, created in 2011 as a result of the reverse acquisition of Turkish Genel Enerji by Tony Hayward led investment company Vallares.) He's operating big-time in Kurdistan.

Today companies like Exxon, BP, Chevron, Marathon and Shell are already on the ground. They've been waiting until things got worked out between the central government and the Kurdish region.

And what hasn't yet been worked out is that the Kurds are signing oil contracts, but the central Iraqi government is saying, hey, that's our oil, that's not your oil, these contracts are illegal, and we're not going to let them move forward. Now there's a fight between who actually controls this oil.
Enter the Islamic State, enter ISIS. They've taken over oil fields &amp; refineries in Syria. They're using captured gasoline, to put into cars, to put into jeeps to actually move their invasion forward. And now they are near Kirkuk, an incredibly hotly debated site about whether it's in the Kurdistan region or whether it is in the central Iraqi region. When ISIS first tried to move on Kirkuk oilfield, the Barzani/Kurds pushed them off, taking over that field, and putting the field for the first time actually in the hands of the Kurds. Now ISIS is threatening, to take over all of Kurdistan (Kirkuk oilfield- massive amount of oil) and we suddenly have the Obama administration entering militarily.
 
Obama is doing this for two reasons:
1) Western oil companies and the Obama administration certainly do not want ISIS to take over Kirkuk. That's an enormous amount of oil. That oil brings power. It also takes that oil away from Western companies.
2) The dispute between Barzani/Kurds and the central Iraqi government; What the Obama administration is doing is saying, okay, we're not going to let ISIS takeover Kurdistan, but we're going to threaten the central Iraqi government with the possibility that we're going to support Kurdistan independence unless you, the central Iraqi government, shape up. And one of the ways that they wanted the central Iraqi government to shape up was to get rid of Maliki. And they did that.

Don't mix apples and oranges, Zing.And then there are artists and there are 'artists' ... We all know which category the Liberal politicians fall into :)
