yank, they have supplied a cover story: it's to catch terrorists.  You are officially supposed to now be scared and let them do whatever they like.

In actuality it would be for catching leakers and whistleblowers and for digging up dirt on political opponents.  Same as always.Colmery, I'll engage with you, but not with a political party.  Joining a political party means toeing the line.  There's already enough of that.  Anyway, to the question you ask:

Privacy is useful from a purely practical standpoint because that's where we have the space to formulate a political opinion.  If you grant the existing government power to see everything you do and monitor everyone you interact with then dissent can be detected and likely prevented.

Dissent is useful because that's where all progress comes from, but it can be disruptive.  This is troubling to Mr and Mrs Conservative Citizen but mostly it annoys powerful people.  If you grant powerful people the ability to monitor and hence take steps to suppress all dissent, they will take that opportunity.

So, how is it tyrannical to conflate privacy and hiding?  Privacy is a word with positive connotations.  Privacy is something people like.  Hiding is a negative word.  "Hiding" is what criminals do.  Convince enough people that privacy is hiding and you can take away privacy.  You eliminate pesky dissent as a side effect.  Tyranny is enabled by the removal of privacy and calling it "hiding" is just one small aspect of the package.

The ones we should be worried about hiding stuff is our own Government and their spooks.  They hide stuff all the time.  And they make it illegal to tell it to anyone.  Or to tell anyone that the secret even exists.

I think it's odd in a supposedly free country that there's so much secrecy in government and yet the government wants to know every person you communicate with and every web site you visit.  Shouldn't it be the other way around: the government forced to publish everything it does in our name?  I think that would be a good first step.

We are not so far from totalitarianism as you may think.  None of us could stand up to the army, say, if there was a coup here. Australian governments have historically had our common good in mind most of the time but other governments around the world, historically and at present, do not.  If we give the government too much power, how far is it from taking absolute power?  We must make sure there is always a big gap between what the government can do and what it would need to have to become a dictatorship.

The powers Brandis is asking for are a step too far.  In fact, the existing anti-terrorism laws are already too powerful and too easy to misuse.  They should be wound back rather than dangerously enhanced.And stupendus, just to be sure we go the full distance with this one, stuff that *should* be fine to be open about can be used against you.

Perhaps it's as simple as you are gay and don't want anyone to know, because you know this government supports the rights of bigots and goes easy on hate crime.  Perhaps you are a tree hugger and you live in Tasmania (wow, do the LNP hate that sort of thing or what?).  Perhaps you have information on government corruption and don't know who you can trust with it.  Perhaps you have Jewish grandparents and live in Nazi Germany.

Privacy is not hiding things.  It's the default state.  It's a good thing.  It's something I value and something I want.

Having the government snoop on everything and anything is dangerous as well as irritating and disturbing.  The potential for misuse is enormous.  Government should be guarding privacy as one of its primary aims: health, safety, privacy, opportunity.  That's all we need and it's not much to ask.

Surveillance should be reserved for suspected criminals, and for that you get a warrant.  NOTHING should be recorded prior to this. NOTHING!Bahbet, are you taking the position that privacy must be discarded because a few paedophiles exist?  That's even worse than Brandis's view that we have to discard privacy because a few terrorists exist.

Yes, sex offenders exist and yes there's high recidivism in that group, but doesn't that suggest we should target them, rather than assume that every person in Australia is just a paedophile that hasn't been outed yet?  Should we take the precaution of locking up every male between the ages of 10 and 90, just in case?

Panic thinking like this is corrosive to society.  Most people are moral, upright, productive, honest and thoroughly deserving of privacy and respect.

It is a requirement of good government that the innocent are not targeted.  I think this is true even if the cost is that a few bad guys escape.  The opposite, that innocent people are punished, is worse and you can't have perfection in this imperfect world, so you can't catch all the bad guys while never punishing the innocent.

So, what will you pick: a free and open society where most bad guys are caught but some get away, or a suppressed, surveilled, and divided society where more bad guys are caught (maybe) but everyone loses their freedom?APM, I'm concerned that I may not conform to your variant of "Western values".  Can you list them?  Will they be simple like: obey the law of the land?  If it's just that, then I can do that.  But if it's some sort of Thought Police thing, and I have to think "Western", I'm likely to fail.  Why?  Because I usually disagree with nearly everything you write and you've nominated yourself as arbiter of what's normal.

I can see something of what you must be thinking though: violence is bad and it could come over here, so let's be alarmed.  But your simplistic analysis that it's just Muslims or that the problem is insufficient conformity to some ideal (that's likely only in your head) is worrying.

Muslims, by and large, are just people.  No different to Christians, Hindus or Shintos as far as I can tell.  I'd even include atheists in there, if you'll let me, because most people I know are not religious.  People, on the whole, are just people.

I don't think your "solutions" have much hope either.  Banning speech must make you anti-Brandis (how do you compare "bigot" vs "firebrand"?)  Detaining immigrants and only permitting the sheep to enter, well, even the calmest person can be made hostile or at least mentally unbalanced by a year or two of incarceration.  Families are more important than skills.  And communal punishment is heavy handed and thuggish on its own.

I sympathise with the aim to keep violence out of Australia, but nothing you've suggested makes me think you'll succeed, or indeed, that if we do what you want we won't simply provoke violence all by ourselves.What?  Who is the "apologist" here?  It's you.  Barns rightly rips into Brandis's hare-brained scheme and you want "balance"?

Sometimes there cannot be balance because there just isn't balance.

Write an article explaining why we have to give up our rights so that you feel cuddly safe in your ignorance.

Or do you think these laws won't be applied to you?  Why are you special?  These laws will be applied to whomever the government dislikes from time to time.Don't be daft.  ISPs do not keep the data you claim they do.  It would be a huge Surveillance Tax on internet usage to do so.

You are the one suggesting "conspiracy".  That's how all these anti-terrorism laws come into existence.  The government says "There's a big conspiracy out there and we have to take away your rights so we can fight it".

Terrorism is nothing.  It's less important than looking both ways before crossing the road.  It's less important than getting a good night's sleep.  It's less important than quitting smoking, eating your greens and cutting down on fat.

If we can't enforce quitting smoking and eating less fat by draconian government laws then there's certainly no point legislating against something as unimportant as "terrorism".Not sure why my follow up comments aren't getting through.  I'll try being more bland...

Terrorism is very low on the list of things that you should be afraid of.  It is usually brought out to scare you so that you give up your rights.

Terrorism has killed a few people but not many compared to other preventable causes such as smoking, poor diet, traffic accidents, physical inactivity, etc.

Distorting our laws to make "terrorism" some magical exception is extreme.  It would save more lives to make eating fast food illegal.  Would that work for you?The baddies and human rights activists and journalists and whistleblowers and the political opposition and environmentalists and anybody that a "well connected" person may dislike from time to time and the ex-girlfriends of jilted low-level spies and anyone that has annoyed anybody in the AFP and ... it just goes on.

On balance, best to catch the baddies the usual way, rather than weaken the laws that underpin our society.I agree, Simon.  But I'm 100% opposed to Brandis weakening our laws.  His changes do nothing to combat the problems you highlight.

And if APM wants some sort of "anti islam" laws then I guess I'm opposed to that too, unless it's a blanket "anti religion" law.

Or is there some other nuance I've missed here?  Do you guys support Brandis?  Or do you merely oppose Islam?

If it's extremism you oppose, then I can join your side.  But not at the expense of fair and equal laws.It's nice you're trying APM, but really what you are saying is you want to be racist but with plausible denial.

Face it, we just don't need new laws.  It's already illegal to blow people up here.  The spooks and even the ordinary police can trace people (pesky things like warrants may be necessary).  We can and do catch the bad guys already.

Everything Brandis wants to change just makes our laws weaker and more easily misused by powerful or corrupt people.  Brandis wants to damage our society so that people he likes (spooks) get more power.  He uses the terrorism boogeyman to scare you into complying.

We won't be any safer if we give up the rule of law to people like Brandis and ASIO/ASIS.  Some of you may think you are safer, but actually you are not.  We should never accept an illusion over substance.Mostly agree with you but cannot agree with "have no problem with Copyright Law as it stands".

Copyright law provides exclusive ownership to copyrighted works essentially forever.  This is the price Disney demands so they can keep Mickey Mouse out of the public domain.

If copyright were toned down so that it only applied for, say, 14 years (as it once did in some places once upon a time) then that would be a distinct improvement.  Add an optional 14 year extension on written application to the government, and stuff that nobody cares about would become public quickly, and stuff that is awesome could be milked appropriatedly.  But most importantly, works would become public within a normal person's lifetime.

Copyright law as it stands favours copyright holding companies, not creative types.  It promotes artificial scarcity, not creativity.  It is wrong and should be corrected, not simply continually increased in length and ever more fiercely enforced.

BTW, Mr Pesce: excellent article.  Short, accurate, to the point.  A pity no politician will ever acknowledge its existence (they are all pre-purchased and have no desire to do the right thing).Your post is one of the strangest comments I've read on the ABC.  But also an intriguing one.

You're probably a mirror of me: I'm hoping the insane part of the Labor party can be ditched so that the basic goodness of Labor can shine through.  You're suggesting there's some basic goodness in the Liberal party that will shine through once Abbott is ditched.

In all, a fascinating concept:  Perhaps there is some genuinely useful bit in both the Liberals and Labor.  If they got together they could throw out the idiots in charge and we'd have a decent government!It is symptomatic of both our lame duck PM and his supporters that his signature achievement has been to take Australia backwards and embarrass us internationally with our short sightedness.  Hardly what he would want in the history books, but locked in nevertheless.

The carbon tax was working and ramping up nicely.  It was cut down out of spite, 100% pure-grade political spite.

And of course you already know that the purpose of the carbon price was not to cool the Earth through our own individual efforts (certainly not in the short time it had already run) but to face up to our responsibilities and do our bit in order to show the slackers of the world that we can and should all do more.

Now that our PM has shown that, no, we *are* a nation of slackers, well, where to from here?  The only way forward I can see is the classic: regime change.  Let's just get it over with.  He's had his go and he's wasted all the political capital he ever had.It's obvious why negative gearing should go: it's welfare for the rich.

With the End of Entitlement, surely we can get this wart fixed and soon!

(Then we can fix the rorts the rich use in Superannuation, put in a mining tax, and we can stop persecuting poor people.)APM, I can't work out how to tell you this in any other way but basically this "bias" you see is all in your head.  Face it, you're just far right and have to accept that that's what you are.

You will never be satisfied with balanced reporting because you are looking for articles that validate your existing position.

Let's think about your hypothetical anti-open-borders article.  What would be in it?  In what way would it counter the current asylum seeker articles, which are articles about the suffering of innocent humans.  How is "anti-open-borders" a balance against "human suffering"?  They're not the same thing.

I think these articles you want don't exist because they aren't what you think they are.  Nobody is writing pro-open-border articles for there to be an anti-open-border article to balance against.  We would instead need a "these people deserve everything we do to them" article.  If you are brave enough, write one and see if it's possible to publish it.Listen to yourself APM.  You rant about battlers who "despise" stuff.  Battlers aren't despising anything.  It's just you.A slightly different wail, I think.  A wail that the world is run by heartless neoliberals who don't understand why you would stop to smell a flower, and who dearly wish to have the power to stop anybody else from having the time or inclination to stop and smell a flower, and who if they could start a world wide pogram to crush the flower sniffers would be right on it!  Operation Crushed Flower commences now!  Etc.

I know Leunig is swimming against the tide, but it's always a brighter and more interesting day if it's viewed the way he sees it.  What's wrong with ducks anyway?Christianity is a cure for something?  What?!  Surely the cure for a crazy religion is not more religion, but instead a dose of reality?

Oh wait, you got me!  Good joke!  Sorry I missed the sarcasm.

It is sarcasm, right?100 million is too much for Australia to take, but easy for the entire world to absorb.

We should take our portion (which I calculate to be about 300,000) and stop whining so much.You have the cart before the horse.  All this talk of "criteria" and such is already classing other humans as less than ourselves.  We discriminate against others simply because they are not here already.  This is a less meaningful thing than even skin colour.  And yet so many people talk of it as if it's somehow a vital component of a person's soul and defines them as a human being.

Your "it's impossible" claim is also out of line.  Spread over the world, we would only have to take 0.3% of the world's refugees.  That's entirely achievable.  They could be here by the end of the year.

If you say "Oh, but there are poor places who can't take refugees", shall we say half the world can't take refugees?  Then we have to take about 650,000 to do our bit.  Done in a year or so.

If you whine further and say only rich places like Europe or America can do this, then our share becomes 1.5 million, which would be hard going, but we could do it.  A couple of years, maybe a decade, tops.

It is within our power as rich western countries to resettle absolutely every refugee.  It's not impossible.  It is simply collective greed "You can't have what I have" that makes it unlikely to happen.I'm baffled the other way.  It's plainly obvious that these are just people, even the "economic migrants" that get so many locals upset.  Why such hatred?  Why such demonisation?  How can the government get away with its current policies (without ministers facing international prosecution)?

Write up a piece on why we have to be so harsh on boat people and send it to The Drum.  I think there's a good chance it would get published because the ABC is required to balance things and you would have a good angle (the "They Deserve Everything They Get" angle, I suppose).While people can maintain their hold over possessions that they imagine they gained through good honest toil, they will do so, even if others have nothing.  That is why this government can maintain a policy of deliberate persecution of the weak.

Keeping the weak powerless (as long as they aren't "us") plays to the gut level greed that is inbuilt in all humans.  "It's mine, not yours!"

It may take many generations but we must overcome this kneejerk "us vs them" attitude.  "They" deserve just as much as "we" have.  "We" have more because of an accident of history, politics, geography and birth.  "They" are the same as "us", just poorer and more oppressed.It's interesting how much invective I've gathered simply for supporting the weak with a few words in a forum.  How much harsher must it be at sea or in a prison camp (the sort of camps we run, out of sight of prying eyes)?

OverIt claims I cannot preference foreign poor people over our own poor people.  Correct.  They are equal and both deserve support.  I note that our current government prefers to support neither.

Ben suggest we should keep what we have because we are strong and that's important somehow.

Anon suggests anyone who can afford a boat trip is not poor, and presumably is also not oppressed.  That's just incorrect.

Zing calls me out for being vague.  I only said we are the same as the poorest refugee, just richer by happenstance.  What we do with that knowledge is a different thing, but my view is we should give up most of our material wealth or accept that we are keeping it simply because we can, and that's just greed.  Be open about your greed or change your actions.

Rattan has seen the light.  We must improve all the world in order to keep what we have here.  We are immoral if we ignore this and simply punish the poor and oppressed for being poor and oppressed.

KK, peace and prosperity does drop out of the sky.  You and I have peace and prosperity here and have done nothing to produce it.  It was here already.  It is those who want to "keep the boats out" who are running away from their problems.

Peter, Peter, Peter.  What can be done with you?  Talking up our greed as a good thing?  The irony makes my head explode.

Trev tries to bring religion into it.  That's a whole can of worms by itself.  I think it's unrelated to our wealthy status, and although it can keep people ignorant and poor, it's not the only thing that does.

Craig blames Labor as much as the LNP.  Labor has failed us here also but the LNP is in power.  It is their will that the boat people must suffer.  They could chose to relent at any time.

Pearshaped, I respectfully disagree.  Distribution of wealth is almost entirely accidental, or at least, not predictable from such things as effort, worth, moral fibre, etc.  Please enlighten me on the history of wealth.

Evan assures me I cannot suggest that we help the poor if I am not also poor.  This is a feeble argument.  There is no need to bankrupt anyone, even me, in order to help others less well off.  The wealthy like the idea of an impoverished opposition because they can then join the ranks of the ignored.Oh, so it's my ego, not the needs of others, that is the problem?  How curious.  Presumably other people only matter because I'm making a fuss, and as soon as I go back to being a good LNP voting conservative, I can ignore them in comfort.  Thank you for making the benefits of 100% self interest so clear.

Zing, it makes me sad that you consider speaking up for the disadvantaged to be something worth denouncing.  That action should be reserved for the oppressors, not those who try to assist the weak.

I hope you understand the difference.  We, as a nation, are the aggressors here.  The refugees are not.KK, of course we have to work to maintain peace and prosperity, but we didn't create it.  The key is in your own words: "keep a functioning democracy going".

Australia was stable and prosperous before you or I arrived (whether that arrival was by birth or by travel).  Neither of us did anything special in order to be granted this boon.  We are simply lucky.  We should celebrate this luck, but also be aware that others have not been so lucky.

If Australia had been a corrupt dictatorship when we arrived then it would still be a poor and miserable place to live even with the two of us in it.  It is extremely difficult to change a bad place to live into a good place.

I do not blame others for failing to fix their country of birth.  For many the most they can manage to do is to leave, and it's an unnecessary extra punishment to blame them for having to do that.  Instead we should support them, first as individuals, and then collectively by working to fix their home country.Pearshaped, I had entirely misread your post.  Sorry.  I had read you as suggesting the weak argument that the rich automatically deserved to be rich because wealth is proof of worth (with poverty being automatic proof of lack of worth).

I agree that the West exploited many nations during the colonial days.  In many ways this same exploitation continues in our unequal trade relations, despite trade also generally helping the weaker partners.

I also agree that the asylum seeker/refugee "situation" is driven largely by fear.  Sadly, politicians have welcomed and enflamed this fear for their own ends.  It has got to the point where it's difficult to even talk about asylum seekers as people, with hopes and dreams and little disappointments just like the rest of us without some clown shouting you down.  It's a frightening lack of humanity that I see here.I agree that selling the Commonwealth Bank and Telstra was a bad idea.  However, if we nationalised such large companies (or indeed even any small companies) the shock would kill the stock market.

The mistake has been made.  The damage is done.  We just have to live with it.

The real problem is the constant lauding of the idiots who made this mistake!  And, of course, their mates who are pushing hard for us to repeat them.That's a fair point.  Shorten is only doing politics at the moment.  He's pushing Abbott's pain points and that seems to be enough for him.

But on the other hand, Abbott is PM.  Hockey is treasurer.  They have to deliver the goods, not Shorten.

And the simplest way to do that is to cut high income welfare: cut negative gearing, cut superannuation tax rebates, that sort of thing.  We would instantly be delivered from deficit, but it would upset powerful LNP supporters, so Abbott can't do it.  He and Hockey think they can squeeze more money out of the rest of us instead.

My problem with Labor is they also won't touch the pampered rich.  What's up with that?  Hey Shorten, why are there so many rich untouchables in Australia?  They are sitting on our wealth.  Get them to cough it up.Sadly, elections are often a choice between the lesser of two evils.

In the 2013 election the voters had to choose between Labor (full of internal divisions and constantly changing leaders) and the Coalition (which had a policy of "NO!!!!").  The voters picked the Coalition because they could see how bad Labor's problems were.  They just didn't realise how bad the Coalition's problems were!

If voters had known what they would get, they would have picked Labor, even with Rudd's destructive leadership.

It's quite a trick to be worse than the Rudd/Gillard revolving door leadership hate-fest, and yet Abbott has sailed easily over that hurdle.

I say the only thing that has a chance of clearing the air is an election.  If we keep having elections we must eventually elect a bunch we can stomach for a year or three.  Right?The opposite, I think.  Our government run Telecom was better than a private monopoly, whether it was AT&amp;T or Telstra.

Breaking up AT&amp;T was an excellent idea.  Allowing it to rebuild itself is causing endless problems there now.I don't want to distract you all from your partisan infighting but I think there is a nice side to Joe.

Don't get me wrong!  I think his budget is awful and should be simply discarded.  Then he can make a new one that features a mining tax, rollback of negative gearing and reduction of tax breaks for rich people's super.  That's all we ever needed to get the economy back on track without pointless, divisive, deliberate inequality.

But Joe is still a human being and you can see this by watching Annabel Crabb's Kitchen Cabinet.

Really, I found that series to be the most surprising show on television.  It turns out our politicians have a human side.  They are not simply robots built from spite lashed together with lies and doubletalk.

Of course, being human doesn't stop them from being wrong or irritating or whatever.  But Joe is a person and he has a chance to redeem himself, if he discards his stupid budget and creates a real one.
The amazing thing is 37% of people believe the information is for catching terrorists rather than snooping on ex girlfriends, suppressing whistleblowers and conducting corporate espionage.  Oh, and punishing you for downloading Game of Thrones.

Why are there so many fools out there?It is also my personal experience that religious instruction in State Schools was purely Church propaganda.  It was a mind narrowing rather than mind expanding experience.  School scripture classes are a throwback to a dark age.

As for what to try for instead, well, ethics classes would be a start.  Any variant would be better than none.  You can see in our current parliamentarians, business leaders and others in high places that ethics is in very short supply these days.  We should try to pass on something positive to children so they have a chance to resist and then to supplant the current poor crop of leaders we currently endure.

Sadly, blind obedience is exactly what is currently politically desirable in the populace.  Free thinking is not popular.  It seems unlikely that we'll get anything except what we currently have: a state sanctioned invasion of schools by the most narrow minded of views.If the ballot box was respected then intentional lying by politicians would be a criminal act punishable by long prison sentences.

What we are seeing today is the damage to democracy done by politicians who know that their lies are effective and that they will never face punishment for them.Also, if you happen to be Tasmanian, look forward to your electricity bill going up!

Almost all electricity generation in Tasmania is hydro.  The carbon tax was an income earner for Tasmanians.

So there is a sizable group of Australians who have never paid this "tax", who benefited from it directly, and who will pay more now that it's gone.

How does that sit with Abbott's "$550 a year, I'm giving away free money, vote for me!" claims?
What you really mean is that it's time to make lying a criminal offense for politicians.  Without the lies of politicians, the carbon pricing scheme would still exist.Alternatively, Snowden and others who expose government flaws, corruption and plain illegality are heros who deserve every possible support, while those who attempt to make government failures more difficult to expose are direct threats to democracy and deserve nothing but opprobrium?

I think you view government as more saintly than it is (or even than it could possibly be).  Government works against the citizenry every day.  We need this exposed, not hidden.Where do I sign up for this?  Snowden has done more to benefit Australia than Abbott ever has, for example, and yet I'm sure Abbott is hoping that once he retires he will scoop up a Knighthood for some imagined achievement.On the contrary, those who suggested that the NSA was working to deliberately weaken commercial cryptography were ridiculed as conspiracy nuts.

Those who suggested they were collecting all our web traffic and recording (pretty much) all phone calls were offered tin foil hats to top off their misplaced paranoia.

The people who thought that the NSA had a drag net across the world's communications were marginalised and called kooks.

You are claiming that "everybody knew" presumably to be hip and cool.  But in reality, most people thought none of this was happening.

On the other hand, the fact that nobody has done much of anything about it, and indeed, many have tried to have the NSA's egregious overreach enshrined in law, shows that your "bread and circuses" comment is essentially correct.

Our freedom has been purchased from us with a pizza, a case of beer and a plasma TV.  That's about it.John, almost all voters will vote for "free money".  Go and ask them.  "Hey, voter, do you want some free money?"  How many will answer "no"?

This debacle (and I mean the likely repeal of the carbon pricing scheme as the "debacle") can be squarely blamed on Tony Abbott, who offered voters "free money" without explaining that there was and is no free money and that they will pay for it 1000 times over into the future.

We are witnessing an act that is a new low for Australia.  The best we can do is laugh at the comedy involved.  We will be suffering the consequences for a very long time.Jerry, it's easy to see why solar should be badmouthed and coal should be praised: shares.

All the shareholders of coal mines love coal.  They win, we lose.  The end.

That's what all this is about:  Proof that our government is owned by rich people.

Abbott is working hard to make sure rich people get richer and damn the future.  The justifications for ditching the carbon tax are piffle and if you believe any of it, that just means you should examine your reasoning skills.CC, you have acted to save yourself money.  Fine.  Some people can see further than that.

The hand wringing of elitist moralising people is because we can't actually adapt our way out of this one.  We must do some adaptation, definitely, because we've left it all too late.  But if we don't stop charging towards the cliff, we *will* go over it.

Life will continue, but we won't be part of it.  Yes, it is that bad, and that's not "alarmist", just "ordinary".  Calling something "alarmist" because you don't like it won't help stop it.  It's coming, ready or not.

We cannot continue on the current path even with the most optimistic adaptation.  That's why we have to shout so loudly.  It's so people might look up from their small affairs to see the big picture.To answer your (rhetorical) question: the ALP made themselves unelectable with their spectacular leadership infighting.  Tony got in by default.

All the ALP needs to do now is get rid of the last player in that unfortunate charade (Shorten) and they can go back to being odds-on favourites at the next election.

So, as you say, the last election was nothing to do with the carbon tax.  It's sad that Tony is spending all this effort to do the wrong thing by us.  And hilarious that Clive can make him look such a fool while he's doing it.Why are you talking about Tony?  I thought this article was about Clive.This is nothing to do with the carbon tax, it's just Clive messing with Tony.

Clive has dakked Tony in public and is presumably laughing his guts out behind the school toilets.

Well, we're all having a good laugh at Tony now, aren't we?  I haven't stopped since I read about it.  I can't imagine stopping for the rest of the week, actually.

Well done, Clive!  You are a born joker!muzzg, you're trying but your jokes just aren't as funny as Clive's.

And thank heavens for Clive!  Without him this parliament would be nothing but pain and angst, what with the budget taking money from the poor, Tony on the world stage talking Australia down, his continual crowing about us shirking our responsibility for climate changing emissions and our disgraceful disappearing of asylum seekers.

Without a laugh from Clive, there'd be nothing to look forward to.  Clive gives us a hearty boost in the darkest of days.  I hope he gets to give Tony his special sort of loving every day that the new Senate sits.That could only work if the public prefers chaos to either major party. At this point it would be easy for me to pick chaos over the LNP, so maybe you have a point.

But what happens when Clive goes too far?  I'm sure it will all backfire eventually.  And then the same old half-dead baggage that got elected this time will be wheeled out for the next election, safe in the knowledge that they are the ruling class and will automatically get back in.Whatever you may think of Gillard's deal with the Greens, this will be nothing compared to what Abbott will do for Clive Palmer's favours.

By the way, you malign the Greens.  They have our future at heart, not just the next minute or two (or whatever the news cycle is these days).Ben, is this meant to wind us up?  I mean, really!  To trivialise such a large issue in this way, is it meant to have us spitting at our screens?

You may wish to delude yourself that global warming means better beaches, but the rest of us will have to pick up after you.

I think that's one of the worst aspects of this and it reminds me of the old school yard.  The litterers threw their junk everywhere and cared nothing for the shared good that was the playground.  The rest of us had to go through periodically in big groups and pick it all up.

The thoughtlessness of the few meant we all had extra work to do.  It's the same here, but the stakes are bigger.John Walker, people forget how bad Rudd's original ETS was.  It overcompensated polluters during the initial setup (even worse than the current carbon scheme).

The Greens shot down the original ETS because it was useless.  The current one is just barely viable; just good enough to be supportable.

And yet even this feather-light touch is too much for big fossil fuel companies and their paid lackeys (the LNP).

The future is dark.

We must now rely on the USA rejecting their own pack of deniers and forcing us (through the usual trade treaties) to lift our game.  It's a sad reversal being the worst of the bunch rather than somewhere near the front.harry, the so-called "Direct Action" plan is capped, expected to be ineffective, and unlikely to pass the Senate.  It won't cost much, if anything.  In direct costs, that is.

Indirectly, inaction on climate change will be very costly.  It could easily cost us $6000 a year.  If that was the worst outcome then we should count ourselves lucky.

Inaction on climate change will most certainly cost more than the few dollars per year that Toxic Tony promises us back on our electricity bills.  Mr Abbott is doing his utmost to reduce the money in your pocket unless you are one of the mega-rich.Frank, the previous Labor government left the economy in a good state, certainly as good as could be expected given the GFC and the meltdown of the USA and Europe.  There is nothing at all wrong with Labor's economic management.  You are deluded by LNP propaganda.

However, there is a medium to long term structural problem with the Australian economy that was created by Howard and perpetuated by Rudd/Gillard.  Howard gave out tax cuts that could not be supported long term.  Rudd and Gillard could have fixed this but chose not to.  And now Abbott has had his chance to fix it too but has failed.  Instead he decided to punish poor people.

Gillard was our best PM in quite some decades.  The minority government delivered a lot of good results.  I would prefer permanent minority government to the horrible slashing we are going to receive at the hands of the LNP.Having just listened to Question Time (well, as much as I could stomach) it seems the government is hell bent on getting those trees cut down.  There's talk of a Forest Industry and how its only problem is Green interference and lack of access to forests.  It doesn't matter that this same Forest Industry says the forestry agreement is worth keeping and that stable access to some forests is better than uncertain access to a lot more.

The Tasmanian Government is right behind the "dig it up, rip it up, chop it up" plans of their Federal masters too.  To make sure there is no doubt, their solution to disagreement over forestry is to introduce legislation designed to bankrupt protestors.  That's in addition to jail terms, of course.

I have never been so disappointed in politicians.  Their short term narrow minded views are a throwback to beyond last century.  Their legacy will be one of destruction.  I don't think they understand how damaging their actions are.Graham, I find your view biased.  You have read an article about destructive politics and see only anti-LNP messages.

Wake up Graham!  Politics as it is done now is damaging our future.  And that's without listing a single LNP policy.

This article would be true even if LNP policies were well received by all.  You are too sensitive to the poor reception that LNP polices are having right now.  Concentrate on the article's point: politics does not have to be so negative, and because it is extremely negative we risk the fundamentals of our democracy.

We can argue about who made politics so negative (personally, I think it's blindingly obvious who we are talking about here), but really I don't care about that.  I want to know who will fix it.This "potential political costs of being seen to do nothing" reasoning drives the majority of poor decision making in this country.  It cuts across all political persuasions and exists in all bureaucracies large and small.  It is something we desperately need to stop and yet there is no one even trying.

I long for the day when politicians stand up and call for calm rational consideration of problems rather than going for wedge politics or grand and wasteful schemes that make them look good and do nothing useful.Indeed.  Studies show that paying your CEO a lot of money is actually inversely related to success.  CEOs are usually not worth the money.

Morally and socially, of course, it is essentially a crime against society to pay people this much.  But I'm not talking about that.

In pure business terms, in "dollars spent" vs "dollars gained", highly paid CEOs are a bad idea.I must be a hopeless reactionary...

Nobody should work 100 hours per week.  That's setting a bad example.  Life is not work.  Work to live, yes, but don't live to work.

And nobody is worth 200x the average wage.  We could and should pass laws restricting the maximum ratio of CEO pay to average pay.

Gail may be quiet and well mannered, but that doesn't mean everything she does is worthy of emulation.Peter, every "achievement" of Abbott is something he has destroyed.  Yes, his followers cheered as these things were destroyed, but history will not see this destruction so kindly.

What has Abbott created?  Nothing at all.  What will he create, ever?  It's hard to imagine him doing that, so I guess: nothing.

In contrast, Gillard forged a coalition government, led it despite internal white-anting, and introduced some of the best legislation we've seen, including (you guessed it), the Clean Energy Act 2011, commonly mischaracterised as the Carbon Tax.

Ms Gillard is a better role model than (the overpaid) Ms Kelly.  We need more people like our former PM.The ordinary workers in her bank would be better off by inflated-Kelly-salary divided by number-of-workers if Ms Kelly were to be paid merely a sensible salary.

That would only be $400 a year (give or take a bit), but it would be far better for society for that money to be in the pockets of ordinary bank employees than in the hands of one person.

We are not in a fair and reasonable society when one person is paid 200 times as much as the average citizen.  We are not in sane and civilised times when one person is deemed 200 times as worthy as the average citizen and no one protests this fact, and instead people celebrate because she is able to wring money from the system like greedy men are known to do.hb, that is not the only alternative to brutalising refugees.  Clive Palmer suggested just flying them here.  Shall we try that?

I also reject the idea that saving people from drowning is the driver of this issue.  It is a convenient side argument, brought out by right wingers.  Even if nobody were to drown (because, say, a philanthropist purchased better boats for them) the right wingers still wouldn't want any refugees here.

You also misrepresent Greens policies.  They are all grounded in reality.  Reality and compassion.If you modify that to "rarely right" I might support you.  Guts she has plenty of, but accuracy is not her strong point.

A stopped watch is correct twice per day.  Lambie's record is similar.We're sleep-walking into totalitarianism.  None of this is for our benefit, but for the benefit of those who seek to control us.

It is time to say "no" to this unending intrusion by government and to demand that government instead protect us against those who seek ever more of our private information.

Yes to privacy, no to surveillance.We shouldn't have to hide from the government.  We shouldn't be scurrying like rats behind the kitchen cupboard.

The government should be pro-citizen.  It should be on our side.  It should be protecting us against manipulation by foreign corporations instead of colluding with them.  It should be providing us with freedom, not the prospects of ever more limitations.

This data-retention plan is intended to go hand in glove with upcoming requirements of the secret TPP agreement.  As far as I can tell it's just one more confirmation of the supremacy of large corporations over small governments, ours included.OUB, is this a variation on the idea that only the rich deserve rights?  I, as a lowly citizen, am unlikely to be casually damaged by official decree (because I'm so insignificant), therefore there is no possible need for laws preventing such casual damage to insignificant citizens?

Everyone's private life is interesting to someone.  If I were to run as a candidate in an election, say, then suddenly every possible bit of dirt would become fascinating.  If any of it could be suitably presented to cast doubt, sow suspicion or arouse some prejudice, then political job done.  That power alone is worth all the effort that the present government is expending to get this surveillance state established.

Is your life so uninteresting that you want none of it kept to yourself?  Nothing at all?  No opinions that are unpopular?  How dull.OUB, an important consideration is that while you likely pose no threat to Australia or any individual Australians, your personal data will be of interest to hackers (who can collect it conveniently in one easy hackable lump), to any number of mid level bureaucrats (who may not be such upstanding citizens as the "security professionals" you admire), and to anyone who wants to grovel through it looking for dirt (supposing you divorce or simply fall out with a business partner).

And that's before we even get to the TPP bit which is likely to mean we will hand this over to any copyright holder who asserts (evidence or no) that you have copied their stuff.

It's a wad of data that we should not even collect.  The positive uses are totally outweighed by negative uses.Terry, forget that we dislike this government.  Difficult as that may be to accept, it's not relevant here.

Personal privacy is a right and highly valuable, even if some commentators claim to not see the value of privacy.  It is one of the things I want government to defend, and if government is not working for me (as a citizen) then that in itself is a problem to be fixed.

Despite personal privacy being valuable, it is not a sufficient shield against public scrutiny if revealing personal information is in the public interest.  I distinguish this clearly from, say, magazines wanting photos of celebrities sunning themselves.  It's not just what excites or titillates the public, but what is truly valuable to be known publicly.

In Professor Spurr's case, it seems to me that the value to the public of knowing the true views of someone who has some control over public policy is more important than his right to privacy.  I am open to being convinced otherwise if maybe I'm overstating his powers in the public sphere.

I'm not sure what Mr Abbott's daughter has been up to.  I admit to being quite uninterested in Abbott's children and haven't heard any scandalmongering.  What is the issue here?

Assange is an ambiguous figure.  On balance, I'd say he has improved the world.  His personal character may damage his legacy.

Mr Snowden, on the other hand, is a modern day hero.  He has sacrificed a comfortable life so that we may be informed.  There is nothing "dangerous" about his actions.  We need a hundred more Snowdens.We're talking about the "right to be a bigot" here, aren't we?  We are talking about the public interest (or lack of public interest) inherent in the personal views of someone who gets to decide public policy, right?

I'm interested in the idea that you want sanctions against news reporting.  Didn't Labor try to introduce something like this, but Murdoch objected, so it was dropped?

I would love to dig in this fertile field and see what can be discovered.Terry, you demand sanctions against "New Matilda" for reporting facts that may be (probably are) in the public interest.  What do you think you are asking for?

Oh, you think that the bizarre opinions exposed to public view by this news reporting is too awful for your side of politics, therefore it must be suppressed?  On the contrary, it is generally a good thing to discover (and remove) those who are setting public policy but who are not fit to do so.  If you think the cost to an individual in this case is too great to justify the benefit to the public then you'll have to argue the case.

It may surprise you that I'm ready to be convinced that the greater evil was the exposure of private email, not the danger to public policy posed by this individual and his actions.  But you've not made that case well.  Show me.

I mentioned Murdoch because Labor tried to add ethical restraints to his reporting.  He succeeded in repulsing that idea.  And now you complain about New Matilda.  It's quite similar.  How can Labor be so wrong to propose limits on reporting but your limits on reporting are the correct ones?  The test is not if I dislike someone they have no right to privacy, but whether the violation of that privacy is in the public interest.  It's an important distinction because I strongly support privacy.  News can be legitimately reported even if the target does not wish it to be reported.  That is, if it is valuable enough (note: not merely titilating enough) to the public to warrant that intrusion.

I wonder what dear old Noam has done to upset you.  He's anti-West in a specific way: the West (typically the USA) trumpets their purity of moral purpose at all times and yet falls far short of this.  If the USA could ever stick to their rhetoric in this area, the world would be vastly improved.  Criticising the West when it falls short of its clams of moral superiority is a public service.Terry, expressing deep seated prejudices as jokes is commonplace.  Racist jokes are evidence of racism more than of humorous intent.  I'm not alone in this opinion.  I see this view of Prof Spurr's emails reported in news articles.

He is an adviser to government.  This means we have a public interest in his character.  It's a balance, of course, and at this point his privacy seems of lesser importance than the possibility of public harm from his actions.  Again, I am interested in being convinced to change my mind because privacy is highly important and I don't want to see it discarded lightly.

I note that court action is likely (already commenced?), so perhaps we will get a legal opinion on this issue in due course.

And strangely, I was starting to get the opposite impression about Senator Peris' emails: that this was more invasive than justified.  Most of the exposure is personal and intimate.  This story seems to be evolving still.  I will wait and see.

This balance idea is clearly a tricky thing.  We've looked at (I suppose) more or less the same evidence and come to opposite conclusions.

I think you'll have to be more specific about Noam Chomsky's support for murders and terrorists.  I know he considers the USA's foreign wars as a terrorism program, but that's not what you are saying.

Hmm.  I tried to give Prof Spurr a chance.  Too little of his own words show up on internet searches.  What he has said in an official capacity didn't seem particularly outrageous, though they weren't up to your description ("parlous state of education").  It seems the controversy is the only story that is currently visible.Terry, I now notice that you are after New Matilda in particular, not misbehaving journalists in general, or even privacy invaders as an overarching category.

You look to be someone pushing a personal barrow that just happens in this case to be marginally on topic.  But just in case you are open to non-New-Matilda topics:

In your view, when should personal privacy be invaded?  For commercial advantage?  For public amusement?  To collect outstanding parking tickets?  To track down owners of noisy dogs?  To stop people sending their favourite songs to each other?  To guarantee American movie companies their profits?  To stop embarrassment of our trading partners (e.g. China)?  To expose misbehaving public officials?  To prevent activists organising?  (Especially if they are environmentalists?)

Perhaps there are times when investigative journalists should invade privacy.  Perhaps these are justified by the public interest despite your upset reaction.  Where is the line?Andrew, what you are saying is that you want the Greens to be more political than they currently are.  Is that what we should want?

Consider one high profile individual: Peter Garret.  He was such a strident leftie and environmentalist that he was an obvious fit to enter political life as a Green.  Instead he chose Labor so that he had a chance to actually make change within government instead of snipe from the margins.  The compromises he had to accept were harsh and in the end politics chewed him up and spat him out.

Did Peter Garret achieve anything lasting by compromising his principles so much?  Would he have done better by remaining a pure exemplar?  It think it's far from clear.

The Greens face the same choice every day.  In the case of the fuel excise, I believe they went for a political choice over principle and failed miserably.  Do we want them to do this every time?  I don't.

I'm happy the Greens are more principled than political.  If they were to become more political, they may become more like Labor: interested in power but without any particular direction or passion.Ann, it is a tricky question: to be more political and hence more "effective", or more true to conviction and hence more likely to be believed when you say something.

In the long term, I expect being true to conviction will win over voters and the Greens will overtake Labor as the 2nd party.  Either that or Labor will have to move a little to the left, and that might be just as good for the citizenry.

In the sort term, yes, there are regrets.  But I think there are just as many regrets over political decisions that didn't go well as there are over principled stands that had no effect.Politics is a weird thing.  People complain about the Greens torpedoing Rudd's CPRS, but the Greens have only ever held the balance of power.  If Rudd and Turnbull had really both wanted the CPRS, it would have passed.

And it was a bad policy.  It was even more generous to polluters than the carbon tax that eventually did pass.  The CPRS deserved to die.

Or are people daft enough to believe that the title of a bill is the entirety of a bill?  Does the detail matter at all?

Is that the essence of politics these days: people are too limited and too ignorant to even read?  Are we cursed to live by slogans forever now?George, you reinforce Peter R's point: no matter what the Greens do, someone blames the failings of both Labor and the LNP on them.  Here, you do the same.  Why not blame Labor for blocking the excise rise?  Why not blame the LNP for having no negotiating skills?

The Greens claim that fuel excise rises should be accompanied by a pledge to spend the money on public transport.  They failed to get the LNP to accept this, with Abbott vowing to spend all the money on roads instead.

The Greens therefore concluded that it would be better to oppose the fuel excise rise than to accept that roads (and the attendant rise in road usage and hence fuel usage) are a good thing and that they'd get the political buzz of frustrating Abbott on yet one more budget initiative that targets the poor.

That's the reasoning.  I think it's wrong.  I think the Greens should take the simple "tax fuel more" offer and just go with it.  That would be entirely self-consistent.

But this error is not the "Oh noes the Greens are ignoramuses!" slam dunk that you think it is.  It's a political decision that was too tricky for the Greens (as a straight-up, no sneakiness brand).  It's backfired.  But if you want to see examples of policy decisions gone wrong, there are hundreds of dodgy LNP and Labor policies to pick from.  There's no need to pick on the Greens.GRF, so many unrelated issues in there.  Let's keep to the point: limiting carbon emissions.

We have a global carbon emission budget.  We have to keep to that.  Make emitting carbon cost a lot and carbon emissions will drop.  You don't just allow more money = more polluting, you make total polluting fixed and make more money = greater share of polluting.

Polluting then has a maximum.  It doesn't matter how much economic growth or whatever else you want.  It happens within this prescribed envelope.

Eventually we will have to set the global emissions budget at zero.  At that point, only people who can demonstrate that they have purchased a carbon sink (i.e. carbon absorption) will be able to emit any carbon.  That will cost money and hence will be tradeable.You can reject materialism without having to overthrow the government.  A quiet, low impact life can be had anywhere in Australia (though it works a little better in rural areas, I think).

And democracy is working better than any other model of government.  It's just that ours is drifting away from democracy somewhat.  Instead of an informed populace of careful voters, we have groups of slogan followers who lack critical thinking skills.  The answer to that is education, not revolution.No sean, revolution isn't the answer.  It's uncontrollable, inefficient and often entirely ineffective.  Usually a lot of people die and/or are displaced.  Much wealth is destroyed or stolen.  And then the same old group gets back in and it's all for nothing.

Perhaps you meant a non-violent revolution, but the same thing applies, just with less blood.

Evolution and gentle change is the only sensible option.  It preserves almost all the existing good bits while providing new good stuff.

And evolution works by generational change.  When the old people who believed one thing are gone, the young people who believe something else are the new norm.

Our challenge is to make that "new norm" more rational and less easily swayed by propaganda.  Sadly, it seems it's going the opposite direction, especially with a government that is so plainly anti-science and anti-evidence-based thinking.Kropotkin, I think it just takes a long time.  Think of the racism that underlies American society.  How much does America need to change to overcome that?  Enormous change is needed.  But how far have they come already?  A long way.  Segregation was once law, as just one example.

It will take, I guess, around 100 years or so to work out the rest of it.  Perhaps you could do better with an armed uprising, but I think not.

Social change is slow.  Technological change may fool you into thinking we change fast.  Not so.madmax, I think you have several misconceptions.

Materialism is more than simply using money.  It's more like money worship.

Money is standardised by governments, but not all money comes from governments.  You can barter, if you want low tech, or use bitcoin, if you want high tech.

You can indeed reject materialism without even much loss of comfort, let alone living like an animal.  Live well within your means and you are half way there.Peter of Perth, we should implement the largest mass surveillance system Australia has ever seen because, wait for it, because the Left is relentlessly politically correct?  What on Earth are you thinking, man?!

Please say you're just winding us up.  Please say you have some reason to support mass surveillance beyond some vague dislike for "lefties" and an irrational and unfounded terror of being attacked by knives.

Save your worry for real things: eating too much sugar, salt or fat, smoking crack or driving while tired.  Those things can kill you and are about a million times more likely to kill you than a crazy guy with a knife who, not content with just being crazy, has specifically joined a banned extremist group.

I can't understand why anyone is supporting the garbage laws that are spewing out of parliament lately.  It's utter madness and shows that people are mindless sheep.  Why is Labor supporting this nonsense?  Where are you Shorten?  Why aren't you opposing when it's your job to oppose stupid things?!Bush Dweller, the telcos do not currently keep these data.  If you want to think only in dollar terms (perhaps you are a neoliberal), it remains a fact that the government is about to compel us to *pay more money* in order that *they* have an easy way to invade *our* privacy.

This is pretty much the opposite of what governments should be doing for us in the 21st century, when so much of our lives is electronic.  If anything, the government should be making more of its own internals visible to us (who are theoretically in control in a democracy).  You know, things like the TPP, which will take away even more of our rights, both in the small (such as what copyright owners can do to someone without bothering to prove guilt) and in the large (such as what foreign companies can compel our government to do even if it's bad for the locals).

Your idea to "confront these Islamist scum amongst us" is about the worst possible action to take if your intention is to have a safe society.  Your first move should be to meet some Muslims.  Have dinner with them.  Ask what it's like to be Muslim in Australia.  Gain some perspective.  Then help *them* to educate the occasional wingnut who grows up Muslim and angry.

Oh, I get it now.  You think the government will only use these laws against Muslims.  Oh, what a funny thought!

Please reconsider your support for those who are removing hard earned rights.  They are not doing this for our benefit.Nonsense, Zing.  We should be afraid for that kid's life, not that he'll manage to do anything to us.  Apart from scare the pants off idiots, I suppose, but it's the idiots' fault for being scared of an internet video.

You can find scarier things in any local shop (have you seen a packet of cigarettes lately?).  You can find kids being stupid everywhere.  It's not the scariest stupid kid video on the internet.  It's not even close to being a thing we should care about, *except* for the fact this kid will probably die there instead of having a proper life here.

We should find out why kids do stupid things like this, but it isn't worth us all accepting this monstrous invasion of privacy to do it.

The fact it's bipartisan is the truly scary thing.  Labor thinks this is a good thing for our future?  Appalling!  What hope do we have when both major parties are doing us over so thoroughly?Zing, yes, I see a stupid child fooled into doing stupid things in public.  So stupid and so public that his life is severely constrained from here on in.  Likely he will die continuing to do even more stupid things because he is now surrounded with people who are happy to use him as a tool.

This is not feigned or confected.  The loser here is just a boy.  He's been done over something shocking.

We have nothing to fear from boys in foreign lands.  We have everything to fear from those here who are too scared to think straight and are willing to do anything at all, including giving up all their rights, to stop scary videos being made.

Now, whose lives are we talking about here?  Nobody in Australia, the only place we have much control over.  And if number of lives were the criteria, we'd be solving other issues, ones that cause actual deaths in Australia.  Hundreds of such issues are more important than phantasms of terrorism.  But we aren't throwing away all our rights to solve them.  No political mileage in that, it seems.Crazies stab police all the time.  Policing is a dangerous job.  They are trained to resist attacks, but sadly do not always come off unharmed (or even alive).

This is no reason to accept totalitarian police state laws.  It's perhaps a reason to screen people who enter police stations, but maybe not even that.OUB, we will not get any say whatsoever.  That is the problem.

Secret treaties are anti-citizen treaties.  We don't need them.Furthermore, even if copyright violation becomes a crime (as it likely will once the TPP is adopted), how is it reasonable to implement mass surveillance of all citizens in order to catch violators?

If this is reasonable thinking then why do police need warrants to search your house?  Surely getting a warrant has meant that at least one criminal has got away and that's justification for getting rid of citizen rights?

We need protection from the government as much as we need protection from criminals.  That is why there are checks and balances.  Mass surveillance as proposed goes so far past the "checks and balances" stage that I can't understand why anybody supports it.

We need a bill of rights to protect our privacy, not laws to boost government snooping.Conspiracies are everywhere!  Or, you know, maybe they just aren't really there.  The world just thinks differently to you.

I voted Yes in this poll.  I think we should tax fuel a lot more than we do.  I don't see this as controversial.  Perhaps this poll hasn't been hacked after all.

What seems more than passing strange to me is the Greens opposing a fuel tax.  Madness.  Because Abbott won't spend it on public transport?  You can't mandate that sort of stuff anyway, so just pass the fuel tax and *also* hassle Abbott about improving public transport.

Abbott and Co are bypassing democracy to shove something down our throats.  No surprise there.  That's just how they roll.  Get over it.

Labor are opposing in order to score some points.  I can't imagine they really think it will affect people much.  And if it did, then Labor should propose some tilting of the playing field to compensate.  The tax should go ahead.

Of all the odd stuff going on here, it's only the Greens I don't understand.  Opposing a carbon tax?  Crazy people!I cringe every time I hear this "Adults in charge" quip.  What a crock!  For example, Hockey is quoted yesterday as saying:

"The most unfair thing you can do is leave your children, and the generations beyond, with a level of debt that, on birth, immediately constrains their quality of life," he responded.

"It is a simple fact that, if we do not take immediate action on the budget today, then the burden that we are going to leave our children - or ourselves - in 10 years, is going to be far greater."

And yet Hockey is in a government that intends to deliberately leave a bigger debt to their children than exists now, deliberately removed Labor programs that reduce that debt, and intend to remove even more programs that could tackle that debt.

Of course, the debt I speak of is the effect on our climate of our carbon emissions.  Hockey thinks that a number in a ledger is an important thing but thinks that the physics of our biosphere is some triviality that can be pushed onto future Australians.

Adults?  Pretenders and wreckers!Applaudanum, AGB says racism is one cause of radicalism, but not enough on its own.  The article suggests that instead of stoking racism (as our government is doing) we should defuse racism and hence reduce radicalism.  Seems a slamdunk to me.

BinB says our government is using fear of a terror group for political ends and to increase government power locally.  That also seems crystal clear and obvious to me.  BinB is stating the obvious.

The government is playing with fire here.  It is using clumsy anti-muslim rhetoric to feed the fear of terrorism and in the end hopes to have a secret service that is above and beyond the law.

Both results are appalling, one because society will become more dangerous (mostly for muslims, but also for non-muslims) and the other because the spooks will abuse their power with trivial ease.

And all this to combat "terrorism", which has no impact here and would be better dealt with by getting people to lose weight and exercise a bit.  You know, things that are proven to combat actual problems.Applaudanum, I think we are in general agreement, despite the difficulty of getting a subtle view of a controversial topic across in the few words the ABC allows in these little text boxes.

Dissolving the "us" vs "them" distinction seems to me to be the best defense against various negative tendencies, from discrimination up to violence and even, yes, the dreaded "terrorism".  The bulk of Australians need to include Muslims when they think of what Australia means.  Clearly, Muslims need to include non-Muslims as complete equals, even if some of their texts suggest otherwise.

Our government is not helping any of this, of course, and seems to think that some sort of hairy chested "smash the bad guys" plan is better.  This clumsy approach has no place in the 21st century.  It is as embarrassing as it will be ineffective, and worse, it erodes rights that people did indeed fight and die for.  Woeful result, Mr Abbott, and you are a waste of space, Mr Shorten, for not even attempting to save us from this.You mean the dangerous mental attitude required to believe in any religion?  Or just the one where switching from one religion to another seems like it makes sense?Agaras, it is 100% a scare campaign.  The terrorists want to scare people and rather than talk down the risks (in reality the risk of injury to any individual Australian from terrorists is vanishingly small) the government chooses to talk up the risks.  That's a political decision, and one I completely condemn as shortsighted and unproductive.

You sound as if you've been traumatised by the "terror" part of a terrorist attack.  You do that to yourself by dwelling on it.  That harm can be cured.  But not by constantly emphasising how successful terrorists have been (they are generally unsuccessful) or by emphasising how everyone is at risk from everpresent terrorists (they are few and generally inept).

Be prepared, sure.  I like that motto too.  But don't import psychological pain simply because the media and government report every little action of a few nasty groups.  Be aware that other risks are more immediate, more likely and more treatable.

The government manipulates you with fear of terrorism because if you accept their line there's nothing you can do except just give the government more power.  However, if you smoke you can choose to quit and that will help you immediately, without needing the government.  If you are overweight then joining a sporting club will help you immediately, again without giving more power to spies.  If you cut out sugar in your tea, look both ways when crossing the road, and always talk cheerfully with at least one person, every day, you will improve your life far more than any possible increase in ASIO powers could ever do.Agaras, being prepared is a good thing.  But fighting shadows and creating enemies from friends is not "being prepared".

I do have a fire evacuation plan.  I have working smoke alarms.  I know real risks (like dying of smoke inhalation in a fire) vs hyped non-risks (such as terrorism in Australia).  And now that you mention "important documents" in the context of fire, I will review my plans to see if they have inadequacies in this area.  Sensible suggestions are worth implementing even if framed in the context of an attack in a debate.

Preparedness against risk is a good thing.  Misidentifying risks, being played as fools, and giving up rights for false security are not.

So, I'm most definitely not against being prepared.  I just think that current government actions (waved through unopposed by the spineless opposition) do not help our preparedness at all and will be misused instead of helping us in any way.Terry, legal or illegal, I don't think this is the important point.  The lesson of the Iraq war is that the reason we were told we went there (WMDs) was false.  The effect hoped for (stability in the region) was not achieved in even the slightest measure.  The cost, in lives and dollars, was phenomenal.

The war might have been legal in some way, but it was stupid, expensive and embarrassing.  And gave us a bigger mess than we had before.

A useful shorthand would be to call that an "illegal war".  I prefer to call it a "blundering stupidity" and leave it at that.What?  GreyBags points out you've missed reality by a wide margin.  And you think therefore you are extra-super-duper-correct?  I think you should look up the Dunning-Kruger effect.

There is no particular risk of terrorism here.  Unless, perhaps, we work hard at making one.

Let's see, shall we report every transgression of one sub-group?  Tick.  Shall we condemn their dress sense?  Tick.  Shall we declare a special team that not everyone can join and imply that they failed to join?  Tick.

I wish the government was acting in our interests, as you suggest, by trying to bond all Australians in some sense of togetherness.  But I see the opposite.  Personally, I'm repulsed by being told I have to join a specific team, especially with the proposed captain.  Why would anyone else join?  It's an irrational way to attempt inclusiveness.

If Abbott is trying to unite us, he has failed.  If he thinks making spooks immune to any sort of oversight makes me feel safer, he's crazy.  How can this play out in the minority groups that will have these spooks applied against them?  And yes, "them" is the thinking behind all of this.

I can find no fault in the original article, or even in GreyBags' impassioned replies.  We target the wrong groups, with the wrong actions, and wonder why things get worse.  It's incredible.DangerMouse, being a policeman is a dangerous occupation.  Police are trained to deal with attacks.  If I were a policeman, I would worry about being attacked.  Calling one such attack "terrorism" is just a word.  It was an attack like all other attacks.

There is no terrorist threat to me or my family.  None at all.  There are real threats, and I look to minimise them.  But terrorism is a way to sell newspapers and a way to control you by making you fearful.

Recognise and act against real threats.  Ignore make believe threats.  Be particularly cautious about others who would manipulate you by stoking your fears.  They will do you real harm, even if it is too subtle for you to see today.

Your final comments show I'm not being clear.  Perhaps it's too obvious what I think of Mr Abbott.  But I blame Mr Shorten equally for the recent and proposed erosion of our rights and would not respond to his call to join a football team the size of Australia either.

I am already in favour of peaceful coexistence though, so I don't need to join any team to do this.  Others who may think they are already in "Team Australia" are not in favour of peace, but prefer exclusionist policies, ones that make some groups feel second class. 

That is the worst aspect of this "Team Australia" idea: the bigots who are the biggest problem will be absolutely certain they are on the team and playing to win.  Team Australia was a daft and divisive idea, not something promoting unity.Zany, separation of Church and State is only a few hundred years old.  Christianity didn't volunteer for it either.

Islam (the religion) can be split apart from the "must rule the world" bit, just as Christianity has been.  It will just take a few hundred years.

Hmm.  A bit of history: we were forged as a penal colony, not as a Christian outpost.  Any Christian flavour is an accident of colonisation, and has faded over the years.  In fact, lingering religiosity in our leadership is a problem these days.Ol' China, research shows that there is positive discrimination towards tall people.  They are automatically considered better.  In fact, you can calculate a value which represents the average extra pay per year you get for each extra centimetre of height.  It's an odd world.

The opposite is true for short people.  There is discrimination against them.  Short men are particularly discriminated against.  Physically, being a tall man isn't always a good thing, but socially it is.

So, there should be no surprise that saying "You are short" is taken differently to "You are tall".  There is a background of (unconscious) discrimination behind these statements.

Cormann's insult only works if there is a negative association with being a girl.  This is the thing that has fanned the flames.

While part of the government is struggling with the idea that the burqa may be repressing women or it may be free expression, in Cormann's world there is no need for these distinctions because girls are second class anyway.As a committed leftie, I also think the market should have been left to work its magic, i.e. bankrupting everyone involved.  Otherwise everyone will expect a government bailout every time they stuff up.  As they say in banking circles, "privatise the profits and socialise the risk".

But then at the back of my mind, I worry about the small people who would have lost everything in the collapse of various banks.  I think the bank customers should have been bailed out, not the banks themselves.

The bank bailouts helped the richest people much more than the poorest people.  The sad thing about the bailouts was that without them the poorest would have had nothing at all while the richest would have suffered some minor losses.  And with the bailouts, the rich turned a profit while the poorest ended up in two groups: those who lost a little and those who still managed to end up losing everything.

We need to avoid bailouts in future.  Let the companies fail.  But put a safety net around individuals, whatever you chose to call that net.Actually, I hadn't even considered small investors.  I was just thinking of bank customers.  That is, people who had no way to assess the risk and no means to avoid the risk.

Customers of failed banks lose more than anyone else, unless the government steps in.  My view is that the government should directly assist the customers (even perhaps by creating a new government owned bank for them to use) rather than directly propping up the failing banks.  This should allow the market to work (bank investors lose everything) without destroying ordinary citizens.OUB, I don't recall having this conversation with you previously.  I often forget who I'm enemies with too. :-)

Anyway,  I'm not personally nervous about banks and banking, so I don't need to bank directly with the RBA (can I even do that?).

However, our government guaranteed the Big Four banks during the GFC (even now?) which was nice in a way because small depositors were covered, but which was enormously valuable to the banks themselves (and which has been used to smash their competitors).  The side effect of the protection offered to small depositors was that the big banks gained at the expense of other financial institutions.  So, while trying to help depositors, the government instead effectively gave the big banks a big bag of other people's money.

My view is that in a major failure, the government should guarantee the deposits of small investors by either a) creating a new bank and copying the balances across (yes, out of thin air) or b) nationalising failing banks.  The assistance should go to small depositors who can't afford to lose all their small savings, not to investors.

Investors should accept the risk of bank failure and total loss of their investment.  But society needs stable banking.  We shouldn't let this societal need funnel money from the public to bank investors, as has happened in the recent past.I think we're only having half a disagreement, OUB.  I'm only talking about emergency measures, and not advocating the government start a new bank just for the hell of it.  I think competition between banks is a good thing and sadly the bank guarantee removed a lot of it, concentrating power in the Big Four.

You've suggested that the bank guarantee had a positive effect on the economy overall, because the banks were too scared to lend without it, but weren't about to fail.  Sounds like another job for a new government bank.

If the market can't supply banks that function, the government should make one.  Why is it better to hand money to a small group of investors (in the big four banks) when that money could be in something owned by everyone?  (Again, it could be sold later, but it's about the response to a crisis.)

It's hard to avoid feeling cheated when bank investors and bank CEOs make a packet during a crisis due to government action to fix the problems the banks caused.  We should avoid emergency measures that give banks a permanent free ride.It's a bit of a stretch to say capitalism is dead.  It's a useful tool and we should keep it.

Not unrestrained, of course.  Unrestrained capitalism leads to rich overlords and lowly serfs.

And we should target all the corruption around.  There's trillions sloshing around out there that governments should be taxing.

By the way, if the G20 had not been taken over by ridiculous "shirt fronting" hairy chested nonsense, that's what they would be targetting.  As it stands, I'm not sure what they will manage to do, apart from disrupting life and commerce in Brisbane for a week.Peter, I am glad to have lived to see the day when I agreed with you on something.  We don't have to blame the banks for what shortsighted people do with cheap money.  Fat people aren't fat just because food isn't regulated enough.

Of course, I have to stop reading before the anti-left rant. :-)

I try to be measured and even handed, but if I'm in the mood to blame just one thing for all the world's ills, it would be advertising.

Advertising makes poor drink choices such as soft drink look cool.  Advertising makes poor food choices (all fast food, I guess) look sexy.  Advertising is a weird sort of cheating, one not always recognised as cheating.  Advertising is used to sell cheap, poor quality goods.  It's almost competely a bad thing.

Basically, we need to start treating advertising like any other form of pollution.  Keep it to only a few parts per million and we'll be fine.What?!?!  Academic?  Do your rights matter so little to you?

Every power given to government, police, spooks, or whatever, is abused eventually.  Some (such as that QLD anti-biker legislation) are abused *before* they are applied as intended.

Abuse is the expected situation, not this polite use-only-on-the-bad-guys stuff you suggest is normal.  Why make bad easily abused laws when you can make clear, difficult to abuse laws?  Only if abuse is your intention, as I assume is the case here.

We *must* afford the same rights to "suspected terrorists" as civilians otherwise we will all simply be classed as "suspected terrorists" by whoever wants to avoid due process.

As an example of the automatic, almost mundane abuse of laws, anti terrorism laws in the UK were used to hassle people about their dogs possibly going outside without collars.  And they used the same laws to try to catch some people dumping broken furniture on the street.  And to try to nab someone who played loud drums.  And, most amusingly, to try to get people to put their recyclables in the right bin in Milton Keynes.

These were petty misuses of anti-terrorism laws in the UK, so they were eventually discovered and publicised, but misuse and abuse is the normal, expected case for new laws.  Do not be deluded about this.  And now that we have laws making it illegal to point out illegality in spook land, there will be no constraint of any sort on people who wish to misuse any extra powers we give them.

Of course, there's no need for extra laws at all, but nobody is talking about that for some reason.  More power to government spooks gets bipartisan support for what reason?  I can't think of one.yank, you know as well as I do that in the current Australian political system, members vote for the party line and that's all.  A few people within each party decided "Adding a random bag of extreme laws will make us look tough" and therefore we have these awful laws.

PS to all: it's "toe the line" not "tow the line".Sadly, these new laws won't make us any safer.  Instead they open opportunities for corrupt action by security agencies.

All of us here want a safe society.  It's just that these laws don't deliver that.  And the cost of these laws is lost freedom and increased corruption.I agree with Dugong here.  Kate Ellis, for example, is one of the few genuine politicians and tries to do the best for people.  It just seems she doesn't know anything about this topic.

But is it better for our pollies to be ignorant or malicious?  Ignorant, definitely, because we have a chance to educate them.  And that's what seems to be the case with the Q/A panelists.

They will go back to their offices burning with indignation.  They will tell their colleagues (in private) about how they got dakked in public on this issue.  They will want to know about the upcoming laws.  They may question their sense and usefulness.  There is some chance now that the next tranch of stupid laws will be blocked or at least toned down.Nonsense.  Someone wearing a shirt that says "Love it or leave" is not saying "I love Australia" but instead "If you disagree with me then get out".  That's offensive and not just a little bit.  It's in your face and obnoxious.

It's telling that you make the same mistake with that Mr Green's article as you do with this article.  You have an inbuilt bias that is so strong you can't see it.

Look to your own fixed views.  Other views are viable and can coexist.john1, you've almost stooped to the classic "facts have a left-wing bias" level.

Australia has been moving to the right for decades now.  A Rip Van Winkle character woken from his 20 year sleep in Australia would be shocked at how right wing the media and government are these days.

You should be celebrating.  Australia is now made in your image.  The Left is a mere rump of what it once was.  The Right takes all.

But then, some small group of Uni students say "We should keep an open mind and look for media biases" and you're all up in arms and crying foul!  Incredible.No, Terry, the T-shirts are not saying that.  If someone wears a shirt that reads "Love it or leave" they are not saying "I love Australia", which would be a positive, inclusive statement, they are saying "If you don't agree with me then get out", which is obnoxious and clearly offensive.  You need to do some revision on your reading comprehension.

Australia is still a great place to live, even with some obnoxious loudmouths who refuse to leave (*), and that's why lots of people want to come here.  But do we want it to be better than it is or worse than it is?  The mere existence of this shirt makes it worse.

(*) I.e. the people who wear shirts like this.Dugong, what is wrong with what Flanagan said?  It seems quite plain.

Our PM has damaged the world view of Australia with his counterfactual comments.  Flanagan is calling him out on it.

In fact, our PM has defined his own country (Team Australia) and in that alternate country, I guess he thinks it's possible coal is a good thing.  Naturally, we would want to distance ourselves from that sort of aberant revisionism.  Far from being proud to be part of that variant of Australia, we would be ashamed.

I agree that Flanagan said what he meant and meant what he said.  He has expressed the thoughts of many Australians.  Flanagan is an outstanding Australian (and Tasmanian) and we should pay attention to what he says.Dugong, the PM claimed that coal was a good thing right now, not historically.  In that he is incorrect and dangerously so.

We must all speak out against the incorrect claims of all politicians, but doubly so if it is our Prime Minister.Dugong, as a Tasmanian, Mr Flanagan probably uses hydro power.  Unless he has solar.

You make much of the purported benefits of coal, but do not consider the costs.  Those costs are so large that people must speak out.  Mr Flanagan has done us a great service and has highlighted how out of place and out of time is our current PM.Why do you say that?  While answering, bear in mind that this article is ... how do I say it ... contrary to fact in most statements.  For example, it claims Liberal and Labor opposition to the ANU's actions.  In reality, people across the board, including John Hewson and Malcolm Fraser support the ANU and are worried about the government's apoplectic response to such a small thing.

In short, the ANU's actions seem small and proportionate.  The ANU is to be commended but also encouraged to go further.Ha ha!  Because the ANU gets some government money it must always yield to the whims of the current government?  No government funded organisation does that.  They all have rules they must follow, but dancing to the wishes of any individual minister is rarely one of them.

The ANU has made an excellent decision here.  More so because it upsets some very backward thinking people in the current government.  Those people are now aware that they have little wiggle room to prop up their polluting buddies and must soon accept a global solution to mitigate climate change.

By the way, what aspect of "green" has got up your nose?  Green organisations are trying to ensure that you and your children and their children have a future on this planet.  Why try to stop funding to those groups that are working entirely for your benefit?  That's not rational.It's easy to speculate on "could haves" and "would haves".  However, the problems with Rudd's CPRS were massive (including low targets and enormously generous gifts to existing polluters).  It wouldn't have worked without significant corrective action later.  Why accept a fake ETS when you can campaign for a real one?

The difficult thing to predict back then is how much Rudd would want Labor to fail once they rolled him.  I certainly was suprised by that.  If Rudd hadn't decided to get revenge on all concerned, Gillard would still be PM and the existing (still weak, but useful) carbon tax would be in place.

So, in the end, I blame Rudd and pretty much nobody else.On the contrary, there is no evidence that "the effects of global emissions are negligible".  You'll have to do better than simply making empty claims that are contrary to established scientific fact.

And it's entirely fair to compare fossil fuels to tobacco.  Both give you a satisfying hit (one of nicotine, another of motive energy), but both cost you too much in the long run and should be avoided.Amber, heat is going into the oceans more than the air for the present moment.  That oscillation will go the other way soon.  All temperature records must be corrected for anomalies of collection.  Warming is causing extreme weather events but there's no easy way to link any specific event to a given amount of warming.  Antarctic sea ice area is increasing but Antarctic ice volume is declining.  To harp on about increasing area of sea ice but omit to mention declining ice volume (which is much more important) shows you to be disingenuous.

Science shows that we are harming our chances of living into the future.  We should take corrective action.  Cheap, simple action includes shutting down coal mining.  We should nationalise and close all coal mines to improve our chances of having any future at all.whogoesthere, yes, you can make a good argument for abandoning fossil fuels outside of the climate change problem.  Basically, they dirty our air and cause death and illness that way.  We can save money overall by reducing fossil fuel usage if we simply count the cost of damaged health.

However, there's so much fossil carbon in the ground that it won't run out fast enough to save us.  If only it were so then we wouldn't be having this conversation.  Fossil fuel companies would have used their enormous wealth to build their own alternate energy plants instead of funding FUD about climate science.

We have to leave coal in the ground, even the stuff that is cheap to extract, because it's too expensive (in the long term) to burn it.  If the future cost of burning coal right now could be forced on the people burning it then they would stop immediately.

Sadly the only price pressure against burning coal was removed by the Abbott government.  Once we can get rid of them we can move towards protecting our future.  While they are in power, we will have no government support for this.

Luckily that doesn't matter as much as you would think.  Despite government criticism, organisations like the ANU continue to divest poor investments such as coal.  The dropping price of solar panels and their enthusiastic takeup by ordinary people means that we are moving to a renewable energy position despite the opposition of our backward looking government.  We may be OK after all despite Abbott's strong efforts to sink us.Universities are supposed to be forward thinking.  That's what the ANU has demonstrated.

The income loss you bemoan is illusory though.  A carbon tax will return, and this time it must cover all carbon emissions.  The value of coal will drop to nothing soon enough, and at that point economists will be praising the ANU's hard headed capitalistic decision making.It is their money.  The ANU has money and they invest it wisely.  These investments form part of their income.I'm afraid you're wrong on all counts there.  Just because you say so does not change what the ANU is.  In fact, the ANU's recent actions show that they are not only a centre of scientific research and understanding but also a moral actor in a sea of amoral actors.

It is the PM and his colleagues that should justify their actions.  They are factually and morally in the wrong.  They should be acting to ensure our future prosperity (i.e. by contributing to a solution to human caused global warming).  Instead they are attempting to force others to prop up a dirty and dangerous industry.

As a tax payer, I subsidise these highly polluting industries whether I like it or not.  How do I opt out of that?This is one of the main things that people are getting wrong: the ANU is not an activist group.  They are merely trimming their investments to attain a more ethical investment mix.

This is a good and welcome move but is not radical.  If the ANU sold everything and went into lobbying government then I'd be dismayed.  That's not what they exist for.

However, it seems by simply saying "We shall be a little more ethical in our investing from now on" the ANU has upset some very unethical people in power.  For this small act the ANU should be congratulated.Roginald (interesting name, by the way), the ANU is a staid organisation.  They hired another company to do the analysis.  Then they sold a small percentage of their portfolio.  This is really "ho hum" stuff.  They made a small step towards ethical investment, presumably to demonstrate to prospective students and donors that they are in it for the long term.

Now, if you are asking me, I would make burning coal an offense.  I'm not a staid, boring, University.  I want action now!  Mining diamonds is unethical because people die.  Mining other stuff might be OK on a case by case basis.  Mining coal is unethical.  Burning oil and gas is unethical because they harm our environment.  It will be a while before we can ban them entirely, but we shouldn't be looking for more of the stuff.  We should be replacing that dangerous old technology with new technology.

We've got enough evidence now to justify making a sharp handbrake turn on energy policy.  We have to decarbonise the economy and do it fast.  It is bitterly disappointing that our government is opposed to solving this crisis.  They should butt out if they are not willing to help.It's the ANU's money and they are investing it in a way they think will help them and their students the most in the future.AE, we can quit our jobs any time but we can't become a highly paid CEO unless we are part of the club.  They all sit on each other's boards and vote each other vast pay increases.  Letting outsiders in would dilute the vast trough of cash they sup from.

Ordinary people can't break into that inner circle.  But we can elect to clean their toilets for minimum wage.Recent research shows that people believe that CEO pay should be restricted to 4.6 times the minimum wage.  Sadly it also shows that people believe they earn about 10 times the minimum wage when the reality is they earn hundreds of times the minimum wage.

We need strong action in this area.  Make it illegal to pay executives more than some small multiple of the minimum wage and you will "life all boats" in very quick order!WA Ideas, companies would still function, capitalism would still work, the free market would still be just as effective if there were no deductions whatsoever.  None.

Let's try that.  It would sort out a *lot* of rorts.Yeah, it will be better when schools go back to turning out robots to work in grey brick factories.  There's no point explaining how to enjoy life or how to think outside the square.  We definitely want them to think *inside* the square!  Go to work, work for the boss, go home and watch TV.  Don't upset the applecart.  That's how it should be, right?  Of course not.

On the contrary, every child should be taught drawing, painting, poetry, acting and a musical instrument.  Then when they grow up they may form a society worth living in.  They may see why living is worthwhile.  They may view us as a society not just an economy.

Your narrow economics driven view is severely limited.  It is a recipe for the worst sort of society, one where people are grey, dull and boring.

Are you by any chance an accountant?APM, I fear you predict accurately that the LNP will be re-elected.  A disastrous outcome, certainly, but highly likely.

Why?  Because Shorten is a liability to Labor.  He is one of the people deeply involved in the revolving leadership problem that Labor has had for the last few years.  If he gave his spot to someone else (pretty much anyone else in Labor) a line could be ruled under that episode and we could move on.

By the way, this idea of Labor being "populist and reflexively obstructive" is hilarious, since that's Abbott's trademark.  If anything, Labor is too accomodating.  Witness their complete lack of spine when the government passed all that unnecessary and dangerous anti-terror (and anti-whistleblower, anti-free speech, anti-reporting) legislation.  Will they even blink when the LNP introduces the total internet surveillance measures they want?  I hope Labor can grow a backbone and block this outrageous anti-citizen activity.Mr Turnbull, we need the ABC.  Stop destroying it.

We also need a working NBN, but that's another story.When a politician wants to destroy something, they can do it up front, or they can undermine it bit by bit and hope to conceal their intentions.

Demanding "efficiency" in the case of the ABC is just a way of saying "we are going to give you less and less money until you fail".

It's not about efficiency in any reasonable sense.  It's about nobbling critics.Yes, there is a difference between a cut and a saving.  The government is exploiting the confusion caused by calling it "savings" while implementing a "cut".  They say their hands are clean because they are only looking for "efficiency", not "punishment".

The ABC is critical of the government.  No politician is a big enough person to accept criticism.  Instead they try to destroy detractors.  The only difference between Labor and the LNP here is the LNP intends to crush the ABC instead of hoping they'll go away.The question was only "Is it humans or is it something else?"  The third "I don't know" option completes the set.

I'm still trying to work out what you could mean by a not normal climate change that is not caused by human activity.  Aliens at work, perhaps?I can't tell if that's a freight train heading towards me.  Definitely in the "don't know" category.  I guess it's business as usual then and I'll keep standing on these train tracks until you can prove there's a train coming.  Safest way to be, vacillating and undecided and taking no action.Yeah, analogies have limits.  However, switching from fossil fuels to renewables is already something that we should be doing, purely for air quality reasons.  (Yes, coal fired power generation kills people and we should do something about that.)  Recent analysis shows we would save money overall (because dying people are costly and unproductive, so we save cash as well as lives).

So the way my analogy would play out is we should get off the train tracks for reasons unrelated to fast moving freight trains.  And it would involve a fairly easy stroll down the bank, not a dive into a river.  Staying where we are is pig headed and benefits a very narrow segment of society to the considerable expense of the rest of us.You have the problem that producing a "reputable climate skeptic scientist" is not possible.

If you think you have one, please be specific.  And try to explain why you think they are a "climate scientist", not simply someone in a white coat purchased by a coal miner.Amber, how many climate scientists have you got?  You've suggested that experts in other fields are possibly on your side.  I think that even if you could produce any of those(*), it doesn't mean much.

You need climate scientists for climate science.  Show us climate scientists who think we have nothing to worry about in terms of the world's future climate and maybe you'd have something.

Until then, you've managed to fool yourself, and that's about it.

(*) Searching the internet for fruit loops will deliver fruit loops.  That's not the same as finding people who have qualifications and expertise in the areas they claim.  I think you'll have to do better than suggesting we just Google for them.This is a legitimate concern.  Those who can afford solar panels are being subsidised.  It seems likely that extra money comes from people too poor to buy solar panels.  That's a shame.

Instead, the money should come from those who are rich and do not buy solar panels.  Perhaps a special tax on coal miners would be appropriate.  I would vote for that.No Alfie, it's a temporary setback.

It is possible to fight physics for only a short while.  Eventually even the most firmly bought politician must give up and go with the science.Alfie, you refer to the new politics where elections are won only on false promises?  I think that is a passing fancy.  People are waking up to the startling number of fibs the current mob supplied as "promises".  I don't think it's repeatable.

I expect Labor to take a carbon tax to the next election and I expect them to win.  No matter how many pointless foreign wars we join, it will not be enough to trump the facts of climate change.

I also look forward to the history books of 20 years hence where Abbott will have a special spot as the architect of the largest backward step in recent history.  His other achievements, whatever they might be, are small compared to this huge leap backwards.Money trail?  You think $60 billion is a lot of money in the fossil fuel area?  What a joke.

BP spent US$14 billion to clean up one oil spill, US$13 billion compensating people and are likely to be hit with a US$18 billion fine as well.  That's US$45 billion from *one* fossil fuel company for just *one* event!  They have deep pockets and this will be only an annoyance to them.

The amount of money these companies have is staggering.  The amount they spend to confuse people like you is huge.  These amounts make your "scientific conspiracy" numbers look tiny.  You'll have to exaggerate more next time.

So, even if we assumed every scientist was crooked, they are cheap compared to the amount of money fossil fuel companies could afford to pay them off with.  Instead they only buy off a few politicians, and that's enough to keep the hounds at bay.Lots of people dislike the Greens because they are pro-environment and that gets in the way of polluting industries.  That's about the end of the list though.

I don't know of any lies from any Greens senators.  This is in stark contrast to the major parties.

In short, it is your own ideological position that is exposed here.

The Greens are moderates.  I would like to see a more radical party form, one that could put forward some actual leftist positions in order to show just how right wing every other party is these days.You're close to the truth here, sadly.

Groups of humans have never bonded because of facts.  They bond due to shared beliefs, but these beliefs don't have to be factual.  We are simply seeing bonding in action, and the current marker to show you are conservative is denial of the science of climate change.

It could have been blue ties, frizzy hair, sporty cars, or a brand of chocolate.  It just happens to be denial of science this time.

It is unfortunate that this has happened.  It has set our civilisation back decades.  We may take a century to recover from this new way that brand conscious conservatives bond.
