It is increasingly obvious that if Abbott had been able to form a minority government in 2010, the link with Greens and independents would have progressed even worse than his current attempt to progress his unannounced and deceptive policies.  
Now, having decided to say just anything that appeared to please the electorate, without the slightest intention of keeping any of those commitments, he is hanging his entire political success on a rag-tag group of independents, many of whom don't like his hard-line, pro-business, anti-welfare (except for working mothers) stance, and the Palmer party.
Clive just happens to be in the right place at the right time - perhaps he predicted this from his judgement of Abbott's and his team's capabilities .
I'll stick my neck out and predict that Abbott will not be remembered so much for his administrative ineptitude (although that's pretty remarkable) but for his inability to see that he is in the process of chaining himself to a series of political dependancies that will continually dog his government and make his agenda very difficult to achieve.
I tend to agree that a double dissolution would be the best thing for the country, but doubt that Abbott is courageous enough to take that risk, even with Rupert on his side.Coming to the defence of injured parties is usually an effective way to be seen as a force for good.  Abbott has taken exactly the right approach to the MH17 atrocity and the electorate's response was predictable.
My partner found his rather blunt terminology about people having been "snuffed out" rather insensitive (even if it's accurate), but the poll bounce shows that the effect was positive overall.
It's a reflection on Australian sentiment that his previous lack of sympathy for endangered, desperate, and damaged asylum-seekers was also seen by many Australians (possibly a majority) as being a good thing.
It's easy to be defensive of and sympathetic to our own.  The ability to defend and feel sympathy for outsiders is probably a more accurate measure of a person's humanity.This is only necessary if you live in a society of extremes.
Perhaps we could try to avoid that.It would be foolish to argue against anti-terrorism proposals on the basis of pure ideology (left v. right, for example).  Without question, Australians would prefer to know that dangerous people can be identified and, hopefully, neutralised in their threat to us all.
Aiming to establish such protections is not helped by the government claiming that it will reverse the onus of proof on individuals who plan to travel to global trouble-spots.  
Such a move would allow detention and imprisonment purely on the suspicion that someone might commit a violent act, without proof of a basis for that suspicion, except for their travel destination.
This is straight out of the extremist authoritarian government handbook.  More importantly, it is impossible to prove a negative case.   So people detained under this proposal could find themselves in prison for a very long time and possibly without any foundation to the original suspicion.
Many of us Australians would view such changes as dangerous and likely to create more problems than they solve.  

It's tempting to think that the government doesn't actually realise what it's proposing, or that it is not serious about this.
The concept of a person being guilty until proven innocent is not just wrong, it is assininely wrong.
First, it is logically impossible to prove a negative.  Secondly, it is impossible to prove what your thoughts are, whether benevolent or evil.  
If Australia is to adopt a system that relies upon a new force of thought police, while allowing people to be detained until they prove their own innocent intentions, it really has become some sort of la-la land.
That's the sort of land that at least 80% of Australians don't want to live in.
Should a very big slice of the population consider leaving the country? or should they instead think a bit more actively about removing this absurdity that calls itself a government and hilariously refers to its members as adults?An independent world government would, sadly, result in the same kind of absurdities, but on a global scale, and would be even less accountable to the individual.Thinking globally, population is one key to all the problems the world if facing, from oceanic pollution, via global warming, to disputes over residential territory and beyond.
Have a look at the world population clock and you'll see what I mean.
Rapid industrialisation of large nations is the partner in this progressive degradation of our world, with the increased need to generate energy and manufacture the "essentials" of a developed nation.
If industries must change their habits to avoid the clear and present danger of large-scale catastrophes around the globe, slowing population growth should be seen as an essential counterpart to that.  
So what is the long-term benefit of paying a financial incentive for people to reproduce?  Suggestions, anyone?One might guess that the Federal Government is making life and the economy easy for the big industries so that they will generate lots of jobs for the unemployed to apply for.
Alternatively it could be proposed that the motive is more selfish, with many politicians, particularly those holding ministerial office, looking to what might be a near-future need for a different job.
Who'd worry about losing a parliamentarian's salary and the grief that goes with earning it at the next election, if there are super-wealthy friends ready to provide consultancies, lobbyist positions, etc.
Yes, this is a cynical view.  But that doesn't necessarily make it inaccurate.  So relax, workers and unemployed folk, we are not likely to have to put up with this institutionalised insult to democracy much longer.  Couple of years at the most, unless there are enough of us stupid enough to buy the same lies again in two years' time.That's the kind of mess Abbott should be aiming for, rather than dismantling constructive and future-friendly systems to replace them with simple dig-up-and-sell processes.Some of the comments on this page illustrate vividly just how effective the short-slogan campaigning process can be.
Curiously, many of those short-slogan-led commentators appear to be contradicting the basic tenet of the article for which they are providing proof.
None so blind as those who won't see.CC, every time I see hectares of hole-in-the-ground, where there was once untouched wilderness (yes, even deserts are wilderness, with a fragile biology) I feel even more strongly motivated to support wind, wave, or any other kind of power that doesn't involve tearing up the land so that we can burn dirty carbon.
But apparently, Joe Hockey finds massive, open-cut coalmines less offensive than wind-farms.  Can't really empathise with this government.Interesting that Abbott is credited with axing the tax.
Perhaps I missed something, but didn't the bill get modified in the Senate and have to go back to the Reps for those modifications to be accepted or rejected?
Suppose those modifications are rejected by the Reps?  I thought it would then have to go back to the Senate, where it could be rejected without those amendments.
Or am I missing something.  Anyone able to clarify?
It certainly seems that the axing celebrations may be a tad premature.Sadly George, this will not be.  Labor doesn't have Murdoch and his multiple news outlets on their side, because Murdoch likes his power and his wealth to be looked after by the Australian government.  The coalition will do that.
So there will not be a nationwide smear campaign over Abbott's broken promises.Dandelion, tell me when you ever saw a popular tax of any kind.
The difficulty with the carbon tax was always that the conservative press and conservative governments couldn't give a tinker's cuss about the global future.  
If all the costs had been shafted back to the least wealthy, then Abbott and Co would have adopted it gleefully.
But... like... you know... who cares about the next two global generations?The superannuation nest-egg does indeed make an appealing target for a money-hungry national budget.
However, there is no indication that this government could be trusted to leave the superannuation of base-line workers intact, while putting a modest tax on superannuation that accumulates indecent amounts of cash.
That would be the only way super could be used as a budget rescue resource without once again slugging the least priveleged proportionately more than the most priveleged.
To do the right thing would require a truly benevolent government, with concern for the most vulnerable in society and a recognition that accumulating large amounts of cash automatically takes a person (or family trust) out of that category.
Fat chance in the next two years.Whether it's the Medicare co-payment or fuel excise, increasing the payments MUST affect low income earners more than high income earners.
Hockey's contention that low income earners don't own cars is a blatant misuse of the statistics in exactly the same way as his insistance that a small co-payment won't affect poorer people because it's only a few dollars and is only for the first few visits to the doctor.
Clearly this overpriveleged, lifestyle-subsidised politician needs to get out among the pensioners, the chronically ill, the disabled, and the long-term unemployed to witness the details of their lifestyle, opportunities, financial constraints, and lack of opportunity.
For as long as this stubborn, selectively deaf individual is in charge of the nation's finances, the truly disadvantaged will be suffering a punishment that Hockey tries to justify by demonstrably false claims based on distortions of the statistics.
I'm guessing you've never needed to survive on the dole with a mortgage or rent to pay.  
It's easy to be critical from the outside.Giving media businesses the right to store metadata which, one assumes, the government through one or another of its agencies can use to track people's actions, would be manna from heaven for a ruling party.
Just imagine having advance knowledge of who the opposition and the cross-benchers were communicating with.
What embarassing connections might a government use to remain in power.
Ordinary folk out there, I don't think your dalliance with dodgey websites or dodgey people is what they're concerned about.  I think it's more a matter of maintaining the upper hand.  This current government appears to have no other way to ensure that legislation gets through or that they get re-elected in 2016.  A bit of political dirt, based on knowing who's been talking to whom, wouldn't go astray....and everyone follows the rules... all the time.That was irony, Jimmy.  We know how few people follow the rules, so the statement that businesses are not allowed to retain personal data... etc. is a bit like saying that businesses are not allowed to overcharge customers or do a dodgey job for a full fee.  But many do, more out of a sense of self-preservation than out of any intention to be villainous for its own sake.
Couldn't agree more, Jimmy.  But turning over those details to a government agency, or marketing company could be a nuisance to you in the future, or possibly worse.
Our leaders are not suggesting that metadata should be kept just for the sake of keeping it.  There is clear intention to use such information for whatever purpose the current mood requires.Sorry Jimmy.  I appear to have misinterpreted your post.APM, the Liberals are wealthy-supporting, old and dirty industry-supporting, and bigotry-supporting extremists.
The farce acted out by Christopher Pyne anytime he is given responsibility would be amusing apart from the damage done to educations systems.  Joe Hockey's revelation of his angry, poor-people-hating attitudes (while puffing on big cigars) has shown the true colours of even this apparently benevolant Liberal.  
The majority of proposed legislations are so over-the-top supporting of higher earners and big corporations that even some of the right wing independents have trouble supporting them.  Otherwise our pugilist turned prime minister would be wafting his legislation through the senate.
Perhaps Abbott and his government should stop and think, before introducing their next legislatory insult to our generally humane population.  
We are not Americans (although some of the business people style themselves that way).  We are principally Australians who have a concept of a fair go and looking after the less fortunate.  Most importantly, relatively few Australians can be fooled into accepting dictatorial legislation by the socio-economic scare tactics of the cigar-puffing money grabbers.John Coochey, if an honest admission that a deeply flawed question cannot be answered is the basis of your doubting the science, then you are clearly not a scientist.  
It also explains quite a lot about the climate-change denial mind-set.I wonder JC how mercilessly you would have harassed Albert Einstein over the fact that his remarkable understanding and developments in physics had not yielded a single buck over many years.
Go and do a science degree!  And if you already have, give back your diploma.And, very sadly, Australia will swallow the pseudo-economic arguments used to justify Abbott's return to the past.
The interesting question then will be: how long will the rest of the world keep wanting our high-carbon emmission products?  With developments occurring across the globe, those nations going to renewable and non-greenhouse emitting energy systems will be modifying their industries to use those systems while Australia remains in the coal-age.  At some point in the near future, our coal is likely to become much less valuable.  
Then what do we sell, to maintain our high living standards?Hmmm. A little learning is an embarrassing thing.
TonyM, go do a little search of the REAL scientific literature.The puzzle is why anyone needs to see Ian Thorpe as a gay role model.  He's an accomplished athlete with gold medals.  Great! 
Why would anyone be concerned about his sexuality?  That's none of our bloody business.  It is a topic that is relevant only to himself and those close to him, or to those who either want to lambast him for being gay, or those who wish to use him as a symbol to support gay pride.
He's a person who is what he is.  If he hadn't been hounded about his sexuality by journalists of dubious motive and even more dubious journalistic values, he'd still be just Ian Thorpe: the Olympian legend.According to the reports I've seen, Germany is reviving its coal industry because of domestic mistrust of their nuclear power stations.  Not because wind or solar power doesn't work.Did you see Four Corners last week?  The US is using solar power to melt large quantities of salt (sodium chloride) and using the stored heat to keep power flowing through the night.
You can't just argue that storage isn't possible, you have to explain why this and other methods of storage should not be developed to help combat the burning of dirty coal.Fairies at the bottom of your garden would be a positive belief.  So out of character among the constant rejection, denial, and self-delusion about the status quo. 
Indeed, banking on the status quo is also relying on a myth.  The status with respect to "conventional" power generating methods is changing rapidly, although you'd need to be paying attention to see that.Ingenious, just in case your final comment was directed at me, I'd like to reassure you that I voted for the emmissions trading scheme and didn't complain when it was negotiated into a carbon tax.  
I wouldn't want anyone to believe that I support the mob of clowns currently masquerading as our government.I didn't see a single sign or sound of salivation, SVJ.  I read a simple comment on how the most surprising (unexpected) people are seeing Abbott's apparent ineptitude in governing.
Could it be that you imagined the sounds of salivation through your conservative earsAnd the most basic understanding of what GM crops actually are, makes such scaremongering statements quite pathetic.I suspect, Daz, that Tony is waiting for the trees to plant more trees.  Seeds fall down, seeds germinate, seedlings grow into trees.  You do have to wait a fair while for all this to happen, but it is all undeniably "natural".
Sadly, we need something just a little quicker.John1, Bob is entirely correct.  Had the Prime Minister given a decent amount of attention to his election promises, rather than simply reversing most of them, the senate re-run in WA could have yielded a much better deal for him.
But Abbott and his travelling circus proceeded to act arrogantly in denying that they were doing anything that contradicted their pre-election platform.  They have behaved as though the electorate is composed of simpletons who can be told a string of contradictory things in the first few months of an election cycle and will simply swallow it.
The arrogance of the government is quite liberally spread across all of its major players and Australians do not respond well to arrogance when it is directed at their own future, finances, health, education or welfare.
These guys are getting the problems they have deserved since week-one of their term.  And they still haven't learned that blaming the consequence of their dishonesty and disorganisation on others won't help them to win over the electorate.If my aged memory serves correctly, Israel was created - post WWII - as a home for displaced Jews who had been persecuted and displaced by the nazi regime.
At that time, my father was a British soldier serving in Palestine as part of the peace-keeping force, with the aim of providing a new State of Israel for Jews.
It is now very disappointing and quite sad to see sections of the nation that were left in place for Palestinians being occupied by Israeli troops and the Palestinians being treated as the enemy in their own land.  Echoes of persecution from the past.
The claim by Jewish people on those pieces of Palestine left for the Palestinians is alleged to be based on the fact that the old testament God bestowed that "promised land" on the Jews. 
This does feel like an echo of the Monty Python version of King Arthur's tale, of the Lady of the Lake bestowing Excalibur upon the young Arthur.  
Free-thinking citizens might argue that you can't legitimately claim to be leader of the Britons just because some watery tart threw a sword at you.
All this talk of opinions is pretty pointless. 
There should be no question (let alone opinions) on whether trusted advisers should be trustworthy.
If a PAYE taxpayer does anything that isn't strictly to the rule of tax law, they will be hunted down and brought to book.
To suggest that a financial adviser should be treated any differently, when they knowingly advise a client to pursue an investment that benefits the adviser at the expense of the client, is hypocrisy at a criminal level.
A government that allows financial institutions, or any other organisation, to knowingly deceive customers and to profit from that deception should be held as complicit in that dishonest action.
Here's a very serious test for this government. Let's see how they perform.  And remember that political sympathies will not be a factor in how the financial institutions treat a client (or sucker, depending on your personal preference for terminology)Okay "The OJ", keep bleating the same blind nonsense.  Maybe your fellow conservatives will maintain their conviction about these blatantly misleading claims and that's probably all that matters.
Talk to the Pacific Islanders who are experiencing increased flooding already.  What will your words of comfort be when they have to shift to other islands, or mainland continents?
Bet I know the answer... "Stop the Boats!"
Correct in principle, but bad timing Yank.  
At present our global representatives try to sell themselves as adults, but are still resorting to the "blankets over the head" solution for frightening noises in the night.
Our self-proclaimed "adults in charge" are not leaders.  They are followers of the profit-obsessed industries that are causing much of the current threat.
We will soon be in deep social and environmental doo-doo of there is no change.Eggman?  You appear to be ignoring a variety of events occurring across the world, including rapid growth of wind-power, continuing growth of solar power, and the ITER project that just might be the real solution.
No, things are not progressing fast enough.  No, there is not enough begin done anywhere.  But don't claim zero action.
And before you claim that none of that is making a difference think of the old saying.  'Tis better to light a single candle than to curse the dark.
No-one needs to give up the A/C.  They just need to have it powered by a renewable, non-polluting source.
More windmills please!Oh where to begin...?  All animal life produces carbon dioxide, while plants consume it and release oxygen.
Carbon dioxide is not the only carbon compound to cause this problem.  Methane (CH4) is about 25 times more potent as a greenhouse gas than CO2.  So people refer to carbon as a shorthand for "carbon-based compounds".
Methane is produced naturally by bacteria in swamps and oceans.  Higher temperatures foster more vigorous growth of those bacteria (look up oceanic methane plumes and check out their increased size and frequency in recent times).@ScottBE (to EVAN) "Are you such a nay-sayer that no matter what is achieved you condemn? or are you merely a yes-man for anti-green rhetoric?"

Answer: Yes and Yes.  Not one OR the other, but both.  Without questions.Yes, Yank, he is wrong.  He definitely, indisputably, does NOT believe in man-made climate change.  
If he did actually believe, he would show it at least in some tiny way.  And he doesn't.
What he DOES believe, is that he can lie to the Australian people about anything and some of them will take him at his word.  In that, I suspect he is correct.
Then, gbe, you have not been paying attention.  Abbott has taken lying about his political intentions at a previously unseen level.  I started voting in 1968 and in that 54 years no other politician of any political complexion has matched even one tenth of Abbotts deliberate and unashamed lies before election and in the following 9 months.
What puzzles me, is how this can be allowed to continue by the Australian electorate.  I guess there are just enough dumb, believe-anything their chosen politician spouts, risk-denying voters out there to make Australia the laughing stock of the democratic world.Where do you get this rubbish?
"The evidence for AGW hasn't increased, it's decreased." 
I challenge you to Cite a single credible source for that claim.  i.e. a peer-reviewed publication. Not some shock-jock opinion, or the latest comment by the coal industry, but a genuine, qualified, scientific analyst(s)."Honour killings" (a wonderful oxymoron) are not unique to Islam.  If you agree with killing people just because a particular culture says it's okay, you are of questionable worth to the thinking members of the human race.Asking people to "fall off the twig" is not what population control is about.  They will all do that naturally.  In Australia, many of them within the next 20 years.
Indeed Australia has the solution right now: our breeding level (at present) is below replacement level but we take in many migrants.  In that move, we tackle our part of the population problem, while helping to raise immigrants to an Australian standard of living.
It's the constant encouragement for people to breed that is creating the population problem.  China addressed this a long time ago and their population has changed very little from then, compared with India (with a population fast approaching the size of China's).
The social conditions that make multiple children a security factor need to be addressed before most of the fast-growing populations can be persuaded to use more contraception.As a research scientist of some 40 years, and not that far off retiring, I can guarantee that research does not pay well, except for the few whose discoveries have direct commercial relevance (Barry Marshall being an example of the latter) or those who get into a secure job early and build a lifetime of superannuation.  Most science is funded on temporary funding... making it a pretty damned insecure life.
Climate scientists (not my own field) are even less likely make big money than those in medically relevant disciplines such as Barry.
So if an entire discipline of scientists agree on a particular conclusion, you can bet your boots that they seriously believe it to be the most convincing conclusion to fit the existing data.
Imagine then, just how farcical, stupid, self-deluding, and frightened all those climate-change denialists appear, to an objective interpreter of the data.The Oxford Dictionary (the only credible one for English) defines a sentient being as "one able to perceive or feel things".  The magic word is "perceive".  That means "Become aware or conscious of (something); come to realize or understand".
So ditch your dictionaries, you who believe it means just to "feel" something.Give them time, Harquebus.  Burning things to make energy has been going on for a very long time.  Let the windmills turn for a while before judging them.How the... dickens do you decide whether a person has a 45% chance of persecution or a 55% chance?
In some places just failing to chant the standard expressions of a particular religion will put a person over the 50% mark.  Likewise, failing to commit atrocities in the name of a religion can do the same.
Obviously the process is much more complicated than we can appreciate, but neglecting those with a one-in-three likelihood of vicious acts of persecution sounds pretty bloody un-Australian to me.Damon, Australia's population going from 23 million to 40 million is the least of our worries.  There was a world-wide announcement in October 2011, when the global population reached 7 billion.  It is now 7.242 billion.  That is 242 million more in less than 3 years.  Our predicted rise of 17 million in 36 years barely registers on the global scale, especially when you realise that our growth is mostly from immigration.  It's the global scale that matters, since we all share the same little globe.Don't know how I managed it, but this comment made its way from the Environment pages to this one.  Where it is entirely out of place.  Apologies, folks.Sadly, Labor are doing much the same as Abbott and Co did in opposition.  I agree it's a mistake, but such is the absurdity of this parliament that alternatives have become very difficult.Careful what you wish for, Maz.  There's more to Clive than meets the eye.  And we don't really know what that remaining fraction comprises.There's no doubt Clive is an entertaining bloke.  He does the kindly uncle persona as though it were natural.  Might even be natural.  But it's not too difficult to appear credible with selected exposure (apparently more than 50% of Australians thought that about Tony Abbott less than a year ago).  The truth is often uncertain until it's too late.
Tempting to refer back to the last election again, but I won't.Since Islam is based upon the unprovable existance of a deity, it has no place in the lives of anyone who requires evidence and relevance before accepting rules and attitudes that govern behaviour.
Just like Christianity, Islam establishes its definitions of right and wrong, of what a person must or must not do, and of what consequences are appropriate for breaking its rules, on a belief in something that defies proof of existence.
This is the daddy of all "trust me..." assurances and when it commands action or agreement with acts that are unquestionably wrong - e.g. killing people - should be rejected. My own belief goes beyond this and I'm prepared to argue that such a religion deserves ridicule for that expectation.So we'll take that as a vote for the status quo plus additions from population growth?
Just go with more of the same problem.  Where have we heard that before?And trees need to re-grow.  Tourists don't.Oho!  I see your point! someone associated with the ICAC has "mentioned" Bill Shorten.
Wow, he MUST  be really bad to be mentioned.  Hang on, don't witnesses and counsel and judges get "mentioned" at ICAC?
CRIPES! they must all be bad."it was the Rudd and Gillard government's faults that were highest on the minds of voters as they faced the September ballot"
...and not through great thinking on the coalition's part.  The repetition of three-word insults, accusations, and downright lies was their lazy contribution.  The Murdoch press and the electric underpants did the rest.
The sad thing is that those tactics will probably work again and Australia will continue down this luddite-strewn road.Greig, recent oceanic studies have identified significant volumes of warmed water being streamed into the depths of the southern Atlantic.
This helps to explain the reduction (not cessation) of atmospheric warming that the denialists depend upon to allow them to sleep soundly.
Bad news guys.  Claims of "no warming" are demonstrably wrong and claims of "reduced warming" are valid only if you count just the heat stored in the atmosphere.
The global picture balances pretty well and shows a continual warming trend.  
The atmospheric figures alone are incomplete. It is also possible to misinterpret the observation thath Antarctic sea ice is expanding over a greater area.
The melting measured on the Antarctic ice shelf is releasing fresh water into a salty antarctic ocean.  Fresh water freezes around zero.  The saltwater on the surface of the ocean can be below zero and remain unfrozen, but freshwater leaking into it freezes rapidly.  expansion of sea ice is the corollary of a melting ice shelf.
So the story is complex and multi-faceted, but that's what scientists are for... to work out the actual effects  in play and their consequences.  Denialists should try listening rather than reacting in fear.Very recently, the warming of the southern Atlantic has helped to explain the apparent pause.
Looking at one part of the story will never give you the full picture.Or lying about the emergency... Hmmm, now which of those might it be?Well good luck with that Greig.  
Have you heard the saying that it better to light a single candle than to curse the darkness?
Good principle.You show me yours and I'll show you mine... You first.You're on the right track Marko, but a bit optimistic about the time-frame.  Fission is a bit scarey, with real dangers.
Fusion offers a much better option, but is still at an experimental stage.  The ITER project is still in construction and likely to be for the next 10 years.  And it's just a demonstration of principle which will need to evolve into full-scale energy production.  
In the meantime, the solar and wind alternatives are being expanded by China and other polluters, but essentially dismissed and scrapped by the geniuses currently governing our little continent.
"the policy void of the Abbott Government must eventually be replaced with meaningful climate action."
What, pray tell, is the basis of this statement?
Yes it should be so.  Yes it appears essential if Australia is not to become a pariah within the world over the next few years.
But there has been no indication that this government will displease their coal-mining/coal-burning lobby by making them reduce greenhouse outputs.
Perhaps just wishful thinking?Sadly, Brenda, learning from past mistakes appears to be a foreign concept to our government.  Revival of previous stupidities, like demonising asylum seekers, pushing dirty power generation over cleaner alternatives, raising paranoia over "other" religions, are all designed to demonstrate that our pious government can mould the world with the power of fear and prejudice.
And many of the comments delivered here appear to confirm that this distraction from the plight facing less affluent Australians actually works.  
Who cares about oldies without effective health-care, the increasing cost of raising children, the plan to create thousands of penniless unemployed young people? Compared with the threat of "foreign ideologies" and home-grown terrorists (aka penniless, unemployed, desperate and vengeful young people) those things just don't matter. 
The scintillating minds of the fear-driven conservatives have it all worked out.  Keep attention off the budget and all will be well...  Although, Tony hasn't explained how the HUGE budget black hole emergency will be affected by extending military activity to the middle-east. Oh yes! of course! Saving money be setting universities free to find their own funding, knocking off the school-kids bonus, sticking a co-payment on doctors visits... That's the solution! 
Austerity to maintain the war effort... sounds awfully familiar to us oldies.Well was that a frightfully important or even relevant point for him to make, if there is no intention of using the feature.  Ummm.... irrelevant comments from a government minister? surely not.Cost of living IS going up. It doesn't need to be forced.
Trouble is, wages are going up more slowly.  Might one coin the phrase: "fiscal erosion"?
At present we appear to be eroding quite significantly.
Lucky the pollies only have to wait a few extra months for their next pay-rise, rather than having a genuine extra burden put on them by smokin' Joe's budget.  Otherwise Joe would have to rely on his wife's generosity for a reduction in his Canberra rental costs.Mr Shorten has the luxury of being able to watch Phony Abbott screw things up in his usual manner.  He has no need to move until an election campaign requires it.
Do the sums. If you like what you see from our incumbent government, then you must be fairly well off already.
None of it bodes well for the lower middle and those below.There's an interestingly large number of Abbott apologists commenting here.
It is naive and disingenuous to believe that an opposition party should allow a government that has reversed essentially all of its last-minute election promises to have an easy ride in implementing the unannounced and downward facing policies.
Perhaps those defending Abbott are among the group who believe that leaving young people penniless when they become unemployed is a constructive act.  It's difficult to see how such action can fail to result in rising anger, crime, and antisocial acts.
Do you Jonathan Green-bashers really believe such policy drivel has any real worth?
If so, please explain it in credible terms.No e-Pun, diversity of opinion for its own sake is worthless.  Diversity for reasons of considered opinion is what we need.
No-one has yet offered a single meaningful explanation of why Abbott should be allowed to implement policies that hit the lower-income groups hard while providing only temporary financial inconvenience to those accumulating the most assets.
Want to attempt to fill that void?Since we are no-where near an election, where is the precedent for an opposition displaying policies at this stage?
(I dare someone to say that Abbott did!)Haven't you heard, Oaktree?  These are poor people.  They either don't own cars, or have a car but don't drive it much.  So all that money could be spent on frivolous things like rent and food and paying bus-fares.Don't forget: global financial crisis and countries suffering serious economic downturns.
Your statements become disingenuous if you don't consider the environment at the time.
Had you not noticed that Australia got considerable positive recognition for how it kept us out of the economic poo?
Possibly not, since you are now grizzling about what a terrible job they did.  And they understood that renewable energy technologies are a key part of any liveable future.  Pity that's all gone now.Hutja, if you had ever dealt with financial markets you would know that perception is EVERYTHING.  The markets crash over news stories that frighten the fear-prone gnomes of the economics world.
Producing the right perceptions is what keeping the economy stable is all about.Well, TJC, that gave me the best laugh of the day so far.
I'm assuming it was intended as a joke, but still have that lingering doubt.  Maybe Joe really is that far removed from the "underclasses" that he'd think and say that.
Surely that's not possible, but recent events...Hmmm.  I suspect that the term Rhodes "Scholar" applied to Tony Abbott is a breach of the trade descriptions act.  There is not much evidence of scholastic competence in his language or his apparently condescending view of Australians generally.And if the fine was raised from $20 to $200, assuming no greater than 50% fine defaults, the Federal coffers would be $300,000,000 better off.  And the Medicare co-payment could just be dropped.
I wonder how Tony's brilliant economic managers missed THAT opportunity.If you think back to the news coverage of the last election, you may remember that a record low turnout (not just invalid votes) was a major feature of the election.
Even if it was 1 in 3 of those votes that were no-shows, that's still $100m.
Not to be sneezed at.All ideologies based on mystical beliefs are of highly questionable value in a modern, realistic society.
Let's work with what we know (rather than believe), can provide material proof for (rather than just have faith in), and can change to fit the circumstances (rather than being constrained by dogma).
The failure to meet these rational options is probably a large part of the problem with our Prime Minister.
Give me an avowed atheist anytime.  They are bound by the knowledge that they will be judged by their peers for their behaviour, not by some benevolant entity that supports questionable behaviour for reasons of dogma and tradition.What a wonderful concept... different qualities of atheism.
Except atheism itself is unlikely to catch on as effectively as a good, book-thumping, punishment-threatening religion.
You can't threaten anyone with punishment from an empty deity void.  
I guess that's why the vindictive-deity mob are so much more convincing to easily frightened people.False premise, Rinaldo. The reasons for leaving a healthy planet for our grandchildren is nothing to do with there being a reason for the existence of the universe.
We are here because life evolved here - only physical and chemical conditions to credit for that.  Our ability to feel concern for our offspring and their offspring is simply an evolutionary feature that has allowed our species to survive this long, and come to dominate most of the world.
Sadly, the fearful cannot address the possibility of a future that will seriously damage their children and grandchildren, and that is why there are denialists for every environmentally damaging anthropogenic activity.
But look around the world, with eyes open, and you will begin to see that humankind has become its own worst enemy.I wish we could say the same for other, more bloodthirsty religions.  Their numbers are growing very rapidly and it is very disturbing.No, Mike2, these commentators report what is happening.  Their opinion of whether it's good or bad is just their opinion. Their description of the facts is extremely difficult to argue with. If you believe that a budget that takes a bigger percentage from the low income group than from the more wealthy groups is fair and desirable, that's just your value judgement of the facts.
Some of us believe that such behaviour is the lowest form of bullying... hitting those who can't hit back.
Give me two good reasons that I should think otherwise, if you can.I guess Glen Stevens wants to keep his job.  Phony Abbott and his band of merry men would string him up soon as look at him if he sounded like a "socialist" by acknowledging as most economists do that this "government" (and I use the word disbelievingly) is telling pork pies about most aspects of the economy.
Of course the rusted on conservatives cannot bring themselves to admit that the "king" is in the altogether.
I'm not sure "better" salesmen is fair.  Certainly more able to deceive, but is it better salesmanship when in every public announcement they rely upon 
1) Distortions of the sociological facts. 
2) Inclusion of Labor bashing in every economic statement they make rather than justifying their decisions in genuine national interest terms.
3) Frequently contradicting the majority view of economists, scientists, and sociologists.
That strikes me as absolutely the most deceptive and least supportable sales pitch of any government we've seen in Australia.
At this stage, very fortunately, it appears that a high proportion of the general population has recognised this group of charlatans for what they are.  Whether this will outlast the barrage of disinformation we are currently getting from Abbott and accomplices remains to be seen.Historically, Galaxy has been more reliable than any other.If the government DARES to cut the ABC's bidget, it will be to their own dusadvantage.With each generation the understanding required for adoption of new ideas, like the change to renewable energy sources, has to be relearned.  There are constant arguments that the current method is the best option, while the evidence points vigorously to other methods having multiple advantages.
It should be patently clear that energy generation that does not require the constant burning of carbon-based fuels but relies upon free and predictably available natural energy has to be a better long-term option.
It's quite sad for mankind and his increasingly polluted world that personal and institutional greed is generally practiced by those who dislike change unless it offers immediate increases in personal or institutional gain.  Any requirement to think beyond the next fiscal year appears lacking among those driven by personal enrichment and aggrandisement.
When a bunch of those people take over the running of the country, through influence on those in politics who share the same self-interest, the welfare of humankind in general and the world in total becomes a purely hypothetical factor that cannot be considered seriously.  
Australia appears to be one of the few remaining nations that can vote in a government that denies the bleeding obvious and preaches misanthropic and self-destructive conservatism.  Sad.The last election reported low turnout.  So "compulsory" is probably not the correct description for our system.
Compulsory voting is probably the way to get the most truly representative view of the nation's political preference.  Except that the fine for not voting is so little as to be irrelevant.
Put a fine of $500 on failure to vote without a valid reason and the turnout might increase significantly.  I'm guessing the abusive informal vote would also increase, but a majority would probably express a preference.
"This has happened even though the government got rid of the carbon and mining taxes, put its direct action plan in place...".
Presented as things that should give the government a boost, I suspect that a high proportion of the less vocal voters might not see these as shining examples of good government.  Even the initial decisive approach on tackling potential terrorism now appears to be just trickling along and some apparently unnecessary delays in responding to the ebola outbreak have not helped.
With finances very tight, manufacturing jobs disappearing, former advances to address the now undeniable problem of climate change scrapped, and the general populace being asked to pay more for various things while large corporations are handed money to persuade them to clean up their environmental act, there are many things other than the "shirtfront (you bet your are)" blunder that will have persuaded thinking Australians that this bloke can neither think nor talk straight.
By virtue of the contradiction. This gets praise and full credibility from all sides of politics (real nutters aside).
So why such scepticism towards the climate scientists?
A valid question.Ho-hum.  The tedious repetition of denial, against all the globally measured evidence, is just meaningless.  And not one of these poor frightened conservatives is brave enough to address the actual data from multiple sources that show how wrong they are.
All they can do is cover their ears and sing "la-la-la".
And Tony Abbott, for all his pretense of listening and serious consideration is just another one of them.
Just when we thought Australia was growing up to become a global citizen we are plunged back into the 1950s.
Truly and literally pathetic.After reading the first half-dozen posts I'm even more depressed than usual about the likelihood of our government believing or doing anything about a catastrophe that can be measured and demonstrated to be getting worse continually.
Fortunately, there are governments in the world that are accepting the likelihood of serious consequences and beginning to do something about it.
Our government, short-sighted, faith-driven, and money focused, will be remembered historically for its constant denial of the bleeding obvious.That will almost certainly happen for some time dr dig.  The current level of carbon dioxide will continue to trap heat even if it doesn't increase.
However, it will continue to increase because of loony politicians who don't listen to scientific reason.Allegedly, as host of the meeting, a certain Mr Abbott refused to put climate change on the agenda.Check the facts, Esteban, not the rantings of the frightened conservatives.Antarctic ice has decreased in mass by around 500 billion tons since 2002, according to NASA's satellite measurements.
It's still pretty cool, though.If our government were not removing the alternatives to coal, while providing money to the coal miners, the progressive cessation of coal use need not be a problem."The physical Cosmos is nowhere near as amazing, from the perspective of men."
Sorry Bruce, this statement suggests that you really don't have the perception of scientific reality that his article celebrates.  The old saying that truth is stranger than fiction remains true and becomes more obviously true with every discovery.  The more you dig into the details, whether it's physics, chemistry, biology, or any combination or offshoot of those disciplines, the more science just goes on becoming even more astounding."There is no more diversity in the whole of Space than there is in the bodily functions of a single human animal - not counting its mind."  Sounds like a very anthropocentric view of the universe.  Even at an atomic level, there are complexities in nature that go beyond our composition and organisation.
Our bodily structure and function, along with those of our co-habitants of earth, are constrained by the elemental content of our environment, by the temperature ranges in which we are able to survive and evolve, by our being a water-based life system most of which requires oxygen.  Have you considered the possible alternatives in worlds with different compositions and environments?With the event horizon expanding outward as new material enters, to increase the effective size of the black hole.My very limited understanding of business law leaves me without an explanation of how business folk can spend more than $20,000 for a meeting with the current federal treasurer, if that meeting is not of material benefit to the company providing the money.  Isn't that against corporate law?
And if a personal chat with the treasurer is of direct material benefit to that particular company, then how does the role of treasurer elected to govern the nations finances for all Australians fit with providing advantage to a particular business in return for direct payments to the treasurer's political party?
Should the treasurer not be providing that same information to all Australians, rather than operating what appears to be a service for those who are able and willing to pay?
Any suggestions?I believe that there is an unnatural and deceptive split in this article.
Being acquainted with quite a lot of "left-leaning" women, I have to say that devotion to the more victim-like brand of feminism is not typical of those women.  Most are very independently minded about who and what they are and make their own lives without having to play the victim.
And, just to be topical, it was Gough Whitlam who made the really big break in equality for women, of achieving the equal pay that most on the right (including women I knew) considered inappropriate.
Strong-minded women can be expected to make things work for them if even a faint opportunity exists.  How they vote or represent themselves politically is yet another distraction from the real point.An unsettling truth in this piece is that Australia has begun (and continues) to lose all industry, except the primary ones that grow it, or dig it up, and ship it out and the ones that shuffle other people's money from one place to another while skimming profits from it.
By definition, this puts us pretty low on the list of "industrialised" nations and aside from highly imaginative shuffling of financial responsibility there is no innovative or futuristic promise in our economy.  The renewable energy industry, which is a modern manufacturing industry and direly needed for the next few decades, is being scaled down, while the dirty old industrialists are raking continuous benefits from the nation's taxes.
Australia should be smart enough to join in the process of solving problems such as plastic pollution of the oceans, decline in marine resources of all kinds, and replacing the environmentally damaging energy generation industries, without adding to the catastrophes that appear increasingly likely a couple of decades away."a meagre pay deal"?
It's a pay cut, in simple purchasing power terms.
This is not just failing to give our service people a payrise, it's taking away part of their spending power. i.e.  PAY CUT.
I'm guessing most people heard the response of many parliamentarians when austerity measures required a delay in a substantial payrise (for a few months!)
Abbott and Co really should start to consider how selfish and uncaring their behaviour is, before they start trying to persuade people to vote for them again.Tom1, I must back up your views.  While Tony is addressing Australians in Australia we might excuse the shoolboy terminology and level of verbal sophistication.  But those clips can be shown across the world.
The terms "embarrassed" or "cringe" could be used, but even they don't adequately describe the feeling.  Is this really how the world is now seeing Australia's government?An issue that will attract lots of comment at both ends of the spectrum.  
As a solution I'd suggest the question: "How does the law treat women who give their one-month-old baby a Jack Daniels and coke?"
Answer that and the rest is easy.Sorry Jade, that may be another pertinent question.  But it is certainly not more pertinent than the question of deliberate (and usually premeditated) intake of alcohol by the mother.Agreed, reaver, but I prefer and was referring to the moral question.
It's fine to say that a person has control over their own body.  But the unborn child's body is not the mother's body.  It is (excepting something approaching a miracle) an individual with only half its genetics determined by the mother.  Should we perhaps assign the other half of a child's rights to the father?
The division between pre-birth and post-birth is a huge landmark for the mother.  For the child it is merely about 1% of its potential life that is spent inside mum's body, before the rest of its life outside has to be dealt with.
Can you morally argue that it should be legal to expose it to the potentially lifelong consequences of in-utero alcohol consumption? 
Is there really a moral argument that can be made to rule that the unborn child can be legally harmed, simply because of its current location?Indeed, reaver, you are not required to express, or even hold, a view on this from a moral perspective.
I, on the other hand, do hold views on the morality of social factors of which I have at least some understanding. I also believe that all actions performed or condoned by a person are an indicator of their morality and how that affects their worth to society.  An amoral society is a society that one might hope to avoid. However, I accept that this view may not suit others.Very interesting.  This would fit very well with the apparently robotic level of sensitivity shown by some employers, when dealing with staff during reshaping processes.Lots of (variously) informed debate on a relatively simple question.
Should senior police be seen cosying up to a particular, party political set of decisions on things that relate to human rights and freedom?
The simple answer is: only if you approve of the government using the police to enforce political ideology.
Extreme historical examples of this suggest that it is a bad thing, for minority groups and, ultimately, for the nation.  
Yes, it's a serious exaggeration to equate Australia's current situation with those ghastly historical examples.  But those examples began much more subtly than they ended.  
Allowing the first move in that direction could be a very serious mistake.Don't forget the military forces, Peter.  The Abbott government has also made the navy a tool of political decisions by pretending that boatloads of asylum seekers are somehow a threat to Australia's national security.  When governments begin using military forces to perform policing duties, we need to keep a careful eye on them.  That way lies totalitarianism.Interesting, anote, I saw the highest column as indicating the highest perception of corruption.  Clearly you see it the other way round.
Can anyone clarify this?  Preferably the author... Greg...?And the treasurer offering a private audience with business people who are prepared to pay thousands for the privilege.  Doesn't a corporation have to demonstrate company benefits from any expenditure?  What benefits is the treasurer providing?Trouble is, Roger, you are expecting a clockwork world.  Natural phenomena fluctuate.  Check the average temperature rise over a few years and it starts to look different.  Look at the graph from 1960 - 2011.  Lots of places where the net change over 5 - 10 years was negligable.  Interspersed with periods of rapid rise. The overall change in the period is clear, unambiguous, and upwards.In light of the timing by which global temperatures, carbon dioxide levels, melting of polar ice, and mean sea levels have increased, following remarkably similar curves, it is reasonable to believe that the vast global outpouring of combustion products over the past 100 years is at least a very large component of the cause.
To argue that it is not, without being able to suggest an alternative explanation that is supported by the observations, is nothing more than denial for its own sake.  
Let's finally get some fact-based suggestions from the denialists about what else might be responsible.  Physicists are continuously measuring solar output.  No explanation there. Come on guys: if you don't buy the anthropogenic global warming idea, suggest how the observed climate change might be caused.  And nominate an expert on that topic from whom we can seek an explanation.
If you can't find an alternative explanation, might be a good idea to get behind the push for action on industrial outputs.All three comments above do nothing to offer an alternative explanation except a very tenuous proposal that there may be a reversal in the global poles.
A majority of geophysicists do not consider this as a factor, but consider the "coincidence" of carbon dioxide levels increasing with rising temperatures and sea levels to be entirely consistent with carbon dioxide being the cause of the warming.  You can demonstrate the phenomenon on a laboratory scale.  Water and carbon dioxide absorb infra-red radiation (heat from the sun and re-radiated from the land surfaces).
Only those who fail to check the physics can seriously believe otherwise.The geologist opinions that reversal of earth's poles could occur soon is measured in geological time, not human life-spans.
There is constant movement of the poles due to flow of molten rocks that are high in metal content.  But predictions of a pole-flip are for sometime within the next 2000 - 3000 years.
As stupendous says, a solar pole-flip is expected soon.  i.e. within the next couple of years.  It will be very interesting to see what that does.Excellent, P of M.  So when the entire globe is affected by temperature rises - indeed most of it already is - you can sit in little, isolated Australia and curse all those foreign gas guzzlers for messing up your little corner of the world.
Good plan.Gotcha! de Bere.  You're a fake.  You know that the climate scientists are right.  Why else would you turn the argument against it into a complete muddle-headed farce?
Welcome to the world of sanity.Amazing, prag2014.  Kinda makes you think that it's not that the science is believed to be wrong, but that mucking up the dirty industries is more frightening than the thought of rising oceans, more vicious storms, and more frequent bushfires, for our fear-driven Team Australia.
Better still, the need for more air-conditioning during the hot summer to come will bump up the burning of coal even further.Fascinating that a government that talks loudly about privacy and the rights of the individual is the first to attempt to increase surveillance of everyone in the country, everywhere.
I wonder if it has occurred to the architects of this plan that they, personally and as a political organisation, might be subject to some very intense scrutiny if the government should change in two years from now.  Or at very short notice through a majority dissatisfaction in the senate.
As the ones wielding power, it might be easy to overlook how the guard dog could just turn around and bite you in a very vulnerable place.  
Orwell was said to be basing his predictive novel on what was happening back in 1948 (in Russia, I think).
Imagine! Just imagine what he'd do with today's situation.  Everyone is trackable already, mostly through voluntary publication of information about themselves.  And if a phone tower can pick up your phone signal, some special purpose detection system must surely be able to pin down your location very precisely?
This latest "nothing to worry about" is an almost inevitable outcome of technology as it exists today.  
Now, just think what it will be like 10 or 20 years from now!One hundred years ago, almost nobody would dare to get into an aeroplane.  Pilots of the Royal Flying Corps in WWI understood that their number two enemy was Germany and their number one enemy was their aircraft.
There were no parachutes, Many techniques of flying an aircraft were yet to be invented, and even a fuel blockage or simple mechanical fault with the engine was almost certain death because the processes of unpowered landing were not well sorted.
For anyone to suggest that the Virgin Galactic enterprise is any more risky than those early attempts at powered flight is just naive. Adventurers and pioneers die because they tackle the (at least partially) unknown.  Our future has always been built on the actions of such people.  The family of the deceased pilot deserve our sympathy for their loss and they deserve to know that we salute the commitment and courage of the man.
Indeed, Daisy May.  "Team Australia" is a remarkably immature attempt at capturing the sporting, team-supporting spirit that pretty obviously exists in a high percentage of Australians (even us migrants).
If it were not for his complete lack of team spirit when in opposition, it might even have a chance of working.  But it is just so obviously manipulative, rather than team building, that anyone who actually thinks about it is left cold.  Even without his disconcertingly paternalistic mannerisms it would be unlikely to work.Good point Dick.  The raising of the tax threshold impressed me as the fairest tax change in history.  Everyone benefiting by the same number of dollars.
That's genuine, unadulterated equity.
I earn a comfortable salary and don't mind if I get the same benefit from a tax review as the lowest wage-earners.
Would anyone like to argue that because they get a high salary they deserve a bigger increase?The principle of trusting industry and business leaders with Australia's contribution to reducing greenhouse emissions is so naive as to be childish.
While some industry leaders may have looked at the climatic and environmental data with an open mind, a majority appear to be comforted by assurances from politicians (Australian, Canadian, some US states included) that all is under control and solutions are just an industry handout away.
The world has reacted much the same to plastic pollution of the oceans, declining fish stocks, and vanishing wildlife.  So we shouldn't be surprised.
However... those of us with children and grandchildren, and who lack the ability for closing our minds to future threats, have good cause to be seriously worried about all of these problems and, in my case at least, can see the government's climate direct (in)action as the most blinkered thinking of the 21st century to date.Wow, de Brere, do you really, seriously believe that a vast majority of climate scientists would threaten their scientific credibility and their long-term career possibilities by pushing false data?
More to the point, your statement that "the science says it is rubbish" must be based on information that I and my scientist colleagues have not seen.
Please tell me where I can find this strikingly persuasive evidence, because I've searched the literature exhaustively and have found no such claims except those that rely entirely on the uninformed view of the writer.Perhaps you could look at NASA's cumulative data which give a total global temperature measurement.  These have been done by NASA from recent satellite measurements and also from ground-based records.  In earlier years, of course, satellite data were not available, but the different sources don't differ much.  
Pay particular attention to the much talked about "pause" in the past 14 years or so and note how such "pauses" have occurred before, only to resume heating at a disturbing rate.
If you have difficulty with the concepts of currents (wind or water) and the stabilising effect of melting ice (which uses heat) then I can understand why you may be puzzled by complex data. 
Much of it is summarised for non-specialists, as at http://www.nasa.gov/topics/earth/features/2011-temps.html.
See how you go with that.deBrere, doesn't matter how much you want to focus on a complex set of coloured pictures, or create non-existent arguments about measured conditions.  The data continue to accumulate and continue to point to serious problems.  And, weirdly, temperature increase, carbon dioxide increase, and global sea level rise, all follow a remarkably similar curve.
Time to stop looking for excuses and start looking at reality.Wake up, Jay!  And pay attention.  Sleeping in class can leave you completely lost when a real discussion is needed.In Australia, generally, it can be difficult for men to understand why a one or two-word greeting could feel like harassment.
I didn't really understand until I visited San Francisco and unknowingly walked through some "specific" areas.  I found some comments quite unnerving, particularly when they came from large, muscular, semi-clad men.
Now I understand."The cowardly approach is never to take action that hurts."
No, that's the timid approach. The cowardly approach is never to take action that hurts your supporters, but being happy to take action if it only hurts those who are unable to retaliate.
Abbott has shown that he cannot hurt his industrial mates.  Instead of making them pay to clean up their own very profitable mess, he wants to give them a bribe  without any real pressure to do the right thing.
Likewise, bellicose behaviour in the face of international conflict is not a demonstration of courage.  Offering to lend a hand against an invisible, insidious, death-dealing contagion? Now that would require courage.Because, Redfella, fear of the consequences, if it were real, makes accepting it quite unthinkable.  This deep personal denial helps people to disbelieve the matching upward curves of atmospheric carbon dioxide, global temperatures, melting polar ice, and rising sea levels.
Worse still, it drives some to grasp at a few years of lower increase as the globe-saving termination of the process.  Never mind that such slowings have occurred roughly every 20 years since 1940, only for temperature increases to resume at an increased rate.  It probably equates to refusing to admit that smoking is unhealthy, that consuming narcotics can screw up your life, and a range of other things that our glorious species is able to deny despite the evidence.It's unfortunate that this summary of a report commissioned by John Howard's government and delivered more than seven years ago doesn't get a message to the conservatives decrying it as leftie rubbish.
Even then, the problems ahead were seen to be highly complex and seriously in need of a solution. It was also recognised that any solution is unlikely to be successfully controlled unless the majority of economies across the world join in.
And now, a government that makes it clear just how much less forward thinking it is, compared with Howard's mob, is determined to pay the most atmospherically polluting industries to encourage them to clean up their collective acts.
Not being a psychologist, I'm unable to explain how giving the carbon dioxide emitting businesses money, which they can spend pretty well any way they like, is a better incentive to clean up their act than charging them a fee for every tonne of carbon dioxide they release.  I wonder what odds the bookies would give for the success of the two alternatives.Allowing universities to set their own fees without government regulation has to be one of the worst ideas ever put forward for higher education.
The university I work in has been lowering educational standards for the past 5 years, in order to lower staff costs and make more money to spend, allegedly on promoting research.  Staff have been urged to use copyright-free, online material rather than prepare their own (to save time and money) and face-to-face teaching is gradually disappearing to be replaced by online material.  Assessment quality has been downgraded, with some subjects partly assessed by "reflective" diary entries.  Equally bad, group assessments are becoming more common, despite the fact that they either drag down the apparent achievement of good students or exaggerate the achievements of poor students.  
As a lifetime researcher, only recently making teaching my primary occupation, I can attest that their attempts to promote research are naive at best and at worst are likely to promote high numbers of publications as the major assessment criterion, with the inherent risk of driving desperate staff members to scientific fraud in order to keep publishing at a high frequency and therefore keep their job.
A report on this website some months ago raised that very serious problem and cited the percentage of recent notable achievements in the medical press that have proven irreproducible.
The need to keep universities as non-commercial entities is not about pandering to selfish staff. It's about ensuring that teaching can provide value to students and that research is driven by the curiosity that begets major discoveries and developments, rather than some arbitrary metric dreamed up by administrators.I strongly recommend Meyer's online book to those who wish to know about the decline of Australian universities.  Those who wish to read it need only type in the last four words of that sentence and the author's name to bring up the free download site.Vicious acts of barbarity aside, the simple fact that sheep and cattle are shipped for 4 weeks or more in many cases under cramped conditions, standing or lying in their own faeces and urine.
That alone should be enough to stop this inhumane trade.Whitey, "sending hundreds of thousands of cattle and millions of sheep to markets in Asia and the Middle East annually." does not limit this conversation to Indonesia.
And if you live in the appropriate area, check how many animals leave Australia, with their first "well fed, comfortable and warm" trip crammed into semi-trailers, some with legs sticking out between the slats and too packed to allow them to get into a comfortable position.  And the loaded ships that have been shown in reports on the sea trip are no more reassuring as to their comfort.
The trade is only defensible on economic grounds.  Any claim of comfortable shipment ignores the simple economy of needing to ship animals long distance at an affordable rate.Check history, P of P.
A re-elected government, following election loss, has not been a re-run of the original, since Whitlam broke the conservative monopoly on government."Clever countries, with a educated populations vote wisely, and vote in good leaders."
Not reliably so, Helvi.  The media blitz can decide an electoral outcome even with an apparently well educated population, by appealing to personal ambition (or greed) and counterbalancing this with the base fears of undefined future economic catastrophe.
Remarkably, a sizeable slice of the population will react to fear of personal economic catastrophe, but can immunise themselves against possibilities of scientifically based environmental catastrophes, whether it's plastic pollution of the oceans, declining global fish and other wildlife stocks, or changing climate.
Perhaps quite reasonably, the here and now usually trumps the possible future problems, as a motivator of human thoughts and actions.  But equally clearly, that reasonably understandable human behaviour is not necessarily what's needed to ensure a secure future for humankind.You have no doubt that climate change exists, but see the urging of government action "to, somehow, control the weather" as militancy that puts you off? 
First, climate change determines the weather, so governments are being urged to help control those things that are beginning to effect our climate adversely.  Do you really have a problem with that?
Second, action is desperately needed to drag some countries out of their deep poverty, but it must be done without exacerbating the climate problem.  i.e. not expanding dirty energy production processes to do it.
And finally, did you think to question the Murdoch press contention that ANU divesting itself of shares in coal mining companies will affect those companies adversely?  To divest themselves of those shares, the ANU will sell them to other investors.  i.e. the shares will change hands at market price.  ANU has no greater effect on mining share prices than any other investor who might decide to review their portfolio.
Please explain how this should be of any major concern to a world that dominantly accepts the need to develop a new generation (pun intended) of energy production methods.VP, the development of currently underdeveloped nations is an ideal opportunity for less damaging systems to be put in place from the very beginning.
Yes it could be expensive, but providing the industries to produce e.g. solar panels and wind turbines within those nations would provide labour at local costs and make it much cheaper than exporting the technology from developed countries.  The export of those technologies back to the developed nations will reduce costs for future expansion and help develop those nations further, which generally results in reduced population growth (another major problem)
Certainly, fixing the energy generation problem to a significant degree is likely to take 50 years or more, but however long it will take gets a year longer with every year that people and industries resist the change.
Given the upward curve of increasing global temperatures and sea levels, delaying such initiatives doesn't make sense.The final analysis of any government doesn't seem to fit the majority of facts until many years after the events.
This is unfortunate, because it means we get a here and now decision on governments based almost solely on the dominant media view of the time.
It's difficult to see this ever being fixed, because the vast majority see the world through their own current financial and social situation.
Pretty immature and selfish system really.And the sad thing is that fear-mongering is ubiquitous.
Fear of rising tides is less effective, because of its reliance on future prediction.  Fear of taxes to push less damaging technologies to the fore is more immediate because it's "my money... NOW".
Fear of terrorist bombs and bullets is even more immediate because we see all the time on the news and in fictional TV and film just how easy it is for someone to blow up a crowd of innocent people.
Whenever a government has wanted to push legislation through, it has used the fear of what might happen if we don't act as a driver of public opinion.
Situation normal.John, this piece has a very strange focus.  Yes Bill Shorten should be arguing against such blatant and irresponsible action.  But to blame anyone other than Abbott and his fear-driven lackies for the disintegration of successful pro-future businesses, while handing the nation's atmospheric and energy supply responsibility to proven abusers, is just plain irrational.
If this ridiculous scenario of taking down future-friendly industries to enrich the dirty old polluters becomes real, you will have to explain in detail precisely what Bill Shorten should have done to prevent it.  In case you hadn't noticed, Shorten is in opposition, with some serious industrial interests among the cross-benchers who can give Abbott all he needs to continue painting Australia as a greedy, selfish, science-denying world citizen.
Pity you didn't address the criticisms to Abbott and his team of self-interested lackies.Since Labor is in the minority and cross-benchers are responsible for getting ridiculous bits of legislation through the senate, Hewson should be aiming his conscience call at the cross-benchers.  Abbott doesn't need Shorten's help to get stuff through.  And all the argument Labor can put forward is of no concern to the government.  Focus on the consciences of the cross benchers is a much more sensible call.Doesn't that rather depend on who does the waving?You know, the gas industry said that about electricity a bit over a century ago.
Beware what you predict with such certainty.Yes. Sadly, Abbott and Co are progressively abolishing the RET.
The have no policy on climate change, except keep supporting the victorian (era, not state) industries.One might suggest that you, Joan, have not been paying attention.  Australia is already behind much of the developed world, which has realised the value of renewable energy.
Did you ever watch the movie Rain Man?  In that were scenes of Californian wind-farms from the 1980s.  Even then, people were making electricity with these "new" methods.  Note, that's about 30 years ago.
If you have been cocooned in a conservative Australian household all that time it should excuse you for not knowing that we are hearing negative claims about renewable energy that are just plain baloney.
Possibly, like Tony Abbott and his team, you have your own reasons for supporting the dirty old coal-powered systems over cleaner systems.  Perhaps you could enlighten us on what those reasons are.Curiously, John Hewson is putting the responsibility for enlightening Abbott and Co about the value of reducing carbon emissions and health-threatening smog squarely on Bill Shorten's shoulders.
Being a liberal, you'd expect that John would get a more reasonable hearing from the liberal PM than Bill could ever hope to get.  So why is he not directing this straight at the Canberra Clowns on the government benches?"...it can be other women who are the biggest critics"?
In more than 50 years of adult life observation, it's been my experience that women predominantly care about, and therefore suffer from, the opinions of other women.
The opinions of men apparently can be dismissed much more easily.  
Perhaps turning that priority around would overcome a large part of the problem caused by looking different (for whatever reason)The emotion surrounding this killing and the trial of a former hero of the track is obviously divided between those who see Pistorius as a physically disadvantaged and vulnerable young man and those who see a vicious and devious killer hiding behind his perceived disability.
It's perfectly normal for people to form their own opinions, but I would argue that those who have not followed the trial in full detail, who do not understand the levels of violent crime in South Africa and how they play on the psyche of vulnerable people, and are not privy to the reasoning of the female judge in this case, should be very careful about the assumption that justice was not fairly done. 
There was no jury of naive and manipulable citizens.  The judge was not a chauvinistic male, inclined to uphold the violation of female rights.  The judge's decisions should be respected, unless there is evidence to the contrary.
Poorly based assumptions are too frequently the cause of extreme injustice, as many past cases in Australia have demonstrated.While any one of us could make up a possible scenario for the events, the claim by anyone who didn't attend the whole trial that they "know" what happened with any degree of certainty is nonsense.  Humans are superb at creating their own version off what happened and these can differ among people, even when they were all eye-witnesses.
Because it is essential to rely on a complete understanding of the evidence, in a trial for which I was jury foreman, one member of the jury was excluded from the final deliberations because he was seen to fall asleep once, for about 10 minutes, in a 3-day trial.
The more certain these claims of Pistorius's obvious guilt or innocence are, from people who were not there, the less I trust those opinions.To be clear, we cannot be certain what Spurr's intentions were if we don't believe his stated case.
What we can do is ask why someone saw fit to publicise what was never meant to be public.
What was the motivation?  Was it an attempt at character assassination?
If I repeat a racist joke in sensitive company, should I be able to shaft the blame back to the bloke who told it to me?
Darned right I can't!  
The person who made this public is the person who has brought disrepute upon the author and his organisation.  Perhaps better judgement would have seen the offending material consigned to the bin, where it belongs.In Australia we have no legal right to free speech.  There is alleged to be an "implied right" in the constitution, but that simply means that it can be used when supported by authorities or denied when used by someone who doesn't have the support of the authorities.  And that is a serious flaw in the Australian law.  Quite a useful, politically manipulative convention.  It makes it easy to punish people for their opinions, or for crude jokes.
Freedom of speech?  Not in this nation.Your opinion doesn't actually sound all that humble.A sad reality is represented in this case.  The use of words has become a matter for witch-hunts and castigation, where those words do not fit the accepted norms of a vocal group.
Accusations against Spurr are not about vicious abuse of minorities, nationalities, or social groups.  They are about the use of forbidden words in what was meant to be private communications.  This is so close to "thought policing" that it really is quite concerning.  The person who made public this silly collection of offensive terms is the real offender here.  By denying the privacy of the writer and insisting on bringing an in-group communication into the light of day and the public media, this person has committed a worse offence than that of which the writer is accused.  Utterance or display of offensive material is the real offence.  Bringing offending material into the public view, when the author did not intend that, is a public offence by an unelected proxy.Is it true?  There appear to be lots of people saying that, without considering the events that allowed us to hear about it. However bad the taste of the written words, the real sin is in releasing them to people who will be offended by them.
Spurr didn't do that.  Some woolly minded do-gooder (or possibly, evil-minded trouble maker) did that.Are you suggesting that senior academics should be lap-dogs who bark when instructed?
Sadly, that's what university administrators are trying to achieve at present too.
The very point of proper academic jobs is that they don't dance to anyone else's tune, but generate new ideas without being steered in a specific direction by overbearing masters.
Sometimes that leads to silly behaviour... like this example.  But it also leads to truly original thinking and constructive ideas.
This situation is not nearly as simple as most commentators would appear to think.Sadly, genfie, we are probably going to see the unpaused version within the next few years.
Looking at global temperature anomalies, there was a gradual rise in temperatures from 1900 - 1940, an upward bulge from 1940 - 1945, an apparent pause from about 1945 - 1970, then a rise at about twice the previous rate from about 1980 - 2010.  The recent "pause" is clearly just noise within the pattern of continuous increase.  At no point has it appeared to be moving significantly downward.Well worth a laugh, bob~, but not relevant to complex atmospheric conditions and their causes.JRM, will you volunteer to be among the billions wiped out?TDM, you are correct.  We live in a world of uncertainties about which we can do nothing.  Volcanoes and earthquakes are currently beyond our capabilities to prevent or even minimise.  Strangely, some people choose to live on the sides of volcanoes that remain active; gambling that the worst won't happen.  A group of tourists who just happened to be on the sides of Mt Fuji are testament to the randomness of the disaster that can result.
Climate change, in contrast, is a predictable problem that we can do something about.  Unfortunately, the clowns who think they know better than 98% of the world's climate scientists want to argue that it's all B.S.  There is constant claim from those scintillating minds that all will be well if we do nothing. 
I'm trusting that the majority of nations starting to take action will at least slow things down.  But you relax and be amused at the silly people wasting their effort on something you know is all baloney.In the few years after his dismissal, Gough suffered huge criticism of his style, his actions, and his legacy. Many of us recognised at the time that most of the criticisms were just political rubbish.
History finds a much more objective view of political actions; a fact that should be considered seriously by those performing such actions at present.
Thinking big wins in the end.
Vale Gough.Rufus, neil and ndp express the right wing opinion, perhaps because they did not live through, or have not thought through, the consequences of Goughs then-revolutionary reforms.  Maybe they would still like Australia's highest court to be the Privy Council of the British House of Lords.  Or maybe they are privileged enough to not have need of public health-care, low-cost education, and the rest.
Or maybe they're just bitter and twisted right-wing obsessives who don't believe in benefits for all.
Perhaps we should ask them to clarify the matter?It is wonderful to see how many commentators here share my situation of having been able to get a university education, where it would otherwise have been a long and expensive struggle.  It's sad that there has not been another era of such passion and commitment since Gough.Mathias Cormann clearly enjoys the similarity of his accent to that of Arnie the muscular.  Even people without that natural benefit love to mimic Arnie.  So it's not surprising, when Schwarzenegger himself uses such an expression that Mathias might get fun from using a famous line.
But equally reasonably, one can argue that using the term "girly" as a criticism or insult is pretty offensive to half the population.   
Any politician has to be careful what they say, because the nation is listening; especially the critics.  But implying, even indirectly, that females are in some way inferior to males is so close to stupid as to be indistinguishable.And, Zing, how do you respond to the fact that China is indeed moving to cut carbon emmissions, not only to combat atmospheric carbon dioxide levels but also to reduce the presence of harmful chemicals in the atmosphere.  
Unfortunately, the denialists claims that China doesn't believe there's a climate change problem are demonstrably wrong.Once you remove the myths of carbon tax destroying the economy and mining tax doing likewise, it is patently clear that the previous government was ahead of this crowd all the way.
Try breaking away from the media avalanche of nonsense and scaremongering and you'll see that the "greed is good" crowd currently running this country are not even second best.
The proverbial "drovers dog" would embarrass us less internationally and set us up better for the future.Maryanne.  Please... please.. pretty please with a cherry on top... go and look at the scientific data.  The climate scientists have no corporate profits to be made from showing the warming of the atmosphere and the rising levels of the oceans.  Even the so-called "pause" in warming is a myth.  For a short period there has been a SLOWING of temperature rise.  Still happening, just not as quickly for the past 15 years or so.  But this kind of pause has occurred previously during the past 100 years.  Then the temperature went right back to rising much faster.  Even a Google search will bring you graphs of the measured changes from a variety of sources.  Look at the scientific data.  The guys gathering and analysing the data are not business men with huge amounts of money to make.  Most have no personal investment in the results going one way or the other.  And they belong to a wide variety of organisations.  Please, look at the data!Maryanne, you have just demonstrated very clearly that you have NOT looked at the data.  You are still citing the myth! Clearly, you don't want to look at the whole picture.  Perhaps it's too frightening for you.
And while you are checking temperature rises (1900 - 2012) check also CO2 levels, and sea-levels, over the same period. They are all on a very convincing upward swing.  All have brief pauses in their increase but in the past 100 plus years they have ALL risen markedly (with many, brief, levelling or downward moves).
As a scientist I can assure you that scepticism is a foundation block of science.  But scepticism means recognising the contradictory nature of data from natural sources and incorporating them into the whole picture.  It does not mean denying a very clear trend.
The overall picture is what tells the true story.
I urge you again to look at the total picture.Maryanne, I am a scientist and fully understand the difficulties of getting research funds - my own work is run on the proverbial shoe-string budget.  But once again you appear to be repeating the nonsense that is put about by those too frightened to face the difficulties that are developing.
One reason for "climate sceptics" not being funded is that to convince people to give you very scarce research funds, the data on which you are basing your proposed future work must be credible.  The credible data show that there is a problem (warming) that is creating a whole stack of other problems (ask the walruses that have no ice-floes to rest on in the Arctic).
Spend an afternoon checking the consensus data from a variety of very responsible scientists.  The denialist case is built entirely on picking little irregularities and making them the core of the story.  All data fluctuate.  Look at what's happening over the period 1900 - 2012.Well, the vocabulary police do have a place.  It is nothing short of stupidity to apply derogatory terms on the basis of race, religion, social status, etc. with the intention, or careless consequence, of genuinely hurting or insulting someone.  Such behaviour is to be condemned.
However... in private conversations, the use of language does (or should) have a whole different perspective.
Words themselves have no intrinsic value.  How words are applied creates their meaning and their value.  So the outlawing of specific vocal sounds, on the grounds that if said in the wrong company they could offend someone deeply, is overly precious and authoritarian.  What is said or transmitted privately should be kept that way.  Publicly revealing such material is akin to revealing an individual's less publicly acceptable personal habits to people who need never see or hear of them.  
I am strongly of the opinion that someone who creates a serious case, by revealing what would otherwise have remained private and restricted information, is guilty of manufacturing an offence for the specific purpose of condemning the accused.D.T. To suggest that anything generated within a government organisation such as a university is public property is surprisingly naive.
On a .edu e-mail system a high proportion of the e-mail traffic is specifically NOT for general release.  
To suggest that such communications "belong" to anyone other than the sender and the recipient is in contradiction of all the rules of formal internal communication.  Indeed staff can be very severely punished for releasing information that is, for example, not conducive to maintaining the organisations reputation.
I'm not sure where you got your information from, but it is seriously flawed.And if "freedom of expression" does not allow you to express your thoughts freely (whether in jest or in prejudice) how in the name of literal precision can it deserve its name?!Excellent semantic analysis Jimmy!If they didn't surface accidentally, I'd be looking seriously at the allegiances and motives of the person who made their contents public.Whether the Jesus, as depicted in the new testament and the documents from which that was drawn, really lived is neither capable of proof nor relevant.
Since the only "proof" for the existence of a controlling deity is the say so of a committed leadership and the willing following of others, this becomes less of a conundrum, and more of an irrelevance.
Just enjoy the stories if they suit your beliefs and lifestyle.  There are currently a large number of people named Jesus in the world and may always have been.  Whether any of them rightfully claimed to be the son of an invisible and mysterious deity can only ever be conjecture.
In two thousand years from now, some of our best novelists might have dedicated and devout followers of their fictional characters - humans are delightfully capable of the most remarkable obsessions.Yes, David.  If Shorten was prime minister he'd be seriously embarrassed about meeting the Japanese representatives.  
But he's not.  So why exactly did you raise his name?Good comment Jimmie.  It's important for people to raise the population problem, because it is potentially a destroyer of the possible solutions to other threats, listed above.  Having looked into some of the factors discussed I agree with the general point of this article.  But it is going to take real resolve to address the many problems, rather than revert to the "she'll be right" attitude our Australian rulers appear to be depending on.  And one important thing is to ensure that developing those potential population bomb nations uses low emmission energy sources, rather than foisting upon them our archaic and climate damaging technologies.I disagree with the claim that "power corrupts".  I believe that power attracts the corruptible.  And for the corruptible, absolute power is their dream.
All this "left", "right", argument is quite deceptive.
In any argument, facts... if they are facts... are indisputable.
Opinions may differ, but the facts speak for themselves.  Those who wish to bias a written article one way or the other often choose their facts to support their case.
So all the screaming (on these pages often dominantly, though by no means exclusively, from those identifying as right wing) is just venting spleen.  Not contributing to the discussion.
By definition, facts cannot be disputed. Only the interpretation of those facts can be disputed. Otherwise they would not be facts, they would be opinions or interpretations.
In the case of climate change, the rising levels of carbon dioxide and the increasing temperature of the globe are measurable facts.  The precise value may be debated because of different possible errors.  But the data from many different sources all tell a similar story.  Whether mankind is responsible is less absolute in its certainty, but calculation of emissions and the timing of the increase in carbon dioxide make this most likely to be the case.  One strongly supporting argument for this was the Icelandic volcano that stopped northern hemisphere air-travel produced large amounts of carbon dioxide. But the calculations I've seen showed that the fuel used by those planes would have generated more carbon dioxide than the volcano did.  i.e. there was a net reduction from the event.  That is a profoundly important factor in the credibility of the threat from our industry emissions.
Those climate scientists who deny the anthropogenic nature of the global effect have been unable to convince the other 98%, suggesting that there are problems with their interpretation of the facts.T.O.J. A shining example of selective hearing.  Perhaps through the process of assuming that anything concerned with improving society and showing concern for the less privileged must have a deep leftist base.
Actually, that's called humanitarianism.Graham H.  Are you really stating that all straight-thinking people do not support the idea of anthropogenic global warming?
From a scientist's point of view, that makes your opinion very suspect, since a majority of scientists believe that straight thinking makes denial of the human contribution a very shaky philosophy.More importantly, scientists, on average, are very professional in their examination of evidence and in the formation of their opinions.
Yes, there are some who allow their personal opinion to be based on a personal investment in believing one way or the other.  But in 44 years of scientific employment I've met only a small number of those.  The majority respect their science well enough to go with the arguments best supported by the facts.Beautifully put, genfie.Perhaps you should have studied science rather than sociology.  The former works on reproducible evidence.  It's not altogether clear what sociology works on."Why did it happen? Why is life so unexpected and cruel? And why are such random and wanton acts allowed to occur and to steal the life of somebody so full of vitality and life?"
Precisely because there is no benevolent overseer who keeps the faithful safe.  It's just events.  No need to see anything mystical in any of it.  Wrong time, wrong place, bad outcome.  Right time, right place, good outcome.  Picking which is which remains a gamble.In no way am I a supporter of Putin and reinstatement of discredited soviet ideas for the future of Russia.  I also strongly support the right of Tony Abbott, whether as PM or private individual, to express his opinions of Putin's policies.
But the statement, implicit in his comments about Putin, that Russia murdered airline passengers, is simply wrong.
Yes, Russia may have provided rebel groups with weapons.  But  there is no evidence that Russia sanctioned the shooting down of a passenger plane.
There is not even any evidence that whoever fired the missile could tell that it was a commercial passenger flight.
So the certainty of how or why this happened just evaporates if you start looking at the situation without prior assumptions.
The statements about murder were out of place because murder is decided by courts, based on evidence of intent to inflict lethal harm. There is no evidence of intent to kill civilians, indeed it has been suggested that Putin himself may have been the target (although I think that fanciful).
My objection to Tony Abbott's behaviour on this matter, is that it was aggressively confrontational, without evidence of Putin's knowledge or involvement in anything related to the event.  I'd guess that it was a performance for domestic consumption, because Australians like people who stand up to powerful bad guys.  But this may rebound on him in unexpected ways.Its absurd to suggest that ANU attempted to "trash" the reputations of mining companies.
It's much more likely that ANU is keenly aware of the high concern among young people about climate change and the use of fossil fuels.
This could be designed to tell potential students: we follow and teach practices that are based on ensuring a better future.  This would not surprise me because many young people feel strongly about the effects of fossil fuels on carbon dioxide levels, melting polar ice, and rising sea-levels.oaul, Australia's population increases mainly by immigration (check the figures from ABS). Local births don't contribute nearly so much.  So our nett gain is just a reduction elsewhere in the world.
The only way to stop population growth in the developing world (where it's mostly occurring - check the world population clock) is to develop those nations so that people have better future prospects and less need for a huge extended family.  But we shouldn't be helping them to develop by selling them 19th century fuel.One suspects that ANU had the younger generation in their sights as much as anything else, when making this announcement.
They are the next round of university enrolments, by people who will still be around in 50 years to experience whatever eventuates from the ad nauseum use of fossil fuels.AE, I think you missed the point.  Lots of people work to produce good outcomes for others (often specific groups) or for mankind generally, in areas that cannot make them rich.  If you have never felt a need for this, then you probably will never understand that wealth is very attractive, but not the most rewarding thing in life.  If you think it is the most rewarding thing in life, then you will never understand the minds of the others and will probably always believe that they're just like you.
Wasn't there something said about the measure of a nation being determined by how it treats its least privileged and most vulnerable?
It seems our nation may be sliding inexorably backwards.  
Sometime soon we may reach the stage where we oldies feel less concerned because of our time limitations, but the young see their long future ahead as a serious worry.It appears that those claiming ABC bias are usually the ones who believe that zealots like Andrew Bolt and his shock-jock colleagues are the font of all knowledge and truth.  Many are probably among those who don't believe that Tony Abbott lied about his intentions prior to the 2013 election, or that it was okay for him to do that to get rid of those dreadful lefties.
Detachment from reality is almost entirely responsible for claims of ABC bias.
The massive and thought-constricted blunder made by the ABC detractors is to assume that many features of the ABC represent "left" bias.
Features such as: raising safety concerns over industry practices, challenging the ill-treatment of helpless people, showing concern for the less privileged in Australian society, showing empathy for displaced and persecuted people around the world, having concern for the old, the sick, or the disenfranchised, calling industry to account for its carefully crafted advertising and promotional practices that fill people's lungs with toxins or expand their malnourished bodies with toxic fat.
Concern and enlightenment about these things are actually challenged by a sub-section (word chosen carefully) of the Australian population and media as being left-wing and, by implication, bad for the nation.
BIG NEWS PEOPLE.  Wing-designations, left or right, simply define each person's concern for their species, culture, and future.  Those working according to the best available evidence will probably win in the end.  Those denying the evidence will see a multitude of human-induced problems consume health and lives in a way comparable to that of asbestos mining, which was passed off for years as being safe, while the corporations doing it knew the truth.
Critics of the ABC... how many of you have relatives or friends who've died of lung cancer or emphysema?  How many of your extended families have problems with obesity, vascular disease, or diabetes?  These are the consequences of advertising in which commercial TV and radio are complicit.
If any readers are so right wing that they just want to let the world decline into ill-health, because "industry" has a right to make money, or want to allow the splitting of the Australian education system into "haves' and "have nots", because half the population are genuinely inferior, then I suggest that you stick with your preferred shock-jock education and leave the thinkers and the constructive do-ers in Australia to get on with making it a better, safer, fairer, more educated place.Having dealt with third year university students whose grasp of concise descriptive English is about the equivalent of year 10 high school of my cohort, I believe that anything that teaches precision and clarity in English has to be a good system.  
Since high-school students go into every branch of life and work, a strong general education on how society works would be helpful and a decent capability in literacy, numeracy, and the three basic sciences should be de rigueur. 
But, while agreeing that understanding anything is likely to be a benefit, I seriously question the validity of pushing the judeo-christian foundations of Australia in schools that are likely to include students from various cultural and religious backgrounds.  Indeed, parents might be very wary indeed of the idea that their children could be receiving J - C indoctrination.
One suspects that the panel might have been selected with some pre-determined expectation of their conclusions.
P of P, it's your usual support of the unsupportable.  Jones is "popular" because a fraction of the country finds his blood and thunder presentation appealing.  Put any of them on the receiving end of some of his more ridiculous suggestions and they'd be mortified.
If it were not for the fact that such reactionary attitudes and behaviour have yielded some serious and very regrettable social problems in the past, he'd be irrelevant. 
And Tony just loves him.  That speaks volumes.Then, OUB, your perception is flawed.
It's one thing to have people criticise, but when it gets dirty and sexual (e.g. huge thighs, small breast) the architects of such abuse have lowered themselves to the gutter.
As much as I admire the ABC I was appalled by the "At home with Julia" tv debacle: which was nothing more than a weak attempt to diminish a serving prime-minister through depictions of her personal life.
I cope easily with satirical comedy, about anyone from any political party, but that's commentary that has a point. And I thoroughly enjoy good satirical cartoons, which can convey a message about anyone in a single picture.  But soap opera is just a nasty put-down.  Bet Tony wouldn't put up with it.Stuffed Olive, you hit the nail right on its short-back-and-sides adorned head.  And just a few more taps...
Abbott's "government" was elected at least partly on the basis of false promises (no cuts to this or that...etc, no surprises, no excuses).
Even that was not enough to give them a majority in the Senate. This suggests that the electorate was not entirely convinced of their intentions or capabilities.  So for Liberal apologists to demand "clear air" for the new government is laughable.
And the current polling, 13 months after that election, suggests the the majority of voters were either never really convinced by them, or rapidly changed their minds. 
Aside from committing Australia to more military involvement - inch by inch: even that is not being conducted honestly - almost nothing they have done has convinced the majority that the government has the voters' best interests at heart.  Good judgement by the voters, in my opinion.
And as for "vestiges of the previous administration remain for quite a while after they are gone", this government has reversed much of the  legislation of the previous government with help from the industrially-interested independents.  And most of the world regards this as jaw-droppingly stupid, considering the direction in which things global are moving.
Cuts to the public service may be justifiable in some cases.  But cuts to those offices providing the fundamental information that forms the basis of operations by most other public service offices is every bit as sensible as killing the goose that lays golden eggs.  Little short of moronic.And, from personal experience, still result in having to make a phone call, after having spent considerable time navigating poorly organised websites.
The electronic solution is, by and large, a fake solution to staff reduction.Spot on Terry.  Where  people are available in government offices, they are generally helpful and efficient.  This is kind of a contradiction of the belief that machines are more efficient than people.  They may process data more quickly, but the web-page designers appear significantly less capable of meeting a practical need than the few front-line office staff that remain.The trick of using what can be interpreted as an immediate threat to our peaceful society, in order to remove one of the key aspects of our peaceful society (free speech) is particularly devious.
This wouldn't be a problem if the terminology used was not loose and ambiguous. That particular aspect makes it relatively easy to pin someone down as a threat, even if the motive is just political manipulation.
Of course if we trusted our government to do the right thing there would be no problem.  It's the trust deficit that is making the governments job difficult.  Anyone able to suggest a solution?Very simple: a criminal is a person who commits an act that is against criminal law.  No matter how despicable an act may be, if it does not fit within a legal description as such, then it is not a crime.
A terrorist is a person who commits an act that is intended to create terror, generally for a community but could be focused an individual or group of individuals.
Most criminals are not terrorists, but, if the law defines an act of terrorism as a crime, then all terrorists are criminals.There is a difficulty David.  Cunning use of words, images, and actions can evoke fear and insecurity without actually breaching the letter of the law.  This is particularly so if there is a genuine commitment to free speech within legislation and people are protected by law against having their words used to convict them.
So it's necessary to have a caveat on free speech that it should not cause people generally to fear for their safety or the safety of the people they care about. i.e. it must not evoke terror.
In civil law, if you say something that is reasonably predicted to result in another person suffering a financial loss, or to damage that person's prospects in other ways, the courts can find that person to have been defamed and you may be compelled to make some sort of recompense.
So a law against incitement to acts of hatred, discrimination, or violence needs to be present to prevent people from manipulating others to commit acts that would be criminal, such as violence against a person or against the society generally.Yes, sadly, laws against manipulative language by politicians is most unlikely to be included in any legislation, except possibly through incompetence.
Now THAT would be serendipity.
It's wonderful to hear criticisms of the ABS from readers who are mostly quite unlikely to have ever performed complex statistical tasks.  They fall mainly into the category of extreme naivety on the complexity of the task and the inherent inaccuracy of the raw data.
In addition, how many have seen the chaos that results from dropping staff out of an organisation that has complex specialised tasks to perform? Easy to criticise, guys.  Much less easy to step up and fill the gaps.
Of course Hockey is going to be aggressively critical of the ABS if it can't give him the numbers he wants to talk about.  He has an easy job of saying "not good enough" and goes straight back to dishing out his own very dubiously credible claims about how Labor is still ruining the country.
Time for these "adults" to start behaving appropriately and accept that they are now responsible, not just sideline critics. This means accepting that they are now in control (13 months is long enough for that) and it's no longer someone else's fault if they can't manage the information deficit they have now caused by underestimating the size and complexity of the ABS job and by sacking people.Perhaps, Joan, things might look a little different when looking at the nation as a whole, rather than at what is happening in your area.
A big, diverse country is rather more complex than any component part of it.Having just witnessed a round of involuntary redundancies among my colleagues, it's fair to say that none of them wanted to leave behind their duties (even with the bureaucratic nonsense the staff in the organisation have to contend with these days), because mortgages, schooling, and the lack of alternative employment stops redundancy from being quite the paradise some would assume.But Monty, to really meet the current government performance levels the APL would have to change their education policy every ten minutes for a few days, swear they'll do one set of things, then set about doing a whole different (opposite) bunch of things, find a huge economic black hole, then lose it again.
I don't think they are sufficiently adult to do those things.While waxing lyrical about union corruption, pay a little attention to the NSW ICAC findings that involve Liberal politicians.
Let's not claim that only one side is tarred with the naughty brush.The negative sensationalist language, with its apparent success in selling papers and in stimulating aggressive responses to sensationalist TV programs, may be impossible to counter.  As a believer in freedom of speech I have difficulty with the idea that the strong expression of opinions should be prevented.  But the law allows legal redress for defamation, which is socially and/or financially damaging. Clearly unnecessarily emotive language aimed at specific cultural differences provides impetus for people of an aggressive nature to go beyond speech, to despicable behaviour such as spitting and physical violence.
So if it becomes illegal to speak in a way that incites acts of terrorism, will that be reflected in a law against media publications that incite such primitive feelings as to make people spit on women and commit violent acts against young children?At a guess, Jimmy B, you exclude yourself from the "nation of slackers".
It weakens the case against those who rort the system if you make demonstrably over-blown statements about "everyone".
...and the saddest thing, Ben, is that most of these actions probably have the approval of a majority of Australians.
That's not intended as denigration of our population, but as recognition of the disturbingly effective scare tactics used to justify inhumane treatment of anyone who isn't mainstream Australian.
Gosh, Terry, that sounds as though the PPL will come out of some other part of the nation's budget, if it ever gets through the senate.
I wonder what will be cut to make it possible."and, even for a politician, unusually incapable of telling the truth."
That is at best a deliberate misrepresentation of history and more like the biggest lie spoken against Julia Gillard.
What lies can you nominate beyond that one, very simple change from a trading scheme to a tax, which was a negotiational necessity: not a premeditated lie.
At its worst, that example is dwarfed by the lies that flowed like monsoon rain from the Liberals, pre-election.  Credit to Julie Bishop, she was not prominent among the pre-election liars (in fact I can't remember her being involved in the flood of lies that erupted almost exclusively from Abbott in those last couple of days).Lots of people opine that Gillard's problem was down to capability rather than gender.  You only have to see the content of much of the criticism to realise that opinion is largely hogwash.
Gillard was victim to many sexist remarks from parliamentary opponents and shock jocks.
Denial of that shows a complete ineptitude at spotting sexism, even when it's screamed from the rooftops.One recent news article on a commercial channel sums up why the ABC is essential to Australia.
That news item involve discussion of the so-called paleo diet, which we were told was endangering the health of those participating and that those participating should be eating more processed foods.
Had they said: "should also be eating seeds and grains", I could have agreed with them.  But the "processed foods" comment was a blatant promo for food processing industries rather than a guide to a more complete diet.  
It's a trivial example, but is a weakness of the commercial  entertainment and news outlets: they are forever bound to support the companies that pay for advertising, even in so-called news bulletins.  Together with the need to please the lowest common denominator audience, which sees news stories turned into heart-string tugging "public interest" stories, these features of the commercial providers make the ABC news, current affairs and social commentary programs absolutely essential for an honest and intelligent Australian future.Very good point, Medic. I thought airing criticisms of that program was essential.  And no-one should claim the ABC to be above criticism.  But the ABC itself aired criticisms of the program and its claims, in its own news bulletins.
Along the same lines, the attitude of responsibility is what allows Media Watch to discuss faults in the ABCs own broadcasts.  I haven't yet seen a commercial channel that runs a program with the power to criticise the network.  But more importantly, they cannot present material that shows their advertisers in a bad light, even if they richly deserve it.Sandra S. that's an absurdly one-eyed view of the ABCs broadcast policies and behaviour.
Even my determinedly right-leaning in-laws regard commercial TV as grossly inferior to the ABC when it comes to actual news and current affairs.
APM it appears that you mistake "factual" for left-leaning.
e.g. climate change is regarded as a very serious challenge by the vast majority of climate scientists and most scientists in other fields who have examined the data.
The fact that the Bolts and the Abbotts can't bring themselves to believe it does not alter the measured facts.
I suppose next you're going to say that data from NASA, every tidal gauge in the world and the carbon dioxide measurement labs at Mauna Loa are all "massaged" by left-leaning scientists.An important point, Sir Trent: the ABC is currently placing a healthy percentage of right-wing comments on this particular page.
Hmmm.  Not sure why ardent lefties would do that.And replace them with the Bolt report?It appears that "left bias" has become Australia's equivalent to the american "reds under the bed".
Paranoia perhaps?  Australia can live without that.A reflection of your thinking, Neil.  A good employer is not judged by the perks offered.  That's just business bribery.  A good employer is judged by concern for the working conditions and their fair treatment of employees.
Not everyone is just a penny pincher who sees kick-backs as the preferred role of their employer.So we remain signatories to conventions on refugees, but have some fine-print that allows us to ignore our obligations under those conventions.
And we will be okay sending people back to countries run by oppressive and dangerous regimes  as long as we tell them to pull themselves together and toe their government's line (however corrupt, vicious, or immoral).
Well that all seems okay then.  The rest of the world can go on thinking of us as responsible global citizens.
Tom1, agreed about train-wrecks. And this one has the potential to outshine the last one in terms of obliteration.
But I think it's a bit generous to say that Labor have fought back in the polls.  It looks much more like the true nature of the government is becoming ever more clear to the electorate and Tony and the boys are very competently creating their very own train wreck. It appears likely that Julie Bishop will be the lone survivor of that wreck and for better or worse the next Liberal leader.
Bill Shorten needs some work on his oratory and "clear air" in the media for alternative policies to really make a mark.Music to my ancient ears, Trev.As a member of a working family in Australia, I'd say that your dismissal of Labor as political representatives is little short of irrational.
Perhaps you would like to regale us with tall tales of the beneficence of our current government towards working families... such as the desire to remove the bonus for school kids, to deny unemployment benefits to young Australians, to charge pensioners and low-income earners extra to visit the doctor.
Or were you thinking of working families with highly paid jobs, investment properties, and a decent share portfolio?One feels there should be an inquiry into what benefits companies get by paying $20k+ for the CEO to have a private session with the treasurer.  And one might add to that the question of how much the mining companies paid to Liberal and National party for the removal of the carbon tax.
But that would be dangrously close to even-handedness.  No likelihood of that.Sadly and unavoidably true.  The electors do reflect the quality of the country more accurately than the elected.  With some very awkward complications.
Lots of people had been persuaded by their own concerns, amplified by the majority media view that Labor had to be given time out.  But the coalition policies were clearly a stumbling block to their election.
So they lied.  The term "unity ticket" along with "no cuts to the ABC", "no cuts to Medicare", and so on, provided that last little push that many in the electorate needed, to vote for the current incumbents.
The election of this government was entirely down to the electorate. No doubt about that. The doubt is whether to blame the gullible electorate, or the lying politicians who gave them that extra bit of confidence.
I'd go with blaming the dishonest rather than the gullible.  After all, if someone sells you a house and you find out it didn't belong to the seller, who's to blame for the crime?And if it were not for the ABC, all Australia would be conditioned with the garbage attitude your comment displays.Unless the huge majority view of climate scientists is to be ignored, there is a real problem, it's getting worse, and leaving action for even a few years has a high probability of seeing some communities (or nations) suffer the consequences of more frequent wild-fires, increasingly powerful storms, and for some the inundation of their homes or their agricultural areas.  We are already seeing the early stages of such events.
While some commentators appear able to dismiss the science and its projections for the future, they are unable to provide any sound scientific argument to back that up.
So we have a majority of specialists believing there is a serious problem and the nay-sayers who disagree but apparently are unable to offer a credible argument against the majority.
Hmmm.  Now let me see... who's view should we act on?Perhaps if h.l.d. looked at the global temperature rise over the past 50 years, the obvious would at last be comprehensible.
(no, I'm not betting money on that, I suspect h.l.d suffers from  a fear-driven denial that cannot be altered by facts or logic)Godbothered, thanks for a good natured response to a claim to which I was going to respond much less gently.
Clearly Cyclophile has never had anything to do with real science and fails to grasp the idea that scepticism and questioning one's own data is one of the key requirements to be able to do science for valid results.  Any scientist who doesn't do that becomes known fairly quickly as a fraud.
49 years' experience has helped me to consolidate those vital components of scientific practice.Strange, but I keep hearing that the growth of renewable energy generation has become a popular investment.  Also, it's claimed that it has helped Australia to generate enough electricity that about 9 coal-fired power stations could be shut down.  
But of course, that would cut the use of coal and reduce emmissions, along with mining company profits.  Can't have that, can we.Well, Alan has a point.  All those tall white windmills, polluting the visual appeal of the landscape.
Would be so much better to have an open-cut coal mine and power-station belching smoke to look at instead.
What's wrong with those greenies?Those two future threats (i.e. near future) linked by demand for energy.  But the two pose quite different threats.
Population threatens the world through limits on food production, living space, material wealth, and the inevitable pollution that human civilisation produces, particularly plastics.
Energy generation which is one major source of carbon dioxide pollution, is much more readily fixable, just by using far less polluting methods of generation.
You don't have to discuss both in a single conversation for either to be relevant.Quite right Paul.  But try to convince the world to stop breeding.  The developed countries are generally at around replacement level. e.g. Australian population growth is mainly from immigration.
But the developing nations need to produce children to look after them in their frail years.  So development of the poorer nations to make them more secure for their citizens is a key requirement to controlling population.  And doing that development with coal-fired industries is clearly not a good idea.
On the other hand, changing how we generate electricity has pretty solid support in most thinking economies (I guess that excludes the current Australian and Canadian economies).
If foreign aid to the developing world included spreading non-polluting technologies, then we'd be cooking with gas.  Correction: with wind, solar, or tidal power.Wow! Australia: a rogue state!
How cool is that!  Legislating to ignore international law???  
Aren't we supposed to be protecting the nation and the region from those who disregard international law and conventions?
Maybe this is an "if you can't beat them join them" move on the part of Tony and his crew.
