"Five times that number are now of interest to our intelligence and security agencies, either already fighting overseas or planning to become involved"

So, cancel the passports of those already fighting overseas, deny passports to those planning on becoming involved and leave the rest of us alone. OK?Do you think the international situation is more serious than they are letting on, and that's why they are doing it? 

Is another war being planned? Either against Russia or our old 'adversaries' in the Middle East?The leaders and citizens of today's Israel, like the leaders and citizens of most other western states today, are so remote from the events of 70 years ago that - you're right -  it's disingenuous for them or anyone else to cite the holocaust as an excuse for doing what they're doing. And by 'remote' I mean that most Israelis are new immigrants from the old USSR and are secular rather than Jewish.Craig, do you think the "overt anti-semitism demonstrated there" would have occurred had your family and millions of other Jews stayed in Hungary. Poland etc after WWII rather than emigrating or settling in the resurrected state of ancient Israel?

In other words, is there some deep seated antisemitism in Europe that will never be expunged, or is it a new form of antisemitism leveled at Israel because of the ongoing war between it and Palestine?"The Jewish people returning to the middle east to reestablish Israel was never going to be a panacea to what that Hitler and the Nazi's did"

Indeed, so why did the international community support the reestablishment of Israel rather than encouraging the Jewish people to stay in their homelands and help build a more tolerant Europe?Thank you for the reply, John51. 

Weren't the British required to relinquish their empire after the war in return for Lend Lease (or whatever the American reconstruction money was called)? 

Just wondering if the British had retained their mandate over Palestine whether the state of Israel would ever have got up.

If those suffering 'guilt' could have seen ahead to the mess they had created I wonder, too, if they might have thought about another solution.  

Didn't Australia offer a homeland for the Jews long before WWII started?  Our loss, because had they come here, they would have turned our deserts into oases - just like they did where they are now!So why are we raising the retirement age to 70? It would make more sense to reduce the retirement age allowing young people to get a job, wouldn't it?"I'm gonna install CCTV in everyone's house"

Most people where I live in Sydney already have it installed ... and yes, there are people at the other end looking at their screens like voyeurs, watching who passes by.  Spying on others, it seems, has become a national pastime."this surviving item of hand-me-down ideological furniture from the Keating Government"

Annabel, what a delightful phrase!"those we are being asked to trust blindly look remarkably like those...."

Yes, it is beginning to look very much like the Howard Government's 2002 Be Alert Not Alarmed campaign.  I await my next fridge magnet in anticipation ... and I hope it comes with a nice green and gold Team Australia outfit.Yes, that's definitely on the horizon, as is wet-nursing. 

The whole reproductive process and its aftermath - caring for the kids - is becoming a "growth" industry. 

How convenient we now have an underclass of young people heavily indebted with HECS to exploit."it's going to be used to start up some you-beaut medical research fund"

Yes, I'm concerned about what type of medical research this fund is going to - it it's finding a cure for as yet incurable diseases then that's money well spent surely, but if it's funding all of those lightweight lifestyle studies then it's just another rort.In Germany welfare payments factor in such things as prostitutes (for men, not women strangely) so to deny welfare recipients the little pleasures in life they apparently get from cigs, booze, pokies and drugs is dreadfully mean of us. 

After all, that money gets churned back into the economy giving other people jobs.

Ideally, nobody but the totally incapacitated should be on welfare but with only 140,000 job vacancies existing for 700,000 unemployed Australians it's not fair to punish those who for a myriad of reasons cannot score one of these jobs.If 'comfortable wage' means a wage that covers your expenses with a few dollars left over for discretionary spending - more or less equivalent to the minimum wage - then YES I think government should abolish the dole and take responsibility for employing those affected by its economic mismanagement or elite employment policies. 

Thirty years ago the basis for government employment was commonly understood - those who couldn't score a job in the private sector could always get a job with the government. Now, only the privileged or well-connected get government jobs. That's not how it should be. Government has a responsibility to help those who can't help themselves.

The government can solve the unemployment problem if it wanted to by placing a moratorium on immigration. But it won't. It's almost as if it (and the previous government) want to create an underclass of slaves and beggars.







"shutdown all the different employment visa programs - if we currently have 100 citizens/residents applying for each job advertised then we have no need to import a single visa holder, if industry is desperate for skills then they can start bloody investing in them"

Well said! As far as I can tell all of these visa programs - including the study visas - are backdoor ways to obtain permanent residence, and once obtained the new resident isn't as employable as a new arrival so it's a vicious circle."Russia's 'jack booting' into a country on their border"

Hmm, the Ukraine was formerly part of the USSR and before that it was part of the Ottoman Empire. It is famous for its Cossacks who represent - at least to western people - the essence of Russia. If the eastern part of the Ukraine wants to return to Russia rather than become part of the EU I don't think it's anybody's business but theirs, and certainly not the USA's.  

Where did the US borrow that $5B USD from - can't be China surely!Yeah, I cringe every time an Australian athlete demolishes some poor citizen from another country at the Commonwealth or Olympic games and the multitude of Aussie supporters at such games chant Oi Oi Oi in jubilation.

:)Ah Bless, Clotho!

It was Samuel Johnson and he coined that phrase on 7 April 1775, and according to Wikipedia it "was not, as widely believed, about patriotism in general, but the false use of the term "patriotism" by John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute (the patriot-minister) and his supporters. Johnson opposed "self-professed Patriots" in general, but valued what he considered "true" patriotism.""Is guilt hereditary"

It seems to be, unfortunately. The ongoing antipathy between the English and the French seems to go back to the Napoleonic Wars, but nobody alive today would have much knowledge of those wars -- thinking, instead, it was related to WWII.

As for Australians feeling guilty about the Aboriginal people and the WAP, well .... if they were of British stock, maybe, the rest of us are off the hook.  :)

Gallipoli was indeed a military disaster and it is this fact alone that seems to make it worthy of commemoration .... more for the senseless loss of life than the genius of the commanders.

Many Germans Anglicised their name when they emigrated to avoid 'guilt' - even the British royal family tried to hide their German ancestry by changing their name - so that's always an option for you but believe me there are more sensible people in the world than you think, so stay as sweet as you are and ignore the idiots.



Sounds like you are making a case to ban men from eisteddfods and beauty pageants?"They did it to single mothers, they can surely do it to themselves"

Debunker, good point but you miss the real agenda of both parties.

Keating turned all workers into stock market ?capitalists? with compulsory super. Howard turned the wealthy into ?socialists? with the baby bonus and family payments.  Rudd/Gillard created the underclass by refusing to raise the dole and shafting Whitlam?s single parents. Abbott?s PPL and work for the dole are designed to now exploit the underclass. Mothers can claim a nanny while they do ?real? work?; and others can claim a slave. Soon, wet-nursing and surrogacy will remove women entirely from the ?inconvenience? of motherhood! 

Give it a while, it will be back ....And yet they are giving a job to a nanny to look after their kids so that they don't lose their jobs?

Weird."The journos in the thick of things are the only people generally who can be relied upon"

True, so apart from wanting to protect themselves is there any other reason why the journalists didn''t stay in 'the thick of things' to get the truth out to us?No, I was wondering whether they had asked to 'embed' themselves with one of the protagonists and were refused or something like that."That doesn't really prove the Ukrainians shot down the jet, just because they are breaking ceasefires"

No, it doesn't but it does deepen the suspicion of many of us that the initial "blame Russia" outcry had ulterior motives."we should pick them like we do for jury duty out of the public"

Good point kim, I've often thought that would indeed be a better way to get our country governed better. 

Either that, or pay politicians the equivalent of the dole --- after all, representing one's electorate is a privilege (not something that should be rorted)."his jug his cooker is gas his power was $998.95"

That's robbery! If he can't get a better deal from another company then he'd do well to disconnect the electricity and use camping style lighting. Bit tough, though, if his water heater isn't gas. 

I know how freezing Orange can be, and it's a shame that the plight of our elderly is so often overlooked by the media. I hope your friend manages to sort this out."Why does Abbott want to spend millions on this effort but leave our youth to starve for 6 months of the year?"

Join the dots ... conscription?
"What is worse is now days patient demading expensive investigation when nothing is wrong"

Really? It's the reverse with my GP, which is why I tend to use Dr Google these days (and spare myself the worry and expense of being referred to a specialist and having a myriad of invasive tests done that I really don't need).  

And what about all those exhortations to get the flu vaccine - or die! - and all of the other check-ups that are supposed to pick up diseases early (when most of us would be better off not knowing about them)."90% of GP visits are a complete waste of time"

Probably true, yet without the 'worried well' you may not be able to afford too many chuckling lunches with your GP mates.

:)"medical research (a much longer-term investment)"

Alpo, you're assuming - and I suppose everyone is - that the medical research fund that the co-payment is paying for is going to be for something useful (like finding a cure for cancer, etc). My fear is that it is going to be used to pay for more of those annoying lightweight lifestyle studies that invariably contradict each other. Y'know, "medical research shows that eating a pineapple a day keeps the doctor away", followed the next week by another study showing that people who eat pineapples have a higher incidence of heart disease or colon cancer.  

:)We all know that most red-blooded male politicians "think" in exactly the terms you mention in relation to women, so they don't have to articulate it.  I think Jacqui Lambie's outspoken comment on the type of man she fancies is an absolute hoot. I doubt that she'll find what she's looking for in the Senate, though.Senator Lambie may have to maintain an air of intellectual credibility to be an effective Senator in your eyes Dave, but she knows her fellow Tasmanians well enough otherwise she would not have been elected - and a lot of Australians think she's a lot more down to earth than that annoying female Senator from SA whose name I shall not mention.

I hope you're not implying that Tasmanians are the "lowest common denominator"?

:)I heard clips of the show on radio and it appears to me that she allowed herself to be drawn in that direction simply because she is looking for a bloke and thought national television would be a better place to advertise her availability than e-harmony.

Hope she finds him!

:)Maybe knowing that their training is attracting a HECS debt the different sports might attract a better calibre of athlete capable of making something worthwhile out of it?

If you think of it in terms of 'job creation' I suppose it keeps our unemployment figures down and our young people doing something healthier than sitting home writing endless job applications for non-existent jobs.

:)I wish we had as much pride in our national resources and industries as we have in our sportsmen and women. It's OK to beat the Aussie drum at sports events, but as soon as you protest about another farm, mine or icon being sold to foreign interests you're branded an insular racist or something.
"1982 was also a time when seeing high quality sport on TV was a rarity. You were lucky to get one game of footy live a week, let alone see the best athletes competing in swimming, athletics or cycling"

Ah, the good old days when most of us were actually living our lives swimming, jogging and cycling rather than sitting at home watching others do it for us like most Australians do today - and, in the case of the CG and OG, actually pay tax for the vicarious exercise.

I'll probably watch the opening and closing ceremonies though as I might catch a sporran or two.  :)Ah, the voice of reason speaks! Well done.

There are many aspects of this tragedy - and the previous one involving Malaysian Airlines - that don't make sense and since Putin's plane was also in the vicinity who is say whether he was the intended target and the transcript of the alleged discussion between the perps is a fabrication? 

Until the facts are in, I'd give Putin the benefit of the doubt and welcome him to the G20 which, after all, is about the World Economy not other agendas.
Personally, I'd like to see private vehicles banned from the CBD so that people who want to cycle or walk to work can do so without being asphyxiated or mowed down. 

Fat chance of that happening (pun intended)."Road maintenance funding comes out of general taxation, not registration"

That sounds like a good argument for increasing registration and funding road maintenance from it, in which case cyclists (because they cause less damage) might not mind a bicycle registration scheme if it cost them significantly less than a car registration."how about we tax car drivers for the pollution they emit, and the cost to Medicare for all the accidents they cause?"

Won't happen John for the same reason that alcohol gets the kid glove treatment over other less harmful substances.They also seem to be involved in a higher proportion of driveway accidents involving toddlers than any other type of vehicle.Yes, looking at the heated reaction to the latest Malaysian Airlines tragedy makes me think that another Cold War is developing that may lead to just the scenario you predict."too many Australians are intellectually lazy"

Hmmm, more like time poor.  Not everyone has the luxury of being able to keep up with a plethora of political dramas 24/7. And why should we have to double-check everything politicians say when we pay them to do a job and expect them to be honest?

I'm struggling with this problem myself. I think Conservative v Liberal (the dictionary definition) are good terms to use for social values, but not economic values (I don't want to use capitalist v socialist for economic values because it is too loaded with late 19th century dogma and am lost on this one). 

I would also another axis to describe whether one is a Nationalist or an Internationalist, and perhaps one for Welfare v Independent (can't find the right word for that one, too).

Ideally, political parties should describe in their name what they stand for. For instance, I'd like a Liberal National Welfare Party that embraces personal freedoms, national interests and welfare for the needy. 

Back to the drawing board. :)

You're a Conservative Nationalist then debunker (on gay marriage and asylum seekers/carbon pricing).

I'm a Liberal Nationalist on these issues.

:)
Good point Paul. I'm "indifferent" too so it does make a difference how the question is asked.  Had it been: "Do you deny marriage to gays?" I would say no, emphatically and I suspect a lot of Australians (probably not 72%) would say no too."I learn that one of the companies supply electricity in NSW has given figures of between 20 to 50 cents a day can be expected to be returned to the customer."

Yeah right, I'll believe it when I see it rusty cairns, but with the many blackouts we've been getting in the Sydney area (always early mornings, 5am-ish) I guess we should be lucky to get any electricity at all.

Wasn't it tragic that 2 disabled young men on life support machines died during a similar blackout in WA when their backup power failed?TonyM, thanks for your reply to my comment on the carbon tax earlier this week. 

Weren't all fossil fuels discussed in the deal struck between Gillard and the Greens and part of the tax was allocated for developing cleaner cars? 

If not, then I guess I was sidetracked by other dramas cropping up in the 24-hr news cycle -- sort of like what's happening now with Palmer. How are casual readers supposed to keep up with it all?

So, what are we getting now - Direct Action or an ETS when Palmer says so (i.e. to coincide with selling his coal mines to China and making his new billions trading in carbon credits)?

Sara, the summer of 1816 wasn't just "one rainy summer holiday" for Mary Shelley. 

According to Wikipedia, the whole year was known as  the Poverty Year, The Summer that Never Was, Year There Was No Summer, and Eighteen Hundred and Froze to Death because of severe summer climate abnormalities that caused average global temperatures to decrease by 0.4?0.7 ?C (0.7?1.3 ?F). This resulted in major food shortages across the Northern Hemisphere.  Evidence suggests that the anomaly was caused by a combination of a historic low in solar activity with a volcanic winter event, the latter caused by a succession of major volcanic eruptions capped by the 1815 eruption of Mount Tambora, in the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia), the largest known eruption in over 1,300 years. The Little Ice Age, then in its concluding decades, may also have been a factor.]Do these retirement places have a rental scheme in place? If so, then the elderly can rent their big homes out and rent a lifestyle unit, hopefully with enough left over from the rent they receive to pay their daily expenses too (not needing a pension).  If they don't like it, they can always wait 6 months and go home - to try something else. What I don't know ...sharing their home with someone?"Under the Howard LNP government funding for aged care services was adequate but under the previous ALP government some changes were made that were not beneficial and this appears to have accelerated under the current LNP government"

Isn't this more a problem of better health outcomes leading to more people living longer?  And, Family Reunion means more elderly people coming in, too, needing ethnic specific aged care. 

I vaguely remember Ms Gillard saying that her govt would encourage more aged people to stay in their own homes with community care, but people who live alone may prefer to move into aged care for company more than anything else. 

I'm sorry your father deteriorated in aged care. He's lucky to have you visiting him."Just tighten your seat belts it is going to be an interesting few months if not years"

Oh no! If nothing else, when Abbott looked like a cert to win in 2013 I comforted myself with the consolation that the next 3 yrs would be batshit boring and I could get back to gaming rather than spending hours reading Drum articles to keep up with the latest Gillard/Rudd drama. 

I just didn't figure on PUP becoming a force to be reckoned with - who did?- but with hindsight I guess someone who's capable of forming a new political party just months before an election and running candidates in every electorate - as well as the senate - is definitely someone with the focus, drive and *money* needed to emerge as an effective new political force in Australia appealing to the - pun intended - 'underdogs' (y'know, the unemployed, single parents, non-union working poor, etc that Labor shafted and now the LNP is kicking in the guts).

I doubt whether he's angling for a knighthood or LNP leadership. If he swoops up enough 'underdogs' next time he could be PM in his own right and create his own system of honours - Order of the Kennel or something.  :)
"what is confounding most pundits and has got the Media in a spin ..... he has redefine[d] the very notion of left/centre/right politics, with a whole new confusing up/down paradigm"

Doesn't confound me as I've said umpteen times here over the years that a lot of people, including myself, just don't fit that mould and see the ALP and LNP as being twinlike (i.e. Labor had 6 years to repeal all the middle-class and corporate welfare and cut the tax rorts but didn't, and it proposed most of the draconian measures that the LNP is now putting forward in its budget - need I say more?).

The socialist parties (and to some extent the Greens) are good on social policies, but their attitude towards capitalism, nationalism and internationalism is so last century that it's mouldy.

That a mining magnate can champion the less fortunate is only surreal if you think all capitalists are evil. Some yes, all no.  :)Matty Day:"Yes, he agrees, the Labor Party shares his social concerns, and "is doing a really good job in opposition". And yes, there's the Greens. But the PUP offers a new voice."

In a nutshell, that explains why PUPs appeal is broadening. By positioning himself as a "champion of Aboriginal issues" Clive Palmer is taking over not only the heartland of Australia but all of the other minority groups that the ALP and the Greens have forgotten.  By focusing too much on saving union jobs in the motor and other industries (ALP) and supporting refugees (Greens) both parties have lost touch with Australians who once voted for them primarily concerned with social issues.Ted, 

Clive Palmer is making both Abbott and Shorten look like PUPpets and he delights in pulling their strings.

Shorten has always looked "asleep at the wheel " in and out of govt, and Abbott is widely disliked. Both parties need a charismatic and savvy leader like Palmer to win the next election outright. Trouble is, with so many pollies having no life experience outside of party or union jobs - and not much charisma - we are unlikely to see someone like Palmer emerge from their ranks.Hi Rhonda, like the Greens before him I think Palmer wants his party to replace the ALP as the main opposition to the LNP and the fact that Palmer has just announced that he is introducing an ALP style ETS as an amendment to the carbon tax repeal legislation later this week shows that he is even stealing ALP policy right under Shorten's nose. Shorten can't afford to sit back. He needs to take Palmer a lot more seriously.I, too, am surprised at the level of interest - by the media and the public - in someone else's sexuality. How prurient! Already the Drum has two opinion pieces on Ian Thorpe's coming out and that's two too many as far as I'm concerned.

:)If we contained Australia's population and used energy responsibly then solar energy generation wouldn't be a "disaster economically and logistically", right?"So why do we still use this museum piece?"

I don't, why do you? I don't think we tax petrol enough. I pay $3 for a small bottle of water from a vending machine - so much more expensive than a litre of petrol. Why? 

It's not like water is a finite resource (or is it?) and the govt needs to make it expensive to limit our consumption of it - but this argument *should* hold good for fossil fuel petrol (but strangely doesn't).

Maybe vehicle manufacturers have a vested interest in keeping their museum pieces viable?Dear Victor, 

You guess wrongly on all counts but do tell me where you purchase a carton of 24 x 600 ml. bottles of water for $2?

Regards,

JessCForget global warming MACK1, it's the pollution from fossil fuel burning that needs our attention if we want to keep on breathing - especially in our crowded cities where people continue to drive cars even when public transport is available."do all alarmists ensure they turn every unnecessary light off at night, ride/walk to work instead of drive, drive small and efficient cars"

No they don't DangerMouse, and that's why I've distanced myself from the hypocritical jetsetting AGW crowd, but I still believe that the carbon tax (I prefer to call it a fossil fuel pollution tax) is good for Australia (developing cleaner energy and cars, etc) and I don't want it to be replaced by Direct Action or an ETS.Great post, Michael. It won't make the Drum's "You said it" front page, but it should because far too many people say they are concerned about the environment but just refuse to do something about it (like changing their lifestyle).Hi Joan, I agree on the ETS.

Have you heard that Palmer is going to introduce a Labor style ETS amendment to the carbon tax repeal legislation later this week, and if Abbott agrees ? an ETS was once LNP as well as ALP policy, so he might ? that will really upset those who voted for him specifically *not* just to get rid of the carbon tax but the *whole* AGW scare-mongering stuff allowing them to return to the good old high polluting days of cheap energy and fuel!

Ian Verrender said: ?the Federal Government will forgo $6.6 billion in annual revenue raised from the carbon tax? and that's why scrapping it to implement Direct Action - or an ETS - is nuts. 

Until a reputable international body is set up to handle global pollution ? embracing *all* nations - what we have right now with the carbon tax is a source of revenue that *we* control and that actually does some good here in Australia helping our transition to cleaner energy sources and cleaner vehicles to deliver less polluted and more breathable cities.

It?s really pathetic that so many parties want to scrap it and hand control of our energy and fuel to speculative global banksters who couldn?t give a fig about us or the environment. 

What earthly good, literally, will scrapping the carbon tax to implement an ETS do? 

Like you said, it?s just another financial scam devised by Enron and Goldman Sacchs (of GFC fame) to enrich political and financial elites, and no prizes for guessing who?ll suffer when it implodes. 

:(
The 'venom spitters' are likely to be astroturfers, Ted, activists paid according to their academic qualifications by political parties and international bodies to get a message across. 

I discovered this a few years ago reading an opinion piece on Climate Change (or was it Boat People) with thousands of comments where the activists openly discussed who was paying them and how much they received.

Although it's annoying to come to Our ABC for enlightenment on something you're not sure about and find it hijacked by barrow-pushers from both sides,  there
are enough reasonably unbiased people here to make it worthwhile.

Don't lose heart!Yes, digital media and online sharing does have a  dark side and it's not just the "sensible middle-ground of politics" that is being lost by this silly left v right partisanship but the very notion that people are interested in a plethora of issues and can find themselves on the extreme right, extreme left and in the middle on any one them.Give the guy a chance SVJ. He may not have the oratory skills of seasoned politicians but he is more likely to be working for the good of his electorate than his own good, and in time he may turn out to be a modern day Demosthenes!

:)"Those of a Machiavellian bent may wonder whether this unnatural cheeriness reveals the budget was actually meant to be an ambit claim"

Hah, what else can it be? But they've shot themselves in the foot should they want another term in office. even with MT as leader.OUB, as a LNP voter are you not concerned about the draconian direction that TA &amp; Co are taking the party? Are you not concerned that even if MT stepped up to rescue the party that the electorate will reject him, too, giving us a Labor party which is in no state to govern?Helvi, global warming like asylum seekers are international issues not so much national issues and however unfortunate it may be that TA won the election to take attention off both of these international issues we must accept the decision of the Australian electorate.

As for Ricki Muir, well, he's a motoring enthusiast and won't be supporting a rise in petrol excise - but then neither did Christine Milne, so lots of Australians (probably you, too, if you have a car) are going to be happy about that.
"a huge and as yet unquantifiable injustice has been perpetrated upon innocent elderly Australians who were doing nothing more than saving for retirement"

I fear that an equally horrific injustice will be perpetrated upon younger Australians when their time comes to retire. Let's face it, not too many people are financially astute and with world markets constantly changing in value it is not just the financial advisers that we should be wary of. I have long held the belief that when superannuation was made compulsory that people should have been given a choice to pay it to the govt (a sort of top-up for the aged pension which the govt could use in the meantime for vital infrastructure rather than getting into debt).I agree that we risk losing the lot, but who's going to take care of you in retirement if saving for it is a waste of time? With the aged pension being phased out, and being required to work till we're 70+ I don't suppose there will be too many years left in our lives to have a 'retirement' but we still need to provide for ourselves just in case we linger on forever! 

What do you suggest instead - investing in property and depriving young people of a home (like many Baby Boomers are doing in order to circumvent the problems inherent in having too much money and nowhere safe to park it)?rattan, yes I suppose it could be some sort of long term bond issue,  but whatever you call it or however it is done, it must be in the hands of the govt and kept as far away as possible from the banks, private financiers and overseas sharks.I use a CBA account for my everyday banking and I wouldn't worry about "the 55,000 odd employees of the CBA across business units that depend on their CBA for employment and their livelihood" because I am able to differentiate between them and management (as most customers would be) and their service is so good and friendly that I am not planning on changing banks just because of this awful situation (and I doubt whether other customers would either).That's a funny comment RDS. I had no idea who Paul Kelly was until I read this article.  Why should anyone know that he's what "The Australian newspaper calls its editor-at-large" when that newspaper is behind a paywall?In relation to how the ABC can assist in sharing ideas to improve social cohesion, I'd rather hear more from  older people who've been around a few blocks than "intellectuals" who haven't.Unfortunately, most of our elected reps have neither been around a few blocks nor acquired a great intellect - rendering them useless at anything other than feathering their own nests - so I agree with you there.

Don't get me wrong - I have nothing against intellectuals - it's just that like politicians who rise through party machines they tend to insulate themselves from real life miseries in their ivory towers and as such both politicians and academics are not equipped with the necessary experience to tell the rest of us how to live.

:)Jatz, I'd say the paradigm shift started in the 90s with Keating, I remember being shocked at the notion that we were all now responsible for funding our retirements and the aged pension was no longer something we contributed towards through our taxes but was now a handout for unfortunates! 

No wonder the Baby Boomers started buying up investment properties - it was the only way, I suppose, they could amass enough money to take care of themselves in old age (having spent  the earlier years of their working lives not worrying about such things and generally being generous, egalitarian and compassionate). 

Unfortunately, the next generation picked up on their parents being "meaner, less egalitarian and less compassionate" and ran with it meaning that their children, the youth of today, have nothing much to look forward to.



"And if social services aren't entitlements what are they?"

Hmm, how about reasonable expectations of services being available when *needed* from people who have paid taxes (and we all pay taxes with GST) for that purpose? 

"Entitlement" has overtones of getting something for nothing, just because you can, when you don't need it. Sort of like  claiming a healthcare card and a part pension of $1 pw by creative accounting when you have a fortune! 

I agree that the previous govt did nothing to prevent the "entitlement" mentality of the greedy festering. The present govt, though, is making things worse by targeting the needy - those for whom social services were intended.
"their parents are far too busy to give them the guidance to do it"

That's an astute comment from a cuteyoungchic. (:

With parents - and grandparents - stressed out trying to keep on working, paying bills and providing for their retirement who, exactly, is helping the young, unemployed kids? 

I sometimes think that the pre-WWII world my mother grew up in (where mums stayed at home to look after children and the elderly) was a better way of life for all concerned, but then if a Tardis took me back to those times I'd probably go stir-crazy being a stay-at-home mum so times change and we must adapt to problems as they arise, and how to help our unemployed youth is now a BIGGY that nobody can ignore.

They're miserable, they need a job, and "earn or learn" is no solution.  Employers won't train the unemployed for jobs when they can get qualified 457s from overseas, so it looks like we need a government that puts Australians first (but that would make us look racist or something so no govt would contemplate it).

It's a crazy world, isn't it?



Hockey called us ?children? who need tough love for our ?own good?. Using that analogy, if running a country is similar to managing a family then do the LNPers manage their own families in the same way as the bigger Australian ?family??  

Do they lie to their children, pit them against each other, favour the lucky sibling over the unlucky, sell off the family home and silver to the highest foreign bidder/sponsor and essentially outsource ?parenting? to these people, too? Or do they coddle their darlings and pull every string to advance their prospects?

Right now we have a draconian ?family? budget from a political party ridiculously called "liberal" which encourages us to keep working and paying taxes by offering inducements and discourages us from ?shirking? by removing safety nets. It?s robbing unemployed and possibly disabled Peta of basic sustenance in order to pay for employed Paula?s inducements! That?s not tough love; it?s inhumane - as is forcing kids into debt doing courses for which no job exists (and never will once the retirement age is lifted to 70+).

Labor's ?family? budgets weren?t much fairer, and its name is also disingenuous in that during its 6-year ?parenting? role its ?children? (Australian workers) were blatantly shafted by overcrowding our ?home? with 457s, immigrants and economic refugees.   Getting into debt to give us money to buy foreign-made plasmas and insulation while refusing to raise the dole pittance during high unemployment and rising prices shows that Labor, too, kowtows to foreign financial masters and believes that anyone without a job is a ?shirker? (including single parents shoved by Labor onto the dole to search for 10 non-existent jobs pw when their youngest turns 8). 

I believe that the bigger Australian ?family? doesn?t want political stooges of international bodies/corporations ?parenting? us, robbing us of our inheritance, forcing us into debt, kicking us in the guts when we?re down and replacing us with more compliant ?children?.  True parents sacrifice for the good of their children ? not the reverse - and if our present interchangeable political parents are incapable of taking charge, protecting our ?home? and treating us fairly then we need to ditch them and vote for common-sense Independents who truly care about our future.
I prefer Ben's globalisation symbolism. The round ball is definitely "a subliminal recommendation of a one-world government".  Maybe it should be painted green because it is RED inside.  FIFA really stands for Fiendish Internationale For America (that's lame, I know, I'm tired).

:)Yes, Dave, that is a shame but if FF voters had bothered to look at where Bob Day was giving his preferences they would have known about his LDP leanings and as such protecting the pay of kids doing weekend shifts in part-time work was certainly not on his economic agenda! 

It seems that the voters were primarily attracted to FF?s social conservativism (anti gay marriage, etc) and didn?t consider other FF policies that might have gone against their grain, and this is a problem that besets all voters because no party exists that can cover the complexities of the many issues we do and don?t support (and why voting for Independents, like Harradine, answerable only to their voter base, is probably a better system than we one we have).

BTW, the LDP/FF bloc will also put paid to the deficit levy (which may be good for FF voters) and the PPL (which may not be good for FF voters, particularly working women), and if issues such as a reduction in the minimum wage and the privatisation of schools and hospitals ever come before parliament again be prepared for a greater backlash against Bob Day from his FF voters!

They really should make up their minds about what is more important to them: conservative Christian values (FF) or economic socialism (best represented by the Greens or various socialist parties, not so much by the ALP these days). Better still, they should form a new party. How about the Christian Socialists?
Great comment, Jane. Can I add: Its time to make ethics a prerequisite for politicians operating in this country.Claudius, I agree with you but I would not call it "entrenched sloth and indolence".  More like overzealous interest in their own career advancement and levels of pay than the futures of the children they were supposed to be teaching.It seems that professional development is the only part of their job that teachers enjoy (although I suspect that those long holidays are the main attraction)!

So, unless the "greater levels of autonomy for schools" results in teachers being relieved of appraisal, administrative tasks, yard duty, etc - and being endowed with more appreciation - I doubt very much whether "learning outcomes" will be improved.

The only way my children survived primary and secondary "education" (with endless supply teachers filling-in for prima donnas on leave doing professional development) was through my efforts. I worked 40 hours a week and then put in another 40 hours teaching them!

Those who enter any profession, especially the teaching profession, should do so to make a difference and improve the lot of mankind rather than themselves (like the wonderful teachers who taught me back in the 60s and 70s who, incidentally, were put out to pasture way too early by the NWO prima donnas).
"Some utilities, especially water, are so valuable and essential they should never be held in private hands"

Agreed! Water and other truly essential services are the ones we should be fighting to protect - not so much a mail and parcel  service that private operators can (and do, actually) provide under the guise of a government service."That's a better way of adding to the bottom-line than cutting off elder ladies from their mail service"

I had to laugh at this. Would you similarly draw attention to the plight of the "luvvies" if a future government - LNP or Labor, they both do it - want to privatise the ABC? 

As I understand it, post offices have long been run privately and parcels are delivered by Star Track Express (another private company), so why are taxpayers forking out $120 million pa on Mr Fahour and senior public servants (and don't forget their superannuation perks) to manage what is already a massive private enterprise?

The job of government is *not* to raise taxes to run private businesses for profit. It's to provide universal low-cost *public* services (hospitals, schools, water, power, transport, etc) that private companies cannot or will not provide (a fact defining whether or not a service is "essential").
 
Last century, telephone services were considered "essential", but as new private telcos emerged to challenge Telecom's monopoly it needed to be privatised. The time has now come for AP (and other services that were once "essential"). 

There are plenty of private companies willing to take over mail delivery and absorb AP's redundant workers. It's not as if privatisation is going to remove the mail service entirely (as this article implies)!

However, I don't believe real estate owned by Australia Post should be part of the package.  That's *our* property, paid for by the taxes of our ancestors, and it should be leased to the new operator.

Looking at footy and talking about footy stars is a piss-take, period. 

I wish to take this opportunity to lodge a complaint about the wall-to-wall coverage of footy from Friday night to Monday morning by the ABC online, on television and particularly on radio (which I like to have on while I'm home).

Thank Zeus for the few commercial stations that cater for sane people!

:)Huh? Aren't we programmed to respond emotionally to external data?  Are you saying that you can view something sad, bad or wonderful without feeling a bit sad, bad or wonderful yourself?"people in an unpleasant mood are spreading their mood to others"

So true, Jay, which is why I stopped reading and commenting here prior to last year's election and watched movies instead. 
:)Sorry to knock your socks off Whirlwind but you don't need an account to be monitored and manipulated. You just need to be online. And, if you are so afraid of social media then what are you doing posting here?  our ABC is monitored by FB and Twitter and must necessarily carry out surveys of its own in order to gauge which articles attract good and bad comments.?voters are angry about X so advocacy groups should be able to use this to promote Y. Not sure I follow that logic?

Gordon, Paula?s logic is sound in that the BugaUp activists of the 70s, specifically targeting smoking, produced a handbook advocating this very principle and successfully corralled followers to their cause by tapping into generalised anger about other issues. I think GetUp works the same way in that people go to its website to support, say, gay marriage, and get suckered into supporting a whole lot of causes that they really aren?t interested in but lend support to in any case just because they?re angry!
"Putin is currently charting the exact same course originally pursued by Catherine the Great"

Does he have an affinity with horses, too?"If the majority vote for Russia let it go there and those who wish can move to Ukraine"

Exactly, either that or if Ukraine must be kept intact in order to join the EU then compensate handsomely people who wish to return to Russian rule ... though I doubt whether people will accept compensation for moving away from land they have occupied for centuries as part of the USSR.

Another alternative I suppose is to make Eastern Ukraine a sovereign state. If Kosovo and East Timor can go it alone, why not?

cangaiman: "Why else would Hockey &amp; co. cut them off benefits for six months if it isn't to feed the war machine?"

Yep, lots of people have joined those dots to come to the same conclusion -- whether it will lead to conscription or not is yet to be determined. 

"if asked, the Abbott Government would go further and offer up hornets to fly off US aircraft carriers ...  the Opposition will in all likelihood go along with that"

I don't think Abbott needs asking, but otherwise I agree that Labor will offer no opposition whatsoever.  Shame! 

"The Greens will be left to articulate the "no" case"

And they'll speak for 99% of us and increase their vote - good on them!



"If we have such a financial catastrophe on our hands why not borrow the from the super funds?"

Because people elect to go for the highest return (sharemarket) rather than govt bonds? 

The billions and billions of dollars are floating overseas, so compulsory super did nothing to advance Australia fair --- and many have lost their lost their super in dodgy deals so good luck everyone when your time comes to cash in.Lap band bariatric surgery for the economy?"It's about my experience of being a Malaysian immigrant living in Australia"

In 2014? Don't believe it! Half of my fellow-students in the 1970s were Malaysian and they loved it here, and we loved them. 
And manage stress better by learning meditation techniques."#firstworldproblem, right?"

Sarah, that's spot on. We often overlook the fact that when we engage in social media to discuss our somewhat trivial first-world problems we are not in our usual social milieu ... we are interacting with people from all corners of the world whose problems are far from trivial and as a result we get attacked. Proceed with caution!Steve, there's NOTHING nationalistic about a govt that's selling off our farms, our mineral and water assets, our industries; offshoring jobs, bringing in thousands of 457s,  increasing immigration, etc. and generally kowtowing to foreign interests rather than the people who ostensibly elected them.

Team Australia - my foot!That would be Private Class v Public Class.

I think the point Tory Boy was making (correct me if I am wrong) is that 'class' in its broad sense is not marked by money or birth. 

It's something you either have, or you don't.

"Living in a traditional National enclave, I find it incredulous that they have a stranglehold on the district - particulary when they have not acheived a dam thing in over 20 years"

Why don't you stand as an Independent canglman, or encourage someone else to? It's abhorrent that people can get into a safe seat and stay there for years doing nothing. That's not what democracy is about - that's fat-catism.

Which is a good argument for doing away with our ridiculous 2-party system and voting in Independents representing the best interests of our respective electorates and the nation as a whole."The fear campaign being run by the abbott government is how he got elected in the first place"

And it's continuing! See how easy it is for Team Australia to morph into Fear Australia.

Team Australia - Tear Australia - Fear AustraliaAndrew, there's absolutely no way the LNP can sell its budget - it stinks - and wrapping it up in roses or sweet-talking to us won't make an iota of difference.

I agree with you about class division - it will get worse if Labor or the cross-benchers pass the more divisive of the budget proposals - but it will be the Political Class v Voters!"Now why would most of the working people of Australia join a team which has only one purpose, to shovel money from the workers and the poor and hand it to the team sponsors, big business and the rich?"

Obviously the LNP think we are feeble-minded, accustomed to authority figures telling us what's good for us. Not that the Labor party was much better, but hey ...."today's feeble minded have a new champion in Clive Palmer"

Hey, if crazy Clive can offer what neither the ALP nor the LNP can offer - a FAIR GO - then I will be voting for him next time and if that makes me feeble minded then NER!

:)Well said Sandra.  I'm keeping my eye on PUP. If it comes through as a fair party, capable of representing the majority of Australians (who aren't under the thumb of Big Business or Union Bosses) then I'll be voting for it next time -- otherwise we may as well vote informal to register our discontentment at the lack of democratic representation.You must have missed the fact that Labor didn't raise the dole during its 6 years in office - and then put single parents on the dole when their kid turned 8 - so it's more surprising to me that more than 8% didn't think Labor benefited the rich.

:)"half of us (49 per cent) see ourselves sitting in the middle - the one place on the political spectrum where people see neither party as championing their interests"

Yep, that's true-ish, and more telling is that nearly 20% of eligible voters voted INFORMAL at the last election rather than giving their HoR reps vote to Labor or LNP by preferences. 

Voting for an Independent doesn't work with the current preferential system, so unless Labor gets back to its roots and is prepared to cut out all middle class and corporate welfare (which it didn't do during its 6 years in office) or PUP (or a new party) comes good as a FAIR and HONEST party - that 20% will include me next time around."Do atheists put their money where their mouth is and feed the poor?"

The Smith Family appears to be a non-religious charity but it doesn't feed the poor. so you could be right about no 'atheist' organisation existing for that purpose. 

I guess it all harks back to the time before social welfare come into being. The only people who assisted the poor and hungry were the religious organisations, and that's the bad  old days, it appears, that the LNP want to return us to.

I'm sorry to hear about your situation, Martin. I was once where you were during a brief period of unemployment and it was difficult trying to make ends meet whilst keeping up the appearance of being 'well to do'. I did learn how to be frugal, though!

At 60 your chances of employment are not good, but at any age being long-term unemployed trying to exist on the dole must he absolute hell and I really fear for young people being kicked off the dole for 6 months. 

I have no solutions for you, sorry. It seems religious organisations have a strange-hold on age care, too.

It seems only the rich can afford to be atheist!
"the Government needs to find some way to bring retirement villages and lifestyle communities under national regulation and then encourage people to sell the family home and move into them"

In the news last week was a couple in their 90s who were found dead in a retirement village after TWO WEEKS, and nobody noticed. So, how is financial regulation going to change this horrific situation? When private operators run aged care facilities it seems to be all about money and no care."leaving out floors numbered with a '4' quite disturbing"

13 is our 'unlucky' number (which adds up to '4') and not many Aussies would want to live on the 13th floor or buy a house with that number (although you would, I suppose) so it's not just the Chinese who are superstitious.   

:)
Considering that the first practical electric car was produced in London in 1884 by inventor Thomas Parker using his own specially designed high-capacity rechargeable battery it's crazy that we're waiting for cheap petrol to dry up before considering a cleaner alternative."I want to be able to go where I want and when I want in a timely manner"

I take it you don't live in a capital city with heavy congested roads. You can sometimes walk faster than a car travels in Sydney. and with designated bus lanes public transport is by far the timeliest way to get into and out of the city during peak hours.Proposing to reinstate the fuel tax indexation is probably the only sensible thing this government has done in the budget ... perhaps it should only apply to capital cities, though, to give the country folk a break."people have to park on the nature strip on each side other wise service vehicles and municipal services cannot get through"

Our council forbids nature strip parking, so even in old suburbs there are cars parked on either side of the road making it difficult for service vehicles.  You'd think that families with more cars than garages to put them in them would think twice about buying or renting in narrow streets ... but they don't."Government legislation has kept a tight rein on women's bodies since, well, forever"

True, and cases like the one in the North West of England will drive more women into using surrogates rather than bearing a child themselves.

"we will probably fall into a repetition of history again - about 15th Century history probably, with the masses unwashed and the mighty spending everything on fripperies or on holding their seats at the high table of privilege"

Fripperies .... on my way home this afternoon my attention was drawn to the number of vans showing the occupation of the driver..... all probably self-employed, which is great, but dog walking service, de-clutterer, party catering, etc.

Obviously there must be a lot of super rich and lazy people around in order for these businesses to flourish, but like you I truly wonder what jobs will be open to us in future.

I've even seen ads for pet health insurance. Huh? 
"algorithms saying to themselves "if this, then that", over and over"

Ha, takes me back to the DOS/BASIC days and the very first program I wrote to solve everyday problems.
"Araldo ... broke its cannon bone by kicking a fence, allegedly shying at a spectator wielding an Australian flag"

Our flag is enough to scare the horses?  That's horse sense. Time to change our flag.Prison, I suspect you're right.

On 27/10/2014 the ABC poll "Should the Federal Government consider increasing the rate and/or expanding the base of the GST to address any tax revenue shortfalls?" showed 67% of 
3729 votes agreed.

:(It would be cheaper to run a water pipeline from the Top End down to South Australia (parallel with the Ghan railway line), and then all stations west and east (parallel with the Indian Pacific railway line).

We should run a lottery to finance it (after all, that's how we got the Sydney Opera House)."Our polling shows a noticeable drop in the number of people who think unusual climate antics are a normal fluctuation unrelated to humans"

That drop will continue as the number of people old enough to remember 'unusual climtate antics' die off, so it's no great surprise really.

"We have the vastness of the Nullabor ripe for solar and wind"

Yes, and coupled with a water pipeline from the Top End down to South Australia we could open up Australia to new settlements, moving hundreds of thousands of people out of congested cities into new towns where they can achieve sustainable lifestyles. Israel did it, why can't we?

Oh, for politicians with big visions rather than small minds."the authorities will be able to know who you contacted, when you did it and what the subject line said, for every single one of your calls, texts and emails in the last two years"

Hmm, I believe they've been able to do this since whenever. And not just authorities, but anyone really. That's why I was incredulous when the USyd professor thought his email account was private. 

Unfortunately, there is no such thing as privacy and especially so for people in the public arena. It pays to be boring.  :)What's to stop the "authorities" from setting up a bogus anonymous proxy service to catch the unwary?

And how can the unwary trust you?So canny Clive is supporting Direct Action "on the proviso it begins an 18-month inquiry into the feasibility of an Emissions Trading Scheme".

Did anyone ever believe he would act otherwise?Persuading taxpayer-funded bodies to contract your mates for lucrative positions is par for the course in politics, isn't it?

You're right, nothing to see here, move on!"there are 580,000 young Australians with no good reason to get up in the morning"

Most of them would have been up all night online gaming or chatting with the rest of the world in different timezones and don't have the energy during the day to do anything, let alone rise up.  What's to rise up against?  Living at home, all mod cons laid on, indulgent parents.  (I know, I was one of them until I got wise).

It's up to parents to give their unemployed kids some structure in their lives. Start with denying internet access at night, and getting them out of bed at 6am.

Then help them get a job. Take a day off yourself to go with them to every business in your area, knocking on doors. 

Good luck!

Erik, you've made a great life choice and I wish more young people would consider a sustainable lifestyle in the country. 

The govt needs to get behind this option - constructing dams or water pipelines, solar power fields, railway lines and offering free land for individuals to build their own homes (with communal assistance) and be self-sufficient.

Soon, there won't be any 'support' jobs available and given the choice of working at a call-centre or being a free pioneer in the country I know which option I'd take if I were in that position.

Keep us updated on your enterprise!"18 year olds do not need 60 year old parents"

Ha, 18 year olds don't need parents, period.

"I don't think having children at 46 should be the standard"

It's getting to be that way though, isn't it?

Maybe society will swing back to a time when girls start their families at 16 and get it all done and dusted so that they can then attend to their education and career without all of the pressure you mention.

Would you prefer that?  

:)"Its like these people have an insight to situations that can remove peoples freedoms"

Or tax them ...

Medical research is constantly coming up with "situations" requiring govt action, usually a special tax. I believe sugar is next on the hit list."(You can read about it, and read the bill itself, here.)"

No thanks Chris, politicians are not the only people suffering information overload.  

BTW, don't bills come with a bullet point type preamble to make it easier to comprehend?

On top of the other surprising 'hikes' imposed or proposed by this horrible govt - including today's petrol customs tariff hike - raising the GST is beyond the pale.

I would accept a GST hike without these other impositions (after all, if you live frugally you can keep your GST to a minimum and the only people it will truly rip off are the big spenders, who won't miss an extra $100+ pw), but having hit us with so many impositions already the govt has not only lost its opportunity to reassess the GST but it has also lost that tiny fragment remaining of its credibility.

You only have to look at the govt's surprising priorities when it first took office to realise the extent of foreign interests in our 'democracy'. 

$25 billion on 12 subs (Uncle Sam); $8.8 billion to the reserve bank (Banksters); restoration of regal honours (Mother England); and pastors in schools (Papa Pope).

And since then it has spent more billions on foreign adventures that have scant to do with us, and it wants us to pay for things we never voted for or want?

Y'now, as much as I'm horrified by the Left's internationalism (one world govt ruled by the nannying religious UN elites) I am more horrified by the Right's 
internationalism (one world govt ruled by the military financial industrial corporate elites).

Actually, these Left and Right 'elites' are probably the same people, if not closely allied. They use different motives to tug at us - AGW, Ebola, refugees! Security, Jobs, Superannuation! -  but our hard-earned still ends up enriching and glorifying them. 

Bah!Mungo,I?ve always wondered whether Whitlam?s calm acceptance of his 1975 dismissal ? and equally calm refusal to criticise subsequent Labor govts for dismantling his reforms ? had sinister undertones. Remember Harold Holt ?disappearance? in 1967 following his opposition to Pipe Gap and Echelon?

Also suspicious is Rudd?s ?knifing?, quickly followed by Gillard?s acceptance of the American base at Darwin, then Rudd?s subsequent replacement as Foreign Minister by Bob Carr?s Senate parachute courtesy of Mark Arbib (America?s ?informant? in the Labor party).

Bearing in mind that Whitlam's vision was for an Australia 100% owned by Australians, free of foreign control and foreign wars he must have made enemies of foreign interests, surely?"Whitlam was right in wanting a Federal government with uniform legislation across the country"

It would have worked back then, with his vision for an Australia 100% owned by Australians, free of foreign control and foreign wars, but not any more.

It beats me why Australians shunned his vision, preferring to remain a vassal state under the control of foreign interests, but since we are doomed in this respect I'd prefer Canberra to have the barest minimum legislative power.

You're right, it was a long article to read and I get the feeling that its whole purpose was to soften us up for a GST hike.

:(I'm 100% in favour of returning the states to their original status with the power to overrule all of the stuff the Commonwealth has foisted upon us.

However, if the Commonwealth has the right to collect customs duties, excise  taxes and GST then I hope any increase it wants to impose has to be approved by the states.

Also, I hope any decision the Commonwealth makes (such as going to war) has to be approved by the states. 

It's about time we took the spotlight off Canberra and shone it instead on our state parliaments.Greg, I feel your pain but hasn't it occurred to you that the "Ideological Parrots of America" have already made us more like Uncle that we might as well be their 51st state?

In fact, considering their rights, and ours, and where we're heading (down the gurgler) no matter which party is in power, I'd prefer to have the citizen rights of the USA than the pathetic vassal rights of Australia. 

Wouldn't you?Criow, SueB does have a valid point.

40 years after Whitlam immigration has just about doubled our population and of Australians living here at the time only those over 50 would be likely to remember him (and mostly fondly because of the great educational, career, health, wealth and housing prospects he gave us).

Had Whitlam fought harder for his vision of an Australia 100% owned by Australians, free of foreign control and foreign wars - and had Australians been smart enough to realise that the 1973 stagflationary ME oil crisis (sort of like Rudd?s GFC) was one of the international diseases that his vision would inoculate us against ? our kids would now be having a extraordinarily better start to life than we had.

It beats me why Australians shunned his vision, preferring to remain a vassal state to be exploited by foreign interests.

Sheeple comes to mind.Yes, he did have a bombastic and elitist streak in him (Labor called him a silvertail) but I think it was his whimsical propensity to call people ?comrade? that no doubt fuelled the foreign influenced communist scare campaign against him (many migrants had escaped from communism)."the release breached his reasonable expectation to privacy"

Debunker, Professor Spurr was using his workplace network for private emails. There is no reasonable expectation to privacy on such networks and let that be a lesson for everyone here who spends 9-5 commenting rather than doing the work for which they are paid.

BTW, did anyone take up your "open for offers" in regard to cash for comments?

:)You're right Benice, it is the Greens not Labor who are continuing Whitlam's fight for "better public services and bold social reforms".

Last year Labor cut back on the single parent benefit that Whitlam initiated, and just recently Labor backed the LNP on sending the military to Iraq (when Whitlam brought the troops home from Vietnam and was against any more Australian involvement in foreign wars).

If Labor supports the $7 copayment then Whitlam's universal healthcare will be going south too, just like university education.

It's strange that the people who benefited most from Whitlam's reforms are now dismantling them, preventing the next generation from enjoying the wonderful start to life that they had. 

BTW, I used to vote Greens but their incessant championing of people-smuggled boat people to the detriment of their other policies galled me.Poor Mr Whitlam has received so many 'veils' that I don't know what his family are going to do with them all. The senders must have attended the hyperbowl school.Candy, I won't be dying from smoking or obesity but considering Walga's comment above "The figure of deaths from smoking seems to be made up of anyone who had ever smoked and died from any disease that could be attributed to smoking" I am wondering what will be put on my death certificate in view of the fact that I did have a few puffs when young and have been exposed to passive smoking on the streets from time to time. In that respect, I'm pretty much like everyone. Whilst I'm certainly no apologist for tobacco companies, I do query the stats used to determine causes of death."I don't know how Big Health supporters sleep at night. Is their conscience as clear as their annual MRI?"

Todd, if their annual MRI isn't clear then they have a handy scapegoat to blame for it, don't they? Their malaise is obviously due to having once passed a smoker on the street and been a victim of passive smoking.

I wonder what Big Health supporters will blame for their malaise in future when nobody smokes?

It would be funny if it wasn't for the fact that *real* causes are being overlooked or dismissed because so much money is to be made from demonising tobacco.

Actually, a lot more money can be made from demonising alcohol but the prospect of our partying Big Health supporters considering their favourite beverage as a cause of cancer and heart disease is not very likely, is it?Great opinion piece, Chris Berg!  I was really surprised that the first Drum article on Ebola was written by a security specialist rather than a public health specialist. 

Like WHO, I guess our public health people are too busy nannying us about obesity and smoking and planning their next junket to concentrate on the purpose of their existence.

They are far too complacent. The world's scourges have not yet been conquered and mutant viruses can emerge. Public health needs eternal vigilance!

If the $7 copayment gets through, I suspect that the bulk of the medical research fund it is paying for will be wasted on more of this useless nannying stuff.

Ironic isn't it, that the great Satan tobacco is being used for drugs to combat Ebola? Good thing that the plant wasn't eradicated by the zealots.

Maybe Tim Tams will be found to have similar medicinal properties, but I doubt it.  :)

Gregory, if by appending "And its going to get mighty warm isn't it?" to your response to my Whitlam comment means that you think anyone who supports universal healthcare also supports AGW then you're wrong.  And you claim that the ABC is taking a position without regard?

FYI, I unashamedly support clean energy and fuel because 1) I want to breathe unpolluted air; and 2) I abhor the wars and environmental degradation caused by the relentless pursuit of oil and coal.

Whether it's getting warmer or cooler, who cares, the fact remains that renewable energy investment is our future and if weaning ourselves off fossil fuels and becoming energy independent "saves the planet from warming" then that would be nice, but it should not be put forward as the only reason for action as too many people, like you, are sceptical of the science and won't budge until our air quality is like Beijing's or a loved ones gets killed fighting for the ME oilfields.

Wouldn't you prefer to generate independent solar energy for your home and car rather than relying on the grid and service stations?
Good call Clancy. And it's not just coal that causes air pollution, it's petrol fuelled cars, too. I just wish they'd stop talking about AGW and climate change and deal with things that people can understand and do something about. Renewable energy is our future, not coal and oil!Excellent post Jerry. You've encapsulated perfectly the stark contrast between then and now. I was truly blessed to be starting out in life when Whitlam came to power and I can't help feeling so sorry for today's kids who must feel like the govt hates them with a vengeance.
"The Whitlam government had a heavy emphasis on equality, pushing for equal pay for women, establishing the single mother's benefit, and appointing a women's adviser to the prime minister"

Gough and Margaret were real champions for women at a time when unmarried mothers had their babies removed from them; women generally were second-class citizens, unable to earn enough to support themselves and their children when their husbands 'shot through; and contraception was discouraged.

I thank my lucky stars I started out in life during Whitlam's time and didn't face such horrible discrimination.

I wonder how Whitlam felt when the Gillard govt pared back the single parent's benefit?Gregory, you will be thanking Gough if you live as long as he did!

Universal healthcare didn't create the 'welfare mentality', it gave people access to medical care that enabled them to live longer, happier and more productive lives.

I cannot think of a better way to spend public money, can you?"it is sad that Gough left us while we are at our lowest ebb in terms of national character"

v.

I'm pretty sure Gough wanted to keep on going until he was at least 120, and I'm not sure whether it was Margaret's death last year that did him in or the Budget from Hell and renewed militarism that shook all of us up.

Gough's generation was a 'one off'. Can you truly see anyone in our present parliament who comes within cooee of his stature on any level?

"The loss of first owner ability to buy into the market is a national disgrace"

Well said johno! 40 years ago home ownership was an Australian value that we all took for granted, like sunshine and fresh air and plenty of jobs. Kids back then just couldn't wait to leave home,get a job and slap a deposit down on a place of their own. 

Obviously, kids still want what we wanted at their age but "the rorts, rip offs and reckless immigration rate" that successive govts have pursued over the years have shafted them and left many Boomers supporting both elderly parents and adult children.

It seems politicians of both colour hate us and have no national pride. 

Time to stop voting for the two parties controlled by international interests and start voting for independent men and women who care?

Thank you Adam Kamradt-Scott. 

I'm surprised really that a security specialist broached this subject rather than a public health specialist.

Anyway, I do agree that considering the $500+ the govt can afford to waste on another bombing exercise in Iraq that it cannot do more to fight what is a *real* threat to us.

I am far more concerned about an ebola outbreak here than someone getting beheaded by ISIL supporters. 

"the graphs are misleading because they separate social security benefits (pensions) from social transfers in kind" 

Good point Edmund!

At the time of the 2013 election, our population was 23,570,738 of which 15,932,799 were eligible voters.

This means we had 7,637,939 ineligible voters, most of whom would be school children under 18 but this group also includes those in detention so it's fair enough to assume that the taxpayer supports them all.

Of the 15,932,799 eligible voters, let's say that 3,000,000 are recipients of some form of welfare (unemployed, single parents, disabled, pensioners and subsidised tertiary students). 

This would leave about 12,932,799 taxpayers supporting a total of 10,637,939 people.

This means that every taxpayer supports 1.22 people, of which

a) 71.80% (.87) are largely school children under 18; and 
b) 28.20% (.34) are welfare recipients.

Government chooses to ignore Group (a) to concentrate instead on Group (b) to claim that every taxpayer supports 4.31 welfare recipients.

Thar's misleading!

While it's undeniable that we need more taxpayers to support an ageing population living longer than ever due to medical miracles, it's also undeniable that in an increasingly ruthless globalised economy of diminishing jobs the remedies governments have taken (more babies and more immigrants) have exacerbated the situation.

Many immigrants we're attracting (via normal channels as well as backdoor channels - asylum seekers, 457 visas, student visas, etc) not only use Family Reunion to bring in two older parents each,  adding to our pensioner population, but also use Baby Bonus and parental perks to have more children than they normally would have in the less generous countries they came from. 

Many under-18 children of immigrant and non-immigrant parents have not only cost taxpayers a fortune to support (Group a) but will also continue to cost us when they join the hundreds of thousands already on unemployment or student allowances (Group b).

Exchanging unemployment benefits for student allowances via 'learn or earn' is no answer, neither is reducing pensions.  

We need to protect Australian jobs to ensure everyone who can work is guaranteed a job; axe the Baby Bonus and parental perks to ensure parental responsibility (2 children are enough); and place a moratorium on all channels of immigration until we sort this out.
Hi Steve_C, I've always believed that people who go into parliament should do so out of civic duty, not personal gain. The perks and lurks of parliamentarians need to be pared back, especially their pensions.Hi Freddie Frog, the pension is not welfare in the same sense as the dole, single parents benefit, etc. It's enshrined in our constitution (as is the disability pension) and of the govt plans on getting rid of it it will need to change the constitution.Hi Mike, you've confirmed what I stated in my earlier comment about the bulk of welfare going to families with children. I'm glad that you had children because you wanted them and could afford them, not because of what they were worth in govt handouts.  If only more Australians were like you!"it is difficult to see how we get value for money from our military services"

They are already deployed in some civil disasters - maybe they should be used more for the type of work the SES volunteers do?

I prefer the Swiss model. Every citizen should be prepared to defend the country.

And for those who wish to make a career out of military service the UN  should be their employer. If the UN had the capacity to put troops on the ground at the first instance of trouble anywhere,  there would probably be less of it.  :)
Hi keyboard warrior, I replied to you earlier but my comment appears to have disappeared into the ether so let me try again.

Your comment about salaries made sense. Recent Drum articles divulged Michael Janda gets $65k, Tony Jones $300K and the CEO of Australia Post gets one million plus.

That's a huge disparity that needs to be addressed in order to spare more journalists from the dole.
"We have strong engagement through platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Reddit"

Those platforms are international.

Isn't the ABC charter to provide news to Australians? 

I know I'll be howled down, but maybe you could concentrate less on attracting an international audience and more on those who pay your bills?

Right now I'm enjoying a public holiday that allows me to listen to ABC news radio and participate on the Drum at a time when I usually cannot, and I thank you guys for giving up a sleep-in to keep up your good work.Hi Nero, thank you for your reply. 

I note from @macca's comment above a similar line of reasoning to yours (ie that it's the job of the ABC to "influence" the rest of the world).

Y'know, a lot of people including my parents came here to get away from the rest of the world - and dislike our current govt pushing itself onto the world stage - so there's a difference of opinion between us here (but in other areas we may be on the same page).

:)
Too much news and not enough entertainment?

C'mon, do you really expect struggling taxpayers to be responsible for providing you with entertainment when the govt is forcing so many disadvantaged people to desperation in its austerity drive? 

Don't you go to the movies, theatre, concerts, sporting events and buy DVDs for entertainment? 

I come to the ABC to get news and insight into what's going on in politics. I have learnt a great deal from Insiders, Q&amp;A and reading this site (particularly the comments).

I do agree, though, that 4 tv channels and many more radio stations is perhaps a bit over the top.Hi Peter, I see from a previous comment that you were smart enough to invest in property when compulsory superannuation was introduced. Well done! 

I don't see our young people having that option now (with house prices so high) so I really hate the thought of them having to sacrifice now for something they may never get when they're old enough to retire. 
Ok, you're smarter than ever then! We made the mistake of continually selling and upgrading when we had more money than sense, thinking that our employment prospects would get better and better as we got older. Had we stayed in our first home and invested our extra money in investment properties things would be a lot brighter now (divorce, of course, made us both poorer).  :)Lehan, I've looked into my crystal ball and examined the entrails of various critters and can give you a clear direction for our future.  It's death and taxes."I learnt how to care for my brain and keep it healthy; how to rest, ice and support it"

Marianne, that's good advice for everybody. Our lives today are so frantic that it's surprising more of us don't sink into depression or become paralysed by anxiety.
"anyone who can afford to smoke has too much money"

That's true for the likes of Hockey and Cormann, but not for the majority of smokers (particularly Indigenous Australians) who are doing without in other areas (particularly good food) in order to feed their addiction.

I suspect that their bad health is due more to malnutrition than smoking.

I'd like to see tobacco tax directed back to smokers via counselling services.  I don't think patches do much for a DMSO affliction, do you?
Wow, between the govt and the tobacco companies the smokers sure are getting screwed!

I remember Kevin Rudd announcing a 12.5% rise in tobacco tax each year for four years in late July 2013 (shortly after he wrested power back from Julia Gillard, and shortly before he lost the election) but I had completely forgotten that he was also responsible for the May 2010 25% tobacco "tax hike".

It's a pity this money is going into general revenue rather than being attached to a Medical Research Fund (like the proposed $7 doctor co-payment is). If it did, then more help could be given to smokers who want to quit but can't because of psychological problems. 

If Leyonhjelm called smokers "havers of a good time" then he's probably referring to the likes of Hockey and Cormann (the only people who can afford to smoke these days).  The smokers I see huddled outside office blocks and shopping malls look decidedly miserable.So true! I was gobsmacked to read that Congress recently authorised $500million to arm and train 'moderate' rebels to depose Assad in Syria when the last lot they trained and armed are now running amuck in Iraq and calling for a caliphate!"Why is the ALP both famously in "lockstep" with the Government on issues of security and fiercely adversarial in almost ever other area of government endeavour?"

Hmm, could it be that in security and defence issues both must bow to a 'higher' power?"While awake to the immediate terrorism threats, they have not forgotten the longer term challenges facing the planet"

Actually, the new issues are intertwined in that if the ME situation escalates the oil will stop flowing our way and that's why it is essential that we become self-sufficient in energy (as well as everything else).

So, maintaining a renewable energy industry really is non-negotiable.

If it also saves the planet from AGW down the line, then that's nice, too. :)"Parallel amendments to the Migration Act would put space between domestic laws and principles of international law"

The more space the better as far as I am concerned. The UN Refugee Convention is outdated and has been sorely abused to our detriment."the sentiment of the protesters seems to be that they feel they have woken up from a lie - the last 17 years have been government under a charade, where the power really always finally lay in Beijing"

I know how they feel, sort of, I've been labouring for many years under a similar delusion that Australia is run by Australians for Australians. 

"This makes the August press conference even more disingenuous than it appeared at the time"

You think there is method is this govt's madness? I don't. I think it's policy on the run. But like you said, it does provide jobs for lawyers - and now security operators, too  - so it's a good job creation scheme if nothing else.
