Abbott and Bishop are big on empty threats, demands and rhetoric, none of which is the way to go about it.  I note they find the UN handy when it suits them too.funny, they have no time for the UN when it's them under scrutinyabout the same chance as any other leaders who supply weapons to various groups who then kill civilians with them.Dove it has been reported the black boxes have been turned over by the rebels"the Ukraine has lots of Russian-made hardware"

Good point.  Would it still be Putin's fault if Ukraine had fired the missile instead of rebels?"What maniac wouldn't stop a war if he had the chance?"

Ah, the Neville Chamberlain defence.they also seemed very confused to discover it was a civilian plane.  For a while they even thought it was an AH26 with fake markings until they started finding the belongings.

"100% sure this is civilian"
"How bad is it?
"F-ing bad, there are bodies in people's yards""same high standard of aircraft identification that lead to a KAL 747 being mistaken for an intelligence aircraft."

The Russian pilot had identified the KAL flight before being ordered to fire.  What do "intelligence aircraft" look like?  Do they have CIA written on the side?"thanks to the forest of aerials and radar housing radomes "

What about the ones they don't want people to recognise?

First you said they misidentified it, now you say they panicked.  You are probably right on your second guess (controllers on the ground fearing retribution from above, erring on the side of caution because SOME intelligence planes don't LOOK like intelligence planes) so I'll leave it at that. My point all along being that this incident was not like that incident."Captain Ehad was declared a refugee when he was actually a people smuggler"

I'm not sure the two are mutually exclusive."If these people had arrived by plane, they would be swiftly deported."

How so?  Are plane arrivals not permitted to apply for asylum?"Why should these people feel they need something way beyond what those in refugee camps receive"

Strange logic.  We should treat people poorly because they are treated poorly elsewhere.  Typical Aussie solution, shift the responsibility whenever possible.

And what do you classify as "way beyond"?  Schools?" such rights do not exist in isolation of the equally fundamental responsibility of government to ensure the safety and security of its citizens."

I disagree.  Such rights exist irrespective of government.

Has it not occurred to anyone that by forcing an ever more totalitarian reaction to terrorist threats we play into their hands?  One of their main problems with us is our free society - freedom of religion, of speech and of privacy.  If we erode these fundamental rights we turn ourselves into them and they win.Zing, apologies, what I have in fact done is lumped all terrorists in with particular terrorists such as this ISIS bunch.  Their stated goal is to forcefully set up a state with very limited freedom.  Similar groups are murdering children for obtaining a "western education".  Regimes like North Korea forbid access to any western influence and actively preach it as evil.

One would then assume they *disagree* with our groovy way of life.  One might then further assume that, if they could, they would have us converted to their way of life.  It may not be the primary goal but logically it would seem to be the ultimate goal.

I say we are helping them.  I say we are not putting our money where our mouth is when it comes to our groovy way of life.  I say we are playing their game and thereby legitimising it."If we prevent them from striking, they lose"

Yes but we must prevent them by using our methods, not theirs.  Bin Laden should have been tried in court not dumped at sea, torturing Guantanamo Bay prisoners, holding them without charge etc.  And , yes, foreign policy has been a big part.  

From outside it looks like we really don't have much faith in our own system, that when it comes down to it we're just as base and dirty as the rest of them.  If that is the case, or even if only perceived to be the case, then I guess we have another 1000 years of holy wars to go through."Even though some of them do deserve persecution."

Persecution or prosecution?why not convert it all to punched cards?Hi fredn, the second one.  Or we could get work-for-the-dolers to transcribe it all into notebooks.the length of time makes a big difference.  It creates a huge pool of data that seemingly anybody with a badge can access at will.  It doesn't matter where it's stored. Does anyone really think they won't start phishing from day one?"What is the problem?"

Currently a warrant is required to access that data."can quickly rouse a mob into violence. It is this behaviour that the RDA is meant to stop."

That's "incitement".  The revision was meant to remove "offense"."thinking deeply about what essential human values rank where in the greater order of things "

Liberty, top of the list.  Without liberty all other rights become privileges, commodities to be bought and sold.It's not really the government's job to restore journalistic integrity.  If laws have been broken the government has the same recourse as anyone else via the courts."If you believe that Putin should not be condemned, by implication you are alleging some conspiracy"

Not necessarily, they might be arguing that just because Russia supplied the arms does not make them culpable for what the separatists do with them.  Just saying.that's not "truth" Zing it's propaganda.  My version would be to say Side A says this and Side B says this, some people think A is right for these reasons, some people think B is right for these reasons, and I personally think ______ for these reasons.  Then I ask them what they think and their reasons.She wasn't saying don't give your kids the Santa/easter bunny/tooth fairy experience we all had, she is saying if your child asks for the truth you ought to give it to them.  It shows you respect them.

Now, at 6yrs old I might have fudged a little and said something like "well Santa is real for people as long as they want him to be" or something like that.  It would depend on why they wanted to know.  As the one who plays Santa I'd want it to go on a bit longer too but I wouldn't lie if they were serious about knowing."always answer your kid's questions as honestly as you can, particularly when you'd rather not."

This has always been my policy.  How much detail I include depends on their age and what they already know.  I am also not afraid to say "I don't know, let's try and find out". And I always make a point of admitting when I am wrong.  For these reasons my kids trust me."Let kids grow up in a normal down to earth everyone is equal environment"  

I do not know of an "everyone is equal" environment.

I think you are lumping child pageants in with all competitions.  Kids that make it though X-Factor and The Voice are extremely talented.  They don't get that way without practice and personal dedication.  They also receive valuable coaching and experience, as well as exposure.

Would you ban talented youths from trying out for pro sports teams just because they might not be selected?  Much better to learn that lesson than the lesson that trying is useless.employees are paid for their service, customers get something for their money, and the rest is paid via taxes (also much infrastructure is privately funded) that, as mentioned, are mostly paid by the rich.

So, you see, we all win - wealth makers, employees, customers, and taxpayers who would have to fork out more or do with less infrastructure and services." PPL is designed to help the rich and to disadvantage those less well off"

I'm not in favour of any type of PPL but how does this one disadvantage the less well off?Terry, you call getting 5K you didn't have before a disadvantage?"The current minimum wage disadvantages everyone that earns more then the minimum wage"

Only by TrevorN and terry's thinking.  Min wages *advantage* people who would otherwise be paid less and they disadvantage their co-workers who might earn more if not for subsidising them.  Eg two people on $18/hr when one is worth $20 and the other is worth $16"So what if they are children, that's just an appeal to emotion"

I can think of no response that would pass moderation.  I hope you do not have kids, you do not deserve them.There is no "logic" in your post other than circular.  You use the existence of a state of affairs as justification for that state of affairs

"How do you think you look,"  I care not a whit how I might look to others.  Why, is that sort of thing important to you?

"Do you think it will convince me to change to make some poisonous statement?"  Nope.

"Only a totalitarian would even consider the thought of depriving people of children because of their thinking."

I simply said what I hoped.  Because if you are the guardian of children while your attitude is "so what" then you are not a fit guardian.  That's not an opinion, that is a definitional fact.  Ask the "totalitarians" down at DOCS.

Neglect of children under your care is illegal.  This is because children have no right to self determination.  We withhold those rights as we see fit until they are 18.  And because *we* withhold those rights *we* are legally and morally responsible for their well being.  There's some logic for you, sport.
I was thinking the other day that if such a program existed I would be willing to host a parentless child.  I only have a small house but we're in the country and it's quiet.  My wife is a nurse and my 17yr old daughter is excellent with children and so am I, if I may say.

But I do not agree with making it a "requirement".that's like saying humans will never evolve to be 10ft tall because doorways aren't high enough."you could make an argument for polygamy. Depending on your desires and preferences"

Your desires and prefrences have no bearing on whether you can make an argument or not.Hi D.G., same thing could have been said about gay marriage only 20 years ago, even currently in many places."are unable to find an argument to oppose "

In my opinion it is impossible compose an argument for either side because both arguments depend on subjective definitions of marriage and its purpose(s).

I've said before, the only possible solution is to remove the state from the equation.  At the moment the law says "1 woman + 1 man".  Rather than expand the definition and get bogged down with slippery slopes, simply remove the definition altogether.  Why is it required?Sorry Dave, I'm not taking sides here, but your response is another logical fallacy.  You need not be offended as Tommy's argument does not imply your family isn't "real", nor do I think he intended it to.  He was not defining "family" he was talking about the typical purpose of marriage.

Clearly your disagreement is over what that "purpose" is, not what a "family" is.  You can ride a horse without a saddle but "typically" saddles are for riding horses.  Whether the horse is actually saddled or actually ridden is irrelevant.Dave 

"There is a social significance to the biological fact that heterosexual relationships typically produce children"

To me Tommy is arguing two things.  

1) heterosexual relationships typically produce children
- I don't think that's false.

2) this is socially significant.
- seems true, kids are integral to society or we'd be extinct.

This in no way implies heterosexual relationships *must* produce children and I don't think Tommy intended it to.  His main argument was social significance not what a "real" family might be.

I may be wrong, perhaps we should ask Tommy.Not quite Dave.  

I have no opinion on gay marriage. I don't care because the deal I made with my wife is not dependant on state sanction or what other people do.  So I don't care if they abolish marriage or include space aliens, it won't affect me.  BUT you've fallen into the same logical trap as before.

"marriage must not necessarily produce children and therefore that gay marriage is not a problem"

One doesn't logically follow from the other.  A fire truck is still a fire truck if it never puts out a fire but that doesn't make a police car also a fire truck.  Unless of course you change the definition of fire truck to say "any vehicle that responds to a fire" then police cars would also be fire trucks.  It all depends on whether you think the distinction is important, which is purely subjective.  Some people think it's a critical distinction and others do not, there's no way to "prove" one is right or wrong."Why does the government care about straight couples"

What on earth do you mean by "care"?  A government cannot care, or hate.  Only people can do those things.Well, I'll take a stab at it.  You seem to be saying the government has a bipartisan agenda against gays and there are no other possible political reasons they have thus far hesitated."Even if you are right and marriage is historically or biologically inherently heterosexual: what exactly changes when gay people can get married?"

You answer your own question."as much sense as making jobs magically appear by having unemployed people submit millions of extra job applications"

I think you've just summed up the logic of a generation.  It follows the same thinking as "banning offensive speech will cure bigotry""There's nothing natural about it"

Again, it comes down to definitions.  It could be argued "marriage" was the original term for pair bonding which is a natural development.  But if you define marriage as a legal entity only then yes it is a human construct."If marriage has become something you don't like anymore, make a new institution that suits you better"

I will play devil's advocate and offer you the same advice."extortion" is usually backed by some sort of threat.  There is an element of force or coercion.  Nobody is coerced into paying to see a TV show.one would be stealing the rights, not the content"employing their market dominance to exploit the great unwashed"

where is the exploitation?why is this only now such a big deal?  Hasn't this been going on since at least the Spanish Civil War?  

I'd like to point out that the act of fighting in a desert doesn't make one a terrorist, acts of terrorism do.  Australians who can be proved to have comitted or planned to committed (or incite) an act of terrorism should be prosecuted, not before.  We can't be going around punishing people for what they *might* do.  It's a dangerously slippery slope.

The more paranoid and totalitarian we become, the more they win.New maths aside, how's your English?

"Another new obligation is that people receiving Newstart will have to apply for around 10 jobs a week or 40 a month"where do you keep getting "1 day a week" from gd?  It's 25 hours/ week.  That's 3x 8hr days or more likely 4x 6hr days per week depending on the NGO they hook up with.I generally agree TrevorN, except the part about creating more public service jobs.  They could get rid of payroll taxes for a start and they could remove penalty rates for people who would prefer to work weekends.  And if somebody is willing to work for $12/hr and somebody is willing to hire them then government should get out of the way."Im sure you really want to remove ALL penatly rates and awards?"

I'm fine with collective bargaining if that's what you mean.  That's people making mutually beneficial agreements.  Arbitrary controls only help people at the expense of others and have nasty side effects.no doubt there will be a form for the employer to fill out.  Then the first time somebody fudges one of these  there will be more forms to certify the business itself is legit and can prove it has no jobs available.

Why don't they just hire half the people on the dole to administer the applications of the other half.  They could switch off every 6 months.why not Gr8ape?  Civil servants are already required to dob each other in." A days community service a week "

What, now we're going to have 25 hour days?Lower or dump the minimum wage.  I know if I was out of work and there was an opportunity to take a job for $15/hr I would be incredibly frustrated that I couldn't take that job but instead had to go work for free and jump through hoops to receive the equivalent of $6.72/hr.  Never mind the stigma and embarrassment of somebody my age, working since I was 11 years old, having to stand in line to be spoken to like a child.  Just let me work, I'd say.

Lower the min wage.  It would save us money on welfare payments, would give the same or better skills than work-for-the-dole schemes, give the individual much more income and, most importantly, a start on the job ladder.  They might even regain the sense of self esteem programs like this beat out of them.

People opposed to lowering the min wage carp on about "slave labour".  I say that's exactly what policies like this do by forcing people to work for almost nothing while other policies work to keep them there.  Its immoral.Hi graazt, the cost of living in the US is about half what it is here.  Easy to research on line.  The US had a much harder time with the GFC than we did too, so not really apples to apples.Hi New World,

"Budget for the week to pay for rent and food $200 if you can get it that cheap"

I'd rather do that on $12/hr than on $6.72, wouldn't you?Hi Dove,

I have considered that.  I think on the whole the benefits would outweigh the risks.  Most employers are small business with no share price to worry about, stiff competition and fine margins.

I have worked for plenty of cheap arse, exploitive, bosses in the past.  I know they exist.  I  moved on as soon as I could, like most of their staff, but at least I fed myself in the meantime and got the satisfaction of telling them to shove it once I had enough experience to go work for a competitor.

Remember most people do not stay in low pay, low skill jobs.  That's just where you start out.  The trick is getting the start and at the moment the combination of a high min wage and this ridiculous policy conspire to keep people off the ladder altogether.

As others have said people will just drop out of the system and either turn to stealing or working for cash.  Both of which will just invoke even more regulation.

We should be trying to simplify things in a deductive, not additive way.  That means government getting out of the way.  As I said originally, if I want to work and somebody wants to hire me who's business is it but ours?  I find it horribly ironic that somebody who wants to work is told they can't, and then punished and vilified for it.Also true Dove.  I don't think that underclass is as big as you think it is but I am well acquainted with it.  

You're position is intuitive to the point people accept it as a truism.  For that reason alone I think it bears examination.  My intuition is that self ordering systems will self order around efforts to manipulate them and the results are unpredictable and very often counter intuitive.

I do know that this "protection" of the underclass (intuitive) combined with a populist get-tough-on-bludgers policy (intuitive) is hurting (counter intuitive) innocent, mainly young, people who want to work.  What's worse is it forces them to join an even poorer underclass where almost every hour of their day is now to be monitored and controlled.  It's diabolical.

Hi Terry.  Bring it on, the more flexibility people have the better.  I know what's good for me, not some upwardly responsible bureaucrat.Hi Kerry,

As I understand it CEO salaries are negotiated with their boards who are responsible to the shareholders.  I don't see why a board would offer more than it needed to.

I have no problem with rich people as long as they spend their money.  The company I work for provides a good wage for 12 people providing fine furniture to the nice people of Sydney's North Shore.Hi Curious,

"not lower the minimum wage but also not force them to do pointless 'make-work' "

Sure that's at least better than the two policies combined.  I'm against min wages for my classical liberal reasons but when you add this new policy I'm genuinely afraid for people.  It really is immoral IMO, to put people between a rock and a hard place like this.  One of the rocks has to go.

I'd prefer they drop both, but they have to drop at least one of them or there's going to be trouble.Hi mattmattmatty, that's just swapping one set of problems for another.  Control itself is the problem."you can't steal my land but that is just what Gina gets away with"


Gina doesn't steal your land.  Gina leases the mineral rights which were never yours in the first place.  If you discovered minerals on your property you don't get to keep them, they belong to the state.My daughter recently was interviewed for a job in Sydney, she was the only Aussie there.  The rest were German, Irish, British, Kiwi...yet the government is happy to keep people on the equivalent of $6.44/hr ($245/38hrs) while making them apply for 40 jobs a week (in my area I doubt there are even 40 jobs going).  But they're not allowed to take a job for say $13/hr which would double their income, give them skills and get them off the dole because to work for less than min wage is demeaning slave labour.

Why not let them at least have the weekend jobs at non-penalty rates?  Too simple?"The furphy of foreign investment had Ford, GMH etcetera invest in Australian manufacturing and now that it doesn't suit them they are walking away"

We *paid* them to invest and when we stopped paying they stopped investing.  Do you think the gubberment declared at some point "we will not make our own cars" and lo it became so?  We don't make our own cars because it is not profitable to do so.  You want to make cars then find a way to make it work and go make a fortune.  Nothing stopping you."the least racist people are the elites, because we live in an international world"

And me.  I'm not an elite, I'm pretty sure - there's nothing in the paperwork, but I've been here and there, met some people.  Most are boringly the same as us, turns out.

But I dig what you mean.  

Oh, and don't worry if we meet when you're with all your elite pals and international types, I'll pretend not to know you ;)could it be as simple as Norway put its tax money in a piggy bank and we... what did we do again?  Nobody seems to know."No price was too high, so long as her success was guaranteed."

Now be fair OUB, Labor's leaders are interchangeable depending on the climate.  It doesn't really matter as long as the party stays in power.the problem seems to be that people think the word "deserve" is relevant."When we choose to make different choices, economics changes. Physics doesn't."

If you look at economics as a chaotic system, like the weather, then there is a similarity."you are horrified to be confronted with reality?"  Seems to be you that's afraid.  I'm not, I have been aware that some people do nasty things to each other all my life.  We should continue as we have always done, by upholding our liberal values and not turning ourselves into a competing authoritarian state."How are the authorities going to find out about activities of Aussies abroad?"

Same way as before?  People abroad don't leave much metadata here to collect.  To collect it, it needs to pass through an Australian based server.  Unless you want to enter some reciprocal sharing deal with middle eastern countries, which seems like a bad idea to me.

"how do you feel about letting out all of those criminals found guilty... because of surveillance and data retention?"

The same data retention we're debating, which hasn't been implemented yet?

"After all, they may not have been suspects at the time the data was recorded."

Then why were they being "surveilled"?  If they are suspected then they can get a warrant (remember those?) to retain specific data instead of everyone's, forever.

But ok, for the sake of argument let's say they bring in data retention for 2 years - do you agree they shouldn't need a warrant to access it?  Do you agree "they" should include other bodies such as town councils?They will run the entire database through algorhythms, looking for bogus patterns which they will use as "evidence" to secure a warrant and cause all kinds of mischief with honest folk.

Watch for IT snake-oil men selling police departments the latest software pack - detects terrorists, arsonists, rapists, wife beaters, husband beaters, egg beaters and bitter irony."Do they really have time for that?" 

Of course.  They will create new departments just for data analysis.  I sure would.

"it merely puts them in the frame, or on a 'to watch' list"

Oh, is that all?  You may be happy to be on such a list without your knowledge but I'm not."Hasn't that been the catchcry of climate alarmists "

It's certainly the catch cry of at least 50% of posters here.  Climate, peak oil, terrorism, capitalism, democracy... it's all going to come crashing down.  Not sure when, but you know, soon.I think we're past the need for parties altogether.Hi MD and Eggman.

It seems a bit fashionable these days to be an independent and we seem to have more than before.  Goodness, one is even a libertarian.

Let's hope they bring some rationality and grown-up-ness to things.  Yeah, I know... more likely to go the other way.  Seems like the longer one is in politics the less connected one gets.the point is Peter it's nothing new.  No need to change course.  No need for panic.Joan the only thing that has changed in 2000 years is now you can see pictures of it in real time.  Actually probably a lot fewer severed heads these days than in the past.  It used to be all the rage with everyone from the French to the Japanese.  Ever hear of Vlad the Impaler?

It's not "nothing to worry about" but it's no more to worry about than before.Not sure what you're getting at Bev.  My point was nothing has really changed except that the public is more aware of the details now.Pete, as was mentioned, they know who these people are.  All they have to do is round them up.  Not sure how tapping my metadata will help.I don't believe in reducing fundamental rights and freedoms for no tangible benefit and I don't trust agencies and politicians with vested interests not to abuse it.  And that's with normal politicians, never mind the kind we get here.

Doesn't keep me up at night but it does make think about renewing my passport.  Once freedoms are removed they are rarely returned.I agree Pete but two things - 

It seems like an "I'm alright Jack" argument in reverse and

It's the kind of slope that's a little slippery going down but very slippery to get back up.  We, as a rule, should go no further down than absolutely necessary, and we should tie a constitutional rope to ourselves.  

It's really the sort of thing we should be consulted on.  A lot of people died in the past to get us these rights and I have to assume they weren't stupid.and the plot from 1984you think I'm a leftist APM?  lol, have you read any of my posts in the last 5 years?"might be what average Australia wants and needs"

Oh dear.  That's a worry.Excellent article.Hi Trops,

The premise is that governments of all stripes use fear as a means of manipulation.  I don't see how you can deny that.Look, I've been trying to give old Joe a little slack, he's new at this.  But really, to say poor people don't need to drive is very strange.  Some worrying points it raises

Does Joe know anything at all about "poor" people, however that can be defined?

How does Joe expect "poor" people to search for 40 jobs a month, plus get to 25 hrs of community work on foot?

How does Joe know what each and every one of us "needs"?  Is he some sort of anti-Santa Clause?

Does he think that because "rich people drive more" it's a luxury for everyone?

Poor old Joe.  He's all confused."because it produces better health outcomes at lower cost than most other schemes."

Alright, don't get carried away.  The current system has a lot of problems and could be a lot better for no extra cost.  We could stop subsidising private health care for a start.that's the claim, where's the proof?  Other similar systems (eg Canada) are not two tier and work better."There is nothing objectionable about a $7 fee for all"

I pay $100 per visit then I'm rebated $62, meaning I already "co-pay" $38 per visit.  So rather than just adjust the rebate to $55 which would make sense since it uses an existing architecture, they introduce a separate charge to be administered and tracked.

For goodness sake, the whole thing should be covered by taxes, with no rebates, no co-payments, no difference at all from one GP to the next.  One simple system for everyone."some GP charge more than others "

well, maybe that's one of the things which could be changed."The "social contract" is implied on society."

the problem with things implied is that each of perceive the implications differently.empathy means putting yourself in somebody's shoes.  I've been homeless and I've been poor and I've been unemployed.  My advice is not to wait for government to come and fix it for you.good point dave.  Now they'll have to open a co-payment office next door to each medicare office.  Medicare offices which seem to have no purpose except to refund money (rather than just never collect it in the 1st place).I get my price signal every July at tax time.petrol/diesel increases affect the cost of all goods"as long as they can please their masters"

Why do people have to go and throw in stuff like that?  It was a perfectly good argument up till then but now I have to ask how that works in practice - how does one determine who one's master is?  Or was it just mindless rhetoric?Nobody in my area bulk bills so I pay the $100 and then I get back $62 from Medicare, meaning I already co-pay $38 per visit (not counting the medicare levy and associated other taxes I pay).

Old Joe might have been smarter to just adjust the rebate so I only get $55 back, instead of paying $107 up front."I reckon the executive will be doing well but how about the average worker"

Ahh, the double edge of the award system at work.  I am sure all workers receive the pay and conditions negotiated for them by others.  Also you forgot about the shareholders, you may even be one if you have a super fund.'"the Central Planning Committee", sounds like a Chinese approach. "'

Sounds pretty Aussie to me.I don't live in Sydney but I earn my living providing products to Sydney, so when Sydney does well so do people like me in "the rest of Australia"the crash and the boom preceding it came about from lending money to people who couldn't afford to repay it.  And with the government guaranteeing the loans, they had little incentive to do so.I checked, 277,000 is in fact quite a lot."Advance notice " would seem to be the opposite of "dumping"an eloquent sentiment DT"Metadata will favour the powerful only "

You assume they wouldn't use it against each other as well.  Politicians resigning in disgrace will become a weekly event, instead of quarterly.that does not bode well considering this nation's fondness for enforced morality."What evidence is there of massive misuse of data by Australian government that has actually negatively affected individuals?"

Considering the damage wrought on citizens in the past by various governments pre internet, I don't think it's smart to wait and find out what they'll do with 2 years of data on 20m people.  

At the very least expect many, many new laws from this.  They will use it to estimate trends and then use the trend as justification for some new law to "correct" it, or to support some other spurious claim.  Which of course also justifies more funds for the departments involved."My "privacy" was taken not by a Government but the people who are determined to destroy our way of life"

Since privacy is part of that way of life it looks like the bad guys are getting their way."After all, unless I commit a crime with a gun, whose business is it whether I own one or not? Isn't that an invasion of my privacy?"

Yup.small government has nothing to do with "getting richer, faster".

Besides, the Libs care not about small government.right to privacy and right to free speech are both fundamental, inherent rights."There is no such thing as freedom of privacy"

Violation of privacy is a violation of liberty.  Liberty is often called "freedom"."are you also against the ban on terrorist organisations that impinges against peoples right of association?"

I had to think about that one for a minute.  If all they are doing is associating then I have no problem with it.  Since they would likely be doing more than that (ie plotting or inciting) then I'd think there would be cause to investigate and arrest those involved.  

I'm not a cop, but I'd think it would be easier to investigate such organisations when they are not underground.  I bet the bikies are being a lot more careful these days, probably investing in encryption too."principally masquerading under the guise of market research and law enforcement"

Masquerading?
"I don't see any outcry about Coles collecting our shopping info "

How do they do that unless you pay by credit card or use Flybuys?"I cannot recall the legislation saying I would get 24/7 cameras in my home"

The point was if you have nothing to hide, why would you object to it?my question was rhetorical DoveI wasn't born here but I've read a fair bit of Australian history and that history is peppered with corruption, coercion and flat out authoritarianism.  From the first colonies through Eureka, stolen generations and forced adoptions, White Australia,  massive police corruption in the 70's and 80's (on going), union corruption (on going), ASIO abuses as mentioned (likely on going), right up to today with the theatrics going on at the NSW corruption inquiry.  Inquiries and Royal Commissions are becoming an separate industry.

And the population more or less accept it, expect it even and always have, so it seems.  I am intensely curious why this is so - why, as one of the Peters said, so many Aussies are afraid of freedom.  It seems like lazy thinking to suspect the convict heritage, but it seems so damn plausible." If we had data retention then it would have put a stop to most of the attacks at the planning stage"

How on earth do you come to that conclusion?your point Jerry?sigh, those records are still private between you and the phone company.  The phone company isn't interested in who I called other than to bill me for it.

When you get an itemised receipt from the grocery store is that "tracking"?  Of course not, it's a bill of goods.yes Jerry, I am trying to debunk the "companies collect data so who cares if government does it too" argument.you exaggerate yank. Does the ABC ask for any info in order for you to post here?  What info does the bank take other than what you'd expect?  I've never given a business my email address unless I wanted them to contact me that way, and even then I have 5 email addresses, one of which is just for such things."Can't make phone calls with cash"

I was taking my daughter to a party the other day when we spotted a funny glass box on the corner.  That, I told her, is a phone booth.  I admit they are rare."We're not talking here about legislation requiring the local library to keep details of your book borrowings "

No, we are talking about agents other than those involved with terror crimes, such as the RSPCA, accessing metadata for whatever reasons.Hi Lucky Paul,  from the article:

"Squeeze on stage the Western Australian Department of Fisheries, Racing Queensland, New South Wales Health Care Complaints Commission, RSPCA South Australia, and Wyndham City Council. They would all be beneficiaries of mandatory data retention."

Are those groups involved with terrorist investigations?" Preservation of our security demands that all those agencies entrusted with this task have all the means necessary to fulfil their mission"

When did we entrust the RSPCA to defend national security?

" Libertarian arguments about privacy can only be seen as attempts to protect the guilty at the expense of the average citizen."  To what end?  Have you ever considered that you have never really considered the issue?'with all the Terms and Conditions we are asked to "Agree" to...'

Your placing of "agree" in quotation marks implies you think you have no choice.Fair point ScottB.  But surely that's not an IT problem.  After all the term "read the fine print" has been around a hundred years or more.  And to be fair a lot of websites do a better job of plain language than more traditional documents have done.  Not government websites, mind you."IP addresses (which is what metadata is)"

IP addresses are but one type of metadata.  For example the size of a jpeg image and the date it was created are also metadata.  Depending on the author's settings a text document might contain their name in its metada.and the plot to 1984well, how about we just don't have secret courts.why has radio and TV always been "free"?  Advertising.  Why is Google, FB, Twitter etc "free"?  Advertising.

Why do TV and radio conduct detailed ratings and market surveys? To target their advertising, which is a form of value adding, so they can charge more.  Why do Google et al collect information? Same reason.

Don't like it, then don't participate.  Or follow some of the advice given by other posters re VPN's and encryption.  Just stop complaining about it.Labor wanted the same thing only a few months ago.  It's not a right/left thing, it's an authoritarian thing and politicians from all sides are embracing this form of governance.  These days, right or left, it's all about central control.  And the population support this as seen by the backlash against changes to 18c - they would prefer government run our thoughts for us." this fear of freedom is really bad when it is rooted in envy of others "

Also well said and I think accurate.the proposed changes to 18c would be the opposite of "Fear that something MIGHT happen".'"the context of longer lifespans and the ability of medicine to prolong the quantity but less the quality of life almost indefinitely" as a factor rendering "the existence of rational suicide" more plausible.'

The author mistakes this as a pro-euthanasia argument and then goes on, correctly, to show the idea is not new and not a result of medical advancements.

However Nitschke is arguing medical advancements make '"the existence of rational suicide" more plausible.'  He is saying medical advancements make it more reasonable to think that some people will choose not to continue past a certain point for reasons other than medical.  

It has been said the first person to live to 150 has already been born.  What happens when it becomes possible to live 500 years?  Would you want to live the great majority of your life as an old, frail but reasonable healthy person dependant on others for support?

Now you will say that the recent case involved a fit young man so it is different.  It is only different in circumstance but not in essence.  That man had, apparently, reached a point where he did not want to continue. 

For us to understand or approve of his reasons is not necessary for them to be valid.  If he were, for example, having delusions then we *could* say his reasons were invalid and we might have a moral case to intervene.  If he had been old and sick we might then have *agreed* with his reasoning, but again it is not a requirement for his reasoning to be valid.  Plenty of old and sick people do not want to die and we "agree" with that reasoning too.  If we agree both sick people have valid reasons (one to die, the other to live on) then it cannot be our approval that makes them valid, it must be the individual.

The fears of misuse, of greedy relatives or power hungry doctors etc pressuring someone to end it fall into the category of taking away a person's free will via coercion.  It would seem preventing the man from suiciding would have been doing the same thing.

I agree it is sad.  I agree he may well have felt differently given time.  I even agree that if he had been forcibly prevented he may have one day thanked us. But that's not enough.  I am against force in any form, except as a reaction to force, because I see no rational way to justify it."Some wishy-washy nice teaching about how to be a nice person."

No, ethics teaches how to decide what is ethical, not what to decide is ethical."some people are more equal than others"

You will get that wherever one group is treated differently than another.  Both left and right have no problem doing so, it is only their reasons that vary.students should be given facts and taught reasoning.  Anything else is indoctrination."you might understand that parents need every bit of help they can get"

I don't."he wheels out the old straw man argument suggesting that scripture is being "woven into our public school system"."

A "strawman" is when, rather than attack the argument, you imply a new argument and attack it as a proxy for the original argument.  I don't see how Dean has done this.  He is not claiming religion is being interwoven as a proxy to some other argument, it is a premise supporting his conclusions.  It may or may not be a false premise but it is not a strawman or any other sort of fallacy.

"educationalists routinely claim that public schooling should strive to achieve such altruistic purposes as democratic equality, citizenship, equity and social justice... the biases of which are clear and presented without apology"

This may be the case, but it is not grounds for even more bias.

"it is a foolish error to suggest that maths or English could be taught free of bias, let alone history"

I don't know how you teach maths or English with bias, history yes.  However it is possible and desirable for students to look up facts and evidence themselves, to hear other interpretations and draw their own conclusions.  In fact these are the very skills schools should be providing.  Certainly not some spoon-fed government approved version of "social justice" or equity.  Both are contentious issues and subjective - to teach anything other than how to decide for one's self is indoctrination.

"Thirdly... He writes of the problem of students being taught on the one hand that the world was "formed billions of years ago", and a biblical view of creation on the other. He laments that 'faith often wins.' ...our author seems troubled by the very existence of supernatural faith, and the claims it makes."

The term "thirdly" implies this is the third point in defence of the argument that "Dean's attack misses the mark for a number of reasons."  It does not at all support the argument but rather just points out that Dean is "troubled" by it.  Well obviously.

Perhaps the author would benefit from some schooling himself in critical thinking.  As an opinion this article is fine, but as a rebuttal it fails.

"...when you view both genders in such contrasting regards?"

I agree.  I've been thinking about this for a while now.  I don't believe there is a call for "equality" at all, I think it's just a call to change the stereotypes they don't like and keep ones that work in their favour.  

Hardly surprising that a group acts in its own best interests, but that's the double edge of equality - it means other people get to act in theirs.  

Just as free speech only matters when what is being said is objectionable, one can't be equal while another is not.  It's an oxymoron and therefore the call is not in fact for equality, just change.  It's fine to argue for change but not fine to use the moral weight of "equality" where it doesn't apply.

We could gag everyone and call it equal or Ms Lambie can say what she likes and so can I and that would be equal.  I prefer the latter.  Not only for my own sake, but also because it is by far the more elegant of the two solutions.you seem to be agreeing with me Mitor.

But would you feel the same if your wife called someone fat and he slapped her?  I am thinking you do not.  That's fine but it is the perpetuation of these stereotypes and double standards that is causing all the angst IMO.Hi Tom1,

As I said "equality" isn't all roses. 

 "I know of no man that would be intimidated by a woman making a sexual comment."  You do not know all men, nor all possible circumstances.  Feeling intimidated is purely subjective.  You are projecting stereotypes for both genders and that is part of the problem."But this is a forum where people project their own slant on life. I know of no men that would be intimidated by a sexual comment from a woman"

That's fine, but don't use it as a premise to a conclusion or your argument will be invalid (premises do not support the conclusion).Hi Alfie, I'm on your side with this but I'd rather we go the opposite way and remove the restrictions on men's speech rather than limit women as we have been limited.  I think it was unprofessional to talk to her employer (a citizen) that way and she might lose votes, I don't know, but I'd rather she (anyone) be given all the rope they need and let the listeners decide if they hang or land gracefully."Actually I prefer real people to double speaking pollies"

So does that apply to people like Abbott saying so-and-so is attractive, or to someone saying they like women barefoot and pregnant, or not?  You didn't say.actually, without having seen the whole show, I am wondering how they got onto such topics as sexual preferences and personal hygiene.  Or why the senator allowed herself to be drawn in that direction.'"200 people were killed, including 32 women and children" - in other words unfortunately they were not all men'

I agree with you except I would still put children in a separate class.sorry, are they required to answer any question put to them?I'll give her slack for apologising but it seems her supporters haven't noticed she did so, or feel she shouldn't have.  No doubt many will say her apology is proof of the patriarchy.  I expect Ford or Hamas will write soon either condemning her for buckling under or claiming she was forced to for survival."I think foreigners would be surprised at just what prudes Aussies are when sex is mentioned"

What do you suppose the reaction would have been if it had been Hillary Clinton?uh, so it is the "quality" of the speaker that matters??"Would you tolerate Abbott saying publicly some of the things your mates say after a few pints?"

Tolerance is a good thing.  And I'd rather hear the true thoughts than some PC approved statement.Maybe, in the name of equality, we should all of us get our bits registered down at the courthouse or local post office, where they can be appraised for weight, density, volume, functionality, possible other uses, and overall aesthetic appeal.  Then, using actuary tables and 12 sided dice, we can generate a corresponding number which, when fully means tested and adjusted for unequalness of life journey, will be 812.  Except me, I'm like at least a 900 baby."forces you to work a lifetime to repay it?????"

Hyperbole much?  Where is the "force"?  If you think it will take a "lifetime" to repay a loan and that is not agreeable then don't take the loan, or take a smaller loan, or save up, or make other plans.  What force.corporations only have "control" where government is in a position to give them that control.  Smaller governments have nothing to sell.I would think working out a way to store electricity can't be any harder than figuring out how to prevent nuclear accidents and store the waste. We've been working on the latter for 50 years now with poor results.

My idea is to turn the electricity into hydrogen by breaking sea water.  You end up with salt, oxygen and hydrogen.  Recombine at your leisure to get fresh water and electricity.  Or keep the hydrogen to combine with waste CO2 to make hydrocarbons that we currently get from petroleum.If we didn't eat it then something else would, or it would die and rot, same difference.  Poo is not pollution.

It can be bad for the environment when it's concentrated, but so is anything.  And it's a health concern for humans because it's full of pathogens particularly suited to humans.  To a cow human poo is no more dangerous than cow poo is to us.  I put cow poo on my garden.

My waste goes straight out into a transpiration system in my back yard.  You can see where it runs at the moment because the grass is still green there.  I don't feel like I'm polluting.we have to get off petroleum sooner or later, we may as well get stuck into it now.  If it helps the climate so much the better, but there are many other good reasons to do it.You don't need even need the 200 years of testing. Roads are modelled first and then built to suit the model.

You would be able to predict with certainty that a person lying in the road would be run over because that's exactly how you designed it.got half way down the comments and that was enough.  It's good to know the majority don't know any more about economics than I do, but sad that they don't realise it.

It's more fun to wallow in rhetoric and fancy I guess, than look at anything pragmatically."some times I move a little to the right "  lol, I must have missed those times.  But I don't blame you, we have a crappy right.  We also have a crappy left.  

I guess that makes me pretty "middle" in that I am as far away from either of them as I can get.  Bunch of rowdy, stubborn, headstrong, yet-to-mature, petulant, whinging, braying, arrogant, sneaky, sulking, rhetorical, smug, melodramatic, trip-over-their-own-feet teenagers.  

We, the analogous parents, ought to give them an analogous cuff on the ear.  Tell them to do their homework and make sure the trash goes out on time, or no pocket money and no Question Time with your mates this week.

"National Socialism was not socialism"

It kinda was though.  It was nationalist and it was socialist, nasty combination.Assylum Seekers - follow the spirit of the agreements we signed, process them as fast and efficiently as possible in a proffessional manner, work with our neighbours on a longer term plan.  Work with community groups to get those that are accepted integrated and working as soon as possible.

Education - funding distributed at the community level.  Voucher system for students where the funding is attached to the student.

Carbon - we need energy, lots of it.  Soon we will need exponential amounts.  With sufficient energy we could end most of the world's big problems - war, famine, poverty, environment.  But burning stuff is not efficient enough to meet our needs without covering the earth in power stations.  A few trillion dollars invested in something better, space-based solar or fission or whatever.

Gay Marriage - remove the state from the equation, problem solved.I don't see how the slogans are harassing or discriminatory.  I agree they are offensive to many, but so are a lot of things.where did I say it didn't offend me?no, it's because I know the definitions of those words.Are we done?  You tell me.  I already said they were offensive, and I don't believe I defended them in any way.Hi frangi, that's not what I take discrimination to mean.  I have always understood it to mean the exclusion of some group for irrelevant reasons as in "No Irish need apply".

"men should be able to enjoy slogans demeaning them"  They can now, can't they?  Ever been called a "fag" in front of a group of giggling girls?  It's pretty common.  Men have never been excluded from demeaning speech.

So cheer up, no discrimination after all.Hi Dove,  I guess we have to apply the standard free speech thinking.  If the speech leads to incitement then there might be cause to restrict it.

"I trust that this kind of exposure will put the requisite commercial pressure on the company to change their tack"

I'd suggest they have well considered the options before taking this route, and I would also assume they have reviewed sales from time to time to determine the effectiveness of the campaign.

"It says a lot about the culture of an organisation that this was deemed appropriate for public display."

I suppose it does.Hi Azrael, your post clearly shows that there are many people of both genders who are not offended at all by the vans (since they rent them).  So logically your argument must be that as long as *any* people are offended it is sufficient for regulation.  Is that your position?  If so it seems like a dangerous path to take."how many men would find it funny if the slogans/jokes were about penis size and staying power?"

Men get those kinds of comments all the time from members of both genders.  It may or may not be funny, depending on context.is that all that's bothering you?  That it's not presented exactly the same way in all cases for all people?  Why should that matter more than what motivates men and women to be offensive in the first place?"Would you allow your daughter to associate with someone driving one of these vehicles?"  It would depend entirely on the person, not the van.

Why do you assume only men hire these vans?because in all your examples the van was hired/driven by a male and the female was a passive bystander."No" is not a challenge, or an inducement to "try harder". Unfortunately, in my experience, most men don't get this."

Neither do some women.  For some women making him "try harder" absolves them of their sister-imposed notions that "giving in" too easily makes them a "slut"."a man should not want to have anything to do with a woman who would send ambiguous signals regarding sexual intercourse and consent. "

No argument there but for the inexperienced at life it is often easier said than done.  Young women who might do this are not necessarily aware they are sending ambiguous signals.  The entire flirting process is a between-the-lines negotiation.  Between the lines because of social norms that make a girl wish not to appear too eager and a boy wish to appear confident and "strong", the definition of which is elusive."but neither is offensive"

Funny how what's offensive to one person isn't to another."Freedom of speech should run second to common decency."

Oh dear, what a slippery little slope that is."back in those bad old days it was only the drunks and young creeps...  that did not treat women with respect, and a well brought up man would not come out with remarks like that"

Funny because according to many feminist writers on these pages life was much worse for women in the bad old days.  Your "well brought up man" might likely give the little woman a backhand for speaking out. I suppose if it was done respectfully, in private, it would be ok though.

I submit *most* men and *most* women respect each other and thus it's always been."Well, since I've yet to see a Wicked Campers van portraying men as rapists"

Isn't that the topic of the article?  Women are supposedly portrayed as victims so therefore they must be depicting men as attackers.then all we need to do is agree on what is ethically acceptable.  Shouldn't be too hard, right? Oh wait.rather we should go the other way.  Swearing should not be an offense."Using offensive language in public should always be discouraged"

I have no problem with discouragement (a form of persuasion)

"being directed at someone in a hostile way." then we are moving into the realm of assault/ threatening which is more than just speech and more than just offense.Hi George, there are clear legal standards for what constitutes a threat or an assault.  For example, if you were to threaten me here on The Drum I wouldn't have a case because a reasonable person would not believe you could carry it out since you have no idea who I am or where I am.  It doesn't seem like that kind of test would work well for offensiveness"that the majority of Australians would find the slogans offensive."  That's probably true depending who was listening when you asked them.  But why should that alone be sufficient grounds?

We should be very careful when making rules based on the moral majority as we end up with all sorts things like anti-gay laws, capital punishment, stolen generations, anti-abortion, income management, prohibition, witch trials, Jim Crow laws, drug wars, terrorism, apartheid and no Sunday sales.  The argument that defeated all those things, the antidote to imposed morality, was liberty and freedom to choose for oneself." perhaps if people refused to rent their vans they would soon remove them."

Exactly.  No need for further action.uh, you do have that right (to boycott) hence no further action required.I was intrigued to see on last night's X-Factor the two women judges ogling and flirting with the young male performers "First tell me, are you single?".

All a bit of fun, but I couldn't help thinking if the genders had been reversed it would have been creepy and intimidating.

As for slogans which "put down" men, check any edition of Take 5 magazine.You seem to be saying there are acceptable levels of offense.  How do you decide what is or isn't acceptable offense?

And way more people read Take 5, or see it at the check-out, than read camper vans.  Or is it just the apparent brazenness of the vans that bothers you?Almost had me there Dove until I realised the "power imbalance" between adults and children is much different to that between fully grown, independent adults with equal rights under the law.

A child yelling at its parents may in fact get disciplined for it too... is that really the line you want to take?hate to break it to you Vince but the "sperm tastes like chocolate" line is an old feminist joke.I seem to remember George Carlin had such a list...I'm not sure most men would care frangi.  They might be annoyed, they might cry hypocrisy, but I doubt they'd take it personally.I am not complaining and neither are they.  We are just pointing out your assertion that it is one sided is incorrect.

The comment above mine by AJS rebuts your statement by saying a) it does happen and b) men don't care.  Or at least that's what I took from it.  Maybe AJS will clarify.

But if I am wrong and it's just a tit-for-tat whinge, then you are right and they *should* suck it up.  Will women be happy with the same advice when you give it to them?This would imply that no matter how pretty you make society look on the outside, inside it's people behaving like people."So why do they do that? I suspect it is because the vans are such craps that silly jokes and messages are used to cover the blemishes on the vans. It is a detraction."

I think you are most definitely right.  I also think they started with more innocuous slogans and then found that the racier ones were more popular and thus was born a marketing strategy."It's ironic that those who shout loudest for 'small government' are the most vocal in support of government surveillance"

Whoa, slow down there Mitor.  I'm on your side with this one and I suspect many other 'small government' advocates are too.they may be "comfortable and complacent" but I think the real problem is they do not recognise the threat as a threat.Brandis did not "defend bigotry", he refused to make it illegal.  However I agree he is being inconsistent with these new laws.Hi ScottBE, as far as I know there is no crime called "bigotry".  The current law makes it illegal to offend along racial lines.  It is possible to offend someone without being a bigot and it is possible to be a bigot without it being racial.

It says exactly nothing about bigotry, only that racially based offense is not sufficient as a crime.  What about offense based on gender, or sexuality or IQ, or weight, or hair colour, or height?  Racial offense is not a special animal and should not be treated as if it were.Both are/were restrictions on free speech. And the latter is also an assault on privacy and democracy (by being non representative)Ben it seems to me the conservative right only want "small government" when it comes to business (yet still want favours and concessions, the literal opposite of small government).  When it comes to liberty and general crowd control they're as bad as Labor or the Greens.surely plain old persuasion is still allowed Joe?The first half of this, detailing the current political state, was spot on I think.  As for PUP, I hope it at least shakes things up if nothing else.with fortunes to be made, it seems like only a matter of time.  Would you rather be a fortune maker or a fortune payer?"off the grid" does not imply "no power", it implies power from other sources than the grid.either that or you don't believe in the market after all"...the Coalition, which purports to be the bastion of free market doctrine..."

I had not heard that.  I wish it was true.relativity may turn out to be, er, relevant.  More likely quantum theory though.in a feudal system "government" is not representative and people do not have liberty.  Both are required - one to prevent corruption and the other to allow entrepreneurship."Before we debate what to do about inequality, we should start another debate about what kind of world we live in. Is the world really meritocratic or not?"

Wrong.  Before we do that we need to discuss whether wealth inequality is a problem at all.  

Poverty is a problem, but I do not see how inequality is."You can't get rich on a desert island"

If I am the only one on the island then I am indeed wealthy as I control 100% of resources.Hi SPitR,

If you mean government should not give special deals and concessions to business then I agree.  Yet it was the socialist side of things that screamed when Abbott refused to help Ford and Holden.  About the only thing he's done right so far IMO.

A free market means no special deals for *anyone*.

I don't think we are far apart. But what worries me is the overriding sense (I hesitate to use the term 'entitlement' although it would be apt) in society that a "rich" person somehow stole the money from a "poor" person.  What did Bill Gates steal, or Zuckerberg, or Jobs and Wasniak?

And why doesn't anyone complain about rich celebrities?  Are they not just as 'greedy'?  What about others not blessed with the luck to be born pretty, or talented at acting, or fast of foot?  Why doesn't the gaffer (lighting) get paid as much as the star?  She (the gaffer) probably studied longer and works harder, isn't that 'unequal'?

And this idea that the gap is increasing is wrong too.  Go back to the 19th century - People like Carnegie and Vanderbilt had 100's of billions of dollars in today's money, held vast government backed monopolies, paid zero tax, while the poor had nothing but charity.  Huge gap.  Go back even further and the King and his mates had ALL the money and everybody else got to work for them for free and go fight in their wars (providing their own food, transport and weapons).

Yet here we are today.  In places where government keeps the market free via anti-competiton laws, does not promote monopolies and the rest of us are free to advance our own interests as we see fit through voluntary association and trade, all people do better and 'gaps' don't matter.Hi Catherine.  Your analogy requires some sort of central wealth distributor (a one income family).  However in a capitalist society it doesn't work that way.  There is no central pool of wealth, individuals create it from nothing.  There are billions of pools of all different sizes which grow and shrink but over time tend to grow more than they shrink.

Or, if you think taxes are that central pool then I'd say most of that tax money comes from the rich already.  You can raise taxes if you like, I don't know enough to say what effect it would have, but I don't see how you can argue that you are somehow 'owed' this money, other than to help pay for common infrastructure such as politician's salaries and pensions."But some people are going to have a lot, lot, lot more to their name for the same amount of work as other people have done"

Unless you think everybody should be paid exactly the same amount for any sort of work performed, then you must admit some work is more 'valuable' than other work.  

How valuable it is depends on how much demand there is for it.  You voluntarily pay $15 or whatever it is to see a movie by a director you really like.  If lots of other people do that as well then the director gets rich.  He didn't work any harder than some other directors and some other directors worked much harder on films nobody liked.  Has he somehow ripped you off?I have noticed a lot of argumentative effort from both sides goes into trying to prove the other side is hypocritical.  May I point out that showing someone to be a hypocrite does not negate their argument and does not advance yours.  All it does is prove they are a hypocrite which is only useful if the debate is about whether they are a hypocrite or not.  This one is about people in wee boats.Wow APM, that's the classic definition of racism - to make broad assumptions about entire groups of people based soley on their geographic origins.  You're entitled to, of course, I'm just saying it's pretty shoddy logic.I thought, Peter, the whole point was to stop them getting on boats in the first place to, you know, save lives.  But it's not really that is it.

Tom1 is correct that boats are still making the trip, he is correct that we are kept in the dark, he is correct the whole thing has been mismanaged since Howard at least and his last sentence is also correct.  Pretty smart for a kindergardener.it would be interesting to see wouldn't it Ann?  I wonder if the lower end (averaged over everyone, not just those with jobs) had more spending power before or after min wages were introduced.why would we be "responsible" for the boat journey alone then?  Why not from the time they set out from wherever they left, if Australia was their destination?

We are not responsible for anyone not in Australian custody.  Once in custody we are 100% responsible"We will decide who comes into this country and the circumstances in which they come"

Is that not what the screening process is for, to decide who comes in?"the fact that Australian taxpayers will have to foot the bill to the tune of billions every year to house, feed and educate these people"

I think we're doing that already and I bet it costs a lot more to do it on remote islands than on the mainland where they could work and, you know, support themselves and pay taxes.same difference in the end Horrocks.The simplest solution would be to withdraw from the refugee convention.  Why don't we do that, I wonder.  It seems to be what everyone wants.well astro, many people complain about these pesky rules the UN came up with and that we signed up for, but hardly anyone calls for us to detach.  I think they want to disregard the laws (and spirit of the thing) when inconvenient but stay in the UN so they can still sit with the cool kids at lunch.

I want us to act in good faith.  That means either pulling out or smartening up.

And by the way, I expect I will always disagree with some people, but I don't tell them to go live somewhere else.  It's intolerant."but they couldn't go back to an Australian port to offload the people"  Why is that?Hi OUB, I too would like some empirical answers to those and other questions.  I have heard compelling arguments from economists that letting more in would be a net gain for Australia*.  I have also heard many arguments to the contrary which, for me, were not quite as compelling but were none the less rational but perhaps relied too much on intuition.

*some think this is not practical in a welfare state, so indeed it may not be the right move at this time.  However I'd like to hear more from rational, impartial experts on the matter.Not sure about you, but at my house people have to enter the property to be able to knock on the door.  That's normally the point I decide if they can come in or not.  No control is lost.Hi TC, in my extension of mick's analogy the "border" is at my property line, not the "front door".  Allowing people onto my property in order to state their business is not the same as opening the door for them.astro, I was reponding to mick who said "Much like the front door of your house I imagine."  It is his analogy, not mine and I was pointing out that allowing people to land and apply for refugee status is not the same as letting them in.

And no, if there is a car crash outside I am not obliged to help, though I would.evidence?  I have seen none from either side now for ages.  All we get are assertions.are you saying their love of legislation is what brought them undone?"people that look at the budget (and politics) and think 'what is in it for me''

Newsflash:  that's how people operate no matter the system.  You make countless small decisions every day, all based on what's best for you and yours and without any possible way of knowing how each small decision, combined with those of others, might affect society at large.thank you graazt, sensible comment.  It is unresolvable because each of us at different times have different priorities. The only sensible thing is to leave people to act as they see fit in each instance.  I donated some money the other day to a local cause because I felt it was worthwhile, but I can't force you to donate as well, can I?

The difference, loosely, between socialists and liberalists is that socialists try to force that resolution and liberalists recognise you can't. It is a self organising system.  

Like CO2 into the atmosphere regulation will affect the system.  Some is necessary, too much or too little is bad but predicting the results of a change in input is near impossible because it is a chaotic (complex) self organising system."At the end of the day, the majority will get their way even if it involves forcing others"

Exactly.  As I said, that's the difference between classical liberalists/ libertarians and everyone else.  They don't believe in force.  Simple as that.  They believe the best way is via voluntary mutual cooperation.  The role of government is to prevent force or coercion so that this can occur.

I don't claim taxes are stealing, most libertarians don't either - government is necessary and it costs money.  Like with most people, the disagreement comes with how to apply deploy the government.If an individual's choices conflict with another individual's choices, we don't need a majority vote to decide who's liberty has been impinged, we use the courts.But graatz why should we want to limit the building of wealth to a single generation?  Don't we want people to rise up?  Why should we restrict them from helping their descendants to do so at no cost to us?

The small business man who builds up a business and leaves it to his daughter - should we take that away from her?  What about if she parlays that business into a chain of stores in her lifetime - do we take it away from her kids?  What if they build it into an empire - then do we take it?Said Dan via his electronic device.  I'd say these devices have made revolt more possible than ever.  I predict it will be mobile phones that topple the North Korean regime.

Can you see no good at all in a world where worldwide communication is instant and information is free?I dunno, this article seems as one sided, one eyed and shallow as those it tries to rebut.

Lost interest half way through.Maybe the market has failed us in one way.  Perhaps our high standard of living and generations of stability have bred a crop of politicians (from all sides and in many nations) who act like petulant teenagers squabbling about who left the dirty dish in the sink and who should wash up.  And I wish people would stop cheering them on.  Have a nice weekend everyone.he was also a musician and entertainer, also considered arts.I don't see your point Frangi.  I was saying there is more to judge than just the paintings, that's all.Hi OUB, I'd say they are artists if they write/ create their own material. I would call Tim Minchin an artist who entertains, for example.  Are The Wiggles artists?  I think probably.

Frangi has made it clear over a few articles now that she does not consider Harris' painting to be art.  That's fine, though why she should be so adamant escapes me.  I don't really see how it matters.  It is what it is and people will want it or they won't.not a bad idea, but I'm think the majority of people would be cynical of his motives and refuse to take the money anyway.  Allowing him to atone would be seen as letting him off somehow.there is no way that 2/3 kids are abused by anyone, never mind specifically by a family member.

My mother was a social worker who took in foster children and she specialised in sexually abused children.  I have lived with a lot of abused children and heard a lot of stories.  The number is not 1 in 3.

As for groping.  The only time I was groped that I remember was by a girl who was living with us.  Very often inappropriate sexual behaviour/ abuse is the result of previous abuse.  It's an evil gift which keeps on giving.Self reports, police reports, government stats, psychological studies - as I said, my mother was a professional in the field.  I know far more about child abuse than most laymen.  I also studied criminology in university.Yes, if one sibling has been abused often others have as well.  Usually beginning with the oldest and moving down the line.

You will find statistical clumps wherever an abuser has access to victims,  within a family or an institution for example.  Or in Harris' case as a children's entertainer.where did his fame come from if not from the work he produced?Ok, let's say I agree with you.  Where are you heading with this line?  Are you saying the debate is pointless since it's not actually art, or that it has no value to anyone, or that it's irrelevant or what?Thanks for the explanation frangi.

I guess you don't remember his TV show on the CBC in the early 70's?  I think it was on just before the Irish Rovers of a Saturday night.  Or maybe he was a guest on the Irish Rovers show... I was only about 6 at the time.  I remember having a record of his around that time that I played a lot.

I don't think he was so much a product of slick marketing as you do.  He was an entertainer and people liked him, simple as that.  I don't claim to know what is "good" art, so I won't comment further on that.  I write and record music, I consider it art by some definition, but is it any good?  I only judge myself (and other artists) on whether I think I accomplished what I set out to do.  I don't know any other objective way to go about it.awww, didn't you cry when the unicorn got left behind?  We only got one channel, in black and white.  It was the Rovers, Hockey Night In Canada and Tommy Hunter.why can't we just leave it up to the owners of his art to decide what they want to do with it?"then they have a moral duty to the public to disclose information which people might consider relevant "

But you're not talking about moral duty ("each piece must have a big disclaimer ") you're talking about a legal requirement."if it were at all good or worthwhile art then it might be a different story"

Seems like a slippery slope to me, trying to define "worthwhile" for everyone rather than leave it to the individual to decide.Ann you should resist putting words in people's mouths as an argumentative style.  Better to have them clarify exactly what they mean and then pose some logical rebuttle.  I don't mean that judgmentally, it just works better.Harris got away with it, in the main, because society (rightly or wrongly, it's irrelevant) viewed it differently then.Is this all part of a wider trend I wonder.  This simplistic cause-and-effect society we've become.  That we think a person's evil is transferred to things he touched, that indeed people are either evil or good but never some messy twisted mix called human.  You're either a bleeding heart lefty or a greedy neo-conservative, a lunatic greenie or a crazy libertarian, a feminist or a misogynist, a heartless xenophobe or an 'open borders' nut job.  

We think that wiping offensiveness under the rug makes ugliness go away.  We are masters of self justification, re-writers of history.  Natural born spinners.

Countless generations before us got it wrong, quaint though they were, but we, now at this time, have it figured out.  Because it's so obvious isn't it?  No need to look deeply, we have it all figured out and from now on, for the rest of history, they will say we were right.  Or will they in turn think us quaint?"Where are all the apprenticeships for the youth to fill"

Try the Joinery trade.  The company I work for has 3-4 apprentices out of a floor staff of aprox 10, and we'll likely take on more as those ones progress.  We also routinely do hosting for high school work experience and we employ a disabled fellow. We pay above award rate too.  I would imagine there are openings in most of the construction trades since if joinery is busy the others generally are as well.Hi Where's Tony.  To be honest we don't get many applications (maybe 5 per year), those who do apply are almost always given a start.  We are picky about how we do things and it's good to train people up from scratch.  We are located mid-north coast NSW with business all over Aus.  We are always short of installers willing to travel.

For what its worth the last kid we took for high school work experience only showed up for the first day then went AWOL.  But most kids are pretty keen.I used my computer to make contacts in Australia (from Canada) and then I sold the computer to pay for a return plane ticket.  If it hadn't worked out I'd be back where I started minus 1 computer and richer for the experience.  As it turns out that was near 20 years ago and I'm still here.

Surely it would be possible for many to move a few hundred km's for an opportunity.  Save $500, buy a bus ticket, research contacts on line before hand.  Better than sitting around waiting for the job market to improve in your area."So Jimmy, you are saying our young people and graduates should all go overseas where there are better opportunities."

No Ann, I'm saying sitting on your bum, waiting for government to fix it, is guaranteed to get you nowhere.  Like it or not, it's a stone cold fact.  Why must you equate my stories of positivity and inspiration with such hostility?' surely you would know its not as simple as packing up and moving to where you think there may be a job"

Sometimes it is yank, sometimes not.  When I was young and single I roamed far and wide looking for an opportunity.  That's how I ended up in Australia.Don't be so defeatist.  What you say is one scenario possible, but that's no reason to discount the whole idea.  It would make sense that the wider you cast your net the better your chances.  If you miss, cast again somewhere else.  What other choice is there?  And the internet makes it a lot easier than it used to be."Tell all the lobbyists who want to flog their overly expensive and inefficient automated systems..."

What "lobbyists"?  If you have a system to sell you sell it, or not.  There is no need for lobbying.  And why do you say automated systems are inefficient?  Why would companies buy them then?

I used to earn $35K operating a panel saw, now I earn 60K programming a CNC machine.Hi Ann, you seem to know a lot about it.  Who did I put out of work?  I am the one the machine replaced and it now takes 4 assemblers to process its output instead of two.Sorry Ann, that's incorrect.  We have been automating for 200 years and yet the unemployment rate averaged out would seem unchanged.  And where it rose temporarily (eg the great depression) it wasn't due to automation.  

We could not support half this many people to this high a standard without automation.  The majority of us would need to be farm workers just to supply enough food for everyone.  

Or do you just mean you want to go back to some particular good old day when we had just the right level of automation?  Tractors good - ATM's bad.Hi Steve_C.  You sound like someone uncomfortable with adaption.

McDonald Douglass et all may have lobbying power, but they are not lobbying for automation specifically so I don't know what your really getting at there.

How does "fail[ing] to utilise human resources" make something inefficient necessarily?

Self-programming is an oxymoron.  

I didn't claim the CNC was more "worthwhile", I don't even know what that means.  But the machine can cut far more than I could in one day which is why I get paid more to program it.  It also keeps many more assemblers working since our volumes are higher and it frees me up to deal with things that better utilise my skills, things machines can't do like negotiate contracts, deal with on-site issues, customer care and the miles of red tape it takes to get somebody onto a union jobsite.  I used to know how to operate a panel saw, now because of the CNC I know much more about my industry making me more employable.  The CNC *gave* me skills, *created* opportunities.

"Much more profit per item" No, lower prices to keep us competitive with similar operations and with cheap overseas imports (I can name a few iconic Aussie chain stores that buy their joinery from China), resulting in better prices for the client (that's you).

"At least you're OK aren't you Jack - er Jimmy"  I don't appreciate the snideness Steve.  I've been working since I was 11 years old.  I've been jobless and I've been homeless.  I moved half way round the world looking for opportunity and I'll help anyone who wants to have a go.  As a matter of fact a young fella I know has asked, off his own bat, if he can come to work with me over his school holidays because he's interested in engineering and wants to learn to read plans and maybe some basic programming.  Kid like that, I'm happy to help any way I can."Where some see certainty I see only the certainty of uncertainty"

Fair enough.  I am keenly aware of uncertainty, but I don't aim to let it beat me.

I'm not particularly proud of anything.  I would have done a lot of things differently. Many of the things I now advocate, I wish I'd known then.  One thing I learned is that change is constant.  You can fight it, fear it or try to make it work for you."I bet it would get more takers than would make most people (including myself) comfortable."

Same here Ann.  But I don't know, I agree youth unemployment is too high, I believe in training programs and apprenticeships, I believe in something above starvation level welfare and I believe in giving people the benefit of the doubt.  But Mrs Necktie and I were talking the other night and we know at least 5 people, friends of ours, on some kind of pension who really could work.  So there does seem to be a little truth to it, but I don't see how Abbott's schemes will do anything positive.Not quite cuteyoungchic.  Apprentices don't have a tradesman standing over them all day.  They free up tradespeople by taking on the more menial jobs.  As they master things they are gradually given more complex tasks.  With good management it is actually fairly symbiotic and conducive to output flow.What Gina actually said was that countries paying $2/day were one of many factors affecting mining investment in Australia.  The context was that Australia needs to think of ways to compete despite that, such as value adding and increased efficiencies.Sounds logical to me, probably a lot less in bribes too.  I think that was her point, investors weigh up the pros and cons. She wasn't pushing for lower wages, but for reforms to compete with lower wages.  Whether she has a case or not, I have no idea, I'm no mining expert, I just don't like things taken out of context for to push a barrow, it doesn't progress the argument."If Governments don't solve our problems, what are they there for?"

Milton Freidman believed government's only role was to protect citizens from force - either from outside aggression or from fellow citizens.  He believed government overstepped its bounds if it applied force to a citizen in any way, except in response to force or to protect third parties from force.Coulter is part of the nutty-right spawned by Fox News along with Glenn Beck, Bill O'Reilly and others.  I've been watching a lot of old interviews with people like Milton Friedman, Thomas Sowel and Bill Buckley and there are still some American voices from the non-left worth listening to.  John Stossel is one.  You don't have to agree with him, but at least the arguments are rational.He died in 2008 says the wise old internet.  He had the most captivating voice like a mix of southern drawl and Boston yankee.

One thing that struck me, and from the youtube comments others as well, was how much more civil people were up until the mid 80's or so. You watch Ayn Rand on Donahue, she says some pretty confronting things but nobody shouts her down and the audience questions are intelligent and to the topic.  To my mind that's the only way we can get anywhere.I remember one year there was no baseball (America's official pastime) season at all due to strike/ lockout.  They showed minor league games instead which I actually enjoyed more."People believe in people "

I'd agree with that.  It's a shame too.  Me, I'd have told myself the woolly jumper was better off keeping me warm than Himmler (who's Fred West?). I bet whoever knitted it would be pleased too.  Symbolism is ok, but don't get too wrapped up in it - the object reminds us of the sentiment, but the sentiment lives in us, not the object."Then hopefully that will quickly ground their social expectations back down to more normal form of reality."

Why is that necessary, that everyone be "normal"?yes frangipani you've made that point a few times and I don't disagree, but doodily seemed more worried about the morality of it all.  He's broken the rules of whatever and so forth and it's cost him financially, but doodily wants community hours to teach him some humility - to me that's a moral argument and the subject of the article."but what's wrong with setting a standard based principles and requesting people rise to it?"

Who sets the standard then?no argument there frangi and on re-reading dman's post I realise he was saying the same thing when I thought he meant society in general.  Sorry dman."the message we send... is this: if you make an obscene amount of money, you can get away with almost anything"

Sorry, what exactly would he be "getting away with"what is a dangerous idea to all concerned is that individuals have the right to think and say whatever they like, and more importantly, that the rest of us are capable of deciding the truth for ourselves."Until we address the biggest drug problem in Australia, all the rest is hand wringing and self justification."

This is true.  But banning drugs (or petrol, or paint, or deodorant) won't fix it.  If communities wish to do that themselves, that's their business.  But in the end it is the community that has to act, and we should help them do that where we can.I'd prefer government had nothing to do with morality Peter.  Government's role is to protect citizens from force.  Morality can sort itself out, as it always has.not to diminish your story ITIT, but what on earth is a "leading vet"?we agree again Benice, well said.I have no idea if Berg will write on it, but I'm willing to bet he'd be consistent in his views (ie he would be opposed to the cancellation).  Hope we get to find out."Its time the world grew up."

I agree.  I've been watching regional conflicts on TV all my life  One of my earliest memories is a B&amp;W image of a tank on TV which I assume was either in Vietnam or the Middle East circa 1972.

I do think heavy handed, quasi colonialist practices by the west (and the Soviets) have contributed to it but I don't think it is the cause.  Outside interference is just a handy justification for tribalist bullpoo that would have happened anyway.

I call them the Machete Wielders.  That portion of the world where in the face of the slightest difference out come the machetes (or AK47 or whatever's handy).  What worries me more is western thinking is moving the same way.

From the rise in xenophobia and calls for isolationism to 'terror laws' which are just grabs at power and arrogant denial of accountability, to calls for "offense" laws, net censorship, and indeed censorship of books of silly children's poetry (Roald Dahl).  The deceitful and the gullible alike say it's all in the name of decency and equality, fairness and security.

But what it really is, just like the Machete Wielders, is people trying to force conformity with their own personal version of "right".  You may not get hacked by a machete here for being contrary but more and more you'll likely end up in court.

Yes.  A lot of people need to grow up, take responsibility, learn some pragmatism, learn some tolerance and stop worrying about what others are doing.

Bit of a rant there, Friday.ahh the good old days of polio and world wars.  Stop playing violent video games if you don't like them.actually Ford paid double the average salary because his staff turnover was too high.  Assembly line work sucks.you expect 18c to *prevent* bigotry rather than deal with it after the fact?  How does that work?everyone has the right to believe whatever they like including if it makes them a bigot, so yes you have a right to be a bigot.  People do not have the right to interfere with other people's rights or to break laws.  The two concepts can coexist quite happily.I agree in principle PoM but there is a difference between pride of nation and nationalism.  To me the latter is a form of tribalism just as dangerous as religion.  There is little free speech in an nationalist society."That makes it an execution, not self-defense"

How so?almost all hand guns are semi-automatic, not just the ones police carry.I know.  You could have deleted your first sentence and the post would still make sense."Black people are much more likely to be suspected of committing crimes than White"

I think that's true.  It's racist and what's worse it's sloppy thinking.  However it's understandable.

Humans evolved to detect patterns and anomalies to patterns.  And they always err on the safe side. 

So if (hypothetically) the majority of criminals you encounter are black, or the majority of illegal?s you encounter are Latino, or the majority of fat white men you encounter are right wing conservative nut jobs, or the majority of long haired beanie wearers you encounter are unemployed greenies, if lions sometimes hide in the tall grass by the water... then you tend to suspect them all until you know different.

Again.  It's sloppy thinking but we've had those instincts a lot longer than we've had a functioning frontal lobe.  Instinct often trumps reason.

Secondly, many cops are type A go-getters.  They see arresting people as their goal, not peace keeping.  So they go fishing where the fishing has been good.  The war on drugs is muchly responsible too I think.  If the police could be converted back to peace keepers again, and not be pressured to make arrest numbers, usually for political reasons, I think it would go a long way.and if I can add - if your main focus is arresting people then naturally you will want to get better at it, do it faster, safer etc.  So it's not surprising the once reserved SWAT team is now the regular response.  It's not surprising cops want ever more access to personal data, increased powers of surveillance and the like.  It reinforces an "us versus them" mentality, which goes both ways I'm afraid.  Peace is not kept.

We could stop calling everything a "war" for a start."There are many poor whites too because they weren't fortunate enough to have rich families"

Relatively few wealthy people inherited their wealth.  And even if they did it just means their ancestors got started building wealth before the ancestors of other people.  It's not too late, anybody can start any time.I don't see how the existence of a gap makes it any more or less difficult for poorer people to improve their situation.  The fact most wealthy people created their own wealth should be encouraging to others who'd like to do the same. 

I like rich people.  The company I work for makes a lot of money selling them stuff.must depend on your circle.  I've been to the US lots of times.  Nobody ever asked anything about my status or finances.  I did find some racial tensions still evident in the South, but not so much in the rest.  Less than here, for example."The truth is a left wing conspiracy"

I fear truth is not prime consideration for either side unless by happy coincidence it happens to work in their favour.at least he's not running around saying the Chinese are going to enslave us allwhy do so many people equate "passing legislation" with successful governing?"why don't you buy a plane ticket over there and do your bit"

That seems to be quite illegal at the moment.  Apparently one is at risk of radicalisation if one leaves the protective anti-radicalisation dome encasing our island refuge." why is the donor's rights more important than the child's rights?"

The donor had their rights before the child existed.  And I dispute it is a natural right to know one's ancestry, as desirable as that is.just like how I got a letter recently from the phone company advising me they had "accidentally" released my name, number and address to several local directories even though I pay for a 'silent' number.  

It went on to say they are "legally required" to submit my details to a central database for use by "emergency services" and they "neglected" to "tick" that it was a silent number.  My question is why are private publishers of phone directories given access to this database, and what do they pay for the privilege?

We don't need more of our data stored anywhere, it doesn't stay anonymous.I put "ticks" in quotation marks because it was the phone company's word, not mine.

"Many people have allergies or past surgical procedures"

Past surgical procedures of the donor are irrelevant.  Allergies are easily diagnosed.

"and show the details without actually showing even the medicare number."

Sure, like the phone company did?  And what's to stop the government selling access to this database (say to pharmaceutical companies) as they do with the phone database?  Same question for the proposed metadata retention scheme.

As a concession I'd be ok with voluntary donor information.I quoted certain words because I wanted to be clear I was not paraphrasing or adding my own spin with terms like "accidentally" and "legally required".  I thought it was clear I was referring to the letter I received.

I don't use quotes to convey sarcasm, just to show words are not my own, as I was taught in English class.


"There is no reason to believe there would be any issues. "

We're going in circles Michael."using a slippery slope fallacy"

It's not a fallacy if it's true, it's called mission creep.  I just gave you an example of how government collects data for one stated reason then uses it for other reasons and how unintended results can occur.  We already slipped down that slope.

But never mind that.  "But they don't for the vast majority of the information they have about you"  Even if that were true it in no way logically supports your next sentence "So you have no reason to fear..."

It's like saying the vast majority of ships never sink, therefore this one is unsinkable.

Look, I do agree it would be excellent to have that information available.  But I can't justify forcing people to comply.  As I said, I have no problem with voluntary.  No problem with screening sperm before using it etc."I would say the right to know your biological and genetic history is a human right"

While it's highly desirable, I don't see it as a right.  And I'm all about rights."Isn't access to the internet considered a human right these days?"

Um, no?I'm sceptical but I'll take your word for it Ally.  

I'm one of those weird people who only recognise inherent, sometimes called natural, rights.  "Rights" afforded by governments are in fact privileges.  

A natural right is one which doesn't require bestowment - life, liberty, pursuit of happiness and all that.  They are natural rights because they don't require anyone else to *do* anything (such as provide internet, or clean water).

So as a citizen of Australia you have the right to vote, but that is a bestowed right, not a natural right.  Children are not granted that right for example, whereas they are born with natural rights.

And also, to be clear, having the right to something (natural or not) does not mean somebody is required to provide it for you, only that they can't (morally) stop you from trying to attain it."This could also be said of couples that get various forms of reproductive assistance - having a child is not a right."

Correct.

"a promise is only valid if all parties to the promise are able to make a free and informed choice."

Also correct.  Who's missing, the yet-to-be-conceived (assuming it works) child?  How does that work.  How would it apply to abortion?"goal of the parents for a genetic child "

By your logic the parents should have been less selfish by not wanting (and therefore not having) a genetic child in order that the child could then know it's... wait."Can you spot the hypocracy?"

No, I can't.  Who is the 'house owner' in your analogy, the child or the donor?  Because the child did not exist at time of donation, in fact it's likely the mother-to-be was also unknown at time of donation."You are saying what they "should" feel about their sperm donor "

I fail to see how you can feel *anything* about a person you know nothing about except their gender.in future we will need to wait for the child to grow to the age of 18, when they can make an informed decision, before they decide if they would like to be the product of a sperm donation or not.While Devil's posts were most informative I have to agree with MC.  Devil has made a logical leap at the end.  You cannot trade away the rights of a *potential* person.  There are infinite potential people. 

Or, dig this.  Something which does not yet exist cannot be discussed in the present tense which is necessary to "have" or posses anything, including rights.

Or, to "have" something requires an owner and the owner does not exist, so the "having" cannot exist.I wonder how it would fly if mothers planning to conceive via sperm donor were told that at any time in the future the "father" may turn up wanting contact with "his" child and that he has every right to do so, regardless of any agreements made in the past."Probably then she should not have children via that method"

Or, we could just continue to honour the agreements that made it possible in the first place.

"Some people are born without arms. Be thankful for what you do have."  Are you then saying children should be thankful they exist and have parents who went to great lengths to create them?

I can't figure out which way you are going on this Ann."That way, if sentences are too lenient or harsh, the people can hold the Minister accountable"

the reason we don't elect judges is so that their opinions are not swayed by personal interest (ie getting re-elected).  How would you avoid this with a Minister for Sentencing?do you know *why* judges are not elected?  It's a pretty fundamental aspect of our (western) justice system."If not, then we must conclude that criminals won't be deterred from committing crimes, so they might as well be incarcerated"

Your logic is off.  You assume mandatory sentences are the only way to "deter" people.  I'm not saying other ways would be any more effective (though they might be), just that your conclusion "so they might as well be incarcerated" is not supported by your argument.There are lots of other violent "types" of behaviour that can lead to death.  What about an intentional high tackle in a football game?  (The "intent" makes it violent)what if you trip them and they die?"I have to abide by the speed limits - no matter what my circumstances or what I think is appropriate "

Nonsense.  There are all sorts of reasons you might speed.  Say the speeding causes a death - should there be the same penalty for someone who was racing as for someone rushing a person to hospital?You seem to advocate for the death penalty on the grounds it is cheaper.  That seems like a dangerous path to me.or, we might find the odd situation of a defendant trying to 'prove' they used a weapon instead of their fists.Why do we need a special category of manslaughter?  What about a two punch death? What about one punch but sober? What about a fist fight during which a bystander is knocked into the road and is hit by a car? What about an intentional high tackle in football?

All deaths from reckless and aggressive acts, what's the difference if not the mitigating circumstances?  Is that not why we have judges and juries in the first place?

Half the country thinks China is going to invade and the other half is envious of their justice system."I'd argue that your sentence should depend on what you did, not the life you've led."

by 'mitigating circumstances' I did not mean "the life you've led", I meant the context surrounding the crime, as in the examples I provided.

"I'm sure plenty of socialists fit both categories."  I'm sure you are right and I'm sure it's the same for conservatives.  So maybe I should have said *everyone* is afraid China will invade *yet* they admire their justice system."sentencing that is not responsive to community demands"

How are you quantifying that OUB?  I have only ever seen anecdotal evidence to support that claim.  Very easy to illicit an emotional response depending how you ask the question.I had to look that up.  From the article I read:

"[the appeals court] upheld all seven of the appeal grounds put forward by the Crown."

That seems to be the system working as it is.  But my question was do we have any studies that actually show "community demands" (all of the community, not just the vocal ones) are not being met?
populism?"We perpetuate the myth of the warrior spirit/class, silverback gorilla!"

Nobody ever perpetrated that to me.  Kids grow up to reflect their upbringing.  Violence gets you violence.Ok.  And?I grew up in a time when fist fights among young men were 'normal' and I've been in a few myself.  But that's not the same as saying we were encouraged to be "warriors".  There were well defined rules and things like king hits, weapons, 2-on-1 etc were not tolerated.  In fact one was taunted as a coward for those offenses."It has been proven to have been too soft "

I'm not arguing the point, but I'd like to see this "proof", not just anecdotes."It actually rests on the kind of decisions that are made and the value that society puts on those decisions."

Or, the way I look at it, how much a mistake will cost.  I almost cost our small company $450K last year by quoting for one material when the client actually wanted a similar but 3x cost material.  But I caught it, that's what I'm paid for.But it's not a finite system.  Resources can be recycled.  We don't use resources, we use energy and almost all our energy comes from outside the system and is, for all intents and purposes, infinite."If the police are not in public explaining what they are doing..."

But that's just it.  "They" are not doing anything, the government is.I think Ben was saying *certain* people should not carry guns and that these people seemed to him to be of that sort.while I accept your premise reever, I'm not sure masturbating next to someone who is (apparently) oblivious to it should be called "abuse".  I'm not saying it's not concerning, but abuse just doesn't seem to fit.consumer data is voluntary, big difference.  You can pay cash if you don't want to leave a trail.  At least if info stored by, say Google, is subpoenaed a) they do not automatically cooperate and b) they will notify you of the request.  They also publish clear privacy statements so you know what they will or won't do with any data they collect.  If you don't like it you don't have to use their product.  Voluntary.

And Google, banks etc do not let governments troll through their database looking for whatever they can find, as will happen with the data retention scheme.from Google's FAQ page on data requests:

"When we receive a request for user information, we review it carefully and only provide information within the scope and authority of the request. The privacy and security of the data that users store with Google is central to our approach. Before complying with a government request, we make sure it follows the law and Google's policies. We notify users about legal demands when appropriate, unless prohibited by law or court order. And if we believe a request is overly broad, we seek to narrow it -- like when we persuaded a court to drastically limit a U.S. government request for two months' of user search queries."

Certainly not automatic JamesD."these folks don't get my vote on protecting my privacy or anything else."

It's good to be sceptical.  Please apply the same thinking to the government, who can make, break and change the rules with impunity."totally protected" - what did the RSPCA ever do before the internet?I forget the name but I saw an article on a small encryption box, coming out in January.  Sits in-line between your router and the net and applies TOR type encryption to any device using that line.except it's not an encrypted storage device rattan, it is encrypted traffic."... rather than leaving terrorists and paedophiles unmolested. What say you?"

I say that argument smells a lot like the "right to be a bigot" argument against the repeal of 18c.  ie if you're in favour of privacy you must be in favour of terrorism etc.  Or, it's  the old "if you've got nothing to hide" argument.

I know you're more conservative than libertarian OUB, and I tend to agree with you much of the time, but you can do better than that can't you?maybe try out one of Branson's rocket rides when he gets it sorted.  Tell me, upon reaching apogee, you wouldn't be grinning!

I'm quite tall.  Sentiment only comes up to my knees unless there's a storm.  I've thought pretty hard about this stuff for a while now, in between being a bogan blue collar worker and reasonably confident lover, and though I'm always willing to be convinced it usually takes more than sentiment to do it.

Put it this way.  As a simple risk/ benefit calculation I don't like it.  To nibble away at freedoms now and likely for ever in response to nothing new under the sun seems about 90/10 on the bad side to me.  Why did everyone fight so hard to get these freedoms if not having them is on balance better?meanwhile I can write a letter or send a photo or just about anything else via post and the government itself will hand deliver it for me with no record at all."I'm sure their were Women who laughed at the 'pointlessness' of Colombus' expeditions too"

While I take your general point, wasn't Queen Isabella of Spain Columbus' patron?you do seem a bit humbuggy lately OUB.  Tightrope walkers never interested me, but I do remember it was a big deal back in the 70's whenever Evil Knievil was going to demonstrate his ongoing ability to crash and not die.  Probably because my father, uncle, cousins and I all rode off-road bikes.Computers are just a fad - my father, 1982.

"The world is full of gloomy naysayers"  I agree.  You see it here every time the subject of a better power source than we currently use comes up.  Too hard, can't work, why bother."It's the only truly purposeful endeavor we engage in,"

Yes!  For humans to be complacent, stagnant is I think the greatest moral crime.what is all physics?  Sending things into space is pretty routine, Branson isn't trying anything new as much as novel.perhaps his marketing has been based on gimmcks but his business sense seems pretty good.  He once said something like "What do I know about airlines?  That's why I hire good people to run it." - I always thought that made a lot of sense, not the words of an egomaniac.

And if I ever found myself in the position where I had both money and time, I'd be doing all he does and more.it seems like I hear about more people dying from rock fishing than I ever do from skydiving or bomb disposal.  There was another just last week.If I had the chance to go to Mars, one way, and they said I'd probably die after a month, wife and family not withstanding, I'd *really* have to think about it.I'm no scholar but hasn't the middle east been fighting amongst itself for thousands of years now?  

If there had been no imperial activity at all would these regions now be peaceful?  What about other former colonial holdings that are stable and peaceful, like say Vietnam.

To me the difference isn't so much whether a country was colonised or exploited in the past but what the underlying social structure is (that they return to).  Countries that fall to sh*t after the colonists leave tend to have a social structure strong in tribalism (can take many different forms, including religious and nationalist).  

Look what happened in the Balkans in the 1990's. Was that caused by past Soviet imperialism or was it a resumption of tribalism and old scores to settle, combined with boring old political ambition and lust for power?  Nobody complained when the outside world intervened there.

Surely while past imperialism no doubt exacerbates the issue, and can set things off by leaving a vacuum, it seems too convenient to pin it all on that."those who are pretty well genetically disposed to using any excuse"

I can't agree with you there.  They are no more genetically disposed than anyone else. Any of us born and raised in the same conditions would be no different.  But it also works the other way.  Successive generations born into a liberal culture become liberal, they don't remain tribal (Drum contributors aside).  

I think you are more influenced by the culture you were born into than the one your parents left behind and the gap grows with each generation.

What concerns me is we are regressing from liberal ideas, 200 odd years of hard won progress, back into the mire of tribalism.  Its being whipped up by politicians of all stripes for their own short sighted purposes and in that regard they are much the same as any tribal warlord.

We're losing our brand differentiation.The brain that invented the myths is the same one that follows them blindly.  Yet we progress ever so slowly in spite of it.  

Superstition helped us evolutionarily for a million years, but it's done us no good at all for the past ten thousand or so.well said ardy.  

I was surprised and most pleased to hear today that our daughter (22) has managed to save almost $10,000 in the 10 months since she moved down to Sydney.  I believe she's working at a call centre.sigh.  Hi Ann.  Why do you need to be so acerbic?

Can't I be pleased my daughter is doing ok?  Why do you predict (seem to wish) all this doom and gloom upon her?

I don't expect she'd be stupid enough to want to buy a house in Sydney anyway, or if she even plans to buy a house at all.

Try to have more positive outlook, like my daughter.  You'll live longer and enjoy life more.  Have a nice weekend.You're not a realist Ann, you're combative.  You constantly put words in other people mouths, see arguments that aren't there and try to twist the meaning of ones that are there.

For example "...fact that your daughter is not "stupid" enough to buy a house. So clearly..."

I actually said "house in Sydney", didn't I? 

She can get a 3 bed house up here for &gt;200K if that's what she wants.  And btw she has also travelled, twice to Canada and once to Germany.  All on her own money.  She works hard (had 3 jobs there for a while) and I'm proud of her.  She's doing better than I was at that age.

And anyway, I wasn't even talking about houses, I was replying to ardy about choices young people make.

Seriously Ann, chill out before you get an ulcer."If the only people that can succeed are the ones that are trying very, very hard AND happen to be lucky, then the threshold for success is too high"

When I was young I made lots of stupid choices and I didn't get anywhere.  When I decided to work hard I started to get somewhere.  When I learned to work smart I got a little further.  I'm still learning.  I learn a lot right here.

I'm not rich at all (60K/yr) but I would have been by now if I'd known and done what I know now.  Luck has nothing to do with it 99% of the time, recognising opportunity does.  That's something you learn.  I wish somebody had told me when I was a kid, but they didn't. Or I didn't listen.

You can wait forever for the government or whoever to fix it or you can do it yourself.  What I advocate is the only way I know that works.  If you don't agree that's just fine."so your argument is irrelevant"

What argument?  It was advice/opinion given, as far as I can see, in good faith.  No need to be rude.If you'd all stop trying to live in the same place it might help.I do support the NBN actually.  The FTTH model too.  I can't actually get that where I live, but I still support it.Hi Danger, I'm sure you are right.  People have to make the best choices they can, depending on their priorities and constraints.  I'm in favour of having the freedom to make my own choices and in return I'll cop it if it doesn't work out.

Maybe you'll get to move out someday.  I work for a joinery company and we ship all over.  The money saved on overhead being based up here more than offsets the little more we pay in shipping costs.  We do all our correspondence (clients, architects, builders) via email.  Plans are sent back and forth, invoices, approval drawings, whatever.

Technology is making it easier for traditional manufacturers to move out of the cities.  We can have a technician in Germany check our CNC machine online, diagnose the problem, and have a part on its way to us that day.  That's why I'm in favour of a really top notch internet system (NBN), to encourage more people and businesses to move to regional areas.  Wait till 3D printing gets going!I read his earlier book.  He's a smart guy, but he's got some issues as he will be the first to admit.  Lots of potential though."fancy having a man as the Minister for women"

You're right.  Let's just have a minister for people, then it won't matter what gender they are.Fair call Helvi.  But you know I can't sanction having ministers for special groups.  We are all equal and if a woman, or an Aboriginal person, or a man, or a child or whomever has a problem they should get attention, but we don't need special ministers or departments for each of them.  

Just my opinion.  Have a nice weekend :)Are you saying no employer ever trained you in anything Ann?

This is what I have learned on the job:

milking and handling cows
cooking
dishwashing
farm irrigation
radio announcing
employment counsellor
pipe laying
road construction
framing and general carpentry
panel saw operation
CNC router operations
Television production (volunteer)
Waste systems in a plywood factory
common programs like Excel, Word and Access as well as visual BASIC
other specialised CAD software
forklift operator
farm tractors and implements
gyprocking
basic electrical
plumbing
roofing
painting
fruit picking (it's a skill)

I even learned the Library of Congress catalogue system when I worked in a college library.  Not true.  I never did work it out.

and lots more.  I learn every day.no idea Tristan.  I believe the reasoning is that they can't find locals to do the work.I picked cherries for a day, back in Canada.  It's reasonably hard work and I wasn't very good at it, being new.  I picked 10 pails at $1.35/ pail.  Made $13.50 for my trouble.  I would have got better at it if I'd stayed, but I had to hitch-hike back to where I lived so I could go to my other part time job.I found the best thing to just rock up about 6am and ask for a start." the citizens so irresponsible"

Assuming you were being sarcastic, I think that's the key.  Europeans are generally more responsible than Aussies.  They have a safety net but it's bad form to depend on it."Airtight logic there"

Yeah, well I'm not going to try and defend the logic of something I never said, but I will repeat what I said in a different, more tedious way.

I suspect in some European countries people are happy to have a generous welfare system, and to pay for it, but have the common decency to feel obligated to get themselves off it as soon as they can, rather than feeling it is their birthright as many here, and in Canada and UK and USA and France and Greece and Spain lots of other places do.  I do not know this for a fact, I only said this is what I think.

If you have some evidence or rational thoughts to the contrary I'm happy to hear them.well I don't read newspapers and I thought they were terrible.  And no, that doesn't mean I think this mob is better.you mean its cheaper and easier than raising kids to be independantthe other reason it doesn't work is people stubbornly refuse to act like children. They go ahead and make individual choices anyway.  

It's like somebody saying "Buy Australian! Except me, I'm on a budget"the tax is to pay for roads.  The miners don't use public roads and they pay the tax when they do.

So you could also have a "subsidy" as you call it, just stay on your own roads.Trucks which use public roads pay the tax.  Machines that drive around in pits do not.  I'm not sure but I believe farmers get the same deal.  They still pay GST on it too, btw.

Port facilities and rail lines are usually built by the miners and revert to the state once the mine is wrapped up.

Do we build heavy machinery in Australia?  I am told we do not, so where else would they come from if not overseas?  

Do you claim deductions on your taxes?  I sure do.

*We* are not "subsidising" foreign manufacturers.  The *miners* buy things from foreign manufacturers.  That is not a subsidy, it is voluntary trade  - ie I give you money and you give me goods or services of equivalent value."The real problem is the wages people want to pay unskilled is commiserate to welfare "

I'd say the opposite.  The min wage is aprox 3x the single welfare payment.  Somebody on the dole needs to land a good paying, full time job to be better off.  If they work part time it just gets deducted from their dole.  There is no way to pull yourself up gradually.  

I like Milton Friedman's 'negative income tax' scheme.  It provides incentive to take part time or low paying work without penalising them and it almost eliminates the need for Centrelink administration which accounts for a large chunk of money spent.It seems extremely eloquent and logical to me.  I'm really curious to hear any arguments against it.funny, I thought it was the US federal reserve offering loan guarantees to poor folk that got everyone in this mess in the first place.Just saying it wouldn't have happened if well meaning people hadn't interfered with the market.  Normally banks which lend to people who can't afford it are called predatory, and here we had banks being *told* to do so.  And by a conservative government, no less.

That doesn't excuse some of what happened after, but this is a great example of unintended consequences.

* Funny enough I was watching a video on YouTube, ripped from TV in 2006, that still had the ads in it.  There was one for Fannie May where a guy dressed as Uncle Sam bursts into a young couple's kitchen with the good news that Uncle Sam's "got your back, go ahead and buy that home".  Gosh I laughed."the ones who don't want to work at all, but seek to live like kings by exploiting the working class"

I'd say exploiting people is hard work.Helvi I believe Aeon was referring to capitalists, not bludgers.well Aeon, how does one get into the position where one can exploit the poor workers by owning the means of capital?  I guess you could inherit it but that's a bit chancy.  The most common route is to work for it."the divide between the rich and the poor is increasing, so exploitation does occur"

Sorry, you'll have to flesh that out a bit for me.  How does one necessarily mean the other?I don't know what it sounds like, but you have made a logical error.

Can you explain how a widening gap proves exploitation or not?

Also, a "troll" is somebody who says something specifically to inflame, whether they actually believe what they are saying or not.  They don't debate.HPH and Aeon,

My quip about exploiting people is hard work was to illustrate that it actually takes work to become a business owner.

There are many reasons why the gap could widen, only one of those reasons is exploitation.  Therefore to say the gap is widening does not necessarily mean the cause is exploitation.

Just saying "what else could it be?" is not any kind of proof.

I don't know what you're on about with semantics.  Yes I knew what Aeon meant, I asked them to prove it and so far they have not.  They'd rather call me names.

Whatevs, as the kids say." the indisputable fact that there is a widening gap between the rich and the poor and therefore exploitation occurs"

I agree the gap is widening.  Please explain how this *must* be due to exploitation.  Saying it is "self explanatory" is no kind of proof.  As I said there can be several reasons or combinations of reasons.

How is it "trolling" to ask you to back up your assertion?"Meanwhile, there are 580,000 young Australians with no good reason to get up in the morning"

Is that a joke?  I can think of dozens of reasons.  Look around you, opportunity everywhere.  Don't sit around waiting for something to happen.  Get out there and make something for yourself.I hear this claim all the time.  Where is the evidence 457's get a "small fraction" of the min wage?  More likely backpackers and working holiday makers who do that sort of work since they are limited to working no longer than 3 months at any one place."reasonable encouragement and incentive "

I found not having to live on the dole to be plenty of incentive when I was young.not unrealistic at all.  What is unrealistic is sitting in the desert waiting for a handout and expecting things will get better.

If you're on the dole in the bush you can be on the dole in a town while you look for work.  You can arrange interviews via the internet before you go.  You can... oh never mind.  Trying doesn't guarantee success, but do nothing certainly rules it out.

But no, firthy thinks they need to be "encouraged" (read paid) to help themselves.  If that's true then it's already too late.oh for goodness sake.  I managed to get all the way to Australia on my own.  I arrived here with a few names and phone numbers and about $1.35 in my pocket.  I have never had any trouble finding work and I have no formal qualifications in anything.Does sound a little corny, doesn't it - the $1.35 part but I swear its true.  Wasn't planned that way.

Tourist visa.  Automatically electronically granted to Canadians visiting Australia when you buy your plane ticket ('cause we're so friendly, eh).  You're supposed to have at least $200 on you but I gambled nobody would ask and they didn't.  

I had met some people on line, in a few different places in Aus,  who offered to put me up and help me find work.  One arranged for me to start at their uncle's cattle station in Qld, though I didn't end up doing that. 

I'm now married to an Aussie, have little (grown now) Aussie sprogs, permanent residency status, an interesting job that pays good and own a home I like very much.

Sure, it could have all fallen through but this certainly wasn't my first try.  I tried and failed many times before, made lots of mistakes.  Thing is I didn't blame anyone, I got up and had another go.  What else can you do and still have self respect?

Things don't always work out like you planned, but they always work out.  Remember that kids, and you'll be ok.1997 Charlie.  See my explanation above if they print it.

I probably would have done the same as you, stayed 20+ years somewhere, but I never found that somewhere.  I hope I finish up working where I am now but I've got 20+ more years to go yet so who knows.  Can't worry about it.

Like you say Charlie, it isn't like that anymore.  It's like this.I'm not going to be able solve each and everyone's individual logistics problems from here HPH.  Each person has their own circumstances to consider. 

"Big Daddy"? lol what is this, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof?

A lot of people already living in cities are on the dole, yes?  How do they afford it?  I don't know, but they obviously do.  People on the dole move around all the time.  Just because it doesn't seem possible to you doesn't make it so.

I don't tell anyone what they "should" do, I just say what I did and what worked for me.  Others can do what they like but don't complain if you don't want to try.employers are trying to accommodate long standing concerns from feminists.  Do you have a better idea?people make choices based on what is available, not the other way around.

But do you think feminists would be happy with your solution?  They'd say why can't the woman work full time and have kids too.  And by the way part time/ casual is standard for most nurses, like my wife, not just for unskilled."a twelve month sabbatical would be standard business practice"

Women can and obviously do take time off now to have kids.  TA wants to even pay them for it at their current wage, Labor not quite as generous but still offering something.

So, they can have paid time off, they could take part time work and now they can defer by freezing eggs.  I don't know what more you want.  Do you?while your concerns seem valid, I don't see them as "sticks"don't you mean only 1 in 4 eggs is viable?  Not the eggs from 1 in 4 women.well you must use different maths than me.  If a woman freezes 8 eggs then statisticly at least 2 should be viable.  One of those would then be used.

But even if it doesn't work at all for some, how is that a criticism of the idea behind it?ok, so it doesn't work terribly well.  What is your point?maybe it also assumes that women are big people who can make their own informed decisions.I haven't heard anyone say it was coercive.  As far as I know it's simply an option and a fairly progressive one.sorry, what "other ideas"?  Giving women the vote?  Childcare rebates? Baby bonuses? PPL schemes?  Legislation against discrimination?

How do those enslave women?

And many bosses are in fact female.Which other ideas do you mean Ronk?so neither then?"if you are expected to consider the extra cost of maintaining zygotes"

I'm confused.  I thought this was something some private companies came up with on their own.  Are you saying they only introduced it to have an excuse to employ less women because some may want to take them up on their offer?  Trippy.He's happy enough to go along with handing over our liberty, but.and then get hit again at the GP since none in my area bulk bill.not sure if it applies to diesel too, but remember all goods are shipped by road or rail so a rise in fuel is rise in the cost of everything.That all sounds logical to me, though I don't know much.  

I was just pointing out there are some downsides which you hadn't mentioned and which rebates wouldn't fix.  Maybe I fixate on those more because I reckon that's about the only change I'll see out of this.

So it appears all downside to me but you are right, my complaint is more with the administration than the tax.from the phrasing Cormann used, I kind of figured they are banking on Labor not being able to stomach handing back billions to oil companies.Of course the greens will, they have nothing to lose, but Labor wouldn't dare. If they decided to hand it back the coalition would have no trouble spinning it in their favour, and Labor is getting a little head-shy I think.I know I go on about it, but seriously the roads here are dangerous, people die every year from simple potholes.  My wife lost a tyre on one once, ripped it off the rim. My kid says the school bus has to cross some of the wooden bridges at 20km/hr for fear of going through the deck.

This is the mid-north coast too, we're not 'remote'.  There are at least 100K people in this electoral district.  It gets frustrating to hear people from the cities whinging about traffic and housing prices when it's their own fault for trying to all live in the same place, yet they get most of the tax money and pandering from politicians.

We don't have much in the way of public transport out here.  I have to drive 40km each way to work.  It costs me $80/wk in fuel already.  I wouldn't mind so much if I saw some value for my money.I'd like to see an excise on political parties and all the time and money they waste competing for power instead of quietly working for their electorate.  

I bet 80% of a politician's time is spent on activities designed solely to increase the power of the party.  Could be campaigning, could be deciding whether to support a policy by how many votes are in it, luring lurid speakers from the dark side, digging dirt or just slanging off in general.  It's wasted time and it should come out of their pay.

We certainly shouldn't have to pay for that pantomime they call Question Time."Don't worry, men have ruled the world for ever, and they'll continue to do so for a while yet"

That's just it.  I doubt many people, men or women, "worry" at all about the gender of leaders.They needed his vote.  Tells us something about their convictions.pardon me, they took a vote away from the opposition.  either way they were up one.I work for a joinery company.  We pay above award wages - an installer can make $65/hr plus travel and allowances.  In 5 years we have had exactly 1 female apply for a job, and she was accepted.you seem to be saying both men and women can be irrational Ann.  I agree."what men really want "

Men don't want anything.  Women can do as they like.Well you might be right.  I have never had a woman presented to me, so I wouldn't know.I'm having trouble thinking of any law or policy which specifically helps men but not women.  I can think of several which do the opposite.I didn't mention any laws.  Because I can't think of any. Can you help me out?

"Why is it that women cop 90% of crimes committed by men" - you'd better have another look at that.  The great majority of crime, especially violent crime, is perpetrated by young males 15-25 against other young males 15-25.

But even if it were true, I don't see how it proves the laws are in favour of men.Ita, there is only one "tribe" in this context, those who are residents of Australiaperhaps your mistake is thinking this conflict (its hardly a war) is about religion."...a solution that creates the illusion of success without tackling the underlying causes."

Pretty standard I thought.  Kids want to waste their brains huffing paint, ban paint.  People keep coming on boats, ban boats.  People say mean things to each other, ban saying mean things...Everybody wants to "get along" as long as it's on their terms.  Labor (rightly) criticises Team Australia, but then they have their own team.  Greens too.  All just as intolerant to opposition.

The idea that people can peacefully disagree without the sky falling is counter intuitive to most.there would be no duplication.  You can only live in one state at a time.actually rod the status quo is something in between which nobody wants.I think the opposite.  Centralisation has been the dismantling.well my local roads have become so bad I noticed yesterday someone had spray painted "FIX ROADS NOW" across the remaining bits of road in several places.

Will any of this do anything about that?not true.  You have to be 18yrs old to by spray paint.I tend to agree.  I used to think the other way (drop the states) for efficiency reasons.  But I'd rather have the choice you get with individual states, yes like in the US.

For example in the US if you are against guns you can move to a state with tighter gun laws, if you like guns you can move to Texas. 

More choice would mean less arguing and less lowest-common-denominator legislation which ends up being watered down and generally ineffective.  It would also give politicians incentive to lift their game or risk losing tax income as constituents move away."The best way to delegitimise your opponent? Ensure they have no information on the things they oppose."

I didn't realize we had become the government's opponents now.  Now it all makes sense.China is technically a democracy, so is NKeach vote is worth one.  that's a democracy.

Communists by definition can only have one party, the members of which are voted in.  It may be corrupt in practice, but so is our system.  Doesn't make it not-a-democracy."the members of which are voted in"

Correction, I meant "leaders of which"Also, the communist party has factions.  In a way you could say the parties here are just factions of the same federal government.  The more independants we get the more the line gets blurred too." It may shock you to know that the law enforcement agencies... can already obtain telephone intercept warrants without needing to tell you about it."

Right.  So why the need for changes?They can already do that as well with a warrant.  So I ask again, why change it to 'get the warrant later'?WA, maybe I've misunderstood then.  I still don't understand the apparent need for it.  If they want to bug a place now they obviously don't tell the suspect about it beforehand.  What is the supposed advantage to this new provision?"By definition, a libertarian is someone who lets people have a free run"

Better go look that up again.Hi sdrawkcaB,

Apologies if I seemed abrupt before and thank you for the definition.  I was a little worried by the term "free run" which implies "do anything you like".  It's a common misconception about libertarians.

You likely already know that most libertarians subscribe to a principle of non-aggression.  Libertarians are against force of any kind except in response to force.  So not quite a" free run".  The word "voluntary" in your definition also hints at this.

I agree it might be interesting to watch.  My fear is the good senator David will fall victim to whatever it is that bright new politicians fall victim to which makes them eventually start sounding like all the rest.when I first came here aprox 20 years ago I thought it was already fairly authoritarian (can't drive with your arm resting on the window frame?!?) but I agree it has gotten worse since 9/11.  

What's more worrying is that all the major parties seem to have adopted it, not just the right as you might expect.  From talking to friends in other countries it seems to be a political trend world wide.I thought warrants under this legislation were approved by none other than the minister in charge.  Hardly impartial."after being convinced that the relevant criteria have been met"

Not according to the article.  And are you telling us no police in Australia have ever used a listening device?  I have a lot of trouble believing that."They exist only because society permits it - hence, they can be restricted when society deems it appropriate."

That's some slippery logic there.  You argue "no law" is actually an implied law, which isn't correct.  It's the same sort of faulty logic that leads people to think repeal of 18c therefore is "permission" or "encouragement" to be a bigot.

My definition of "privilege" is something which requires somebody else to *do* something.  Medicare or education, for example, or clean water - all require something to be done.

Natural rights do not require anyone to do anything.  Privacy is one of those rights, freedom of association, free speech etc.Thanks to David for another good article.  Happy to see very few people here disagreeing.  Question is now, what can be done?"Where exactly is my 'civil liberty' to be protected from people stupid enough to believe the ideas of religious extremists"

In the common law.  Already.And when Labor next gets in they will be used against all of those as well as wrong-thinking in general.  Just saying it's bad full stop, not just because the conservatives are introducing it.No I don't think there is much difference.  That's why I pointed out Labor are just as bad."Its about time our government stopped protecting an industry..."- I agree

...that unfairly exploits Australian consumers by arbitrarily increasing prices" - price should be what the market will bear.

...and delaying access to content, for no other reason than because we are Australians." - Doesn't seem like the most likely reason to me.  There will be money, votes or both behind it somewhere.It sure does seem like an eloquent solution to the whole thing - simply supply your consumers faster and increase your sales.

I don't know, but I suspect there are interest groups who like the status quo.  It smells of protectionism.it's a bit tricky though.  Original copyright law was intended to stop you profiting from others' work.  People who download for personal use aren't doing that, and they aren't technically stealing, yet it seems logical they shouldn't get something for free when its owners wish to sell it.there was plenty which could have been done by UN troops already there but they were repeatedly refused permissionthere is a very good documentary which was made for the 20th anniversary of the massacre that goes into detail the frustration felt by the commander on the ground who saw it coming, the actions he wanted to take and the repeated refusals from his superiors.  It should still be available on YouTube."there wont be another election if Ebola comes here, "

That's silly.  It's already made it to several western nations without any problems.  The reason it spreads so well in west Africa is due to poverty, cultural practices and general ignorance.fair enough somon, but do we actually try to stop the spread of gastrointestinal viruses?  I hadn't even realized it was a problem.  SARS was more contagious and it fizzled out.

And you can't honestly deny that poverty and cultural practices don't play a part?  People have no money for travel or treatment, they regularly supplement their diet with bush meat, aid workers have been killed by people who mistook them as the cause, people who survive are shunned, culture dictates close contact with the body during funeral rights. and so on.

We'd have a much bigger problem if Hendra ever mutates to a form transmutable from human to human, it's already here and can survive in the wild.I completely agree JoeBloggs and Mike.  But I think both corruption and tribalism are fed by ignorance.  Ignorance allows people to be controlled, cowed or manipulated.  Stops them from questioning things or even realizing there is an alternative.  Makes them think only of short term gain.

I think the best cure for ignorance since the printing press has been the internet and cheap phones.Snidely is right.  The two are not comparable.  Viruses are just trying to replicate like the rest of us, they have no agenda, hold no hate.  Much easier to stop a virus.that's the nice thing about gods.  They are whatever you believe they are.oh calm down.  I'd be more worried about TB than Ebola.  And I'm not worried about TB.I always assumed it was lucky because it's done pretty well despite itself.Canada already sent roughly the same amount of military as Australia did, back at the start of October, 6 jets, 2 refuelers, a spotter and 600 troops.I don't think frank of Malvern said anything about global warming being false.  He speaks of fear peddling which has undeniably taken place.why do you think fear is the tool of conservatives alone?  The author points to examples from all sides of politics."An attack in Canada emboldens would-be attackers here"

No, it's the *response* to attack that will embolden (or not) others."it was helped by photo and video evidence of the Islamic State beheading innocent civilians and putting their heads on spikes"

Have you considered that was the whole reason the videos were posted?  These things have been happening for thousands of years but you reckon if we don't see any pictures of it we're safer?Perhaps I misunderstood you Craig.  I don't believe in the suppression of any information.  My point was we shouldn't let exposure to graphic images influence us any more than we would have been otherwise.I didn't mean just Islam, GRF.  I meant people.Australia, being quite flat, allows you to pedal fear a long way without getting tired or wearing out the brakes.but they do like it Helvi.  These laws are good for politicians and Labor knows they'll get their turn again eventually.As far as I know Ebola is no more contagious than TB, but death from TB is long and slow and not nearly as graphic as haemorrhagic fever, so it doesn't seem as urgent I guess.yet far more people have died from TB in the same time frame.  Isn't that sad considering it is treatable?

My point was mainly that squeaky wheels (ie graphic pictures of teen jihadists, Ebola patients, starving children etc) get the grease.

However if the Ebola scare leads to a cure for viruses in general, that would be a pretty big thing.Americans own 3x more guns per capita than Canadians (90/100 vs 30/100)this is not IndiaI swear I try, but I can't follow about 70% of what you post Lehan"I guess at some stage in our evolution women won't need men."

Can't wait!!obviously the author knows more about the case than the magistrates and jury.  By definition "culpable homicide" is not the same as "a brutal act of violence" at least not in the sense the author means it.

Justice isn't about balancing some imaginary tally sheet, it is about due process, facts and rule of law.  That appears to have been done here and if not appeals can be made.

I wonder if the victim had been some bloke in a bar would the author have written this article at all?please explain how "reasonable doubt" means "any doubt whatsoever".Hi Blzbob, why would it make the slightest difference to me if it were reversed?

And I have no idea what "harder justice" is.  Makes me think you confuse justice with retribution just like the author confuses it with punishment or payment." it depends if the victim was wealthy and or the perpetrator is wealthy"

I don't think that has anything to do with why Ms Young wrote the article.  I maintain if Pistorius had shot his gay lover instead, Ms Young wouldn't have bothered.  

And all I mean by that is she has a barrow to push and she's pushing it here.  That's fine, it's free speech, but forgive me if I take some salt with it." It just plain wasn't right to shoot first and worry about the consequences later"

That's why he was convicted of culpable homicide."Murderers almost always do"

I don't think the stats will back you up on that."he's wilfully blindly standing by while mediaeval barbarians tear down liberal democracy"

You mean while we do it for them.if we were all confined to cells 24/7 there would be no DV or any other sort of crime, so why don't we do that again?thanks Frangi.  I wrote something similar, but with less eloquence, which wasn't posted."And the reason Canadians once [still] wore the Canadian flag on their bags was to differentiate them from Americans because of the similar accent "

There's more to it than that hairy.  Canadians have the sort of reputation around the world which makes it advantageous to identify as one if you can.

"I also can't see any great difference between the response here and in Canada"

Canada is not proposing 1/10th of the measures already in place here.  They couldn't anyway as many would breach the Charter of Rights.  And most Canadians are fine with that."But then he galvanises 10,000 other 17 year olds into joining him."

You really think that's very likely?"Abbott was actually right when he said 'they' are against 'us' for what we stand for"

And the response seems to be to methodically dismantle "what we stand for".i agree except in some companies (like mine) with a small staff it's often necessary to check somebody else's email if they are away or something.  If that's a requirement it should be stated up front though just for clarity sake.  

But it's simple enough to run two emails.  I send personal stuff via my gmail account, work stuff from the work account.  It's  practical.mulling this over, I keep coming back to "reasonable expectation" - is that a thing?  If not wouldn't it at least be reasonable for everyone to know the deal up front?"the balance that must be struck between... the right of human autonomy... versus the right of expression"

Firstly I don't see how "freedom of expression" has so easily morphed into "public interest" that they become seemingly interchangeable.  

But assuming it truly is a balance between rights, the second right (to expression) depends on the first right (autonomy) being breached. It shouldn't matter if you weigh the second heavier than the first.  I can't justify peeking through your windows just because I happened to discover your meth lab.  

If we go that way then any behaviour will be acceptable as long as it could plausibly, eventually, be in the public interest (look in enough windows and your bound to find a meth lab).  This would in effect negate the first right by making it meaningless.Hi GreyBags, assuming your naughty email in no way did damage to your company, what would be the grounds for the "talking to"? 

For example, if I wrote such an email to my brother overseas it would have no effect on my company.Gosh yank that sounds rather libertarian. Perhaps we disagree on the finer details of what "hurts" people, but happy to agree with you in the main.David if Zathras likely already knows somebody and it hasn't affected their life, how would knowing about it change anything?I wonder if we find sex crimes particularly horrendous because they are serious assaults with (almost always) no other motive than self gratification.  To me that seems to be the difference, the very selfishness of it.  Gluttony in its basest guise.Gillard's commented about "men in blue ties" (not specifically Abbott) because... they wore blue ties.  So they continue to dress as before but now it has sexist overtones because Gillard mentioned it?  

Before we go banning light waves of a sexist frequency I'll remind you blue is a primary colour.  We need it or TV will look funny.it was originally a recurring skit on Saturday Night Live with Dana Carvey and Kevin Neiland spoofing Arnold from his "Pumping Iron" days.  Arnold appeared on the show a few times and was written into the skit.  He later tried to bank on it while he was Governor of California.  Considering he's widely known for his catch-phrases ("I'll be back"), from movies he made in California, it's not surprising.Not all girls are girlie, they themselves accept the distinction.  A girl who doesn't like to get dirty, or play rough, likes pretty things etc is a "girlie-girl", according to my daughter.merely insulting someone is not bullying.Good grief Labor goes on like a little sister in the back seat of the car  "Muuuum!  He keeps making faces at meeeeee!"  And every time Mum wants to talk to Abbott about his grades and what he's been spending so much time on out in the shed, he gives little sis a poke and she sets off wailing again until Mum just wants to trade them in for better children.  You know, more Independant.stop trying to cram more people into the cities and prices will stabilise.  I don't know why you'd want to live in a tiny 1 bed flat when you could get a proper house for less in a regional centre.

I think you can even get a latte out here these days.Probably not much work for unskilled youth but a lot of people retire to this area so there's been steady construction work for about 15 years now. Also service jobs.

Not for everyone of course, but it's an option.  If you were planning to apprentice as an electrician in Sydney you might be wiser to secure an apprenticeship out here instead, where costs are less, for example.Up here on the Mid North Coast you can get a 3 bed brick house for $180K.As I said in a post further above, my particular area is fuelled by retirees.  They all need houses and shopping centres and doctors and golf clubs.  Also we get a lot of holiday traffic.  

That said, the company I work for doesn't even compete in this market.  We build commercial joinery and ship and install nation wide.  It doesn't really matter where we're based so why pay the high overheads of the city?" free market bastion of the United States went crawling to the US government when they needed to be bailed out."

Except it was not (is not) a free market.  The US government manipulated the market by offering loan guarantees on dodgy mortgages via Fanny and Freddy.  So the US government was legally bound to cover those bad loans one way or another.I bought a computer on a (non-bank) no interest/ no payments deal.  I was able to claim the purchase as a tax deduction and then used my tax rebate to pay off the loan long before it was due.  So I literally paid no interest.where does government get the money?"this is an inevitable by-product of the libertarian model we have adopted. "

We have not adopted a libertarian model.  Libertarians are opposed to any government help to private companies.  Removing the power of government to grant deals and favours, and thereby reduce corruption and cronyism, is a mainstay of libertarian ideology.As Luke says, we do not have a libertarian system.  Nobody does.  The "flaw" you speak of is inherent to the system we do have, which is a weird mix of socialism and crony-capitalism, both of which are happy to throw public money at private business, though for different reasons.  Sadly the results are the same."regulation" is just a product for government to sell."Those responsible for the GFC were never punished"

You mean the US Federal Reserve and its arms Freddy and Fannie?however we have quite strict laws which remove all information from cigarette packaging (nicotine content, tar, CO etc)then, lilly, it makes sense to remove what government has to sell.I'd hope people with several years notice aren't waiting until they are actually unemployed to consider what to do about their debts,never mind the pitchforks, wait till they get hold of all the new surveillance toys Abbott will be leaving them.Precision has gone out of fashion.  And "literally" literally no longer means "literally" while poor "figuratively" is left to wonder what it did wrong.How convenient.  This is a great example of the sort of thing Labor might find the sweeping survelience powers Abbot will be leaving them useful for.  This is why Labor hasn't said a peep in opposition.  They're waitng their turn.how about that.  I always assumed it had something to do with barges which were towed down canals.  You know, to tow the line would be to not only get to work but to pull in the same direction as everyone else.

How does it work with "toe"?Actually Mitor, for the drum, I've noticed it's almost a concensus for once.  The closest I've seen to support for these laws has been of the "I got nothing to hide, so I don't care" variety which is just laziness, not conviction.

My faith is a little restored in the people of this land.  Nice way to start the weekend."any problems with the rights of citizens will be effectively dealt with"

Yup, they're dealing with them right now.  Get rid of the rights, no more problems.Hell I knew more about these laws just from listening to the news in the car on the way to work.

And of course Labor is on side, they're just rubbing their hands until it's their turn to play with the new toys.Population stabilises as poverty declines and social/ political stability increases.  Give people a safe place and freedom to go about their business and all kinds of good comes from it.  

I believe the advent of the internet and mobile phones have helped immensely as it's now much harder to fool many of the people for long.  IMO these isis hooligans did themselves more damage posting grisly videos than anything else.  It may attract the odd zealot to their cause, but they have almost zero fan base in the populous ('cause they keep killing them) or indeed the Muslim world.

I believe your recycling and alternative energy quests are well underway too.  80% of steel and aluminium is already recycled, oil stocks are down as investors shift to newer technologies.  I'm not anti-oil, just saying the market is seeing new opportunities which to me is more reassuring than any number of government policies.Hi Jerry. Sure population is an issue.  So we work on stability and freedom to allow people to raise themselves out of poverty.  Rather than either, as you say, think 
"she'll be right" or worse just sit and moan about it.Is not the outlook just as peaceful and productive for the "unintelligent" as well?

" they are the ones I hope are looked after by a generally uncaring elite."  Why pass the buck to some fictional group of "elites"?In the period since this latest ebola outbreak 300,000 people have died from malaria and 600,000 rom TB.  Try to keep some perspective."absolute power corrupts absolutely"

Rich people may have power, but only a government can have absolute power.  Only a government can use legalised force, backed up by a military if necessary.  Be careful how much power you hand them.Hi Jerry.  I disagree.  Power, over time, can corrupt the most well meaning of us.  Many won't even realise it has happened to them.  Well meaning people were responsible for the stolen generation for example.If all the "other" species had equal right

So how to resolve the lion's right to eat against the gazelle's right to not be eaten?"especially in metropolitan areas"

That's the market telling you there are too many people in one place.  Move out to the provinces like me!  I earn about 20K less than I would in Sydney but I bought a 4 bed house on 1 acre in the country (can't see a single neighbour) which is worth about 310K in the current market.

At the moment most of every state's tax revenue is spent trying to cram more people into capital cities, billions on roads and tunnels and airports and the like while people call for rent control and even more housing to be released - leading to more roads and tunnels...  While out here we get nothing.

It would be a win-win for everybody.Also we tend to only remember the good things. Some awfully nasty things happened in the 70's too.  Why, they even had terrorists back then.

As for moral values, in the 70's you went to jail for gay sex, they took babies away from unwed mothers, and thousands of kids were molested in various institutions.  Keep your morals.Thanks Tim, what a nice change for The Drum, and something I and a few others have been saying for a while now.  I wish more people would get excited about the future so it would get here faster.Fair enough, but you are wrong.  

I'm no Pollyanna, I am a pragmatist.  The evidence is clear, life improves over time and the rate of change is exponential, roughly parallel to the rate of technological change.  

That change has happened most in stable, free, capitalist nations.  But even in the most repressive nations in history this change still occurs, even though heavily retarded.  People in Stalinist Russia were still better off than the people before them.  You get setbacks like North Korea, where people are currently worse off, but that cannot last.

And technically all of time exists, including the future.sorry, how does being a comedy automatically negate the accuracy of the content?

But you're right about happiness.  Money doesn't buy happiness but it can buy options.  Options increase your likelyhood of finding happiness.  But you have to know what you're looking for first.Love that show, excellent songs they doit is a show which teaches history in an entertaining way.We still have to work but the work is easier.  I'd rather operate an air conditioned excavator than dig 5 miles of ditch by hand.  95% of people are employed and we have the highest standard of living in history.

Not sure about your idea that productivity is "absorbed as profit".  In fact it results in lower prices and more choice for consumers, unless there is a monopoly.  Not just choice of products but choice of options in life, work here or work there, live here or live there, travel or go to uni etc.  Which ultimately leads to increased happiness, or at least it can.technology frees up people to do other things.  So yes, instead of less hours each task now requires less people which means those people can do other tasks previously not possible.  Otherwise we'd all be subsistence farm labourers living in mud huts because nobody would have time to do anything else.

The introduction of technology and the improvement of lives associated with it is not a new phenomenon. The Egyptians could not have built extravagant pyramids if technology (irrigation, the plough) hadn't freed up labour while producing just as much or more food.  

I have explained already the "larger margin" has nothing to do with it.  Margins are dictated by supply/ demand and competition.  If your competition reduces prices while you hang on to the profits then you will lose sales.

As you say "it's a reality".  Look around you, prices have fallen across the board while choice and quality has improved.  The trend is long term and will continue.

And finally it's entirely possible to live a happy life working only 3-4 days per week if you want to.  It's all down to your choices.
50 years is nothing"Too many are not"

Wrong.  All people are better off, everywhere. Some more than others but so what?  Better is better and it's not over yet.people stop breeding when kids stop dying young, when birth control is available, and when old people are not dependant on their children for care.I agree yank, but I hope you'll say the same thing next time Labor tries it.Funny thing is the left used to be more about freedom and it was the right who wanted to impose morals.  Bah to the lot of them."is difficult to prove conclusively instances of terrorists threats when ongoing surveillance is preventing such occurrences"

Surely that would make it easier to prove.  Surveillance doesn't prevent anything, action based on surveillance does.  Therefore anything which has been prevented is now past tense and we would know about it.  The plastic sword raid for example.Coogara, assuming you are right, why then the resistance to a sunset clause?  Surely something this contentious should be reviewed at some point to see how it's going.  Also how are these laws not a duplication of existing laws?  Lastly, how do we guard against mission creep, which I believe is just too tempting to leave out on the table."if you are not involved it does not involve you"

So, it's private in other words?seems like semantics to me

"It's something others should respect."  exactly, that especially includes government.Victoria recently announced it would delete the criminal records of men convicted of the crime of buggery prior to 1980.  Does that count as interference in their petty lives?  I mean, they got around to fixing it 35 years later so no harm done right?

Think of how many more they could have nabbed if they'd had today's surveillance capability.I have to admit for many years I too was under the assumption government was there to run every little thing, and like most I only argued about which things and how.  I was quite a leftist at one time.

When I finally figured out the problem was government itself it seemed so obvious.  And the more I look into it the more sound the arguments appear.  It's like an optical illusion, once you see it you always see it.  Problem is most people don't even know to look, and the rest just refuse to."everybody had something to hide eventually"

I'd wager that's been the case in 99% of civilisations throughout history.  The USA was set up specifically to deal with this, the founders did their level best to write a constitution that would prevent things like this.  And still it happens even there.what?  There are dozens of advocates for the poor!" Lets face it, the size of the pie hasn't changed, just the proportions that are dished out."

Completely false.  And who does the "dishing out" anyway?Damn right PTL.  I started off poor, never had any help and never waited around for Gov to "fix it".  Never expected it.  If that guy can make it, then so can I.

People think equality means removing every obstacle for them.While I agree simpler is always better and I agree that teaching the fundamentals should have priority, I do not agree that we need 

"more emphasis on morals, values and spirituality".  That stuff should be taught by the parents and the community.  Schools should give students the critical thinking skills to work out their own views on such things, but those views should not be given to them, at least not by schools.

Phonics.  Are they really calling phonics "back to basics"? Phonics, IMO, is half the problem.  It's why teachers themselves do so poorly with English.  What good is teaching to "spell as it sounds" when most words in English (including 'phonics') are not spelled as they sound, and many are not pronounced as they are spelt?

I suspect that's why grown, educated adults I deal with spell "drawer" as "draw" and "super" as "supa"."Then we might have a better world."  Not that there isn't always room for tweaking, but can you point to any place and time in history when women (or anyone, really) had it better?I'm afraid I don't really understand any of that well enough to respond.

I certainly get your vibe, though, and to me it seems overly cynical.  I don't mean to be dismissive, I just mean by all indicators humans, including women ones, are better off and the trend continues.  It's good news.There is little problem with sexism in this country.  And from what I can see, most gender based bashing comes from women anyway.  

Just last week Germaine Greer going on about Catherine Middleton's appearance and family choices, for example.  

Also last week a report about a spike in labiaplasty requests from young women blamed it on "porn" which is of course short hand for "men".  In 46 years I have never heard a man express a preference for the appearance of a vagina one way or another and, in fact, porn contains all shapes and sizes.  If anything, porn should reassure women that there are all kinds and there is no "normal".

I'm forced to conclude most pressure put on women is generated by other women.  It may be real enough, but it's not sexism.If you mean poor thinking skills then I'd say it's almost universal and not gender specific."It is there for one purpose only - to legitimise the actions of the corporations."

And the special interest groups, as you said.  They are all about selling influence, and they all do it.  They don't care to who as long as there are votes or contributions in it for them.  A politician will never make a politically damaging move no matter how prudent or appropriate.  Hence the backdown on 18c for example.I for one am happy to slam anyone, left, right or greens, if they want to reduce freedoms."Democracy is never intended to crush the minority for the pleasure of the majority."

Good line.  I like that."Government for the People, by the People... Wonder what happened to that."

Was that ever the case in Australia?There were terrorists during the cold war, and Muslims too, I assume.  But governments were getting good fear traction from the communists and there didn't seem to be any political capital in terrorism.

But the cold war ended and so they looked around and thought "hey if we repackage terrorists not as assorted crazy radical minorities but as an organised yet intangible world-wide threat against democracy, sausage sizzles and beach cricket, we might just have something."  In other words, the role the communists used to have.

And here we are.  Scared of lady's scarves.A private establishment does not dictate how you dress, they dictate what they will allow on their premises.  Just as the ABC cannot restrict my speech yet they are free to decide not to publish it.I agree Michael, but I think the author has a point in that Abbot's (correct) comment about it not being the government's place, right after he basically said he agrees, might appear to be saying "carry on, I won't stop you".  

I don't think he's particularly anti-Muslim but is aware that this sort of divisiveness is good for him politically.The man is far too pragmatic to let his personal beliefs interfere with his political aims.  Building power comes first with him.  To be clear, that is not a compliment.Everybody is entitled to personal views and there will always be somebody who doesn't agree with them.  I don't prefer they lie, no.  But their personal views should be irrelevant, so I shouldn't need to know them, or on knowing them, need to agree with them.  I care what is actually done, not what is thought privately."Why is it that..."

I dunno, maybe because we have this crazy idea that accommodating the individual needs of members of our society is something to shoot for whenever practical.I am uncomfortable with the term "elite" but I take your point.I'm perfectly happy with "expert".  I understand elite in the way you mean it but it's become a loaded term and often used here in its classist form.  Somehow a gathering of elites seems more ominous than a gathering of experts.It's about a yard and half of clothIt is not a requirement in our free society to either wear or *not wear* particular garments.  To legislate either way is to remove freedom, not add to it."Better they pay tax for smoking than you and I pay more because we work hard."

What's all this "they" vs "you and I" crap?  

I don't drink.  How about we double the tax on that?  Look at all my tax money going to clean up the mess alcohol makes in society.  Why should I have to pay blah blah blah.

But I'm not so arrogant as to presume to tell people what to do with themselves.  And I'd certainly never suggest shifting my own tax share onto somebody else just because I could.I'm not against smokers paying their fair share.  But there are many products which, when used as intended, can kill you.perhaps the "theft" comes in when the tax collected is not used for the purpose it was intended.

I like your "pretty colours and fancy designs" reasoning too.  Man, nothing like seeing Lucinda Sans on a blue background to make me want to light up.I won't speculate further on what the author meant specifically by "theft", I only meant to show there is a at least one rational possibility.  There is an argument that anything which is taken through threat of force is "theft" even if it is given willingly, as the choice does not exist.  But I have no idea what the author meant.

"the only reason tobacco companies use them, and are fighting like hell to keep doing so, is because they work, overall"

If by "work" you mean prevent the store clerk telling one from another then I agree.  But I'll reverse your question.  If it works why is government actively harming a legitimate business selling a legal product?  That doesn't seem like equal treatment under the law.what a stupid, petty article.  The first half anyway, I didn't bother with the rest.Smoking rates have continually decreased for 40 years.  They will continue to decrease without further vilification of either smokers or the manufacturers.  If you removed the tax completely rates would still drop.  The war is won, it's bad form to keep shooting."Why should the states not have the same health and education policies"

Why not, what's wrong with choice?  Let states compete for tax revenue.  With central planning you're stuck with it, good, bad or middling but if you leave it to the states maybe eventually one will get it right and the others will either follow or lose out as people move.  Government could use the incentive.a nation cannot "win" a war where the objective is not complete conquest"

I was going to agree but then I started thinking it depends.

Some argue WWII was just a continuation of WWI.  Even though we conquered Germany militarily in WWI, we did not "win" that war because they did not agree to play nice.  They licked their wounds and came back.  

After the end of WWII Germany made some radical changes, such as a new constitution, to show they are no longer a threat.  So if WWII was not "won" at least it was "settled" which is maybe the best you can hope for.

These rascals here though, they don't have a state to defend.  They have nothing to lose and all the time in the world.  Seems you can either kill all of them or somehow make them uncool with the kids.  That is, starve them of any popular support.

Neither option seems quick or simple but the last thing we should be doing is legitimising them with sweeping laws in their a nation cannot "win" a war where the objective is not complete conquest"

I was going to agree but then I started thinking it depends.

Some argue WWII was just a continuation of WWI.  Even though we conquered Germany militarily in WWI, we did not "win" that war because they did not agree to play nice.  They licked their wounds and came back.  

After the end of WWII Germany made some radical changes, such as a new constitution, to show they are no longer a threat.  So if WWII was not "won" at least it was "settled" which is maybe the best you can hope for.

These rascals here though, they don't have a state to defend.  They have nothing to lose and all the time in the world.  Seems you can either kill all of them or somehow make them uncool with the kids.  That is, starve them of any popular support.

Neither option seems quick or simple but the last thing we should be doing is legitimising them with sweeping laws in their honour.sadly yank, it seems Labor is still letting Abbot call the tune as they scurry to act like they know the steps to a made up dance.  They would have done better in office, and now, to ignore Abbott and come up with some coherent (costed) plan of their own, in stead of just reacting, so we might have some sort of real choice.

Then again I'm heartened by the increased cynicism I'm seeing from some of the rusted-ons here.  Maybe we're leaning libertarian (via independents and an actual libertarian) by default.  I can live with that.The budget *was* their big bad wolf when they were in opposition, and they promised to save us from it.  But then the people found out the wolf was just a fox and that saving us from it required the use of leg-hold traps.

They farted around with trying to get us worried about cyber bullies (as Labor had done) and a few other things but imagine their joy when a real honest-to-goodness wolf came along.

If it hadn't been for IS, we'd be getting these same laws to save us from ebola.
