I doubt Mr Putin will allow himself to be handed over for trial.Virgil,

The population of Ukraine doesn't want their country to be annexed by anyone.

They populution of Ukraine wants to retain their territorial integrity, independence and stay as one united nation.

All they ask for is for their borders to be respected, and to have the right to live in a free and democratic society with the right to choose who they trade and do business with.More fantasy on your part Kenj.

Polls have been continously taken all over Ukriane and in the eastern and south eastern regions and every single one showed that only a small minority of people in south eastern Ukraine wanted to become separate to Ukraine (and an even smaller portion wanted to join Russia).

The is no "civil war" there, it only an invasion by the Russian Federation.The order to supply the "BUK" anti aircraft missile system to Russian Federation forces in Ukraine and deploy it in Ukraine to assist the Russian Federation forces that are fighting the Ukrainian armed forces, border guards and national guard clearly came from the top.

The order to invade Ukraine clearly came from the top.

Mr Putin is responsible.Rudski,

The Ukrainian government have provided clear evidence that the Russian Federation transported the "BUK" launcher system into Ukriane, deployed it in Ukraine in support of the Russian Federation forces fighting the Ukrainians in Ukriane, and that this "BUK" launcher fired the missile that shot down the aircraft, and they have even provided evidence of the exact same "BUK" being withdrawn from Ukraine back into the Russian Federation (less one missile).

The local Ukrianian population have provided the same level of evidence, along with eyewitness statements detailing exactly where the "BUK" launcher was deployed, footage of the missile launch and footage of the missile shooting down the aircraft and subsequent debris site.

The Russian Federation military intelligence agent Igor Girkin who is the supreme commander of the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine openly claimed responsibility of the shooting down of the aircraft (before he realised it was a civilian aircraft), he even provided video footage as proof. He and his subordinates and his handler in moscow have also been caught by signal intercepts discussing how they shot down the plan and exactly which unit was responsible.

The USA has even gone so far as to expose their defense capabilities by providing evidence of the exact launch site, and the missile strike on the aircraft which was picked up by their spy/defense satellites that are tasked with monitoring all missile launches (in case of nuclear attack).Kenj,

You are once again spouting utter nonsense and fantasy.

Mr Putin and his supporters are as corrupt as every other prior Russian leader. He is very stalin like, particular in his dictatorial behaviour, corrupted elections, jailing of the political opposition (or exile), killing of those that disagree with him (journalists), to such a point that now the law is utter nonsense, ie. it is legal to hold a protest, but only as long as the protest involves only one person, any non approved peaceful protest involving two or more people sees the people jailed without charge indefinitely.

As for your utterly ridiculous claims that the current political leadership is some nazi all I can say is shame on you Kenj. The population of Ukraine overwhelmingly voted for a moderate businessman to lead their nation (the right wing nationalist leader in comparision got around 1% of the vote). Stop spouting utter nonsense and fantasy (though I do note this is the exactly propaganda spouted by the Russian state controlled media).

The victims of MH17 and all those killed and injured in Ukraine by Russia's invasion deserve more respect Kenj.Frank,

Remember that while the Austro/Hungrians mobilised a small portion of their armed forces in response to the serbian issue the Czar in response mobilised his entire armed forces in preparation for an attack/war on the Austro/Hungarians.

Remember that without the Molotov?Ribbentrop Pact that provided Stalin with various new lands to satisfy is expansionistic policies (subsequent to his invasion of Romania and Finland) WW2 would never have happened. Stalin enabled Hitlers war (though it doesn't excuse Hitler either) for his own agenda.

You suggest that you "can't see an independent Ukraine choosing the remain neutral, and refusing to align with Europe and the West". Before the Russian Federation invasion of Ukraine (Crimea, Donetsk, Luhansk regions) you would have been wrong as Ukraine was protected by both the West and Russia by a treaty signed by all parties in exchange for giving up their nuclear weapons. Now that Russia has invaded and breached their treaty you can't blame Ukrainians for seeking protection from the west in the future. So to suggest (as you do further on) that some sort of non agression pact with Russia and some sort of treaty that Ukraine will never join NATO will prevent future Russian invasions of Ukraine (which occur regularly) is absurd. The Russians already had that and they just breached it.

The entire concept of a "Buffer Zone" for Russia has always been Russia's excuse for invading its neigbours, nothing more or less.

Your last statement deserves a response, you say "But Putin really needs to cut those nationalist nasties loose, and the Ukrainians need to rein in their brand of right wing nationalist crazies ... because right now those two groups are controlling the agenda, and neither of them comes within a bulls". Please note that the Putin is the one sending armed forces into Ukraine, it isn't some sort of separate organisation, it is Russian forces invading Ukraine. As for the "right wing nationalist crazies" you might like to know that the right wing got about 1% in the last presidential election (much less than the right wing nationalists get in Russia, Germany, France, UK etc). The whole idea that ukraine is run by some crazed right wing nazi junta is pure Putin propaganda based on outright lies, shame on your for promoting such lies. 

The Ukrainians overwhelmingly voted for a moderate who is a successful businessman (chocolate maker) who wants to do what the Ukrainians want, ie. be able to trade with the EU. That is it.Hi HMS GrandMaster V.

You make an excellent point, the "BUK" system captured by the "separatists" (Russian Federation forces) was already rended inoperative by the Ukrainians prior to its capture. So it was not the one used.

The "BUK" anti aircraft missile that was used to shot down MH17 was documented crossing from Russia into Ukraine, travelling across south eastern Ukraine, and being deployed not too far from the debris site of MH17. It was deployed near an area of heavy fighting between the Russian forces and the Ukrainians. 

There is footage of the "BUK" launcher firing a missile, and the subsequent destruction of MH17, along with eyewitness statements by the locals who witnessed this (and of course USA spy/defense satellite systems have documented the missile launch and destruction of MH17).

As you rightly point out you need a team of highly trained specialists to operate a "BUK" laucher, which is why Russian Federation forces operated it.

As you rightly point out it is normally part of a system which includes radar vehicles and a control vehicle. What you failed to mention is that these support systems (to the launcher vehicles) don't need to be nearby and can be based large distances away, which is part of the point of these systems (ie. in the border regions of Russia that was only 10-15km away from where the "BUK" launcher was deployed (near Snizhne).

There is footage of the Russians withdrawing the "BUK" launcher (less one missile) along with another "BUK" launcher back into Russia the day after MH17 was shot down (an attempt to hide the evidence).

Your conspiracy theories have already been discounted.Arthur1,

The previous president fled the country after ordering the killing of around 100 protestors in Kiev (they were mad he sucummed to Russian pressure to cancel a proposed trade agreement with Europe).

However the members of parliament (including his own party members) retained power and undertook a resuffle of cabinet to share power with all the main parties equally.

Subsequent democratic presidential elections were held. A moderate businessman who makes chocolates was overwhelming elected as the new president under a platform of trading with the EU (note that the Russians attempted plant a virus in the election computers to show the right wing nationalists group leader as the winner with 37% of the vote, though luckily the people monitoring the system prevented it from doing its job mere hours before the results were released, though it didn't stop one of the Russian state run TV channels from strangely release that exact same result).

Airlines routinely fly over war zones (it is hard not too), what the do do is to take into account where weapons capable of reaching cruising altitude are available to the participants and make decisions based on those facts, ie. until very recently the Russians had not deployed the "BUK" system into Ukraine and had only SA-10's and MANPAD's which can't reach aircraft at 33,000 feet.

Perhaps the lesson here is one we already learned many decades ago, ... don't try to appease someone who is going around invading other countries. 

Mr Putin has already invaded Georgia, Moldovia and now Ukraine. It is time he stopped.Khrushchev,

Perhaps this is not the time to be generating fantasy conspiracy theories.Matthew Dal Santo,

I realise you have recently written many very pro Russian articles recently suggesting things along the bizzare line that the west owes a debt of gratitude for the Czar's and Stalin's expansionistic policies in the 20th century.

However your attempt to portray Mr Putin's clear invasion of Ukraine this century as some sort of local Ukrainian "rebellion" is utterly repugnant.

Mr Putin has used Russian Federation forces to invade Ukraine and has annexed Crimea. Mr Putin has openly admitted to doing so after months of denial.

Mr Putin has used Russian Federation forces to invade South Eastern Ukraine and continues to deploy large quantities of fighters, intelligence agents, and heavy weapons into Ukraine every single day. 

Each night, fighters, heavy tanks, self propelled guns, APC's, anti aircraft systems, IFV's, artillery and rocket launchers etc travel accross the border from Russian Federation military bases and deployment sites into South Eastern Ukraine to bolster the forces that have already taken over parts of the Donestsk and Luhansk regions.

Every day sees the Russian Federation directly firing from the territory of the Russian Federation onto Ukrainian forces on Ukrainian territory, be it mortar and artillery strikes or the use of missiles from anti aircraft systems and air forces.

This is routinely documented by the Ukrainian government agencies tasked with the protection of Ukraine and its borders, it is routiniely documented by local residents who enjoy filming the columns of vehicles and heavy weapons and posted the footage online for all to see, this is also filmed by Russian Federation border guards and citizens, NATO has also confirmed this and the USA has applied further sanctions on Russia, the day before the shooting down of flight MH17, because of the continued invasion of Ukraine.

Cynically the Russian Federation has withdrawn their "BUK" anti aircraft launcher systems from Ukraine back into Russia the day after they shot down flight MH17 using these exact weapons (again documented footage of the withdrawl is available, along with the missing missile) in an attempt to hide/destroy the evidence of their responsibility.

This is not a rebellion, this is an invasion by Mr Putin, .... pure and simple.

Matthew, the people of Ukraine voted overwhelmingly for the current president of Ukraine because they want to live in a free, democratic nations with a properous future. They were sick of being victims of utterly corrupt leaders who were mere puppets of the Kremlin.You asks some interesting questions.

Do note however that the Luhansk and Donetsk regions (the areas controlled by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine) are predominately based on coal mines and closed unproductive factories.

The Ukrainian space industries are based in Dnipropetrovsk, Kiev and Krarkiv. The key military industries are primarily based in or near the Kharkiv &amp; Dnipropetrovsk regions. Not in Luhansk or Donetsk.

However most importantly a number of years ago the Russian Federation began a program of building military and space industries capable of building all the parts and systems currently exported by Ukraine to Russia.

As such there really isn't any valid reason to invade Ukraine to control their space and arms industries.Ahh aGuy,

Try this:

- 300 flights a day were using that exact same flight path without a problem.
- not one was shot down.
- until Russia transfered and deployed a "BUK" system(s) to Russian forces operating in Ukraine.Because only airspace below 26,000 feet was closed to civilian air traffic because until very recently the Russians operating in Ukraine only had MANPAD's and Strela-10 anti aircraft missile systems which have a max altitude of 11,500 feet.

Where as the specific "BUK" anti aircraft missile system seen to have fired the missile (controlled by Russian forces in Ukraine) has a maximum engagement altitude of 138,000 feet. This system only recently deployed in Ukraine by the Russians.Truth Seeker,

Before you go down the path of conspiracy theories you should consider what the Russian Military Intelligence Officer in command of the Russian forces in Ukraine had to say, he said:

"In the vicinity of Torez, we just downed a plane, an AN-26. It is lying somewhere in the Progress Mine. We have issued warnings not to fly in our airspace. We have video confirming. The bird fell on a waste heap. Residential areas were not hit. Civilians were not injured". He also posted two videos of the smoke and crash scene.

It was only later that he found out that his forces had in fact shot down a civilian airliner.Hi Truth Seeker,

You ask "Other questions could also be was the missile software interfered with?" the answer is No.

If you would like to learn more you can view footage of the "BUK" anti aircraft missile system that fired the missile(s), footage of the smoke trail from the missiles fired, and resulting explosions and crash, and eye witness statements from the locals who saw the whole thing unfold.

However the admission of guilt by the commander of the Russian forces operating in Ukraine and confirmation by his subordinates is sufficient in reality.AJC,

You can view the statements made by the Russian commander of the Russian forces operating in Ukraine.

That is a key problem of the internet, once you put someone online is it very hard to get rid of even for a member of the Russian GRU.DZ3

you say "While never once addressing the underlying causes of the conflict."

I would disagree with you there. Many geopolitical scientists and commentators have pointed out that this conflict (Russias invasion of Ukraine) is again really just about Mr Putin retaining political control over the Russian Federation population just like the invasion and annexation of parts of Moldovia and Georgia.The Russian forces in Ukraine have already stated that they have recovered the black box and have sent it to Moscow.

After blocking initialy attempts, they are now allowing Ukrainian authorities access to the crash site.Indeed Kenj,

Yet there is an admission of guilt by the Russian Military Intelligence Agent who is the commander of the Russian forces operating in Ukriane (and admissions by his subordinates), there is even footage of the specific "BUK" used by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine, and of course the footage of the missile launch and destruction of the aircraft along with eyewitness statements from the locals that saw it all.James,

Evidence as requested:

1. Igor Girkin (the Russian Military Intelligence Agent in charge of Russian forces operating in Ukraine) stated:

""In the vicinity of Torez, we just downed a plane, an AN-26. It is lying somewhere in the Progress Mine. We have issued warnings not to fly in our airspace. We have video confirming. The bird fell on a waste heap. Residential areas were not hit. Civilians were not injured". He also posted two videos of the smoke and crash scene. He later found out his forces had shot down a civilian airliner.

2. Intercepted communications between Igor Girkin and his controller in Moscow where he again stated how his forces had shot down the civilian airliner, along with intercepted communications between Igor Girkins subordinates stating the same.

3. Eye witness accounts and footage of the "BUK" anti aircraft missile system in the local area, which was seen to fire missiles at the aircraft, and the resulting exposions and crash were witnessed and documented.Dee,

Not rumour.

Confirmed by the supreme commander of Russian forces operating in Ukraine. Confirmed by his subordinates. Confirmed by local eyewitness accounts of the "BUK" missile system being fired, the resulting denonations and crash of the wreckage. Feel free the watch the available video evidence of the above.

Please have a heart for the nearly 300 innocent people who have just perished.

ps. the no fly zone was up to 26,000 feet as the Russians operating in Ukraine only had missile systems capable of shooting down aircraft to 11,500 feet (the Strela-10) and they only recently got transfered the "BUK" systems very recently.Igor Girkin, the Russian in charge of the Russian forces in Ukraine, and his controller in the Kremlin are in damage control right now.

Igor Girkin took credit of the shooting down of the airliner, he stated "In the vicinity of Torez, we just downed a plane, an AN-26. It is lying somewhere in the Progress Mine. We have issued warnings not to fly in our airspace. We have video confirming. The bird fell on a waste heap. Residential areas were not hit. Civilians were not injured". He also posted two videos of the smoke and crash scene.

Later he found out it was a civilian airliner.

Intercepted communications between him and his controller in Moscow (along with other intercepted communications between his subordinates confirming they just shot down a civilian airliner) further confirm that Russian forces shot down the airliner.

Local residents have taken footage of the Russian "BUK" anti aircraft missile system in question (under control of the Russian forces) that is in the area and have described how it fired, and then the later explosions in the air once the missile(s) shot down the airliner, along with the falling and crash of the airliner.

Russian state controlled media are currently attempting to manufacture cover stories, without much success.

Mr Putin however has bluntly suggested that it is the fault of the Ukrainians for attempting to regain control of their country from Russian forces, that the Russian forces shot down the airliner.

The international community must now bring real pressure on the Russian Federation to withdraw from Ukraine.Hi OUB,

There are many places you can go online to see the details, perhaps the best one to start with is Kyiv Post who collates information from reputable news outlets from all different nations around the world (Associated Press, Reuters, Interfax, Moscow Times, NY Times, BBC etc), 

ps. they also don't show unnecessary graphic details like many other areas online dealing with this conflict.The loss of any human life is senseless and unnecessary.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine is simply about Mr Putin retaining power over the Russian Federation population.

The very small area the the Russian forces currently occupy in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions is insignificant to Russia.

This conflict is for Russian Federation domestic consumption in order to ensure continued control over the population in typical Russia (KGB/Soviet) style.

Unfortunately hundreds of innocents from all over the world and in Ukraine have lost their live to enable Mr Putins domestic political agenda.Claudis,

The airspace was already closed to all civilian air traffic below 26,000 feet.

They placed that high limitation in acknowledgement of the fact that the Russian forces in Ukraine possessed and were using Russian Strela-10 anti aircraft missile systems, Russian MANPAD's and that the Russian Airforce patroling the border with Ukraine were already targeting and shooting down Ukraine aircraft below this altitude.

Though civilian aircraft flying at 33,000 feet continued to fly over Ukraine and around 300 were using this airspace each day.

However now that the Russians have transfer more powerful "BUK" anti aircraft missile systems to Ukraine and have demonstrated their willingness to use them the East Ukrainian airspace is now being closed to all civilian air traffic.

ps. Cossacks are fighting on both sides of the conflict. A Cossack member of the Maidan Protest movement has set up a all Cossack battalion to fight as part of the Ukrainian "anti terrorist operation" under government control.Kenj, you suggest "Russia would most likely not supply the sophisticated weapon system to fighters in Ukraine even if it were backing them militarily, because it would be nearly impossible to prevent its use or abuse from being traced directly back to Moscow"

Umm Kenj,.... Russia isn't concerned about this which is why the Government of Ukraine just held an exhibition in Kiev showing various items of equipment, supplies, ammo, weapons, heavy equipment (tanks, grad rocket lauchers etc) that have come from Russian military units in Russian replete with instruction manuals, requistion forms, name of the supply officer responsible, unit number etc.

The fact is there is literally tonnes upon tonnes of sophisticated weapon systems that are directly traceable to the Russian Federation and specific formations within the Russian Federation Armed Forces.

Which is why the USA just applied much heavier sanctions of the Russian Federation yesterday.

Kind regards

ps. a personal favourite is how Russian Border Guards tweet pics of Russian Federation Tanks, APCs, etc crossing the border into Ukraine in convoys. Kind of funny to hear people like you then try to deny it all, or did you forget every phone comes with a video camera these days?Dee,

The "BUK" anti aircraft missile system used to shoot down the aircraft was observed being recently transfered from the Russian Federation to the Russian forces operating in Ukraine, specifically to the area south of Donetsk close to the Russian border where heavy combat is currently occuring, it was based near a checkpoint controlled by a group of Russian Cossack mercenaries so it could provide air defense over the area where the Russian forces are currently conducting their counter offensive in order to attempt to cut the supply lines to various mechanised and airborne brigades based along the southern border with Russia.

You can view footage of this specific "BUK" in the area being deployed, footage of the smoke from the missile launch and the subsequent destruction of the aircraft.

The admission of guilt by Igor Girkin and his subordinates (right down the the leader of the Cossack unit) is rather conclusive too.Hammerhard,

The Luhansk and Donetsk region is home to millions of innocent Ukrainians who are trapped by the invasion of the Russian forces. 

Very few have the resources to leave the region and head to safer locations in western Ukraine and the Russian Federation.

As such you can't just drop bombs etc on these regions as you will harm innocent people. 

This is the main reason why the Ukrainian government forces are having so much trouble removing the Russians from their country. They can't use overwhelming fire power and risk the lives of the fellow citizens who are effectively human shields for the Russian forces operating in eastern Ukraine.They have since tried to delete that tweet and the other one in which they say it is operational (but you can't delete stuff off the internet these days as someone always has a copy of it).

Plus it is there usual cover story to explain how dozens upon dozens of tanks, APC's, self propelled guns, anti aircraft weapons, howiters, anti tank guns, MANPADs, anti tank rockets, mortars, ammo, supplies that come over the border from Russia just happens to be in their hands.While stopping short of full sectorial sanctions yesterday the USA applied heavier sanctions and for the first time target key banks and petrochemical corporations of the Russian Federation.

As of yesterday the EU stated that they are currently determining what further sanctions to apply for continued Russian actions in Ukraine, with a view to having them ready by the end of the month.

Fully sectorial sanctions against the Russian Federation are withheld at the moment and are reserved for the case of an outright formal invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation.

He shooting down of the aircraft by the Russian forces in Ukraine could possibly be an accident judging from the comments of the Russian 'supreme commander' in Ukraine (Igor Girkin) where had claimed his forces had shot down an Ukrainian AN-26. Only later did it become apparent that his forces had shot down civilian airliner. Though it is hard to say if it was an accident or a calculated act of retribution for the sanctions or otherwise.

The airspace over Russian controlled eastern Ukraine is now closed to all civilian air traffic.The reason why the airspace was still open to civilian air traffic was because the had closed all air space below 26,000 feet.

They were aware that the Russian forces operating in Ukraine had MANPAD's and even Strela-10 (as seen outside Donetsk International Airport with the Vostok Battalion). The Strela-10 has a maximum engagement altitude of 11,500 feet which is well short of 26,000 feet.

However over the last few weeks the Russians transfered large quantities of heavy weapons (tanks, APC's, grad rocket launchers, self propelled guns, etc) to the Russian forces in Donetsk and Luhansk, and critically they transfered "BUK" anti aircraft missile systems with a maximum engagement altitude of 42km (138,000 feet). Perhaps they weren't fully aware of the recent tranfer of weaponry (though perhaps they should have been).

The "BUK" in question that fired the missile(s) is near an area of heavy combat where the Russian forces are staging a counter offensive to try to cut the supply lines to various mechanised and airborned brigades which are deployed to try to halt further transfers of arms from Russia into South Eastern Ukraine.I agree Possum.

You'd think they should have taken the risks associated with the known recent deployment of the "BUK" systems more seriously.

Though some groups in Europe and elsewhere STILL try to suggest there is no Russian Federation involvement or supply of advanced weaponry to Russian forces operating in Ukraine. Perhaps that is where the answer is.......Hi Kenj,

Sorry to hear you aren't informed. I'll try to help.

The "BUK" missile launcher was filmed by local residents travelling between Snizhne and Torez. It deployed near Snizhne. The footage of the missile launch captured by local residents is available online, so to are the results of the missile hit and subsequent crash site 5-10 NNW of Snizhne at Hrabove.

Snizhne is about 5-10 north of Marynivaka which is currently a focal point of the heavy fighting as reported by the Ukrainian government RNBO and confirmed by Russian news outlets.

Currently deployed in the south of Donetsk &amp; Luhansk by the Russian border is the 79th, 24th and 72nd brigades, with the Azov battalion being close to the focal point of the counter offensive. They are currently considered to be in the "southern pocket", but whether that pocket is fully closed is hard to tell. But a lot of air supply is going on.

"separatist" news outlets situation overviews of the "southern pocket" confirm this as well. 

ps. I don't drink so I can't share, sorry!Over 300 flights per day were using that flight path and airspace.

They had closed all airspace below 26,000 feet on the basis that the Russian forces were using Strela-10 (max altitude of 11,500 feet) missile systems. They thought aircraft at 33,000 feet would be safe from the Russian forces operating in Ukraine.

They didn't count on the Russians transfering to Ukraine and using "BUK" anti aircraft missile systems with a max altitute of 138,000 feet.Dove,

While your sentiments are in the right place please realise that the "supreme commander" of the Russian forces operating in Ukraine (Igor Girkin) has already taken credit for shooting down the aircraft. Though he thought it was an Ukrainian AN-26 and only later found out his forces had shot down a civilian airliner using their recently received "BUK" anti aircraft missile systems.Until recently the Russian forces operating in south eastern Ukraine were only equiped with the Strela-10 missile system which only had a maximum engagement altitude of 11,500 feet.

Clearly they hadn't been aware of, or considered, the effective range of the newly transfered (from Russia) and deployed "BUK" missile system which has a maximum engagement altitude of 138,000 feet.

Until then 300 flights a day were using that airspace.Orion,

Others are considering this as well. The "BUK" system requires a highly trained team of operators to operate who are unlikely to make such a basic and fundamental mistake.

It begs the question does this have anything to with the sanctions that were applied by the USA yesterday and the EU's declaration that they will apply further (and stronger) sanctions by the end of the month also likely targeting the banking and petrochemical sectors.

Mr Putins response of 'well it is the fault of the ukrainians for trying to get rid of the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine that the Russian Federation forces shot it down' beggers belief.Khrushchev, 

You rightly point out that "Such weapons are complex and requiring training. Seperatists likely dont have that training"

Which is why you find Russian Federation forces operating these and other such items of heavy equipment in Ukraine.

The admission by Igor Girkin (Russian Federation Military Intelligence Agent) and his subordinates (including the commander of a cossack unit in Southern Donetsk where the Russian supplied "BUK" was deployed and operated) is rather telling.I wouldn't like to speculate to be honest.

The timing after the latest USA sanctions just stinks.

How does a team of highly trained advanced missile system operators get something so fundamental as distinguishing a civilian aircraft flying at 33,000 on a known and regularly used flight path from a smaller, slower, lower flying military aircraft used by the Ukrainians (ie an AN-26) so wrong?Hi Mark J,

You suggest the airline was to blame yet it using a heavily used flight route (L980) that around 300 aircraft used each and every day that was stated as being safe by the International Civil Aviation Organistation. 

You suggest there is no evidence that a Russian Federation supplied "BUK" operated by the Russian Federation forces in Ukraine deployed at Snizhne shot down MH17.

However, the commander of the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine (Igor Girkin) took credit for shooting down the plane (before he realised it wasn't an AN-26 and was instead MH17), the Ukrainian government and local Ukrainians have documented the "BUK" being transported into Ukraine from Russia, passing through various cities and towns right down to its final deployment site just out of Snizhne (they also documented the launch and the resulting destruction of MH17 and the return of two "BUK" systems to Russia), the USA intelligence satillites that are designed to spot, locate and track missile launches have pin pointed the exact spot of the launch and the missiles trajectory and strike on MH17, signals intercepts between the Russian Federation commander in Ukraine and his handler in Moscow (and between his subordinates) also confirms they shot down MH17 using the "BUK" supplied by Russia, today Alexander Khodakovsky (the commander of the Vostok Battalion that is part of the Russian Federation controlled forces operating in Ukraine) stated that the 'separatist' forces had a Russian supplied "BUK" deployed at the the site of the missile launch that shot down MH17 and that the "BUK" was then returned to Russia to hide the evidence.

ps. Russians like all other people are fully entitled to immigrate to Australia, and already do so.Artful,

Sorry, but the people of Ukraine do not see the Russian Federation invasion of Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine as mere "meddling".

Around 300 members of the Ukrainian armed forces, national guard and border guards have been killed, well over a thousand have been wounded, hundreds of innocent Ukrainians have been killed and wounded in the conflict, huge damage has been done to the infrastructure of south eastern Ukraine by terrorist acts, tens of thousands of Ukrainians have been displaced by the invasion and subsequent fighting and have fled to safer parts of Ukraine (and Russia)... and now 300 innocents from all over the world have been killed by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine.

We aren't taking about political donations to a favoured political party, or opinion pieces in newspapers etc... that is meddling... we are talking about an armed invasion of a free nation by the Russian Federation, and the shooting down (accidentially or not) of a civilian airliner using advanced Russian supplied weaponry.

Peace will be achieved in Ukriane as soon as the Russian Federation forces are withdrawn from Ukraine (note that the unilaterial ceasefire by the government of Ukriane, and associate peace plan, resulted in the Russians transfering vast quanities of fighters and heavy weapons into Ukraine and continuous firing at Ukrainian positions resulting in around 100 killed Ukrainian service men and women over the 10 day period).

Mr Putin must withdraw his forces from Ukraine, it is that simple. And only he can give that order.Hi Rob,

That is pretty much what the new President of Ukriane has proposed to the Donetsk and Luhansk region, and for the whole nation generally.

He has suggested a devolution of centralised power to ensure each region has more political autonomy and the ability to elect their own regional political representative, along with many other aspects relating to regional culture and language.

What he however will not allow is for the russian invasion to create a puppet republic (as the did in Georgia and Moldovia) or annex Donetsk or Luhansk (like they did to Crimea).Hello Rob,

Not so. 

What the new president is offering is applicable to all the regions of the nation of Ukraine. The reason for the change has to do with the population being unhappy with poor regional representation. Which is the only gripe the Ukrainians in the east really have (after decades of neglect by prior national administrations and regional administrators).

At no point has any region of Ukraine expressed a desire to separate from Ukraine. Extensive polling has been done on this issue for months now and only a very tiny percentage of eastern Ukrainians have expressed a desire to have their region separate or to join Russia (a larger number, but still a minority have, expressed a desire for much more regional autonomy similar to that enjoyed by Crimea before it was invaded and annexed by Russia).

I would strongly recommend you take some time to distinguish between the actual desires of Ukrainians and the utter rubbish being turned out by the truck load by Russian state controlled media outlets.

I agree with you, the west should not invade Ukraine (which it hasn't). The west should merely trade with Ukraine and assist them with improving their legislation to help combat the rampant corruption within Ukraine (which it is).

Similarly Russia should not invade Ukraine (as it has). Russia should merely trade wtih Ukraine (as it still does). 

The first step to peace must be for Russia to withdraw their armed forces from Ukraine.V,

MH17 was at all times on course on flight route L980, at 33,000 feet, flying at 479 kts.

The L980 flight route was deemed safe by the ICAO.

This same flight route was being used by hundreds of flights each day.V,

I see you aren't familiar with route L980. Have a look at a map of the various flights that used L980 recently and you will quickly realise they are in a flight corridor (generally around 20km wide) not on a lineal path. This route carries dozens of planes an hour and flight MH17 was within L980.

Malaysia Airlines said it had received notification from Ukrainian air traffic control Uksatse that it had lost contact with flight MH17 at 1415 (GMT) at 30km from TAMAK waypoint (while on L980), TAMAK is the waypoint where the air routes L980 and L69 converge over the boundary between Dnipropetrovsk airspace in Ukraine and Rostov-on-Don airspace in Russia. The aircraft's flight route had been declared safe by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).

The president of the pilots organisation European Cockpit Association, pointed out that "The route flown by the lost Malaysian aircraft is the most common route for flights from Europe to South East Asia."

However clearly they had not expected Russia to deploy and use a BUK anti aircraft missile system in Ukraine.

Attempting to blame the ICAO for the decision on the part of Russia to covertly deploy and use a BUK anti aircraft missile system (in Ukraine) to shoot down a civilian airliner (intentionally or not) is rather poor form. Like you say "let us get real about this", Russian forces invading Ukraine shot down a civilian airliner using advanced Russian anti aircraft systems. 

It is that simple.

ps. Please note commercial flights regularly fly over war zones, and continue to do so. Unless they are aware (or informed) that the combatants have the type of advanced technology (like a BUK) that could target a civilian airliner.V,

Europe (NATO) and Russia are not about to go to war. To suggest such a thing is possible is just being silly, note that the concept of MAD still holds true.

What will continue to happen is that the USA and Europe will continue to slowly rachet up sanctions upon Russians and Russian entities the longer the Russian invasion of Ukraine continues. They also need to apply sanctions that don't damage the European economy too heavily, the EU are also in the process of determining how to get back their energy security by, over time, divesting from their dependence on Russian fossil fuels.

Note the full sectorial sanctions have been reserved for an offical declaration of war on Ukraine by Russia and an overt invasion (unlike the current semi covert invasion).

Please also note that Europe does have a good memory and they are well aware of what happens when you attempt to appease a tyrant who invades other countries.Hello V,

MH17 was in flight route L980 at all times, it remained at 33,000 feet, flying at 479 kts. This flight route was deemed safe by the ICAO because prior to the shooting down of flight MH17 the Russian forces operating in Ukraine were not offically known to have been supplied with operation "BUK" missile systems from Russia.

The ICAO was aware that the Russians has supplied a Strela-10 system which has been based in Donetsk and seen at times supporting Russian forces attacking Donetsk airport. However the Stela-10 missiles have a maximum intercept altitude of only 10,000 feet. As such they deemed 33,000 to be a safe altitude for commercial air traffic.

Please also note that no "anti aircraft barrages" occur in modern war. This isn't WW2 where anti aircraft guns create a 'barrage box' on projected flight paths. Advanced surface to air missile systems are used, each with differing maximum intercept altitudes. The most advanced systems like the BUK rely on radar for target acquisitioning, as such a properly trained operator is quite capable of distinguishing the planes altitude, speed and heading amongst other things. So despite your suggestions there really is no valid excuse for shooting down a civilian aircraft on a heavily used flight route using a modern and advanced anti aircraft missile system.Hello Objective,

You suggest "Remember the video and the photos of a Buk vehicle supposedly "leaving" the Russian separatist territory from Donetsk? The video was filmed in March and it was on Ukrainian govt site until recently"

Yesterday the claim was "that video" was dated in May, clearly times are a changing as they say.

However please note that there isn't "that video", there is a whole variety of types of footage (photos, videos, CCTV camera footage) of the "BUK" entering Ukraine from Russia, being transported through Luhansk and Donetsk regions, passing through numerous cities and towns and being deployed at the site it fired the missile from. Furthermore there is footage of the launch and subsequent debris site of MH17. Furthermore their is various footage of that and another "BUK" being withdrawn from Ukraine back into Russia. Note too please how Alexander Khodakovsky, the commander of the Vostok Battalion (under Russian Federation control) confirmed this today.

Investigations in Kiev have already determined that the 100 or so pro maidan protestors killed by sniper fire were killed by forces acting on the express orders of the ex president who fled Ukraine.

MH17 remained in its flight route of L980 at all times, it remained at 33,000 feet, flying at 479 kts.

The "spanish flight controller" you speak of that was used by the Russian media turned out to be a mercenary fighting for the pro Russian forces in Ukraine, who according to both Spanish and Ukrainian authorities was never a flight controller in his life. The closest he came to a flight control tower was when he did some labouring at Heathrow Airport.Tiliqua,

You suggest that "There is no evidence that Russia had anything to do with the downing of the plane"

However the evidence provided by the government of Ukraine, local Ukrainians who witness the missile launch and shooting down of the aircraft, NATO defense satellite data that tracked the launch and strike, and the statements by the Russian Federation Military Intelligence Officer who controls the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine (and subordinates) taking credit for the shooting down of the plane clearly shows that the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine are solely responsible.

Shame on you.Freddy,

Umm.. the USA government is part of NATO.Ross K,

You suggest "Ukrainian "Buk" systems the Russians have identified on the ground near the site with there Satellite system". Sorry to burst your bubble but the debris site and the known missile launch site are firmly under Russian Federation forces control not Ukrainian.

Clearly the Russians don't even know where they have deployed their own "BUK" systems in Ukraine, they sure as heck don't know how to properly use them considering they shot down a civilian airliner that was using a heavily used flight route.Hello Xanell,

Please see any commonly available footage of a "BUK" missile launch. Please see the footage of the Russian Federation supplied and operated "BUK" missile launch in Ukraine. They are the same.

You ask "Now, lets hear the phone conversation you are referring to. Put up, or shut up". It is widely available online, don't be lazy.

Hello Michael,

Actually the footage of the SA-11 missile launch is available, it is dated 17 July 2014. It was taken from Torez while looking towards Snizhne which is where the Russian Federation "BUK" was deployed.

The USA has also recently release sensitive satellite intel showing the missile launch from Snizhne along with its trajectory.

Yelling your opinion that the vast amount of actually footage of the transport of the "BUK" from Russia through the Krasnodon Izvarino region and then via, and in, Donetsk, Zuhres, Torez and Snizhne is "not credible" doesn't alter the footage provided be the people of Ukraine (with dates, times and exact locations).

I realise you and Russian media have suggested that flight MH17 was shot down by a Ukrainian ground attack aircraft, specifically a SU-25. 

Though I would suggest you check some basic physics and facts before making such suggestions. The SU-25 has a maximum ceiling of 22,965 feet and a maximum ceiling when loaded with weapons of 16,000 feet. Meanwhile flight MH17 was flying at 33,000 feet. 

ps. there was no plane near MH17 either, though don't let that fact inconvenience your conspiracy theories.Hello Michael,

As you are already well aware the service ceiling of the SU-25M1 'frogfoot' when loaded with weapons is nowhere near 10,000 metres.

The simple fact is there wasn't even a SU-25 of any description near flight MH17.

You might however recall the Russian Federation commander in Ukraine jumping for joy saying his forces just shot down an AN-26 (before he realised it was flight MH17).

Do yourself a favour and stop spouting utter nonsense, particularly the nonsense the Russians are spouting to try to cover up their culpability.Paul01,

The evidence provided clearly shows the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukriane shot down the plane. No amount of fantasy conspiracy theories generated by you or the Russian Federation state controlled media will alter that simple and undeniable fact.

The Malaysia Airlines flight was just one of around 300 flights using that flight path each and every day. Don't try to blame them for being shot down by Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine using a highly advanced Russian Federation anti aircraft (and anti ballastic missile) missile system.Sir Trent Toogood,

They will hopefully provide detailed information on the exact sequence of the catestrophic failure of the onboard systems from the missile strike.Hi Xanell,

You suggest the flight was deviated. Sorry but that is incorrect, it remained on route L980.

You suggest that the pilots tried to get back into the correct flight corridor. Sorry but that is incorrect as it was already in the correct flight corridor being route L980.I am no fan or supporter of Mr Abbott or his party.

But on this issue he (and his cabinet members) has behaved as one would expect and hope our leader would behave and I take my hat off to Mr Abbott, ........well done sir.

ps. I also agree with your comments in relation to Julie Bishop.JohnnoH,

The Dutch and British leaders said about the same as Mr Abbott.

All are utterly repulsed and angry with what has occured and with Russia's actions. And rightly so.Factsseeker,

There is no "civil war" in Ukraine.

There is only Russian Federation forces operating in South Eastern Ukraine, which the Ukrainian government armed forces, national guard and border guard services are trying to remove from their territory.

This is just another Russian Federation invasion in the exact same manner they invaded Georgia &amp; Moldovia.

You are correct when you say "Every sane person around the world knows that without the war, there would have been no tragic [M]H17". If Mr Putin had made a choice not to invade Ukraine using Russian Federation forces he never would have deployed the Russian Federation "BUK" anti aircraft system in Ukraine that shot down flight MH17."why did it take him till Monday morning to call Putin" - because Mr Putin refused to take calls from him. Just as Mr Putin refused to take calls from the British PM etc over the same time period.

Just as the Russian Federation Foreign Minister refused to speak to our Foreign Minister.

Clearly "Putler" needed time to invent some story.So too was the calls from the British PM and our PM (and others).

They were very angry about it too by all accounts.

Having the Russians suggest their Foreign Minister was unavailable because he was on holiday (even though he wasn't) and that no other member of the Russian Foreign Ministry was prepared to talk to our Foreign Minister is the height of political absurdity.As for your claims about the Russian Federation supplied and operated "BUK" anti aircraft system that shot down flight MH17, the evidence is clear thats to the vast amount of corroborating evidence from the Ukrainian government, the locals of Ukraine, NATO defense satellite data relating to the missile launch and strike, and the Russian Federation forces open and public admission of guilt and claims relating to the shooting down of the plane (prior to them realising it was a civilian aircraft).

You suggest "Then a video shows up on Youtube purporting to show a Russian BUK truck being driven into the area". If you care to become informed on the subject matter you will find out there are numerous videos (not just one) of this particular "BUK" launcher moving through various parts of South Eastern Ukraine and in particular in the region of its final deployment, and then its subsequent removal back to the Russian Federation. All the videos were kindly 'geo-located' by local Ukrainians who recognised exactly where and when this occured.

Please see the footage dated the 17th of July where a Russian Federation convoy had arrived in Ukraine which transported the "BUK" that shot down flight MK17, please see the footage of the "BUK" passing through Zuhres (between Donetsk and Sniznhe), please see the footage of the "BUK" passing through Torez, please see the footage around midday of the "BUK" entering the city Snizhne, please see the various footage taken around midday of the "BUK" driving in Sniznhe, please view the satellite image of July 20th where tracks can be seen at the end of the road out of Sniznhe where the "BUK" was last recorded on video which shows its exact deployment spot. The entire route from where it entered Ukraine going through the Krasnodon - Izvarino region to its final deployment site near Sniznhe has been mapped and documented. So to was the missile launch. The exit from Ukriane back into Russia has been similarly documented particularly thanks to CCTV footage.

ps. CCTV footage of the advertising billboard dated 2014-07-09 time 10:29:53 shows the same advert as the one in the footage of it leaving Ukraine.AJC,

The Russian Federation have supplied a whole variety of heavy weapons (and continue to do so each day/night) including heavy tanks, APC's, IFV's, artillery, rocket launchers and air defense systems including at least two "BUK" systems.

The fact that you are upset that the Russians have been caught out by NATO, the Ukrainian government and local Ukrainians is unimportant to me, however no amount of bleating "its a fake i tell you" will alter the imagery, the locations and the time the imagery was taken.

Please note that the area in question is firmly under Russian Federation forces control not Ukrainian so there would not have been Ukrainian anti aircraft systems being transported on transporters (or under their own power).

Please note the Russian Federation fantasies and conspiracy theories have all been clearly dispelled as pure lies. Even their attempts at editing the wikipedia pages for MH17 and SU-25's have been caught and prevented.

Please note the SA-11 was fired at the approaching MH17 (not from behind) and as such the shrapnel fired at the plane by the missiles proximity fuse would fire the shrapnel into the front of the plane. Which is no doubt why the OSCE observers have noted that parts of the cockpit and plane have been cut away and removed by the Russian forces since the first saw it and were shot at.

Lastly please note that the Russian Federation has supplied these and other (ie. SA-10) systems to their forces in Ukraine not to shot down civilian aircraft (one hopes!) but to shoot down Ukrainian military aircraft (which they have been doing).

ps. Russia has been spouting one crazed conspiracy theory after another ever since they shot down MH17 in the hope one will stick.Hi RossK,

The USA released intelligence satellite imagery of the launch site today, which confirms a whole variety of earlier local footage of location of the Russian Federation controlled "BUK" and the launch itself.

The Russians have suggested MH17 was:
a) off course and shot down by a Ukrainian "BUK" system
b) on course but shot down by a Ukrainian "BUK" system that happened to be at the exact same location as the Russian Federation control "BUK" after breaking through enemy lines, firing the missile and then breaking back through enemy lines.
c) off course and shot down by a ground attach aircraft (SU-25) flying 17,000 feet higher that it is capable of flying
d) on course and shot down by a ground attach aircraft (SU-25) flying 17,000 feet higher that it is capable of flying
e) blown up by a bomb placed on board by Mossad to distract the world from their fight with Hamas

meanwhile the OSCE representative note that the cockpit and other parts of the plane debris had been cut up with diesel powered saws and gas axes and removed from the site since they first inspected it (note the missile would have approached and fired at the aircraft head on).

meanwhile 80+ victims remain unaccounted for.

nothing to hide?"...he won a clear majority last election...but I suppose you would then argue it was rigged"

don't you mean he jailed his main political opposition on bogus charges?

don't you mean he murdered journalists (and FSB agents who sort exile in London) who spoke out against him?

don't you mean that it is illegal to hold a non government approved protest (unless the protest consists of just one person), if you do you get arrested and jailed indefinitely."I would have liked you to explain why Putin should be considered a baddy"

The invasion of Georgia, Moldovia and Ukraine. The current political dictatorship and destruction of the fledgling democratic process in Russia, the jailing (or exile) of the political opposition on bogus charges, the murder or jailing of dissenters (ie. journalists), the removal of basic freedoms all human beings should have.

In Ukraine alone Mr Putin is responsible for the deaths of thousands of human beings.

ps. Mr Putin's 'diplomatic solution' during the unilaterial cease-fire declared by Ukraine was to send vast quantities of Russian Federation fighters, heavy tanks, APC's, IFV's, self propelled guns, anti aircraft weapons, artillery and rocket launchers into Ukraine. He can 'diplomatically' solve the war in Ukraine in an instant by ordering his Russian Federation forces to withdraw from Ukraine (he could also hand back the region of Crimea that he annexed too while he is at it) but he won't."The coup by neo-Nazis in Ukraine ..."

and that says everything that needs to be said about your opinions.

There was no coup by neo-nazis in Ukraine. 

The MP's that were elected in the last parlimentary elections are still in office. Cabinet was resuffled (after the last president fled the country after he ordered the murder of 100's of protestors) so that the major parties share cabinet in a proportional manner.

And, most importantly,... new presidential elections were held and a moderate businessman was overwhelmingly voted into office (with 54.7% of the vote) on a platform of increasing trade with the EU and ending corruption.

ps. the right wing nationalist guy got around 1% of the vote (much less that the right wing nationalists get in Russia, UK, France, Germany etc)."Civil War broke out there in 1992"

No.

A semi (read poorly) covert Russian Federation invasion occured. Just as they did in Chechnya, Moldovia, Crimea and now the Luhansk and Donetsk regions of Ukraine.

Do note that simply removing your unit badges and national flag off your uniform and painting over your unit name on your vehicles, tanks etc doesn't alter the fact you are Russian Federation forces.Mr Putins reply to Joe Biden was even more astounding.

he said "now we understand one another".So they know a SA-11 was fired from a "BUK" controlled by the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine.

That is for certain.

What they are unsure about is why the Russian Federation forces in Ukraine shot down MH17.

Intelligence satellite footage/data was released today.Art you ask "I am wondering why Putin is so despised by those who obviously have never heard him speak let alone chartered his actions?"

It is because people have heard him speak ... and more importantly because they have chartered his actions that he is despised.

ie. the invasions of Georgia...Moldovia... and now Ukraine..."1.6 billion, mike. And they don't all fit into one neat box for people to pre-judge"

except for the fact they are all pink on the inside (thats a box isn't it?) like the other 5.4 billion of us, and do all the same silly things (another box?) all the other humans have a tendancy to do.

I recon we could put all humans in a box labelled "pink on the inside, silly, mostly harmless and squishy"... other than that you'd be pushing the proverbial up a hill with a pitch fork to put humans in a box as you suggest Dove.umm... I thought the people who worshipped the Hebrew religion (that has Yahweh as the central character/god) were called Jewish people because Judaism is another name for the Hebrew religion and that from a ethnic point of view they came originally (before lots of sex and babies with other ethnic people) from the semite tribes of the levant.

As such you can technically be an anti-semetic jewish person if you so choose to be.bahahahahaha!Rose,

Isn't Metadata just recording that you corresponded with lawyer (and not what you or your lawyer said in relation to your divorce settlement)? etc.Thanks Graazt.

Interesting to hear about the proposed changes in relation to obtaining warrants for content.Fair point Gordon.

I suspect ... but I could be wrong... that spying/counter espionage has been undertaken by human civilisations for some time now."And who watches the watchers?"

the watchettes? or lolcats?From what you have said Metadata collection has a legitimate use, and one that doesn't show what is under the proverbial Genesis fig leaf.

However if we ever get to the stage that exists in countries like Russia - where it is a criminal offense to discuss something online (ie. Seperatism within Russia, as in Siberian Seperatism) and since April, the Russian State Duma (parliament) passed legislation that would require non Russian tech companies to store all domestic data within Russia which allows Russian authorities to examine this data as and when they see fit to determine if a person has breached the law (ie. by discussing seperatism in Russia) - then I suggest we have a serious problem with our government.

However we don't have these kinds of laws, and it is perhaps worth remembering that our Metadata has been noted to a degree since the 1960's because of our participation in the ECHELON global signals interception program.Baz,

I thought communism still was a (moral) thought crime?

It would be interesting to see how the electorate responded to the implementation of legislation similar to that found in Russia.

I think our democracy is a bit more free and fair than the Russian one, isn't it?Baz,

I can't disagree with your statements, all very valid.

Fortunately here in Australia we don't jail opposition opponents on bogus charges like they do in Russia.... (one or two folks excepted of course... wink).Even TOR isn't fully anonymous.

Also note that the NSA are the folks who approved the release of publicly available encryption technology, and they aren't goint to approve it if they can't already gain entry whenever they want.

Perhaps they just don't care about lolcats.Hi NewSpeaker,

I'd sugget the 12 year old in question read a little more about how onion routers (ie. TOR) isn't quite as anonymous in all cases as people hope.

Considering the NSA can arguably already access publicly available encryption (otherwise why would they allow its public release) one could suspect that the global signals interception program can (and probably does) access whatever it wants to access,... particularly in this digitised age.4) the corporate advertising I unwillingly receive is properly tailor made to me based on my history of net usage.

I guess the quickest way to get someones info is to just befriend them on Facebook, you can even learn about what sandwiches they like the best.and before embarking on the use of onion routers and encryption it probably would pay to learn about the limitation of onion routers etc and exactly who it is that allows the public release of encryption systems (I'll give you a clue, their initials are N.S.A.).

perhaps the best thing to do is be nice to your fellow humans (a crazy idea that usually gets you nailed to a cross) and you won't have any problems.You'd be a mug if you ever thought it was ever metadata.

ECHELON has been monitoring global communications and signals for decades, and ECHELON is just part of a much larger signals interception program.

Do also note each major nation runs their own global signals interception programs (Russia has even reopened their signals interception base in Cuba in order to have better coverage over the USA).

Be nice to each other any you won't have any problems.Moi,

Perhaps this isn't the type of article for you to roll out your many conspiracy theories.Oh don't get me wrong, who doesn't love a good old fashioned conspiracy theory involving Elvis living on the moon, Hitler hiding in a secret bunker in Argentina, faked moon landing (chuckle!), presidential assassinations etc.

But.... and there is a legitimate but..... do teach your children to learn fact from fantasy and to not believe everything they read otherwise they might just end up believing that advanced aliens recently moved the planet Nibiru into another dimension (temporarially) to stop it from crashing into planet Earth and other such nonsense.

ps. Moi has been pushing some rather distasteful theories put out by the Russian Federation (to deflect blame from themselves) relating to MH17 of late.Hi Generality,

That is a far point, what happened to the first Malaysian Airline should be found out.

Though we already know for certain that Russian forces operating in Ukraine shot down MH17 (most likely by accident, one hopes).

Note that the escalation of the sanctions on Russia is not for the shooting down of MH17 but for the continued invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces. The international community has been requesting Mr Putin to withdraw the Russian forces from Ukraine (and to stop firing on Ukrainians with Russian batteries based in Russia), Mr Putin has not decided to do this hense further sanctions were applied to Russia.

I completely agree with your comments about providing quality information about why the sky appears to be blue etc etc to children. There is nothing wrong with a good education (particularly by parents). 

Though, it has to be approached step by step as the children become capable of understanding what you tell them, ie. there is little point of getting into the details of the wave/particle duality of atomic structures with a 2 year old if they don't understand what an atom is. 

As Terry Pratchett pointed out in his book "the science of discworld" you have to tell little lies (ie. the sky is blue) until they have the ability to understand, otherwise it all appears as Magic.

Have a lovely day too!Pedro,

I'm not sure if my extended response will be posted so i'll try a shortened version.

The Russian BUK launcher vehicles operated by the Russian forces in Ukraine are 'TELAR'  (transporter erector launcher and radar) not 'TEL' (transporter erector launcher), ie. they can also be used autonomously.

As you correctly point out the Russian BUK launcher vehicles operated by the Russian forces in Ukraine are normally part of a system involving independent radar units and a command and control unit (and higher level command units), which don't need to be based near the BUK launcher vehicle and can be many miles away (ie. over the border in Russia which is just under 10km away from where the Russian BUK was deployed just south of Snizhne).

All of which clearly implicates Russia.

ps. Yes, BUK launchers are normally transported on transport vehicles over long distances just like tanks and other heavy tracked vehicles as it is quicker and prevents unnecessary wear and tear.Hi AJC,

I put it to you that Moi has constantly pushed rather distasteful conspiracy theories (originally produced by Russia in an attempt to deflect blame from themselves) relating to MH17, including reguritating idiotic ones that defy the laws of physics (ie. SU-25's operating thousands upon thousands of feet higher than they can operate at, as pointed out by the Russian designer of the SU-25). The more repugnant conspiracy theories i'll not mention.

I note you have just regurgitated a whole raft of the various Russian produced conspiracy theories relating to MH17 (again). All of which are utter nonsense.

ps. MH17 remained on course at 33,000 feet at 479knts, there was no Ukrainian BUK in Snizhne (where the SA-11 missile launch occured) only a Russian Federation controlled BUK, there was no SU-25, SU-25's can't operate at 33,000 feet, air traffic control records are available despite the claims of the spanish mercenary fighting for Russia in Ukraine who claimed he was a aircontroller but never was.

Back to your moon lands and Elvis.....Rabbithole,

But whatever you do don't critisise Russian forces operating in Ukraine for shooting down MH17!

"Russia good! USA bad!" ... how am I doing?AJC,

Your posts get worse it seems.

You suggest "Nor do I see the Separatists being well armed ". Then I strongly suggest you go onto the various and numerous 'separatist' sites and view them showing off their T-64's and other heavy tanks provided by Russia (another 10 supply by Russia on Sunday night), their Grad MRLS, their self propelled guns, their artillery, their anti tank guns, their APC's, their IFV's, the MANPADs, the advanced anti tank missiles, their SA-10 self propelled anti aircraft missile systems etc etc. All provided by Russia.

You further suggest that "I haven't seen any solid evidence of Russia sending in troops, neither has anyone else". Yet the entire international community has, despite your claims of ignorance. You can begin your education by learning about the not so secret funerals of the 12 men/boys from the 45th special operations regiment of the Russia?s airborne troops. Specifically learn about 21 year old Alexey Yurin from Mozhaysk, 20 year old Moscow resident Aleksandr Efremov, and 48 year old Sergey Zhdanovich from Elektrogorsk (a Russian FSB instructor).

Clearly you are some sort of Russian appologist judging from your comments relating to Georgia and Ukraine, will you care to mention Moldovia? how about Chechneya? Dagestan?AJC,

You suggest that it would be impossible for the Russian forces operating in Ukraine to shot down MH17 using a Russian BUK, and then go to long lengths to attempt to construct reasons why it would be impossible.

What you do forget is that the entire international community already is well aware that Russia has been pouring Russian forces, fighters, heavy tanks, APC's, IFV's, self propelled guns, Grad Rocket MRLS's, artillery, SA-10 and BUK anti aircraft missile launchers into Ukraine for months now.

It is really simple. The Russian forces operating the Russian BUK shot down MH17.

Your (actually Russias) conspiracy theories addressed as follows:

1. MH17 remain on flight path L980 at all times, in increased height from 31,000 feet to 33,000 upon entering Ukrainian airspace and remained at that height until shot down, it flew at 479knts. It is all freely available information from the online flight tracker system.

2. The area from which the SA-11 missile was launched from was just south of Snizhne and has always been firmly under Russian forces control, there is no chance a Ukrainian BUK could teleport in, fire a missile and teleport back out again.

3. I note the number of SU-25 ground attack aircraft (not fighter jets) is now increasing from one to many. Do note that there were no SU-25's in the area and more importantly as pointed out by the Russian designer of the SU-25 that these ground attack aircraft can not operate anywhere near 33,000 feet and that it would be a breach of physics for them do so.

4. Is so absurd as to be replusive.

I realise you are upset that Russia has been caught red handed shooting down MH17, by their own admission (numerous time now), and by various other sources ie. the ukrainian government, the ukrainian population, USA intelligence satellite data (not pictures as the satellite system in questions doesn't take photos).

ps. I really enjoyed Russias faked satellite footage of the missile launch, it is just a shame it came from a video game called Lockon:Flaming Cliffs 2.AJC,

You suggest "I haven't cited any "conspiracy theories". Not one."

ummmm to quote Zing... "Elephant" ... "room"!

I now quote you from your above post AJC "3) MH17 was followed by Ukrainian Su25 fighter jets."

As pointed by the Russian designer of the SU-25, Vladimir Babak, the SU-25 ground attack aircraft and the more advance SU-25 'frogfoot' is unable to operate at the height that MH17 was travelling at (33,000 feet) and more, he stated that the SU-25 could not enage MH17 in any way at such an altitude.

Now back to your conspiracy theories of an SU-25 (or a bunch of them) breaching the laws of physics and was flying at 33,000 and was shooting at MH17 with its on board cannons/machine guns (as per the Russian conspiracy theory you are regurgitating).whohasthefish,

good for you for wanting a full international investigation.

meanwhile Russian forces continue to pour into Ukraine, Russian forces continue to operating in Ukriane, Russian forces continue to kill/kidnapped/murder/rape their way across Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.

Russia continues its semi covet invasion of Ukraine....Marco,

There are some really great conspriacy theories on GlobalResearch, I completely agree.

One of the more entertaining ones relates to the HAARP system where they claim it can do all of the following: cause earthquakes, change the weather, open wormholes, shoot down ICBMs, create EMP's, control peoples minds (crack out the tinfoil hats boys!). All in the one article!

Clearly it can't just be a High frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP for short).Moi,

Like you I am prepared to attribute blame on western leaders for the 'nasty stuff' they have done and do.

However unlike you I am also prepared to attribute blame to Russian leaders when they do 'nasty stuff' too, like invade other nations (Moldovia, Georgia, Chechneya, Dagestan, Ukraine).

Hypocrisy is not a 'balanced view'.

ps. regurgitating bizzare Russian Federation created conspiracy theories relating to MH17 (that first aired on state controlled RT) does you no favours at all.Minsi,

While I firmly believe Snowden, Assange and Manning all strongly believe in their hearts and minds that they acted morally and were right to expose the secret workings of western governments, intelligence agencies and their international supporters/agents I put it to you that they forgot one utterly important and critical aspect of all of this secret workings etc, ... that geopolitics and specifically western geopolitics does not occur in issolation.

Until humanity can be united under one world government (whatever form that may take in some very distant future), human beings will continue to compete over the ability to control the access to key resources in order to better the lives of the own cultures/countries population. 

This is what humans have always done, and will continue to do so while we/they remain politically/culturally separate from each other (rightly or wrongly).

One should consider the consequences of ones actions, and I suggest to you that those three people had a blinkered view due to things that had happened to them during their lives.

Try not to forget that the standard of living you have is a direct result of the long standing activities of western governments and agencies and that your standard of living partially comes at the expense of other human beings on this planet. 

You and I (and everyone one on this forum) are part of the global 1%, .....are you ready to give up that priviledged life style?Great point Jimmy,

Similar to the idea that fairies only appear to those that believe in them, or that God(s) only help those who have faith in Him(Them).Phowiit,

All governments lie in some manner or form.

Determining why they are lying is the crux of the issue.

ie. Governments suggest that the job of the Taxation Authority is to "be fair". Clearly that is a lie, their job isn't to be fair but to collect taxes. But the lie exists to help the population cope with taxation which is of direct benefit to the population as a whole as it enables them to live in a viable and socially supportive nation.54.7% (9,857,308 people) of Ukrainian voters voted for the current president of Ukraine (in a first round landslide) who is a moderate businessman who was voted in on a platform of ending offical corruption and having closer economic ties with the EU.

The next heighest candidate, Yulia Tymoshenko, in comparision only got 12.81% of the votes.

Clearly the the people of Ukraine made their own decisions in this election.

They also are due to have early parliamentary elections soon too.

Despite your constant bleating to the contrary the Russian Federation does not own Ukraine, nor does it have a right to control Ukrainians and dictate to them what they must do (nor does it have a right to militarially invade Ukraine and annex parts of Ukraine as it has done and is still doing)."just watch what Russia and China do next!"

Not a lot really, just more of the same.

Russia will continue on its path as a semi failed state subject to the whims of a dictator and a clique of oligarchs with an ever worsening economy in comparision to its global competitors, while more and more of its population will want to break away from Moscow (ie. the current seperatist movement of Siberia - with a rally coming to your town soon thanks to TOR)

Meanwhile China will continue on its path of an increasingly open communist dictatorship that is completely dependent upon global trade for its economic sucess and who is keenly aware of how Russia has previously attempted to dictate to, and control China (diplomatically, economically and militarially). The Chinese are not fools and don't forget.

ps. re: the "gold standard"... yeah right mate!"If Russia feel safe it will be more focused on the commerce and need for NATO will vanish"

And that is exactly what the west attempted to do after the USSR broke down.

They tried peace, investment, co-operation and commerce.

Unfortunately when Putin ousted Yeltsin Russia focused on a geopolitical policy of expansion using military means, ie. Georgia, Chechneya, Dagestan, Moldovia, Ukraine (and continues to do so in Ukraine) while creating a situation where the EU became dependent upon Russia for their energy security (and also many powerful business leaders became tied into the Russia economy).

The EU (and NATO) has been shaken awake rather rudely of late.Art,

You suggest that "The is nothing wrong with having several "super powers"".

Actually there is one horribly acute problem with such a scenario, namely they will all compete over the control of statregic resources (as history will clearly show you)

Wereas if humanity was finally united there would be no need to waste precious resources and effort on squabbling over resources and the resources could be more equitably shared between all of humanity, and more... our finite resources would be utilised to benefit humanity instead of creating weapons of war etc.

United we stand, divided we fall......Gais,

There are no longer two communist parties.

Russia is not controlled by communists but instead by nationalists and oligarchs.

China is also well aware of how Russia behaved towards them during the time of the USSR (including setting them up and hang them out to dry at the UN over Korea), there is no trust between them, and the Chinese are astute enough to know this and will negotiate on their terms (as their recent 30 year cut price fossil fuel deal demonstrates).Semprini,

Quite correct.

Despite Stalin constantly complaining about a lack of a second front if it wasn't for the allied invasion of italy the germans would have retained their elite panzer divisions in the east and would allowed the battle of Kursk to continue which could well have been a german victory considering that the southern wing of the pincer movement had just attained operational freedom of movement and would have been able to push north to link up with the german northern pincer (that was largely stalled due to the huge tank battles that were on going at that point).

It was because of the allied landings in Italy that the germans cancelled the Kursk operation and forever after lost all strategic initative on the eastern front.

Similarly the Allied landings at D-Day was timed for 1944 because that was the earliest they could produce and bring together the vast quantity of shipping and landing craft needed and more importantly D-Day was timed to occur a week or two before the Russians launched their great offensive at army group centre, thus ensuring that the Germans would have begun to transfer divisions from the east to D-Day just before they really needed them most in the east.

It was a team effort. There is a lesson in that I'm sure.Wise maybe,

I guess Stalin must have been pretty annoyed at himself for enabling Hitler to kick off WW2 then after signing the ribbentrop molotov pact (though in reality Stalin had hoped the western Europe would consume inself in war allowing him to take over once they had depeleted themselves to achieve his stated aim of liberating the workers of the world from the global capitalist yoke).

To use George Bush Jnr's immortal words,... Stalin really "misunderestimated" his own abilities.

ps. I wonder if the yanks got sick of sorting out Eurasias/Europes constant bickering and wars?"comprehend what the new world order heralds"

what? a united planet earth? where all of humanity is on the same side for the first time in our history? where all of humanity is working for the betterment of all of humanity instead of bickering and fighting over access to key resources?

I realise this sounds terrible to the dictators of this planet (in Russia and China in particular)... it sounds logical and entirely inevitiable to me though.Sansar,

However world peace is in the economic interests of the US/EU block."If the eastern part of the Ukraine wants to return to Russia"

It doesn't. That is the point.

Note that this issue has been extensively polled in Ukraine and particularly in eastern Ukraine (which has a large population of Russian speaking people) and in all the polls only a small proportion of the population wanted to be separate from Ukraine and an even smaller proportion wanted to join into Russia.

Ukrainians do however point out that their country has been rountinely invaded by forces lead by Moscow.

I also note that Siberia would like to become independent from Russia as they are sick of the 'white russians' taking all their resources and only give them back stupid laws. 

On August 17th, a mass demonstration across Siberia is taking place under slogans calling for Siberia to "stop feeding Moscow" and to "create a Siberian Republic" within Russia. 

Though the leaders in Moscow strangly aren't openly supporting this separtism in Siberia (like they do in Eastern Ukraine) and instead have ordered all Russian media outlets to remove all reference to the demonstration, the concept of Siberian separatism, any interview with organisers or any general discussions on this topic (and have such down any webpage associated with Siberian seperatism).

Note that new laws in Russia make it illegal to promote or discuss seperatism (online or othewise) and all internet providers must store data of Russian net users on servers in Russia so the information can be accessed by Russia authorities as and when they want.

Clearly not all seperatism is equal in modern Russia."Russia did NOT invade Crimea, Crimea residents voted to align with Russia"

*cough* Mr Putin admitted that Russian Federation forces undertook the take over of Crimea (after the event).

The residents of Crimea were provided with a tailor made and ready made fait' accompli.

Note that the Russian election monitoring organisation accidentally released the actual results of the Crimean referendum that showed only 30% of the 15% of eligible voters who turned out for the Referendum voted for annexation by Russia (though the *cough* "offical" turnout was allegedly 83%, and 97% voting for annexation).

Note that ITAR-TASS also initially reported a 123% voter turn out in Sevastopol...... says it all really doesn't it.

As for your alleged coup in Ukraine... The Ukrainians recently had a presidential election. It resulted in the highest voter turnout in history for Ukraine and 54.7% of voters voted for a moderated businessman who ran on a platform of ending official corruption and having closer economic ties with the EU.

Meanwhile Russian forces continue to operate in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions of Ukraine as they continue their semi covet invasion of Ukraine.

Note that both invasions by Russia are a direct breach of the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances signed by Russia on 5 December 1994 where Russia promised to never invade Ukraine (in exchange Ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons, the first country to do so ... and probably the last to do so because of Russias flagrant disregard for its obligations under the Memorandum).Art,

You suggest that "ISIL is an American creation, an offshoot of Al Qaeda as now funded by Saudi Arabia and Qatar with very strong Israeli support."

What? huh? ISIL is a jewish conspriacy? ... sheezzz that is just hillarious!

You have come up with some corker conspiracy theories recently (ie. a SU-25 shooting down MH17) but this one is close to the best (the SU-25 still ranks as the most outlandish in my humble opinion).Do please note that around 10,000,000 Ukrainians voted for the current president of Ukraine who won in a first round landslide and got 54.7% of the vote.

The reason they voted for him was because he is a moderate sensible businessman who ran on a platform of reducing offical corruption, closer economic ties to the EU and improving the economy and therefore the lives of average Ukrainians.

They didn't vote for him because of what some US diplomat said or because someone was handing out muffins at the Euro Maidan protests in Kiev.

Please also note that the previously elected members of parliament of Ukraine are still there, they never left, the only change that occured was that the ex president fled the country after his own party couldn't condone his ordering of the assassination of 100 Euro Maidan protestors by sniper fire. After he fled a new coaliation government was created which effectively proportionally represented the parties making up the Ukrainian parliament.Art,

almost right.

Ukraine's new government is looking for the missing $20,000,000,000 in gold as it dries out the secret papers fleeing president threw in the water in the lake at his (Viktor Yanukovich) luxury estate in Mezhyhirya. 

The Swiss prosecutor has since opened up a money laundering investigation into ex-president Viktor Yanukovich (and his son Oleksander) in relation to this (and other matters).

The current Ukrainia PM notes that over $20 billion of gold reserve were stolen, that 37 billion of loans disappeared and around $70 billion was moved to offshore accounts from Ukraine's financial system (to the ex president) in the last three years.

ps. conspiracy theory websites have suggest that Ukraines gold has been flown out to everywhere from the USA, to Switzerland and even to China."That percentage is not as large as you might think"

To be exact 9,857,308 (54.7% of voters) voted for the independent moderate businessman called Petro Poroshenko (who is now president) in a landslide first round win as he ran on a platform of ending offical corruption and having closer economic ties with the EU (ie. the western model).

Another 2,310,130 (12.82%) voted for Yulia Tymoshenko who ran on a similar platform (ie. the western model).

Another 1,500,377 voted for Oleh Lyashko who again ran on a similar platform (ie. the western model).

and so on....

Meanwhile the party of regions (pro-russian party) canditate got 3% of the vote, and the communist party of ukraine (pro-russian party) candidate got 1.51% (just slightly more than the right wing nationalist who got a mere 0.7%).

You furthermore state "see the recent collapse of the Ukrainian parliament" but fail to mention the PM received the full support of parliament in a special vote last week and that parliament has disbanded offically in order to allow for early elections (and has gone into a type of cartake mode), nothing more.

Meanwhile the ex president who you seem to adore fled to Russia after allegedly (according to the Ukrainian PM) embezzeling $20 billion in gold, $37 billion in loans and $70 billion in currency over the last 3 years in office.aGuy, you are pretty much right.

While (to quote Carl Von Clausewitz) "War is a mere continuation of politics by other means" the trick is to ensure that a despot or tyrant doesn't get into power in the first instance otherwise it becomes impossible to conduct peaceful diplomacy with them if they choose to use war to attain their aims.

ie. As Mr Putin is so fond of doing.Alan,

It is interesting to hear of the Germans embracing renewable energy.

It makes so much sense on so many levels, and particularly in relation to Germany being able to ensure it retains control over its energy security without being subjected to undue influence of other nations (like Russia).

Perhaps this will be a wake up call for the EU. 

It is not wise to hand your energy security to Mr Putin and hope for the best.As always Dove you come up with the sensible and grand ideas.

I think it is a brilliant idea.

And one I strongly suspect that it would be supported by the combatants from various nations who via their pre existing 'regimental associations' already have welcomed their opponents from another day into their associations and to their annual/regular get togethers (though there are fewer and fewer of them now).Alfie,

Did your forefathers also fight germans who were conscripted into the armed forces and had no choice to fight? or did he only fight against volunter (ie. SS) divisions?Allaboutlies,

If the men who actually fought against each other in World War 2 can bring themselves to forgive each other (as they have done) and accept that all sides were mainly just conscripts and products of their times..... then who are we, just mere decendants, to suggest they are wrong to forgive and realise that underneath it all we are all just human beings.

There is no shame to be had. You are no different to me or anyone else in this world."Instead of the law of the strong, Europe is now governed by the strength of the law"

Unless of course it relates to French Mistral class warships, British investment houses looking after Russian money, or German businessmen intertwined with Russian state companies, or Europes dependency on Russian fossil fuel reserves.

Clearly some laws are meant to be broken.Greg,

It is important that you place such comments by Colonel Erwin Lahousen in context.

The German armed forces did not for a moment consider they would be literally taking hundreds upon hundreds of thousands of prisoners at a time. They could barely maintain their own supply levels let alone cater for POW's in their millions who in many case were simply left to make their own way to the west as best they can without guards to speak of. 

Note too that many Russian POW's simply integrated themselves as volunteers into the German units that captured them (they were known as Hiwis).Percy,

And at no point did you mention Russian imperialism and their constant policy of expansion over the last hundred (+) years.

Not one mention of the move by Russia to fully mobilise its entire armed forces (they suggested it was impossible to only mobilise a portion of their armed forces) after Austria mobilised a small proportion of their armed forces in response to the assassination by (russian supported) serbian seperatists.

Not one mention of the invasions of Finland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Nationlist China, Romania, Ukraine (1920's and again in 2014), Georgia, Moldovia etc etc.

Not a single mention of the decision to enable the outbreak of WW2 (ribbentrop molotov pact) in the express hope the western europeans would consume themselves in war allowing the Russians to march forth triumphantly into the west. I strongly recommend that you do learn about all the propaganda in the USSR in the 1930's that showed an all conquering Russian army marching into western europe to 'liberate' the oppressed capitalist workers etc.

Not one mention of the post WW2 situation between what were allies, ie. the Allies and the USSR had agreed to give each other exact details of each others military dispositions at the end of WW2 to ensure a situation of openness and trust. The allies duly provided details of their military dispositions to the USSR and when they asked for the corresponding dispositions of the USSR forces they were simply told they would not get them despite the prior agreement. Trust broke down very quickly because of the actions of Stalin and the leadership of the USSR.Re: "the Russian Separatists using Russian provided weapons and blaming Russia for the this tragedy"

It is a fair thing to suggest (that the Russian forces did it) considering the tonnes of evidence provided by the Ukrainian government, the local population of Ukriane, the USA/NATO, ... and of course the Russian forces operating in Ukraine as well.

The surreal behaviour of Russia is palpable, claims of "we shot it down! that will teach you for flying in our airspace" followed by '"it was a civilian airliner was it? ok, well we didn't shoot it down then, anyway it was full of corpses and/or spies" is just bizzare..... about as weird as the world watching vast quantities of weapons, fighters, tanks, artillery, apc's flooding into Ukraine from Russia every single day only to hear Mr Putin say "what? Russian forces in Ukraine? no... there are no Russian forces in Ukraine".... perhaps 'surreal' isn't the right word... perhaps "making a mockery of the international community" is more appropriate.Hi Moi,

The intercepted communications between Igor and his handler in Moscow, and the other intecepted communications between his subordindates all confirming their responsibility (which of your you alleged to be fake) are consistent with the public statement made by Igor Girkin claiming responsibility for shooting down an AN-25 before he realised it was in fact MH17 that his forces shot down, and as confirmed by other Russian forces commanders operating in Ukraine, as confirmed by Ukrainian government sources, as confirmed by local Ukrainians who witnessed the firing of the SA-11 missile from the Russian BUK missile launcher deployed just south of Snizhne, as confirmed by USA satellite data from satellites designed specifically to detect missile launches and track their trajectory (in this case right to MH17).

As for the various and numerous conspiracy theories produced daily by the Russian Federation to deflect blame from them (and attempt to implicate the Ukrainian government) they are all so poorly thought out as to be just silly (from Ukrainian BUK's charging through the front lines, firing missiles and charging back again. Or SU-25's shooting down MH17 despite the Russian designer of the SU-25 point out that not even the most advanced SU-25, the frogfoot, could engage aircraft at 33,000. Or the claims of the mysterious spanish aircontroller who alleged stuff happened while he worked at Kyiv airport, who turned out to be a mercenary working for the Russians who was never an aircontroller, but who did do some construction labouring work at Hethrow airport once....etc etc etc).

The Russians can't flood forces over the border anymore as the last time they sent a very large convoy into Ukraine (consisting of 150+ armoured and other vehicles) 80% of it was destroyed by airstrikes, note too there are limited crossing points for the Russians, but most importantly any overt invasion will lead to full sectorial sanctions on the Russian economy which would result in Putins political death knell and as such they must continue with the pretence and limit there deployment (though the 10 tanks that entered Ukraine last night is not really limited in anyway).Percy,

You assume that the Chinese are desperate to enter into such a relationship with Russia.

Which is odd considering how closely the Chinese economy is tied into western markets which repesent a vastly larger market than Russia's (which, by the way, is only about the same size as Italy's).I sure did General Disarray.

The Chinese got a rock bottom bargin 30 year deal as the Russians were so desperate.

Yes, the Chinese did by into Forbes recently too."1914 or 1939 Russia would be more that supporting the rebels in the Ukraine, they would have taken the whole country by now and we would be expanding the conflict"

I'd recommend you to learn about the Russian invasion of Ukraine in the 1920's ... the methods used then are very similar in nature to the methods used by the current Russian leadership in their current invasion of Ukraine.

Any expansion of the current Russian geopolitical policy of expansion into their 'near abroad' will depend entirely upon the wests response to the current Russian invasion of Ukraine.Utter Rubbish.

The UN does not maintain that Russia is not involved in Ukraine. That is just what Russia attempts to bizzarely suggest. Meanwhile the world watches Russia pour into Ukraine fighters, weapons, tanks, artillery, APC's, air defense systems each and every day (ie. Last night 10 heavy tanks, with support, crossed the border to the south of Marynivka).

You suggest far right extremists seized power in Ukraine. Yet the make up of the Ukrainian parliament is exactly the same as the one that existed prior to the Euro Maidan protests began (why? because they were all elected prior to the protests in the last parliamentary elections). The make up of cabinet reflected the nature of the coalition government with 2 cabinet posts (food/farming and ecology) out 24 going to the right wing nationalists, the rest went to the centralist moderate parties in the coalition. Note that new early parliamentary elections are due in a few months. Note that the new president who is a moderate businessman won in a landslide while the right wing candiate didn't even get 1% of the vote. The fact is Ukriane is run by moderate focused on the economy.

As such your strange claims of the 'Pravy Sektor' raining missiles down of civilians and refugees is just nonsense.

I note you bemoan how the people of Donetsk and Luhansk struggled to vote in the last presidential elections, yet you fail to mention that it was because of the Russian forces operating in Ukraine that they couldn't participate fully in the vote with over half of the polling stations in those regions destroyed by the Russian forces and many of the officials involved in overseeing the election kidnapped and/or killed.

ps. I see you claim that any information provided by anyone who does not support the Russia forces operating in Ukraine is faked. Though such claims of fakeness are more applicable to the nonsense constantly spouted by those supporting the Russian Federation invasion (and annexation) of regions of Ukraine."Russian forces operating in Ukraine?" - correct.

"Russian Federation invasion?" - correct.

"What are your sources?" - Mr Valdimir Putin, Mr Igor Girkin, Mr Igor Besler, Mr Vladimir Antyufeyev, Mr Valery Bolotov, Mr Marat Bashirov.
Moi,

You ask "Where are the satellite pics of all this machinery". Online of course, where else? NATO has been providing them for months now.

nice quotes from your favourite conspiracy theory website called "globalresearch", the only problem is it is all make believe.

psst. Globalresearch isn't the "media", it is a conspiracy theory site (fun as it is).It was the least they could do wasn't it......It is also very important to release that the current propaganda in Russia is designed to generate a fear of the outside world in the Russian population which enables the Russian leadership to implement more and more draconian laws that continue to limit what is left of the freedoms of the Russian people.

Even the expansionistic policies of the last few decades (ie. Chechneya, Georgia, Moldovia and now Ukriane) is part of the process of creating the impression within Russia that Russia is under attack from outside forces.

Many geopolitical commentators have pointed out that ever since Yeltin was ousted by Putin the main focus has been to cement political control over the Russian population by the Putin leadership and clique.

History shows us what happens when individuals have absolute power, and Putin has behaved no differently."But the US continues to goad Russia by interfering in its buffer zone of influence"

Ukraine is not Russia.

The people of Ukraine have a right to determine their own future without being invaded (yet again!) by Russia.

The offer of financial assistance and closer trading relationships with Ukraine by the EU is not 'goading' .... it is what mature nations do all over the world.Michael,

Do you think you can squeeze any more conspriacy theories into one post?

ps. The Russian designer (Vladimir Babak) of the SU-25 has rubbished the Russian claims that the SU-25 (or even the 'frogfoot') could engage a commercial airliner at 33,000 feet.Hi Moi,

That is a rather old conspiracy theory the Russians came out with some time ago now.

I'll try to help you.

"MH17 began to abruptly lose speed, eventually slowing to 124mph (200kmph)" - If one is to glance at the flight record on flightradar24.com, it can be seen that MH17 stayed on course of L980, was at 31,000 feet then went up to 33,000 feet when it approached Ukrainian territory and maintained an airspeed of 479 knts until it was shot down (by the SA-11 missile fired from the Russian BUK).

"Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet appears on ATC radar and trailing MH17 on the same flight path approximately 2-3km behind MH17, and at the same altitude" - The SU-25 and the more modern SU-25 'Frogfoot' can't operate at anything near 33,000 feet nor even engage an aircraft at 33,000 feet (as kindly pointed out by the Russian gentleman, Vladimir Babak, who designed the SU-25).

"The Ukrainian government denied that this SU-25 was in the area and seized the Kiev ATC data" - only according to a mysterious spanish aircontroller who allegedly (by Russia) worked at the Kiev airport control tower, ... who turned out to be a mercenary working from Russia who has never been an aircontroller and do note that the closest he has ever been to an aircontrol tower was when he did some construction labouring work at Hethrow airport.Moi,

No, the USA pointed out that their intelligence satellites designed to spot missile launches and track their tragectories (mainly in case of nuclear war) picked up the SA-11 missile launch from the Russian controlled BUK (just south of Snizhne) and its hit on MH17. Note that these satellites don't take pictures, they are data based satellites. Hense you don't get pretty pictures, if you want pretty pictures have a look at the Russian manufactured images of the missile launch but do realise they are just from a game called "Lockon:Flaming Cliffs 2"

ps. Snizhne has always been firmly under the control of Russian forces.

pps. Alexander Khodakovsky was not misquoted by Reuters at all. Though i did get into a whole lot of trouble with his Russian superiors for spilling the beans.Doc,

As an interesting side note, the Russian Federation has continued to operation SA-10's in Ukraine and have now redeployed the more powerful Russian BUK's back into Ukraine.

A Ukrainian government drone sent to specifically seek out the air defense systems located the Russian BUK redeployed in Ukraine before it was engaged and destroyed by a BUK system."A century ago, Europe was outraged by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria by a serbian seperatist".... Austria then mobilised a very small portion of its miliary.... Russian then mobilised its entire military under the dubious concept that it would be impossible to mobilise only a small proportion of its military, escalation continued from there...... lest we forget.

Within mere decades, after various Russian invasions of other nations (ie. Ukraine, Romania &amp; Finland) Russia embarked upon another policy of expansionism (Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland) in conjunction with their temporary ally in Nazi Germany.... lest we forget.

The current Russian leadership has openly stated that their current geopolitical goal in relation to Russia's "near abroad" is a return of the Russian Empire to what is now being describe by Moscow as "new russia" lands which is in effect the same old policy of expansion into all the nations bordering Russia (as seen already in Georgia, Dagestan, Ukraine, and as far removed as Moldovia).... who is next?

Appeasement didn't work.... a unified front by the west however did.

History should not repeat itself in this modern space age.V,

You say "Now, the really scary thing is that the conditions in Europe today bear an eerie resemblance to the circumstances in Europe a century ago"

Quite true, the Russians are attempting to creating the necessary conditions to enable the fufillment of their expansionistic policies just as they did in WWI (note the complete mobilisation of the entire Russian armed forces in response to Austria's very limited mobilisation to the actions of the serbian separatists who were supported by the Russian Empire).

However there is a lesson in history for the Russians...when they did attempt this in WW1 it gave rise to the collapse of their political leadership (Putin beware!). 

ps. I note that an interesting article on the return of Siberian seperatism and calls for an independent Siberian nation (and a day of protest in relation to this) has been removed from all news outlets in Russia by order of the Kremlin. Clearly note all seperatists are the same ....wink.Khrushchev you ask "Again, show some evidence"

First you have to open your eyes and take your hands off your ears and stop going "nah nah nah nah I can't hear you!".

ps. I did love the Russian "evidence", the spanish air controller conspiracy theory who turned out to be a mercenary who has never been an aircontroller, the SU-25 conspiracy theory which turned out to be rubbished by the Russian designer of the SU-25, or the famous Ukrainian BUK missile launcher that could teleport through the front lines and fire a missile and teleport back again without anyone noticing, .... or my utter favourite... the satellite footage from 'Eumetsat' showing the Ukrainians firing a missile which turned out not to be from 'Eumetsat' but was just a bit of footage in black and white from the video game called "Lockon:Flaming Cliffs 2".V,

You suggest "A missile hit a passenger jet that was flying through a war zone. Whether Russia was involved or not is completely irrelevant."

Actually it is completey relevant that the Russian Federation supplied and operated BUK anti aircraft missile system operating in Ukraine shot down MH17.

You furthermore suggest "Europe is on the brink of war and has been since the fall of the Soviet Union". Utter rubbish. Europe is not about to go to war with Russia, itself or anyone else. Quite the opposite. Europe will continue to attempt to engage peacefully with the people of Russia through investment programs, trade, and peaceful initiatives (current sanctions relating to Russia's invasion of Ukraine excluded).Sir Trent,

You say "The only way we will find out who pulled the trigger is if they own up"

The Russian commanders operating in Ukraine already have owned up a number of times now.RayS,

Russia is the clear aggressor in this confict (just as it was with its invasion of Georgia, Chechneya and Moldovia), please note that it is Russian Federation forces that have invaded Ukraine.

No one else has invaded Ukraine.Art,

You ask (in a loud voice) when Russia invaded Ukraine.

It began with the invasion and annexation of Crimea, and continues in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of south eastern Ukraine to this day.

there you go again with your who "neo-nazi" conspiracy theory..... shame on you.Moi,

Russia can't risk an overt declaration of war on Ukriane and an overt invasion of Ukraine and suffer the consequences of full sectorial sanctions on the Russian economy by the international community.

Hense they can only continue their current semi covert (only to the point of implausable denial) invasion which has generated very limited sanctions agains specific individuals and corporations.

Note that Mr Putin is now sounding out the UN for the chance to deploy Russian Federation "Peacekeepers" (an oxymoron) into Ukriane (these Russian Federation forces are already deployed on Ukraines borders and consist of Russias most elite armoured and mechanised forces). 

Note too that given a chance he will attempt to create the necessary circumstances to declare war on Ukraine, by continuous provocations (constant artillery strikes on Ukrainian forces from Russian batteries in Russia, attacks on Ukrainian aircraft operating in Ukraine from Russian air defense systems and fighter aircraft based in Russia, constant airborne cross border incursions etc in the hope Ukraine will respond with force... which they have yet to do).Dan,

The fact is no forces are fighting at the debris site of flight MH17 as it is well away from the main roads and towns where the fighting is occuring.

The problem is with access as a north south road splits the city of Donetsk and the debris site and it is along this road that Ukrainian forces launched a surprise offensive to split the Russian Federation forces into two main pockets and at the same time enable the opening of a supply corridor to the Ukrainian airborne forces cut off by the Russian border (who are being shelled by Russian batteries based in Russia). The road is currently under attack from Russian Federation forces coming out of Donetsk.

Currently a large battle involving brigade sized armoured/mechanised forces is occuring around the strategic heights of Savur-Mogila which was recaptured by the Ukrainians in the offensive. The Russian Federation forces have been heavily reinforced and are currently counter attacking while getting direct fire support from Russian batteries based in Russia.

The Ukrainians are slowly mastering the situation.... it is their battle to save their lands from the Russian invasion.Art,

Not mad, a triffle disappoint though.

The evidence is overwhelming, the constant flow of heavy weapons from Russia can only be described as extraordinarily obvious.

NATO will never bomb moscow.

Perhaps you should consider the ramifications of such a statement before posting next time. Have you heard of the term M.A.D.?Matthew,

Once again you have over played your hand using barely concealed deceptive statements.

You state "the crash site is a battleground as the Ukrainian army attempts to drive a wedge between the rebels and the Russian border". That is incorrect. The debris site is not a battlefield at all. No combat is occuring at the site of MH17. The combat is happening 5-10km further to the south east of the debris site on the main roads and towns (currently around Snizhne and Saur-Mogila). Other combat is occuring around the main north south road connecting Dabal'tseve and Shakhtars'k as the Russian Federation forces in Donetsk attempt to reconnect their supply line back to Luhansk region (and onwards to the Russian Federation), and it is for that reason that international observers/investigators/police can't gain access to the debris site. Perhaps if the Russian Federation forces in Donetsk cease their counter attacks then the AFP can go to the debris site.

Note too the Ukrainians were compelled to launch this offensive to open up supply lines to a number of brigades who were cut off on the southern border with Russia and who were being (and still are) bombarded by Russian artillery batteries based in Russia. The opening of the supply line has enable the provision of these troops and equally importantly the withdrawl of wounded men.

Once again you attempt to lay the blame for Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its annexation of Crimea (and ongoing invasion of Donetsk and Luhansk regions) as the fault of the USA. You insinuate that the people of Ukraine who protested in their millions against the corrupted ex presidential leadership (and associated parties) and the puppetry controlled by Moscow.

The people of Ukraine want to be free of interference from Moscow and free of the associated corruption of their nation.

They want to be able to choose who the trade with, they want to end the endemic corruption, they want to be free of a corrupted political leadership, they want more regional autonomy (ie. they want to be able to elect their regional governors instead of having them appointed by the president - which he has offered to change). Most people would agree that they have a right to attain those simple asperations.

The fact is Putin and his hawks who advocate a return of the Russian Empire, and who continue to create an era of Russian expansionistic geopolitical policies, need to realise Ukraine belongs to Ukrainians... not the Russian Federation. 

This isn't the 1920's all over again (though it certainly appears like it).Moi,

No mention of the 100 protestors shot dead by snipers in the final days which was the reason the ex president had to flee the country as even his own politicaly party members couldn't stomach such an atrosity and no longer supported him.

He is of course welcome to return from Russia to Ukraine at anytime to 'face the music' (along with the approximate $4,000,000,000 he took with him).Michael,

It is interesting that you admit that the Russian Federation armed forces are operating in Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine.

Not many 'pro-putin' folks are willing to admit that on this forum.Hi Michael.

Yes a ceasefire would be nice in theory.

You may recall that Ukraine declared a unilaterial ceasefire some time ago and proposed a peace plan allowing for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. The ceasefire lasted for a week (which was its declared length of time) and was extended for another three days after Moscow requested three separate extensions to it to facilitate negotiations.

During that 10 day period over 100 Ukrainian servicemen were killed and many more were wounded, the Ukrainians stopped counting the number of times they were attacked by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine after the first few day. 

During that 10 day period the Russians merely used it as an oportunity to bring in huge quanities of troops, heavy weapons, tanks, air defense systems, apc's, artillery rocket launchers, ammo and supplies.

It is unlikely the President of Ukraine will make that mistake again as it nearly cost him the lost of 3-4 brigades of airborne troops who ended up cut off on the southern border with Russia (and who have been decimated by Russian artillery fire from batteries based in Russia).

NATO supplied lots of ready made meals. To this day NATO refuses to supply armoured vests, helmets, first aid materials (let alone weapons and ammo). These things however can be legally obtained if individual Ukrainians cross the border, buy them singularly and then return to Ukraine. Which they have been doing (see the Pheonix organisation) and which has resulted in a couple of thousand helmets being obtained. However France is allowed to supply Russia with one of the most advanced warship in the world which is specifically designed to do seaborne invasions."on a domestic front, our government should be exerting all the influence it can on QANTAS to ensure that it no longer risks the safety of its passengers by flying over Iraq and other conflict areas"

Why?

Is the Russian Federation looking to deploy and use advanced airdefence systems capable of hitting aircraft at 33,000 there too?Hi V,

Nice to chat again.

In terms of air safety the ICAO has to balance the ability of airlines to operate with the ability of combatants to obtain weapons capable of targeting a commercial airliner. To ban all air traffic over combat zones on planet Earth would make air travel darn near impossible.

Indeed there are a number of advanced air defense systems capable of shooting down an aircraft at 33,000, all however are under the control of governments who do not (normally) shoot down civilian airliners.

While the ISIL has over run much of northern Iraq they do not possess weapon systems capable of targeting commerical air traffic, nor do they possess the necessary radar targeting systems needed, nor do they possess the necessary command and control systems necessary to link the radar targeting systems to the launcher systems (do also note that it takes years of training to be able to operate such systems as the Russian BUK that shot down MH17).That is a reasonable question to ask Phowitt.

The answer is that various military operations are being conducted in Ukraine at the moment.

One in particular was launched yesterday. The twin goals of that operation were to split the Russian Federation forces in two along the border of Luhansk and Donetsk regions (where they are at their weakest and furtherest from the bases/supply points) and to recapture the critical heights south of Snizhne to enable the Ukrainians to open a supply corridor to their airborne forces cut off along the south eastern border with Russia.

They achieved their operational goals yesterday and are attempting to secure the liberated area while conducting further operations towards the east.

Do however note that while the offensive did not occur where the MH17 debris is (as it is away from main roads) it did take place on a main road the prevented the international observers/investigators/police from moving from Donetsk to the debris site.

Please also note that due to the success of this operation thousands of airborne troop cut off by the southern border with Russian have now been finally supplied and are also able to be transported to medical facilities (which is important as they are under constant shelling from Russian batteries based in Russia according to Ukrainian and NATO sources). Potentially hundreds of lives have been saved by the operation.Hi AJC,

I see you are just once again spouting off Russian propaganda nonsense.

NATO has provided clear satellite imagery of the daily artillery and rocket fire from Russian batteries in Russia firing on Ukrainian forces in Ukraine.

Russian Federation artillerymen are also boasting on their social media of firing on Ukrainian forces.

Perhaps you might like to take up the issue of Russian artillery fire with the men in the 72nd brigade stationed near the Russian border who are being killed and wounded by the Russian fire.V,

While your sentiments are well placed in that you do not wish any further loss of life to similar events that occured to MH17 it would be worth realising that if all flights over war zones or zones of conflict were diverted away from a war or combat zone it would be near impossible to travel anywhere.

Take for example the near east, middle east and north africa. Conflict and war currently exists in India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Syria, Israel/Palestine, Eygpt, Libya, Tunisia etc (plus many other war and conflict zones worldwide).

What the International Civil Aviation Organisation tries to balance is the ability of commercial aircraft to operate while taking into account the risks associated with each combat zone.

Perhaps they should have been aware that the Russian Federation deployed one of their BUK systems to Ukraine and was prepared to use it (intentionally or not) on a civilian airliner. That is a big call considering many groups still attempt to pretend that there are no Russian forces operating in Ukraine.Hi AJC,

I would suggest you take your blinkers of then kind sir.

You make mention of a single video. What video is that you specifically mention? May I recommend you educate yourself and also look at the other dozens of videos, photos taken by local Ukrainians along with the large quantity of CCTV footage (oh yes, they have CCTV in Ukriane too!). 

The USA has also provided intelligence satellite data as well which identified the launch site, the missile trajectory and strike (which is what those specific satellites are designed to do).

Of course you could also take the word of Russian operatives like Igor Girken (and many others) who loudly and proudly boasted of shooting down MH17 (before they knew it was MH17), and of course you can take the word of other 'separtist' leaders who subsequently confirmed that they shot down MH17.

Anyhow... back to your conspiracy theories.V,

You suggest "You need to remember that Ukrainians are Russians and some Russians are also Ukrainians. They drive the same tanks, use the same rocket launchers, and look very similar. Simply seeing a photo of Russian military equipment in Ukraine proves nothing because both sides use the same equipment."

Not so, while some of the equipment is of a similar design they are produced at separate facilities in Russia and Ukraine which allows the clear identification of who made it and who supplied it, note too that other documents demonstrate the supply and deployment of equipment to specific units within the Russian Federation military structure. Various items, such as APC's, Rocket Launchers and Tanks even have poorly painted over unit symbols of the Russian Federation military units on them. Litterally tonnes of Russian Federation supplied weapons, ammo and other supplies have been captured from the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine and they have been identified as being from Russia. Certain advanced weapons that are only available to Russia have been encountered and captured. 

Maybe you can ask Mr Putin to point us which is the shop in Donetsk and Luhansk that sells Russian BUK missile systems, heavy tanks, APC's, IFV's, Grad Launchers, MANPADs, AK100's, anti tank missiles etc etc etc......

If you honestly don't think Russian equipment and Russian forces aren't in Ukriane then I'd suggest you attend the funerals in Moscow of the next lot of 45th special operations regiment of airborne troops, who have a habbit of simultaneously dying under unknown circumstances.

Learn about Aleksandr Morozov and Sergey Zhdanovich as a starting point.Rabbit,

I realise there are some rather bizzare conspiracy theories doing the rounds at the moment.

But the one you are quoting, which is that the Ukrainian government shot down MH17 (how they did it is of course not stated) just so that Israel can launch a ground invasion of Gaza (nothing to do with Hamas rockets landing in Israel of course), is just nonsense and very repugnant to the memory of those people who were killed on flight MH17 by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine.Zing,

As someone who has been alleged to have been a left wing type (and I don't necessarily fully disagree in all instances) I would suggest you don't overstate your position.

I do understand what you are saying though, and I agree in principle.

Some conspiracy theories are just fun and harmless, but these ones are just in bad taste and are a direct contradiction to known facts.

These current theories are really just a regurgitation of the attempts by the Russian Federation to distract and to deflect blame directed at them and their forces operating in Ukraine.Semprini,

While it is no where near the scale of any of those battles described by you the north south pincer operation conducted by the Ukrainian military yesterday to split the Russian forces in two and open a supply line to Ukrainian forces cut off at the Russian border required the use of Divisional sized units and both sides committed a large number of forces and heavy weapons to the combat area (ie. the northern pincer involved the use of dozens of heavy tanks and APC's/IFV's, and the Russian forces similarly had a couple of dozen heavy tanks involved, many of which were destroyed while trying to redeploy for a counter attack).

However the location of the fighting is along the main roadways and towns and well away from the crash site of MH17.Sorry Yank but the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine are not 'rebels' nor are they 'a loosely knitted group that is ill disciplined'.

They are in fact a group of highly trained and experienced members of Russian Federation forces operating without identifying markings (of the Russian Federation), supplied and equipped by the Russian Federation and directly subordinate to Russian Federation commanders such as Igor Girkin who is the 'supreme leader' of all the forces and who is a Russian Federation Military Intelligence operative from Moscow who was active in the Russian Federation take over of Crimea, parts of Moldovia (and who is also wanted in connection with war crimes that Serbian forces undertook while he operated with them during that conflict).

This is a well organised and heavily supplied semi-covert (only to the point of implausable denial) invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation.Hi Stephen,

No sorry I have a normal job like everyone else here.

I just read widely.

Where is this "New Russia" (novorossian) you speak of? Don't you mean south eastern Ukraine, you know.. that part of Ukraine invaded by Russian Federation forces. 80+% of the forces are Russian Federation. 

Let me guess you going to suggest that the heavy tanks used by the Russian forces in Ukraine that come replete with supply dockets showing the deployment to specific Russian Federation armoured units etc are not from Russia? How about the various types of Rocket Launchers? how about the various types of APC's and IFV's? how about the self propelled guns, howitzers, mortars, anti aircraft guns, Strela-10's, ammo, supplies, sniper rifles, machine guns, anti tank missiles, RPG's? and... .of course the at least two BUK anti aircraft missiles systems (now withdrawn back to Russia).

May I strongly recommend you take a moment to see how that these systems, weapons, supplies come with unit markings badly painted over and with the manufacturers information and in many case supply/deployment documentation ex the Russian Federation.

Igor Girking by his own admission, stated that he served in the Russian FSB until March 2013, and according to him, the Ukrainian and NATO authorities, he is a (semi) retired Russian military intelligence GRU colonel who has previously participated in the 2014 Crimea invasion and annexation, the war of Transnistria (Russias invasion of Moldovia), the first and second Chechen wars, and is a wanted person in connection with war crimes commited in Bosnia when he participated in the Bosnian War fighting with the Serbian forces."neoNazi dictates of Kiev" - more foolish statements by you Art.

What "NeoNazi's"? you mean the moderate businessman who was elected president in a landside? or the right wing nationalist who got less that 1% of the vote and is not in power in any manner or form?

Or do you mean the elected MP's who are running a coalition government and cabinet made up of MP's from all the main parties?

You do say some silly things Art.Hi Iswide,

I again ask, what Neo-Nazis?

Svobada isn't a Neo-Nazi organisation it is a typical of right wing nationalist organistations found all over Europe and in Russia. 

As you point out Svoboda has 8% of the seats in the parliament which is based on the last parlimentary elections (do note that their candiate for the presidential elections got less that 1% of the vote, which is indicative of the political situation in Ukriane now). In comparision the similarly right wing nationalists in the Russia parliament (duma) the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, holds 12.4% of the seats in the Duma. I'm sure you are also aware of the unfortunate success of the far-right parties in the recent European Parliament elections (UKIP winning in the UK, and Le Pen's party winning in France).

Svoboda was until just a few days ago a minor member in the now collapsed coalition government, and had 3 cabinet posts out of 24 positions (12%). Being Minister for Ecology and Natural Resources, Minister for Agrarian Policy and Food, and joint Vice Prime Minister (along with Volodymr Groysman). Note that the office of Defense Minister was held by Svoboda MP Ihor Tenyukh as an acting position and was replaced by an independent on 25/3/14. Hardly the "key and powerful positions" you allege they had (Ecology, Farming and joint Vice PM)

Clearly your claims of them holding 7 positions in cabinet are erronous, along with your claims on them being neo-nazis, along with your claims that the Ukrainian government is some neo-nazi controlled entity.

Do note that Dmytro Yarosh ran for office of President of Ukriane, but only got 0.7% of the vote (not even 1%).

Do also note that their parliament is now on a break and we will have to see what the coalition will look like when the come back. 

ps. On July 24, the UDAR party announced its secession from the parliamentary coalition to allow the president to dissolve the Verkhovna Rada (parliament) and announce early parliamentary elections.Hi Iswide,

I appreciate your attempt and your honesty.

However please be aware that your source is renowned for promoting psudo science and conspiracy theories.

Unfortunately all you demonstrated was that you need to take care of whom you believe and what you read. As you clearly showed some stuff isn't worth the paper (or webpage) it is written on as it is clearly false and potential worse an utter misrepresentation don't intentionally to promote a propaganda position (not that I'm am suggesting you are promoting such a propaganda position knowingly).

I enjoy a good conspiracy theory too, ...who doesn't after all. But it is important to be able to distinguish fact from fiction.Iswide,

You originally provided a paragraph from a GlobalResearch opinion piece as evidence that Ukraine is run by Neo-Nazis.

I simply demonstrated how incorrect that opinion piece was and how the allegations made by GlobalResearch were utterly inconsistent with facts (ie. the actual make up of the Ukrainian cabinet).

If you are going to use rubbish sources don't be surprised when you are proven wrong.Khrushchev,

The twin goal of one part of the various ongoing military operations in Ukraine was to split the Russian Federation forces in two along the border of Luhansk and Donetsk regions (where they are at their weakest and furtherest from the bases/supply points) and to recapture the critical heights south of Snizhne to enable the Ukrainians to open a supply corridor to their airborne forces cut off along the south eastern border with Russia.

The operation was a pincer operation, the northern arm coming down from Debal-tseve to Shakhtars'k, and the southern pincer moved up from around Amvrosiivka and Marynivaka. Once the forces created the necessary conditions for further expansion of the operation (after defeating the Russian Federation counter attacks from Donetsk and Snizhne) they pushed on towards Torez and Snizhne and also liberated the critcal heights where the war monument is located. Both objectives were accomplished, the Russian forces are split into two main pockets with the Donetsk one now cut off from all supplies from Russia, and supply lines to the Ukrainian forces defending the border of Russia have been opened.

If you look a map of the region you will see that the MH17 crash site is away from the area of fighting (as it is not near the main roadways) and the Ukrainian forces have not gone near it, though any movement of international observers/investigators coming out of Donetsk could not access the site due to the front line of the above operation straddles the road which leads to the site (and is also the road where the counter attack from the Russian forces in Donetsk came from)."where is the Amerikan "mountain of evidence"?"

Freely and widely available online to anyone who cares to look.

Along with the mountain of evidence provided by the authorities of Ukraine, along with the mountain of evidence provided by the local population of Ukriane.

Locals from Snizhne kindly located the launch site of the Russian Federation "BUK" that shot down MH17. It is approximately 47 degrees 58'29.8" north 38 degrees 45'37.6" east (just south of Snizhne off T0522). The locals took pictures of the launch and of the scorch marks left behind in the field (and of the Russian BUK arriving and leaving).That is quite right Art, Russian ministers are suggesting that NATO is going to invade Crimea from Ukraine and then after taking over Crimea they are going to launch a massive offensive from Ukraines border with Russian into Russia to take over all of Russia, the begining of the invasion will allegedly start with a first strike nuclear attack on a very limited area.

Though it must be remembered that such silly statements are made for local Russian consumption to keep them in fear of an imaginary invasion of Russia by NATO. The purpose of such silly statements is to create a state of fear in Russia to control the local population and to allow for the passing of more and more draconian laws that limited the remaining freedoms in Russia.

The whole concept of the invasion is just plain silly Art, ... stop and think. Any nuclear strike on Russia would result in all out nuclear war ... aka MAD. It is never going to happen, just like the bogus and imagined invasion of Russia by NATO.

Just silly really.Hi Art,

Nah I didn't bother wasting time with watching it and just read the synopsis of it as it was clearly just another crazed rant by a Russian minister for domestic consumption.

As for your constantly claims of global conspiracies by neo-nazi jewish juntas (that don't actually exist) in cahoots with extreme right wing christian extemist individuals (who aren't actually in power) to nuke the world ...... I say ... Bumpkin and Poppycock!

I would strongly recommend you learn to distinguish reality/fact from fantasy/conspiracy.Art,

Your say "I am hoping that more and more innocents in East Ukraine will adopt the same tactic and post images (on the fly) on YouTube - but headline their experiences in English!"

They already do, there is tonnes of it online (much of it too graphic to mention). It is how the people of Ukraine helped to build up an exact route of how the Russian Federation BUK entered Ukraine, travelled to Donetsk and then to Snizhne, fired the missile (scorch marks in the field where it was deployed was evidenced as well), and its subsequent trip back to the Russian Federation.

You are right, the innocent civilians caught up in this conflict are not terrorists or pro-russian, they are just human beings wanting to have a nice happy life like the rest of us.

I hope your friends stay safe and that the Russian Federation forces finally withdraw from south eastern Ukraine.Matthew suggests "it appears we've stumbled into a conflict we don't care to understand"

Actually that should be restated (after reading Matthew's opinions) to "it appears we've stumbled into a conflict I [Matthew] don't care to understand".

It is quite simple really, the population of Ukraine got sick and tired of be oppressed and living in a corrupted nation ruled by Russian controlled puppets. The elite/rulers of Russia didn't like that and after the fall of their puppets in Ukraine they invaded, annexed Crimea, and tried a military take over of Luhansk and Donetsk regions (and elsewhere but failed elsewhere). 

Fortunately for the Ukrainians their national guard, border guard services and armed forces are winning back lost territory.

Matthew also shows his lack of understanding of what is happening in Ukraine by suggesting that the Ukrainian armed forces have launched an offensive to control the crash site of MH17. This however is pure imagination on Matthews part. 

What has in fact happened is that Ukraine has launched a series of offensive operations including one that bypassed the crash site of MH17. 

The operation that bypassed the crash site of MH17 occured primarily from the north (from Dabal'tseve) and south (from Amvrosiivka &amp; Marynivka) along the border of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions (where the Russians are at their weakest) in a classic pincer operation, this offensive was a great success yesterday and they have accomplished their two main goals of splitting the Russian forces operating in Ukraine into two main pockets (serveral pockets in reality) and to recapture the strategic heights of Saur-Mogila (north west of Marynivka and south of Snizhne) which has now allowed the Ukrainian airborne forces deployed along the south eastern border with Russia to be resupplied.

Matthew you have written a number of very clearly pro Putin articles of late (and pro stalin articles), however your statement that "Having recklessly encouraged the crowds' overthrow of Yanukovich early this year, Washington has itself clearly lost control of the situation" beggers belief. 

Please realise that the population of Ukraine had enough of Putins puppet Yanukovich and his incredibly corrupt regime (and murderous for those at the Maidan protest at Kiev). Ukraine has finally freed itself from the Putin regime, things are really looking better and better for them now. Their future is now in their hands (and not the hands of some Putin crony). Ukraine is mastering the situation and have done so without any tangible outside aid (the EU and USA are still unprepared to even levy any heavy sanctions on the Russian economy).Alpo,

I realise you are quoting the Russian narrative.

However, please do realise that while the various political parties have relatively stronger areas of regional power from each other (the Communist Party and Party of Regions being more popular in the east of Ukraine) at no point have any of the polls demonstrated in any manner of form a wish by any region (east or west) to see a dissolution of Ukraine.

Extensive polling on that issue has been ongoing in Ukraine for quite some time and even in the east where there is the greatest support for the pro-Russian parties none of the polls have shown anything that would indicate that they want to separation from Ukraine, only a small minority want to see Donetsk and / or Luhansk become independent from Ukraine and an even smaller minority want to be annexed by the Russian Federation.

The reality is Ukrainians like the idea of a united Ukraine even after the utter bombardment of propaganda coming out of Russia.

At no point will you convince me that the Muscovites, Igor Girkin (GRU operative), Alexander Borodai (FSB operative) or the Serb Vladimir Antyufeyev (creator of the feared secret service of Transnistria) represent in any way the will of the people of Ukraine, Donetsk or Luhansk.Hello Sir Trent,

The majority of the population Ukraine and even in south eastern Ukraine are pro Ukraine. Even the people who speak Russian.

The fighting in Ukriane has nothing to do with pro Russian sentiments. It is a semi (read poorly) covert invasion by the Russian Federation of Ukraine, ... just as in Crimea.

Do also note that those reporters operating in "rebel" (read Russian Federation controlled) areas that write articles/stories that do note suit the agenda of Igor Girkin et al (ie. suggest the population isn't happy with the Russian invasion) end up kidnapped and/or tortured and/or killed or kicked out of the region. Large numbers of journalist have already been murdered by the Russian forces (along with numerous civilians included priests and their children). One needs to be very careful of what you say in those areas.Stirrer,

Indeed there is a tiny minority in South Eastern Ukraine who liked the idea of annexation by Russia (though it is a very small percentage according to all the polls taken).

However try not to confuse the Russian narrative with the reality of the Russian Federations poorly covert (only to the point of implausible denial) invasion of Ukraine using Russian Federation weapons, supplies, fighters, agents, heavy weapons, tanks etc (including even now direct fire support from Russian batteries based in Russia).

The chain of events can be traced directly to Putin and his backers desire to launch a geopolitical policy of expansion and a return of the Russian Empire to lands previously dominated by the USSR.

Though, with all due respect, folks like Matthew Dal Santo can't bring themselves to admit that geopolitical reality.Hi Possum,

Yes the right wingers got really mad with the communists for trying to do anything and everything in their power to halt the current military operation to rid Ukriane of the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukaine.

They had a bit of biffo... though in reality it was just "hand bags at 40 paces" and a push and shove (much like the south koreans do) between a couple of guys who were quickly restrained by their respective party heads/leaders.

Commical none the less.

Though, the MP's in the major parties took no part is such silliness and parliament has been basically disolved to allow for fresh parliamentary elections to be held.Clotho,

While it is illegal for the EU to sell Ukriane helmets and body armour (let alone weapon systems) France is allowed to sell the Russian Federation one of the most advanced war ships designed specifically to conduct seaborne invasions.

Do note that as yet no NATO nation has suppiled Ukraine with any weapons or protective equipment. Thought the USA did send a lot of ready made meals (much of which were promptly stolen by corrupt mid level authorities and sold on the black market in Ukriane).

Meanwhile the Russian Federation transfers daily, to their forces operating in Ukraine, huge quanities of tanks, apc's, ifv's, artillery, rocket launchers, air defense systems, weapons, ammo, supplies ... .and troops.

ps. Ukraines parliament has disolved this last week specifically to enable the holding of early parliamentary elections.Heretic.

Really? are you honestly suggesting that Royal Dutch Shell arranged for the shooting down of MH17 because 50% of the passengers were Dutch just to enable Shell to extract gas reserves from Ukraine?

I realise the Russians are getting utterly desperate to cover their culpability in the shooting down of MH17 by their forces in Ukraine and that they are coming up with new and repugnant conspiracy theories every single day but this new one of yours is utterly revolting.

ps. what "neo-nazi regime in Kiev"? do you mean the new president who is a moderate businessman who won the presidential election in a landslide on a platform of ending corruption and having closer economic ties with the EU (while the only right wing nationalist hopefully barely got 1% of the vote)? or do you mean the MP's who were elected before the Maidan protests who have formed an equitable coalition government using the major parties and who have similarly formed an equitable cabinet using the major parties?"After seeing a video of the Ukraine Parliament less than a week ago on RT"

And there you have it folks.... RT... the state control mouthpiece of utterly repugnant propaganda.

The same folks who bring you daily pictures of dead children, mothers, women, men all claiming to be from Ukraine .. .the only problem is they are from Russias invasion of Chechneya, Dagestan, Georgia, or from the balkans conflict, the syrian conflict and even the poster advertising a new WW2 movie being shown in Europe.

As Sara Firth (now resigned from RT due to the lies) stated "We do work for Putin. We are asked on a daily basis if not to totally ignore then to obscure the truth".

Similarly Liz Wahl quit RT on live TV over Kremlin lies about the invasion of, and annexation of, Crimea.

ps. that 'battle ground' in the Ukrainian parliament involved a right winger doing a bit of biffo with a communist party member (both fringe parties really), while everyone else did 'hand bags at 40 paces', and the whole fracas was broken up by the respective party leaders while the main party MPs watched in disgust at the behavour of these fringe party MPs.

pps. the South Koreans on the other hand really know how to fight properly in parliament.Hey Dove!

Don't get me wrong I love a good conspiracy comedy show too (re: RT).
I don't subscribe to anything. 

I recommend that instead you try to find the source of the information and corroborate the information with multiple sources... don't read the news other than to get a generalised overview with a slant particular to each news outlet.

Though I can see where you might be going wrong if you take the likes of RT, GlobalResearch seriously.

Though if you want a good laugh I do recommend GlobalResearch's article on the HAARP system whereby they suggest it is the ultimate weapon capable to changing the weather, causing Earthquakes, EMP blasts, destoying ICBMs, burning people and disrupting global communication systems (all in one opinion piece).

As for RT, if their lips are moving they are lying. If they show an image of something you can bet your bottom dollar is is actually of something/somewhere else, ie. People killed by Russian forces in Chechenya suddenly become Ukrainians killed by Ukrainian forces, a burning fuel laden train crash in Canada becomes the destruction of Donetsk in Ukraine, a image of city in Ukraine with another image of fire photoshopped on it becomes the destruction of slavyansk, the result of Russian artillery fire on a large building in Chechneya becomes destruction in Luhansk caused by Ukrainian forces, posters advertising a new WW2 movie in Europe become a image of a Ukrainian children crying over her mum killed by Ukrainian forces, Ukrainian Helicopters operating under the UN in the Congo become Ukrianian Helicopters operating in Ukraine while illegally using UN colours, tanks blown up in Syria become Ukrianian tanks, ... and on and on it goes (you get the drift).Art,

You ask why I don't watch RT.

Simply because I have watched it, and have compared it to other sources and found it to be a bunch of kremlin lies. I am quite comfortable with the need of the kremlin to have a series of state controlled media outlets to spread the type of lies they do in order to manipulate the population of Russia as none of this has anything to do with the rest of the world, it is purely for domestic consumption in Russia.

The examples I gave show clearly what sort of outlet it is. If you want to believe them go ahead. I certainly prefer to think for myself and do my own research on subject matter to determine what is actually going on.

You again request details of exactly where I get information from, the honest answer is everywhere and anywhere (within reason). 

As an example, the Ukrainian RNBO (and others) provides after the fact details on operational activities which can be compared and contrasted with statements made by the various Russian groups/spokespeople operating in Ukraine, this enables a person to build up a picture of what is actually going on. When you see that the RNBO repeats every few days that they have liberated Luhansk airport you get the idea that they actually haven't but have merely made an armoured dash to resupply the airport, confirmed by statements made by Russian forces, corroberated by footage provided by local residents showing locations of firefights and the actual fighting (and location of destroyed vehicles etc), and subsequently confirmed by the RNBO at a later date. You have to put some effort in if you want to find out what is going on.

Another example was the pending disaster for the Ukrainian airborne brigades on the Southern border with Russia who were cut off. For over a week the RNBO was silent, while the Russians were crowing over their successes in this area (though went too far and provided too much detail about the artillery fire coming in from Russian batteries based in Russia), reports were coming in of wounded airborne brigade fighters turning up at hospitals just over the border in Russia, further details came from there statements upon their return to Ukraine (both positive and negative in relation to their situation). The recent pincer operation by Ukraine to split the Russian forces in two and to open a supply line to those airborne forces and the admission of the fact that they were cut off after all provides details, similarly the developing battle around snizhne and south of there is one of a critical nature on a strategic level (Watch that space as the Russians have just commited a large brigade sized armoured formation in a counter attack and more is on the way).

Similarly you can't fully rely upon what the Russian Federation operatives and forces are saying is happening, it is a war after all and truth is the first casualty. But, you can, with some effort, work out what is going on.
"It is one of those regions where people are poor and if you want something from someone you cough up appropriately"

Which is one of the main reasons why the Euro Maidan protests kicked off on the first instance.

The population of Ukraine are utterly sick to death of the rampant corruption of the prior governments which has inflitrated most public offices of their nation.

Which is why experts from the EU in conjunction with Ukrainian specialists/lawyers are writting up new legislation and pushing it through parliament in order to end and/or reduce corruption in Ukraine.

It is a very pressing issue. For example 90%+ of the money set aside to buy helmets for the troops was instead stolen by mid level officals.Harquebus,

That was an interesting series of new and old conspiracy theories.

"MH17 was directed over the scene" - ahhh no, it remained at 33,000 on path L980 at 479 knts at all times.

"witnesses report seeing two jets with it" [aka the SU25 conspiracy as per the Russians] - Really? people can see small jets at 33,000 feet? let me guess they were two SU-25's (that can't operate anywhere near 33,000 feet according to the Russian designer of the SU25).

"The Ukrainian security forces have confiscated the air traffic control tapes " - nope.

"as far as I am aware, the air traffic controller has gone missing" - It seems your awareness is lacking. No air traffic controller went missing. The allegations you referred to were made by a spanish national who suggested he worked at air traffic control in Kiev, it however turned out that he has never worked at any air traffic control in his life (but did do some construction labouring at hethrow airport once) and he is a mercenary fighting for the Russian forces operating in Ukraine.

Please note that bizzare conspiracy theories aren't facts, which is why they'd don't appear in the media.Hello Yololo,

That is correct, the Ukrainian authorities warned of the dangers of land mines. Primarily because many of their units had encountered them during operations, vehicles have been damaged and destroyed and soldiers killed and injured due to the use of land mines by the Russian forces operating in Ukraine. You can even watch videos of such events if it interests you so much.

The "'don't spout conspiracy theories' card" isn't so much of a 'card' but a reasonable statement to make. Particularly when the conspiracy theory in question is dependent upon aircraft (SU25's in this case) defying the laws of phyics (flying ten thousand feet above their operational ceiling) as pointed out by the Russian designer of the SU25 who personally rubbished this particular Russian generated conspiracy theory.

There is nothing inherently wrong with a theory, but it is a pretty rubbish one when it is plainly wrong. 

Though I must say the continous attempt to deflect blame from the Russian forces operating in Ukriane that shot down MH17 using the Russian BUK is rather repugnant.

Or are you one of those folks who can't bring themselves to acknowledge that thousands of Russian forces are operating in Ukriane using Russian supplied heavy weapons, tanks, artillery, MRLS's, anti aircraft weapons, ammo, supplies etc?Yololo,

You say "The media continues to paint Russia as the only bad guy"

Ummmm... that is because Russia has invaded Ukraine.

It is pretty simply really isn't it."And the US invaded Iraq. Who's the bad guys there again?" - many would clearly argue that the USA (and allies) had stepped out of bounds of decency (to put it mildly) by invading another nation (regardless of whether they liked the leader of Iraq or not).

Just as Russia's invasion of Ukraine is again clearly stepping out of bounds of decency (to put it very mildly). Thousands of human beings are dead and injured because of the Russian invasion.

Yes, limited sanctions have been applied to certain individuals and some particular companies in Russia because of the invasion. (Rightly) the west is unprepared to directly engage Russia in conflict and seeks instead diplomatic/economic solutions to Russian geopolitical expansionistic policies (as also seen in Moldovia, Georgia, Chechneya, Georgia etc).

Note that "Russia" is not some evil entity, the people of Russia are humans like everyone else and I particularly get along well with Siberians (we share a similar sense of humour I guess). Unfortunately the current leadership in Russia is an abomination to the good name of Russia (just as you can't call the USA evil because of the actions of a specific prior political leadership).Spot on Ravensclaw,

After decades of attempting to encourage the Russian Federation to be a responsible part of the international community the EU has just realised that they instead gave away their energy security (to the Kremlin).

It will be interesting to see how this impacts on the continued uptake of renewable energy systems that do not depend of resources from other nations for their function.Peter,

You rightly pointed out that in the last 20 years Ukraines economy has contracted by about 60%. Which is due to the actions of the Ukrianians old leadership which has done Putins bidding and being so corrupt as to baffle the imagination.

Little wonder then that the Euro Maidan protests occured across Ukraine and that the population of Ukraine wanted to be able to trade with the EU (a much larger market) on fair terms while also gaining the expertise from the EU to combat the massive official corruption in Ukraine.

I note you are not aware of the anti trust case against Gazprom for its pricing policies particularly in relation to Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania where it is alleged Gazprom is suspected of inflating prices and imposing unfair restrictions on gas distribution.Filz,

You may be aware of this thing called the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances.

Russia, UK and the USA signed an agreement with Ukraine promising to never invade Ukraine. The trade off is that Ukraine gave up all their nuclear weapons (the first country in history to ever do so).

Russia has invaded Ukraine (Crimea, Luhansk &amp; Donetsk regions) and has already annexed Crimea, which is all a direct breach of their obligations under the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances.

Ukraine in not some play thing belonging to the Russian Federation, it is a soverign nation to be respected as such by Russia. Something that Russia has demonstrated that it is unprepared to do.

Do note that Ukraine is not part of the EU, it is also not part of NATO.

ps. do try to remember that the Russian "President of Russia's Council on Civil Society and Human Rights" organisation that monitored the bogus referendum in Crimea (that was preprepared by the Russian Federation) accidentially released the actual results which showed a tiny 30% voter turnout (83% according to the bogus Russian one) and that less than half of those who voted wanted annexation by Russia (96.77% according to the bogus Russian one). Which is dramatically different to the preprepared vote supplied by the Russian Federation (which included a 125% voter turnout in Sevastopol).Hi Filz,

Thanks for acknowledging your errors, few are prepared to do that. I doft my hat to you for doing so.

Russia has invade Ukraine which ever way you try to swing it. The fact is Russian special forces and regular troops are operating in Ukraine. For specific examples I refer to you to the funerals of 21 year old Alexey Yurin from Mozhaysk and 20 year old Moscow resident Aleksandr Efremov who were both serving members of the Russian 45th special operations regiment of airborne troops, I also refer you to the funeral of 48 year old Sergey Zhdanovich from Elektrogorsk (Russian FSB instructor) killed during the attack on Donetsk airport. Do also note the dozens of armoured vehicles, tanks, apc's, artillery, MRLS's, etc etc that are transfered from Russian deployment sites in Russia to the Russian forces operating in Ukraine each day/night. 

You don't need an offical declaration of war nor the deployment of entire divisions of regular Russian forces for their to be a Russian invasion. The Russians can't even be bothered attempting to conceal their invasion or attempt to make it covert in any way.

Sorry to hear you have a mistaken concept of the Ukrainian parliament. The entire current parliament is made up of MP's who were voted into power before the Euro Maidan protests occured. The current president of Ukriane was voted in on a landslide first round victory, he is a moderate businessman who is an independent. There is no "extreme right wing parliament" as you suggest.

You maybe right, Putin doesn't necessarily want any escalation as his goal is to destablise Ukraine (t and therefore punish the Ukrainians for daring to defy his will and decide upon their own futures for the first time in a long long time. 

Though as the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine are losing ground he did attempt a massive provocation over the weekend whereby he attempted to (but stopped at the utterly last moment) send Russian Regular forces into Ukraine under the guise of a peacekeeping mission supporting a humanitarian convoy associated with the Red Cross. However the Red Cross pointed out that they were not aware of such a convoy and were not associated with it which caused Putin to shrink away from using the Red Cross as an excuse to launch Russian regular forces into Ukraine. 

I'd suggest Putin will escalate when, and if, he can get away with it without too much cost to him and his oligarchs.Hi Dennis,

You say "THE ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA, would not have happened, if the Ukraine proceed peacefully with the elections Yanikovitch proposed to bring forward."

So you are saying the Russian Federation invasion of Ukraine and the Russian Federation's illegal annexation of Crimea is justified on the basis that Putin was pissed off his crony (the ex president) fled the country because he personally ordered the murder of 100 or so Euro Maidan protestors using snipers. Something his own party members couldn't stomach, something that caused his own party members to stop supporting him, something that resulted in him fleeing the country to Russia (along with billions he stole from Ukraine).

The violence in the East is not some 'anti keiv' anything, it is a russian invasion of Ukraine using Russian forces, Russian weapons and Russian supplies. You may recall that the Moscovite GRU operative who is the self declared 'supreme commander' of the russian forces in Donetsk (Igor Girkin) moaned how that he couldn't even get 1,000 volunteers from Donetsk (a city of a million people) to join his forces (Russian forces). Note that around 15,000 Russian fighters are operating in Ukriane.

Please also recall that the current MP's are still the ones that were voted ino prior to the Euro Maidan protests, and that the current president is an independent moderate businessman who won in a first round landslide victory.

You suggest Putin did have any options but to invade Crimea. That however is bollocks. He could have continued to lease the port as he had always done.

ps. The first Ukrianian soldier killed by the Russian forces was based at the Simferopol base in Crimea (his Captain was wounded at the same time).Hi Peter Schmidt,

I don't need to do anything other than provide the Russian supplied facts to discredit the bogus referendum, which is also seen to be bogus by the entire international community.

The only folks who pretend it was real are those involved in the invasion of Crimea ie. Putin, Igor Girkin (current commander of the russian forces operating in Donetsk region), and other moscovites currently operating in, and controlling the invasion of Luhansk and Donetsk regions of Ukraine (and undertaking the various assassinations of mayors in Ukraine and sabotage operations).Hi Peter,

You put forth the Russian Federation conspiracy theory that "they found some fuselage with bullet holes in it. The plane could have been shot down by Ukrainian fighter pilots, whose signature was picked up by Russian satellites"

1. The bullet holes were not bullet holes but the result of the shrapnel fired from a SA-11 missile (which is exactly what they do), as confirmed by the data from the Black Box which showed a massive explosive decompression.

2. The Russian Federation alleged that (first just one, then later more than one) SU-25 was within a few Km's of MH17 and shot it down. However, the Russian designer of the SU-25 ground attack aircraft has pointed out that this conspiracy theory is nonsense as the SU-25 can't operate anywhere near 33,000 feet (where MH17 was), and that even the upgraded SU-25 'frogfoot' can't enage a plane at 33,000 with a missile let alone with onboard cannons/guns.

3. Note too there were no Ukrainian aircraft anywhere near MH17.

Just utter nonsense on your part yet again (or are you going to change the aircraft this week?)Hi Alpo,

The Russian force's guilty is clear to see. The Russian BUK deployed just south of Snizhne, controlled by, and operated by Russian forces shot down MH17.

I do however realise you have been attempting to excuse the murder of hundreds of innocent human beings ever since (for whatever reason).Hi Peter,

Quite so.

The missile used is a blast fragmentation missile which fires a shotgun type blast of specifically designed fragments at the target.

As such the fragments penetrate a soft skinned target, like a civilian aircraft, pass through the aircraft and continue out the other side.

Note too any unspent fuel is also detonated towards the target as a secondary explosion.

The Black Box has confirmed that MH17 suffered a catestrophic decompression consistent with being hit by such a missile.

Note too, despite your claims, a SU-25 (or the 'frogfoot') can't engage an aircraft at 33,000 with a missile let alone onboard cannons/machine guns as pointed out by the Russian designer of the SU-25.Quite true, KGB/FSB officer Vladimir Putin worked with his Stasi (the greatly fear, by East Germans, East German Secret police) colleagues in Dresden.

Where as Obama was a lawyer engaged as a civil rights attorney.

Their prior work says a lot about them as person.Sanctions are only effective if they can be (and are) enforced.

Russia's ban of various foods from the West has already resulted in the spawning of a number of jokes, like the following one being reported in Russia:

a customer in a busy Russian store is offered some mussels with the improbable label "Made in Belarus."
When the customer raises an eyebrow and says that this is impossible as Belarus is, after all, landlocked.
he is told that the mussels were made in Belarus, period, and has no option other than to buy the "Belarusian mussels"."Do they see their president as a hero of some sort?" - Unfortunately they do, Putins popularity rose after the invasion and annexation of Crimea. But then you have to realise that the Russian population is bombarded by bizzare propaganda from state controlled media which has them thinking that Russia has been under attack from the west for some time now.

"Do they realise that most other countries in the world are against the war and for very good reason?" - They do, but they have been erroneously led to believe they are under attack from pretty much the rest of the world. Only those who travel and have engaged anyone in the rest of the world knows different, but travel is becoming more difficult now that it is impossible to leave the country if you hold a position that is deemed to be of a stragetic or security nature (to stop people from being exposed to outside influences - very stalinesk).

"Surely the Russian people have ways of expressing their opinion in the supposed Russian federation" - Yes, you can hold a protest... as long as only one person attends. Otherwise you will breach the law and can be imprisoned for up to five years. You can also share your opinion online, unless of course you make reference to 'separatism' in Russia (separtism in other countries is fine though) which is against a new law which will see you imprisoned for four years, etc etc etc......

They have slowly had their freedoms erroded, they are virtually completely reliant upon state controlled media for information, they are led to believe their nation is effectively under attack, .... it is a terribly sad state of affairs for a population which just a decade or so ago was getting along just fine with everyone else and which embraced the west.1. USA provided Intelligence Satellite data (as it doesn't take pretty pictures). The Russian satellite picture of the missile launch turned out to be from a game called 'Lockon:Flaming Cliffs 2'.

2. NATO provided satellite imagery, the government of Ukraine provided imagery including CCTV footage, and most tellingly the population of Ukraine provided vast quantities of footage of the BUK entering from Russia, being transported all the way to Donetsk and then down to Snizhne, being deployed just south of Donetsk, and firing the missile, and travelling back to Russia a day or so later.

3. Black Boxes. The Russian forces in Ukraine initially said they were going to send it to Russia. However the international outcry forced them to relinquish the Black Boxes, which have since been given to British authorities that specialise in their analysis (and the data confirmed a massive decompression consistent with a blast fragmentation missile strike).

4. Signals incepts by the Ukrainian government agencies have been obtained throughout the Russian invasion. The voices have been confirmed as those of the Russian GRU/FSB operatives and subordinates. Note to the Russian forces claimed responsibility very publically before they realised it was MH17. Note too subsequent admissions of guilt have been provided by Russian forces commanders (ie. as recorded by Reuters).

5. The Russian forces did not allow access, and limited what access there was.

6. There are currently around 15,000 russian forces operating in Donetsk and Luhansks, replete with vast quantities of Russian heavy weapons ie. T-64 &amp; T-72 tanks, APC's, IFV's, MRLS, artillery, SA-10's. The Russian GRU operative controlling the Russian forces in Ukraine noted stated last night that they will be counter attacking using around 200 armoured vehicles/tanks. Please advise the world where the shop is in Donetsk where you buy T-64 tanks, Grad rocket launchers etc etc. You forget that the population of Ukraine is documenting the invasion and the movement of Russian forces into Ukraine.

7. The Russian chief designer of the SU25, Vladimir Babak, has already rubbished that conspiracy theory by pointing out that the SU25 (and the frogfoot) can't engage an aircraft at 33,000 with missiles or onboard weapons.

8. Looting occurred, the cockpit was covered up and the OSCE representatives noted that much of the cockpit has been cut away with gas axes and power grinders and removed.

9. see 2.

10. &amp; 11. Murdering them was disrespectful enough.Personally i feel discriminated against everytime I see a sign outside a church suggesting the existence of some imaginary superbeing.

I'm so sick of seeing these intimidating signs, can we get rid of them too?I Think I Think, you suggest "The problem is not Snowden, who clearly acted in the public interest"

I would disagree with you that the interests of the public of the USA were protected by having their nations intelligence gathering systems compromised, quite the opposite really.

There have also been geopolitical ramifications resulting from Snowdens actions which has negatively impacted on the USA and therefore the ability of the USA to provide for the public of the USA.I think Mr Snowden should get the "Hero of the Russian Federation" medal not an Australia or USA award.

After all he has done a great service to Mr Putin and his Kremlin cronies.

The Russian Federation moles in the German Bundesnachrichtendienst and political establishments laud his tarnishing of the key NATO members security establishment which has made their job so much easier of late.

Try not to forget that geopolitics has provided you with the life style you have grown used to (or were born into) and that security establishments are a key facit of an effective geopolitical operation."I've been noting Angela Merkel's outrage over US intelligence tapping the phones of her officials yet nowhere does she express outrage over Russian 'moles' wreaking intelligence havoc"

Why would a former member of the USSR controlled East German Government, now leader of the unified German nation be openly and publically concerned about Russian Federation moles? Why would she out Russian Federation moles considering her very close personal relationship to Mr Putin and Germanys economic dependence on the Russian Federation for their energy security?

I guess it isn't lost on me that her predecessor (another good old east german) is now working for Gazproms Nord Stream AG company and on the board of the Russian partnered oil company. Perhaps Ms Merkel is also expecting similar positions.

It is nice she is working so closely with Mr Putin to bring "peace" to Ukraine (never mind the T-90's, BMP-1s, Grad Launchers coming over the border daily) after the west offered economic assistance and trade to the people of Ukraine.

what is missing from this picture? why would the CIA/NSA be interested in her activities?"The cold war is over"

I guess you missed how it has been kicking off again since the Russian Federation invaded Georgia, Moldovia and Ukriane and made veiled threats against Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and even Poland.

I would also mention that geopolitics never is "over".

ps. Yes it is funny how the folks working for the west were caught, while the Russian ones haven't been."Governments, especially our should be open, transparent and honest. That goes for both sides"

In an ideal world JohnnoH I'd agree with you.

Unfortunately in the real world the "other side" isn't open, transparent and honest and is quite happy to seek to obtain economic, competitive and strategic advantages from any government that is too open, transparent and honest simply to better the lives their population [or elites depending on the nation concerned].

Like it or not it is because of 'grubby deals' etc that you live in the manner to which you have grown accustomed to (or were born into). It may not be particularly fair in a global sence, but it is the honest truth.Now that Mr Snowden is seeking further extension to his Russian Federation 'asylum' claim I wonder if he could find life in the Russian Duma acceptable to him ... or perhaps the FSB or Kremlin is more his style?Snowden initially took refuge in Moscow in 2013, where he became stranded on his way to Cuba, after U.S. officials revoked his passport and charged him with espionage and theft of government property.

I note Mr Putin arrived in Cuba just the other day... I guess he couldn't be bothered to bring Mr Snowden along and was happy to have him remain in the service of the Russian Federation as according to the Kremlin his "life is still in danger".

Though I wasn't aware the USA was seeking the death penalty in this case.Chuckle! nice one Bazza!

I guess Snowden really didn't think this through did he.Perhaps the solution is to offer one way tickets to the Russian Federation where they, like Mr Snowden, can be of great service to Mr Putin.

I recall a phrase along the lines of "with friends like these who needs enemies".

Perhaps such folk can assist the Russian Federation moles in the German Bundesnachrichtendienst uncover further agents who assist the west to uncover the Russian Federation agents in the German intelligence community (and elsewhere in German halls of power)?"This is how our supposedly intelligence service operate, in violation of our laws and the countries they operate in laws"

ummm Rabbit ... we aren't talking about the Salvation Army here, we are talking about a nations intelligence and security apparatus.

What would you have them do, arrive at reception and say "ah hello, i'll be your spy for today, and I will be planting the following listening devices in your office to find out if you are going to do a disservice to the nation I represent"?Graazt,

Why wouldn't you expect them to do that? I makes perfect sense to do so.Graazt,

A nations security aparatus does not need a 'mandate' (or a public referendum) on whether they can collect communications, especially considering they have been openly admitting that they have such a signals / communications interception system operating globally since the 1960's.

PRISM is not a new thing, is is merely a small facit of, and extension to, the pre-existing signals /communication interceptin systems.

Your liberties are not adversely impacted, you can still slag off anyone you like privately (and publicly).... just don't get involved in organisations that pose a threat to particular nations and hope to get away with it.Was it legal? ... was it necessary? .... was it in the wests best interest?

Now.... why would the USA be bugging the German Chancellors phone considering how chummy she is with the dictator... sorry, I mean President... of the Russian Federation?

Would you want to know what a leader of a key NATO member nation was saying considering the close personal and economic relationship to a geopolitical adversary of NATO member nations?

Who was the previous German Chancellor? another East German, a certain Gerhard Schroder, who now advocates for Gazprom since he accepted Gazprom's nomination for the post of the head of the shareholders' committee of Nord Stream AG two weeks after leaving office (then filled by Angela Merkel) a mere month after signing a law providing a 1 billion euro guarantee to cover Gazprom's Nord Stream gas pipeline project costs. He later joined the board of Russian partnered oil company TNK-BP. He has been a strong supporter of Mr Putin's despite his annexation of crimea and invasion of Ukraine, Georgia, Moldovia.

Personally, I'd be wanted to know what my alleged key ally was saying/thinking considering her and her predecessors actions on the geopolitical stage. Particularly considering she was a member of the East German Government (under USSR control), which is perhaps why she was able to compare the NSA spying on her to the activities of the notorious East German Government spy agency the Stasi.Hi Rabbit,

Ahh nope, I said nothing of the sort, nice try though.

Please realise what the Stasi were like before making ill informed comments.

Please also try not to confuse representative democratic nations with nations that think the world is full of hippies who just care about peace and mung beans and that geopolitical considerations don't exist.

Who runs Australia? the current elected government with the help of public servants.

Who owns Australia? various entities own the top soil, mining rights etc, but overall it would be the citizens of Australia.

Was it listed on the USA stock exchange? no.

I'm not sure why you think groups who are not signatories to the Geneva Convention are able to receive its protection. War is a biatch, which is why most soverign nations signed up to the Geneva Convention. Note that the relationship between the "High Contracting Parties" and a non-signatory, the party will remain bound until the non-signatory no longer acts under the strictures of the convention, hense certain non-signatory groups not adhering to the convention do not receive protection from the convention. Try reading it one day, it is quite informative.ahh I love your 'wonderland' Rabbit, perhaps one day we can all visit it, but until then we will have to live in the real world.

Honestly it would be nice if every human was honest and didn't seek to obtain an unfair advantage over another human (or group of humans), .... but life isn't like that... hense the existence of the various security agencies.

ps. I recommend that you read the Geneva Convention one day, in particular the relevant portion of Article II:

"Although one of the Powers in conflict may not be a party to the present Convention, the Powers who are parties thereto shall remain bound by it in their mutual relations. They shall furthermore be bound by the Convention in relation to the said Power, if the latter accepts and applies the provisions thereof."

or in lay terms ...Basically, if two nations (groups) are at war, and one is a signatory while the other is not, the signatory nation is bound by the provisions of the Conventions until the non signatory violates them. Basically, if you're playing by the rules, you get the benefit of the rules, even if you haven't formally recognized them. But if non signatory breaks the rules then the rules are off.Hi Rabbit,

The Australian in question was part of an organisation which was neither a signatory to the convention nor one that adhered to the rules of the convention thus was not subject to its protections.

Sorry, I see you misunderstood. If the non signatory does not adhere to the rules then they do not receive the conventions protections.

Whereas if the USA engages another party or nation that does adhere to the rules then they will be obliged to adhere to the rules too.I think you will find the Occupy Movement failed not because of the activities of security organisations but because the movements members found it to be too much like "work".

It was all lots of fun staging the sit in's but no one wanted to clean the toilet after a few days of being there, so they all went home.

Events in Germany recent relating to the exposing of NATO member agents, operating in other NATO member countries, keeping tabs on non NATO nation agents was most likely a response to the events in Ukraine and the larger geopolitical events of this century between the superpowers. A small reminder of why Mr Assange, Ms Manning &amp; Mr Snowden aren't necessarily acting in our best interest despite their hearts perhaps being in the right place.

ps. the whole right wing twaddle is just that, try to remember who is currently in the oval office.Oh well, they should have cleaned the toilet then.

They know for next time!.... or is it too much effort to hold a 'next time' and bring a toilet brush? have they yet to agree as to which group does the cleaning? are the communists and anarchists still fighting over who brings the brush? I realise the hippies just want to dig long drops everywhere so they don't have to bring a toilet brush."Its one thing to be a Journalist working for the CIA and its another thing to be a journalist working for the people"

sheezz that is a line right out of the cold war.

Journalists have never worked for "the people" in the west, they have always worked for a news outlet / corporation or worked on an ad hoc basis to earn a crust.

Only Pravda would suggest that their "journalists" (cough!) worked for the people...though who exactly those 'people' are remains in doubt.

ps. if the Taliban etc could afford heavy machine guns they could have bought their members uniforms too and been signatories to the Geneva Convention... we all make choice in this world Rabbit.Graazt, 

Sorry to burst your bubble but Journalism is about selling advertising space not informing the public.

It has never been about "informing" ... that you must do yourself."If we dont live in a free country where the govt is responsible to the people, instead of the people being responsible to the govt, at least have the guts to come out and tell them."

Clearly you managed to work it out all by yourself.

ps. what was that line about "think not of what your country can do for you, but what you can do for you country" again?"liberate Australia from the ALPNP dictatorship"

If you don't like them then just vote PUP or Greens or even the Motor Enthusiast Party.

But if the majority don't agree with your politics you just have to learn to live with it.Hi Rabbit,

So you will vote for only independents then? Which is perfectly fine.

Though, I must admit I'm perfectly happy voting for mainstream parties with the moderate and centralist views who have done rather well to help Aussies make this country what it is and provide us with a darn fine lifestyle (particularly when compared to 99% of the population of this planet).

You see Rabbit, we (you and I) are the 1% that you seem to detest, the other 99% of the population of Earth live in abject poverty in comparision to us, but don't let that knowledge ruin your day as you wake up in a nice warm dry house, eat a nice breakfast, drive to work (?), and tap away on a computer worth more that most Earthlings annual salaries.I guess people forget that ECHELON has existed since the 1960's.

PRISM etc is just an extension of the same larger program.Fair questions.

Why aren't CIA/NSA/ASIO agents names, DOB, home address, photos etc in a freely available data base for all and sundry to look at regardless of where they live in the world.

After all the Russian Federation, Germans and Chinese all have freely available data bases of all their agents, moles, brought off lackies etc..... don't they?

Secrets...who needs them! not us!Hi Dove,

You say "For others, the state is an extension of the population and exists only to serve, service or execute the will of some population".

That is one definition i'd agree with.

And for the security agencies that operate as part of such a state they must be enabled to do what needs to be done to ensure the state can serve the population and provide for them so that they continue to live in the manner to which they are acustomed to live, even if a few of the population have an idelogical objection to the activities of the security agencies as Mr Snowden, Ms Manning and others have shown to have.

Serving your nations security agencies up on a plater to your geopolitical and economic competitors does your own population no service.Blax5,

Considering current geopolitical events in Ukriane (and Moldovia and Georgia), Germany's close dependence on Russian gas, the current (and previous) German Chancellors close relationship to Mr Putin and her previous position as member of the USSR controlled East German Government who do you think told the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND) of their activities?

the Russians perhaps?

why do you think the CIA was monitoring the security services of the Germans and their political establishment?

Do you think that geopolitics ended in the 1990's?Blax5 you ask "What's geopolitics?"... basically what every nation on Earth does in order to try to provide the best standard of living for their population (or an elite segement of the population depending on the nation involved).

It has been going on since the time of the first empires.

Your statement "Germans have a lot more in common with Russians than with Americans." is quite true... hense the need to have the major NATO partner keep tabs on them lest their behaviour begins to seriously hinder the alliance with includes all of the nations of Europe (not just Germany) and negatively impact on the security and prosperty of the member states.

One rotten egg can do a lot of damage to an alliance like NATO.Zing,

Quite right, some members of the Japanese military even attempted a coup over the Emperor and attempted to capture him. 

He however managed to hide until the coup failed, and then announced the surrender of Japan.Brett,

The figures for casualties in the Dresden bombing / firestorm remain contentious with David Irvings figure being the utter maximum and the current estimates of 25,000 being currently politically acceptable to the EU member nations.

The problem is that vast numbers of refugees had fled to Dresden whom had not been counted and as such no one will ever really know the full toll.

Such is the price of Total War, ....lest we forget.Jasmine,

So in your mind the terminally ill must die a horrifically slow and painful death just in case their decision to end their own suffering might somehow impact on some imaginary "community morale" that you have dreamed up?

Please take this topic seriously in the future, you never know,... one day you might just be suffering a painful and slow death from a terminal illness.Being sad/depressed is very different from dying a slow and horrifically painful death from a terminal illness AJS.

Try to learn to distinguish between the two.JimmyD,

Please note that people (consenting adults) already have the right to refuse medical treatment and die if that is what they really want.

Certainly the terminally ill who are suffering a painful death should be allowed to die if that is what they choose.

Certainly society should do everything it can to help those who are sad/depressed and are not terminally ill.

Hi Peter,

You provide an interesting statistic.

Australians are responsible for 1.5% of global emissions, yet our population only makes up 0.3% of the global population.

I guess we better take responsibility for our own emission then.

ps. don't try to suck the life out of this planet and make it uninhabitable for future generations with your personal greed and self serving statements.Well Well,

You are sorely mistaken."There ain't been any 'global warming' for +17 years"

Except of course for the global warming.Great points Dove,

Its it amazing what multinational corporations can do for world peace.

John Lennon thought all we need is love, he was wrong... all we needed was a part of levis, some drain cleaner and barely intelligible acting.

In the immortal words of Rambo "uuhhhh caannn brrfggthh uurrggmaaathhh ihhh"... says it all really doesn't it.Ahhh we didn't back the Jihadists... we back the pro democracy movement fighting the Assad hereditary dictatorship and the jihadists."...opportunity to work with Iran and Syria"

You mean work with Russia again?

Note, the enemy of my enemy isn't always my friend.

Though, what's a few dictators between friends right?I'm sure the same "festival of dangerous ideas" would have also enjoyed allowing a neo nazi to spout eugenics nonsense in support of aryan superiority.

After all it is not like any harm ever came from people suggesting some folks are "untermensch" (sub human).... or that it is perfectly ok to kill women folk who fall in love and don't marry the man of her fathers dreams.

Sometimes common sense has to be used.

ps. I did laugh at Mr Badar complaining about his free speech being blocked considering under his ideal society (an Islamic Caliphate) no one would be allowed to have free speech.Noirmoi,

You suggest that "western countries and 'enlightened' societies, delight in our indignation over something we do not, and probably can never understand"

Yet you forget that for thousands of years western society also advocated 'honour' killings as western society also held the view that women are the property of men. Learn about the "crimes of passion" that formed part of the  Napoleonic Code of 1804 (a mere two hundred years ago) which allowed a man to kill a women.

Our western society fought damn hard for women not be the property of men, our society beat back the retarded opinions of our religious leaders and elites to enable us to have the freedoms we currently have.

And yes, unenlightened societies may decry our freedoms and what we sacrificed to attain those freedoms, but we will find such attempts to decry our freedoms repugnant.

Lastly you say "Never let education, expansion, or understanding get in the way of our moral superciliousness".... oh how I agree with you ... but not in the way you imagine.The Islamic Caliphate that Mr Badar advocates openly states (online) that it justifys many types of killing (of apostates, innocent civilians, Israelis, women, children).

As such his ideas are freely available for all to see.

He certainly doesn't need a platform here in Australia to promote such repugnant view.LB,

I see you have been disgesting Russian state media.

No 'coup d'etat' occured in Ukraine. A protest movement against the decision to have closer economic ties to Russia (and not Europe) occured. The ex president eventually ordered the murder of 100 or so protestors using snipers. The ex presidents own party memebers in the parliament couldn't stomach such an atrosity and no longer supported him. The ex president then fled to Russia (with Billions). The parliament then formed a coalition government and shared cabinet based on the proportion of their parties seats in parliament.

New presidential elections were held. The moderate businessman (a chocolate maker) won in a first round landslide victory on a platform of closer economic ties with Europe and reducing endemic corruption in Ukraine.

The Russian Federation then undertook an invasion of Ukraine (after their illegal annexation of Crimea) using GRU/FSB operatives, special forces, mercenaries and regular forces of the Russian Federation.

Thousand of Ukrainians and Russians would be alive if Russia had respected the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the will of the Ukrainian people at its parliament. Thousands more would be uninjured. Hundreds of thounsands would not be displaced. Eastern Ukraine would not be devasted from fighting and intentional infrastructure damage by the Russian Federation forces (to create the 'humanitarian situation' the Russian Federation desired to exist).

Civilians are sadly the casualties in any conflict. Stop the Russian invasion and you stop the casualties.

ps. new parliamentary elections are scheduled for October.It is hardly surprising considering that Matthew recently suggested such nonsense that Stalin was a great man who the west owed a debt of gratitute to for enabling the start of WW2 (and participating in the invasion of Poland) in the hope Europe would consume itself leaving weakend from his own expansionistic plans for creating a global workers paradise under his personal control.

Rememeber his is a man who once swam into a raging torent to a calf trapped on an island, in front of all of his friends.... only to break all of its legs and then leave it there to die slowly.

No wonder he went on to cause the death of 20,000,000+ human beings.

That type of person is evil and not someone to be respected.

Matthew has a poor sense of right and wrong in my opinion.Francie,

Ukraine has asked for help.

They have been invaded by the Russian Federation and are asked the world to help them help themselves. They are not asking others to fight for them... they just need assistance with secure communications, protection for their troops, food, loans etc.

But most of all... they ask the world to pressure Mr Putin to cease his invasion of their nations, because what they really want is peace and the right to do business with whom ever they choose.

The reality is effective sectorial sanctions will compel Mr Putin to cease his invasion of Ukraine because the Russian Federation economy is weak right now and there is still some semblance of democracy and opposition in Russia (for now).Andrew,

You say "The last 2 world wars began with conflicts like this. This one will not just go away, it will get bigger unless its nipped in the bud now"

True, this has been building for years... Georgia, Moldovia, Chechneya, Dagestan are other recent victims of Russian Federation military invasions.

However NATO does not need to put troop into Ukraine. All that needs to happen is that Ukraine gets the assistance they have been asking for for months now(helmets, bullet proof vests, food, loans etc) and most importantly that the west implements full and effective sectorial sanctions against Russia (which can include the global seizure of Russian assets).Cyn

You say "doing something that they know will enrage that neighbor like inviting in or trying to join an opposing alliance was a stupid idea"

Ukraine was not invited into any alliance. Russia invaded because they wanted to have closer economic ties with Europe. 

There was no offer to join the EU or NATO.

Surely the Ukrainians, like any other nation, should be free to choose who they can do business with?Though, for all his faults, Mr G Bush Jnr did manage to halt Mr Putins invasion of Georgia by simply flying 100 USA military personel into Tbilisi and said to Mr Putin they are there on a humanitarian mission.

Whether or not Putin is prepared to directly engage USA troops and risk the escation that would ensure with a republican leadership of the USA it would be hard to tell.

Though he seems to view the Obama leadership as lacking on foreign policy (like everyone else does)."But we can damn sure go there and blow folks up. If the US says it is OK."

Particularly if not going there threatens to increase the price of fossil fuels upon which global economies currently rely."Are our enemy's enemy our enemy too?"

Yes, that is quite common in history.Moi,

You say "the US is not seeking Syrian permission to bomb IS and that is illegal under the UN Charter"

That is no problem as the Russian Federation's actions in Ukraine has provided the US (and any other country for that matter) the same ability to simply ignore the UN Charter and International Law so that they can simply do as they please.

If the Assad dictatorship is unhappy with USA aircraft destroying his ememies then he can always attempt to shoot them down with the advanced airdefense systems supplied to Assad by the Russian Federation.Peter,

I for one am overjoyed to hear you would like to see Australia stop borrowing money just to so we can pay vastly wealth multinational corporations huge subsidies as they engage in the extraction and sale of our resources.Dove,

A fair point, we even could be paying for aid and the pensions from consolidated revenue and are borrowing money to provide those massive subsidies we pay to the incredibly wealthy multinational mining organisations operating in Australia.

Like you say, it is hard to know."How does the UN regulate ISIS, or Hamas, or Hezbollah, or Russian separatists in the Ukraine? Or Blackwater, BP and Halliburton for that matter?"

A fair question.

The UN regulates the Russian Federation forces (aka Russian 'separatists' in the Ukraine) by allowing the Russian Federation to veto anything it likes in the UN security council. The same can be said for the Russian Federation controlled proxies of Hamas &amp; Hezbollah (courtesy of their Iranian puppet).

Blackwater doesn't exist anymore (try Xe Services now renamed Academi), BP sells fossil fuels, and Halliburton just specialised in ripping off the USA taxpayer by supplying food etc to non existent US soldiers.

ps. Everyone is too dependant upon fossil fuel supplies to regulate ISIS's sponsors.GrumpiSkeptic,

You justify dictatorships by suggesting "However, these are functioning societies where people can still go to work, get paid"

I guess we should never have wanted more when we lived in fuedal times, after all we all had work (as in effect slaves to the lord) and got paid (enough to almost, but not quite, feed a family).

Could it be that after the removal of the dictators you mentioned that the people of those nations had a massive opportunity to create a better life and a better nation but instead they made a choice to squander their huge opportunity by choosing to undertake sectarian violence based on religious division. As you stated "Then they began fighting each other". Though there was no need to do so.

Gettting the Russian Federation proxies of Iran and Syria to "help out" will do nothing but continue to provide the basis for the current divisive behaviours in the region as it is Russia's geopolitical interests to keep the region destablised for their own economic prosperity and perhaps more importantly to ensure that Russia is able to continue to dominate the supply of key fossil fuels to Europe which ensures that Europe continues to abdicate its national security (in this case energy security) to the Russian Federation which by itself allows the Russian Federation to continue with their geopolitical policy of military based expansion into what they terms as their "near abroad" (aka Ukriane, Chechney, Georgia, Dagestan, Moldovia, and also Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Finland are in the firing line).

Remember nothing occurs in issolation......JohnnoH,

You suggest "A legal case for interevention into Syria and Iraq must come from the UN Security council."

The Russian Federation will not allow that to occur.

The Russian Federation directly benefits from the current situation of a highly destablised middle east as that allows them to dominate the market to supply the EU with key fossil fuels. 

With a destablised middle east and dominance in the EU energy market the Russian Federation can continue to hold the EU nations to ransom because the EU has abdicated their energy security to the Russian Federation.

This allows the Russian Federation to continue to persue their stated geopolitical goal of absorbing their 'near abroad' (aka the next door countries) through military operations.

As the events in Georgia, Dagestan, Chechneya, Moldovia and now Ukraine show the Russian Federation can do as it wishes militarially in its 'near abroad' and it knows there will not be any real consequence as the EU (and therefore NATO) is utterly dependent upon the Russian Federation for its energy security (ie. European politicians know they will not be re-elected by a cold electorate lacking gas supplies).

Until the EU is able to once again take control of its own energy security you will continue to see a destablised middle east and an increasely assertive Russian Federation via its Iranian and Syrian proxies (and their proxies).

Do remember that 'Islamic State' was/is in part a response to the very pro Iranian (huge understatement) leader of Iraq (who now resigned, which paves the USA to let itself become involved again) and the Syrian regime.Dove,

Consider first the geopolitical isses at stake.

USA military operations in Iraq could only occur once the Iranian backed leadership of Iraq was fundamentally altered (ie. the leader resigned). Otherwise the USA would be effectively doing the geopolitical bidding of the Russian Federation to its own geopolitical detriment. Note that the resources from here are of a strategically critical nature to the USA which is why they remain committed to this location.

USA military operations could not occur in Syria as the Russian Federation has based warships in their Syrian port and supplied the Syrian regime with advanced air defence weapons which would nullify the only real advantage the USA has in warfare. The ability to project power over key global supply routes is of such a critical nature to the Russian Federation that direct intervention was made by the Russian Federation to support their Syrian proxy which was sufficient to ensure the the USA would not risk direct conflict with the Russian Federation.

The UN has been active in Congo (note the UN various peacekeepers operating there being the current MONUSCO one which took over from the earlier MONUC one, about 20,000 UN troops deployed). This however is a difficult operation as many of the problems relate to the geopolitical activities of the Chinese who are seeking to control access to key resources without a direct military intervention by funding regional forces operating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The resources here are of stragetic importance to the USA but are also available to the USA via their own supply base.

The west has taken a softer approach in the asian region, in particular in Burma and has made diplomatic gains with the Burmese Junta which has very close ties with the Chinese. The resources here aren't of highly strategic nature, which is why a softer approach has been taken.

You ask "Or does, as I suspect, humanitarianism only kick in if it complements the strategic aims of the alliance". You are of course entirely correct. For it to be otherwise in the current geopolitical environment of this planet would be foolish. 

Perhaps with a united planetary population humanitarianism can occur for other reasons, but until then geopolitical requirements and national security will dominate all decisions made by the superpowers of this planet.

To paraphrase a famous quote, "I love the smell of steel in the morning" .... don't you?"Here it is 100 years since the anniversary of World War I and what have we learned?"

That the control over access to stragetic resources of importance to the national security of superpowers will always be of prime importance.

As it has always been, ... as it will always be .... until we unite as a single population.

World peace will only occur when humans can't find a reason to fight over the access to resources. After all we are a morally frail species that is inherently greedy (which is also why we are the most successful apex predator species of this planet).Are you suggesting that western economic prosperity isn't worth fighting for?

What occurs to western economies when oil prices skyrocket?

Which nations currently dominate the control over the supply of fossil fuels to the USA and to the EU (a clue, it is the Russian Federation and its proxies in the middle east, and the proxies of the EU and USA in the middle east).

Do you think voters in the EU will vote to re-elect a politician who took actions that saw the Russian Federation cut gas supplies to Europe that caused the voters to tremble with cold over winter?

Do you think voters in the USA will vote to re-elect a politician who took actions (or was inactive) that saw the price of oil rise so much that the economy faltered and jobs etc were lost?

Poor, hungry and cold voters don't normally vote for the encumbant.Interesting idea, I'm sure the Saudi's would love to have total dominance over the control of access to the regions fossil fuel reserves.

I'm not so certain the superpowers would like to become even more dependent upon the Saudi royal family for their national security (via energy security).

As for Syria, Russian Federation forces deployed in Syria prevent any operation by any 'coalition forces'.EM Laidly,

Call yourself a peasant if you wish.

I'm educated rather well thank you, so much so I am able to determine that doctrines stemming from an iron age canaanite mythology are based on ignorance.

Do note that the deregulated free market has enabled the humans species to live much better than the markets previously controlled by the religious orders.

How does a creationist reconcile themselves to the fundamentals of climate science which disproves creationism?Hi EM Laidly,

If George Pell isn't a creationist then he rejects creation, ie. he rejects the premise that his god (the iron age canaanite deity called Yahweh) created everything.

The same goes for any believer in any of the 40,000+ Abrahamic faiths.Hi Graazt,

You point out that the broaders, less fundamental, creationist proposition is simply that one of 60+ demi god (children of the gods El &amp; Asherah) from the early iron age canaanite mythology who goes by the name of Yahweh (aka. the Abrahamic 'god') created this universe.

The scientific method has already been able to determine that a early iron age canaanite demi god did not create this universe.

May I suggest creationists (fundamentalists or otherwise) turn their minds towards the investigation the current level of scientific knowledge relating to this universe, other universes, the multidimensional nature of universes and the multiverse(s).

I do however realise the proposition of "an iron age god from a polythiestic religion did it" is compelling as you don't have to think very hard.Hi Ann,

Whether a creationist believes in the absurd concept that an iron age demi god from the polythiestic canaanite mythology called Yahweh created the universe at some point in time, or the more absurd 'young earth' creationist theory that creation happened 6,000 years ago, doesn't alter the fact both 'viewpoints' are creationist ones based on an iron age mythology instead of scientific fact.

It is not 'tricky'... it is called common sense.Hi HaroldHopes,

I see you are struggling with comprehending what Dawkins was saying. Perhaps I can help.

Nothing is a thing. You see if you removed all the stars, atoms and subatomic particles from this universe so that there was nothing and then you were spun around you would still feel the sensation of spinning because you were spinning in relation to something, and that something is called space/time, which is the fabric of this universe. So when you remove everything so that there is nothing, the nothing is still a thing (aka 'space/time').

However you seem to have become further confused. The nothing (aka. space/time) is a result of naturally and regularly occuring events within a higher dimensionality called the 'Bulk' (refered to as the 'multiverse' as well). Events within the Bulk caused the, and the expansion of, what is termed the singularity, the singularity being the earliest existence of the fabric of this universe which is of course 'space/time'.

Fortunately within this universe 'space/time' wasn't uniform, which allowed sub atomic particles to begin to group together. This grouping together caused the warping of the fabric of the universe (aka 'space/time') - just like a ball would do if placed on a sheet of rubber. Because the fabric of the universe was warped more and more sub atomic particles gathered at these locations/warps.

Over time nebula formed, then stars.... the rest is nearly 14 billion years of history.

It is all pretty simple stuff really, a bit more complex than "oh an iron age god called Yahweh did it" I admit, but not too complex all the same.

Just remember that things (sub atomic particles and anti particles) are constantly and continuously spontaneously appearing out of nothing, and generally destroy themselves just as quickly. Please learn about the Casimir Effect.

I would also point out that you and I are in effect made of nothing. You maybe aware that we are made of atomic particles, and that atomic particles are in effect mere wave functions until the decohere due to observation, so you and I are nothing more than a series of wave functions without any physical properties (until observed).

Furthermore those wave functions are fundamentally nothing more than a series of quantum vibrations caused by the vibrations of strings which themselves are a result of the oscillations of multidimensional Calabi-Yau manifolds.

And lastly .... a Calabi-Yau manifold is manifestly and fundamentally, likely to be, nothing more than a 'holographic' projection of this particular universes information horizon.

It may have been fine to say "yahweh did it" in the early iron age but there is literally no excuse now."Clearly any claim that it is about the spiritual and pastoral care of its parishioners has not been upheld by the evidence to date"

Personally I would have thought that was rather obvious from the activities throughout history, consider a peasants servitude to the church, inquisitions, witch burnings, the practice of selling indulgences, the entire reformation period, religious practices during the period of global colonisation.

You state "Most of the religious are good people", I would suggest the correct statement is "Most people are good people" (and that is inspite of their religious indoctrination for many)."It needs to focus on its customers otherwise it won't have any"

Quite true.

Though like any business activity it should be taxed and held to account for the actions of its staff/agents.

"everlasting paradise! come and get it here! everlasting paradise!!... you'll burn for eternity without it!... come and get your everlasting paradise here!"Rinaldo,

The fear of death is as powerful as ever it seems.

Remember that is the commodity on offer by the Catholic Church,... ever lasting paradise (not a good life now).Dr M Bird suggest "The problem of evil is not simply a religious problem; it's a human one. And if the common denominator is humans themselves, then you can hardly chastise those of us who look to God for inspiration, courage, compassion, and strength to resist evil and even to rescue those imprisoned by it."

But in doing so he fails his own test. Religion is a human construct, and as such offers no inspiration, courage, strength or compassion. Religion is its own prison, a prison of the mind.

Religion merely is another grouping (just like the National Socialist, Communists) constructed by humans to distinguish themselves from other humans in a method of self agrandisment to the expense of others (i'm sure you have heard the phrase "holier than thou"?).

By removing subgroups, be it religious or otherwise (like nationalism), we remove the artifical lines that particular leaders attempt to use to control the masses for their own ends.

Remove religion and there is no artificial lines between humanity, remove nationalism and there will be even fewer lines, remove them both and you could finally unite the human species for the betterment of all.

No amount of religious theological ramblings will alter the fact that the 'true sum of religion' is division of the human species and the evil that ensues from such division.Hi Frangipani,

It is rather horrifying to see some can't learn from history and see the dangers of Nationalism (in particualar the 1930's but also throughout history) and Religion (in particular the entire levant for the last few thousand years, the reformation period in europe, and throughout history).

If humanity can accept we are all just mere humans then the other lines you identified, that some (though far from all) humans use to attempt to distinguish themselves from others, will be utterly irrelevant.

Please answer this questions, do you have a favourite colour? would you discriminate against another person who like a different colour? would you choose to group yourself with only people who like the same colour as you?

There are many "lines" upon which you can attempt to distinguish yourself from other humans Frangipani, but some are much more dangerous than others.Hi Scott,

Hospitals predate christianity.

All that christian theology and philosophy was an utter waste of time, ... primarily because the central tenant of it all is the concept that a early iron age Canaanite demi god (son of El &amp; Asherah) named Yahweh (brother to Ba'al and 59 other sibblings) is the one and only god.

If your central tenant is flawed then it is no wonder christianity has spent the last couple of thousand years attempting to subdue, discriminate, kill, dominate and control human beings for the self agrandisement of the christian leadership.Hi Scott,

The fact that hospital predate christianity precludes hospitals being used as an example of religious activities, because as such it is an example of human activity not religious activity.

Yawheh (aka. 'god') is well known by all members of the Abrahamic faiths. Most I would argure are well aware of Yahwehs polytheistic beginings and in particular the association Abraham (another well known figure of the Abrahamic religions) is alleged to have had with the mythical demi god Yahweh (aka. 'god'). Yahweh (aka. 'god') is the centreal tenant of all the Abrahamic religions as without Yahweh (aka. 'god') there is no religion. As such you'd be hard pressed to suggest that Yahweh isn't "the central tenet of Christianity".

The scientific method is not astrology.

A basis for rationality that doesn't require mythology would included logic and reason, subjective as they maybe.

Evolution is the answer to your riddle relating to the religious concept of 'transcendent reason' (though it must be said that transcendent reason is just a religious construct which is a poorly constructed thought argue to attempt to sustain the religious argument that Yahweh actually exists despite the lack of evidence, proof ... and in particular the polythiestic canaanite beginnings of what is now argued - by the abrahamic faiths- to be a purely monotheistic super being).

Just remember those atoms are nothing more that a wave function that has decohered due to observation and that even the wave function itself is fundamentally nothing but the vibrations of a string caused by the oscillations of a multidimensional Calabi-Yau manifold, which itself may just be the 'holographic' projection of this particular universes information horizon. 

Please try not to reduce the answers down to "oh, a iron age canaanite demi god called Yahweh did it". I realise this can be hard, even Einstein said "I cannot believe that the Moon exists only because a mouse looks at it", though even that doesn't alter the nature of the multiverse.

Always happy to chat!

Kind regardsmaybe they can pick up some "boats" on their way? 

I hear Siberia is lovely this time of year, better than the pacific islands anyway by all accounts.Sitar.

Please do realise that RT is notorious for its fabrications.

The USA complaint was that the Russian fighters were buzzing the USA warship, that is all.

The RT article is pure BS at its worst relating to the April provocation by Russia.

As a dose of realism, an EMP powerful enough to shut down an Aegis radar would have shut down a whole of a lot more than that, it would effect a very wide area, pretty much every electrical/electronic system on the Black Sea coast. Also note that if what was claimed to have happened actually occurred the USS Donald Cook would have had to be towed to port.

I'm sorry but it didn't happen.... it is just RT doing what RT does, and you believed them.This mission is an amazing step for our species.

Not only will it provide key insights into the beginnings of our solar system but it also is a first step in the process of learning how to analyse asteroids/comets/NEO's to then be able to mine/extract key resources from them to enable the industrialisation (and later colonisation) of our solar system.I'd suggest that Australia has a wonderful opportunity in relation to the industrialisation (and colonisation) of our solar system.

We have enormous experience with mining / extracting resources, we have a pool of talented and skilled workers capable of working in remote conditions under hardships (gladly suffered), we already help design and build components for craft and systems and are ideally based for communications (which would be needed to control robotic and drone based mining operations).

Companies like Deep Space Industries and Planetary Resources provide a blue print on how we could mine and extract resources from asteroids/comets/NEO's which have enormous value in orbit (and back here on Earth).

I wonder whether we have the political will to reap the rewards on offer......Hi General Disarry.

As the mining of asteroids/comets/NEO's will be performed by robotic (or drone) satellites you won't be needing astronauts or people on those asteroids (primarily as because it makes no economic sense to do so).

The pool of talented and skilled workers I refer to includes workers which can be found in locations like Rio Tinto's Remote Operations Centre (and similar). Even people used to operating mining equipment (which is of course not done with hammers and spades any more) will be skilled in the use of such systems operated remotely (where drones are more appropriate).

In time humans may be required to assist with the industrialisation of space but initially it will be a remote affair.

And our work forces is well place to do this.Mt_Syd,

Asteroids will play a key role in the development of a space economy and be the main driver in allowing humanity to become a species that colonises this solar system

Water from asteroids will fuel the in space economy and habitation, by creating rocket fuel and consumable water from space, for space.

Rare metals will increase Earths GDP when mined from asteroids in our Solar System (the very same objects that brought them to Earth in the first place). For example a single platinum rich 500 meter wide asteroid contains about 174 times the yearly world output of platinum, and 1.5 times the known world reserves of platinum group metals (ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium, and platinum). These materials worth trillions make it economic to mine asteroids.

Companies intend to produce fuel in space from carbonaceous chondrites asteroids rich in water that can be broken down into highly efficient LOX/H2 rocket fuel. Rocket Fuel is an attractive early resource as a large market for fuel in space already exists, fuel will open the interplanetary equivalent of exploration era trade routes, fuel enables other resource mining operations in the future and mining in space is different than mining on Earth, and in some cases may be more simple. Do note that it costs around $20,000 to put 1kg of oxygen/fuel into orbit from Earth. It can be done cheaper using the same resources harvested from asteroids.

Many consider the goal of asteroid mining to be too capital intensive or too long in development to be economically feasible today, but investors in these companies think otherwise, so too do the worlds space agencies.

It won't be happening next year I agree... but it will happen, there is no turning back.Hi Mt_Syd.

No one had achieved a landing on a comet before,... until last night. There is a first time for everything isn't there. They even got within a meter or so of their targeted landing point on a comet that is spinning. Not bad flying....

As for setting up a fully robotic mining and refining operation, I can direct you too learn about the Rio Tinto Remote Operations Centre which operates (remotely) a massive mine replete with driverless trucks, remotely operated drill and blasting, automated train systems and remote train loading functions. Which in theory is really not to dissimilar to what would be needed in space, the robotic and remotely controlled reprocessing facilities and / or chemical foundries will be developed in situ as well.

The "problem" of getting goods back is similarly solved. Some of the goods (oxygen/hydrogen) will be simply used in space to power the systems and other locations like the ISS. Mined and refined resources can be quite easily returned to Earth in smaller parcels (ie. much like how humans return to Earth). Much of the future market will however be based in space itself.

ps. I don't believe anyone has ever suggested attempting to bring and asteroid into Earths atmosphere as they have a tendency to explode due to the friction of re-entry. For example the 20m wide asteroid that exploded over Russia in 2013 was moving at 66,000kph and released the energy of about 40 atom bombs. Which is why material (like platinum) would be returned in discrete parcels.Hi Mt_Syd.

May I recommend you take a moment to learn about how it will actually be done by visiting, say, the websites of such companies as Planetary Resources and in particular Deep Space Industries (and NASA).

The beauty of the process is its step by step nature and simplicity.Mitor.

Honestly I'd be stoked if some cleric issued a fatwah against it.

That would ensure less competition for those resources.

(ps. just hope they don't find an asteroid that resembles a giant spaghetti monster! having one shaped like a duck is dangerous enough for duck worshipping cults)."Only someone truly stupid would put that much financial input into something so esoteric and in some ways 'non-productive of anything truly beneficial for humanity and human beings"

Fortunately a clever leader realised that the future of our species is entirely dependent upon being able to extract and utilise the vast abundance of resources in the asteroid belt in order to be able to support our ever growing population.

This mission is just part and parcel of a group of missions that are being embarked upon which are the first steps to accomplish this critical goal.

Do also note how some very clever businesspeople (ie. Richard Branson) have been joining together to fun commercial entities that will develop the means to extract resources on a commercial basis from the asteroid belt to enable the industrialisation of the solar system, other companies have developed the means to then use those resources to manufacture the materials that will be needed to build the manufacturing plants etc (ie. chemical foundries will be needed to produce metals to build industries).

The USA Congress is currently looking to pass the ASTERIODS Act which will enable private enterprise to do the above.

Clever people......."The environs of space ought to be - if we're actually being clever about it; beyond the superficialities of nationality or country borders!!" - Under this Act they will continue to remain beyond the claims of nations. Asteroids will be simply treated as private property, as such the Act will do exactly what you hope and suggest.

Do note that anyone from planet Earth is allowed in invest into companies as a shareholder (or as a passive investor via a fund that invests in said company).

Greed, war and hatred is just a small component of the history of mankind. As last nights landing on the comet showed there is much more to mankind than what you think.

While those who wish to pursue war etc waste their time and resources others will be quietly and purposely going about the business of industrialising space (which is perhaps humanities most important task if we are to survive as a species in the long term).

The USA congress (and the promoters of this Act) have the foresight to understand this fundamental truth.NASA has an 'asteroid initiative' mission set which will identify a target asteroid and then capture that asteroid and place it into orbit between the Earth and the Moon.

The primary goals of this initiative are two fold.

Firstly to understand some of the processes required that will enable the extraction of resources from asteroids and NEO's.

And secondly to provide a potential and viable solution to any NEO's identified as impact risks under the SENTRY system of the Near Earth Object Program.

So not only are they looking to develop the means to provide for our species over the long term but they are also looking to develop the means to protect our species from extinction level (and lesser) impacts here on Earth.

ps. though in future mining and the extract of resources (along with some processes like chemical foundries) will actually occur in situ and only the refined resources (oxygen, hydrogen, metals and minerals) will be transported from the asteroid site into near Earth orbit (or wherever the industry is being developed).The USA congress is currently looking to pass the ASTERIODS act which will enable private enterprise to take ownership of small celestial bodies (planets and moons are prevented from being owned by anyone by international agreement) like asteroids and comets.

This will then enable private enterprise to ability to fund the extraction of resources to enable the industrialisation (and later colonisation) of our solar system.

ps. if you have a spare $100k you can invest into the companies involved in this start up phase.Hi General Disarry.

Not immediately. It is a long term project.

For example, planetary resources is still in the process of testing the equipment (robotic satellite/probes) necessary for it to undertake the first step of analysing an asteroid and selecting an asteroid for mining. 

Their first prototype test flight was to have been launched from the ISI in a few months but unfortunately it was destroyed when the Antares rocket failed. However this was only an initial test flight vehicle and the second prototype (which is more advanced) flight is still on schedule.

As for obtaining a return on investment in the shorter term, the above company will be using their small compact satellite/probe design to provide cheap (and regular) communication services to communications providers on Earth. This business activity will provide cash flow to both the company and investors in the short term, while the main business activity of asteroid mining etc will not provide a return for quite some time (but the returns will be enormous when they do).

Kind regards"have been launched from the ISI" please read "launched from the ISS"
Sue.

Women are allowed to invest in these companies too you know."So why, why, why?, are so many dollars spent on external global adventures,"

Quite simply.... because the long term future of our species is singularly dependent upon our species being able to harvest the abundance of resources found in asteroids / comets / NEO's.

ps. large asteroids will make perfect habitats for colonists as they have sufficient depth to ensure cosmic rays and radiation do not penetrate to the biosphere and come into contact with the human inhabitants.Why Bother,

The projected development of the industries associated with the mining of asteroids and the industrialisation of space will be largely funded by private enterprise.

There will also be substantial benefits for nation states involved in space activities. For example the cost of transporting resources (fuel, oxygen) to the ISS is currently tremendous, around $20,000+ per KG.

So the ability of private enterprise to extract materials like oxygen and hydrogen from asteroids and sell it to the ISS patron states at substantially cheaper prices will benefit the taxpayers of those nation states and the shareholders of the companies involved in the mining activities.

Current investors in Planetary Resources (as one example) include Sir Richard Branson, Ross Perot Jnr, Larry Page, Charles Simonyi, the OS Fund, Sherpalo Ventures. They have put their money behind this company, .... and when SEC rules change you too can put your money into this company (assuming you can't get $100k which would allow you to invest now).Keyboard warrior.

The 4.5 billion year history of planet Earth clearly demonstrates one thing.

Asteroids/Comets/NEO's regularly and routinely impact on this planet (you will of course recall the recent event in Russia where a very very tiny asteroid generated an enormous explosion), and those impacts from time to time cause extinction level events.

Our species will not survive an extinction level impact.

As such, and for no other reason (though there are others), we have no choice but to 'hedge our bets' by colonising our solar system (primarily in orbital settlements) if our species is to have a viable long term future.

That is as real as you get.Hi Lift It Aunty.

Unlike some I only post under the one pseudonym.

And of course I am more than happy to politely discuss with you this, and other topics.

Personally I see the industrialisation of space and obtaining resources for our species from the asteroid belt as a direct way of protecting (and repairing) our planet by ensuring that we do not need to extract resources from Earth, that we no longer squabble of the ability to control access to strategic resources, and thus we can limit the damage we do to this planet by our existence.

Similarly the industrialisation of space will require power, which will primarily be generated from solar power, and a spin off of this (according to scientists) is that excess power can be beamed back to earth via microwaves so that this energy/electricity can be used on Earth. Which of course will mean we will have a source of energy on Earth which does absolutely no harm to our environment.

I'm a greenie at heart, I see technology and science as a solution to many of our pressing problems associated with the use of earths finite resources and ever expanding population.

The solution exists.... just look up.

Kind regards."All well and good... but what happens when the millions of years balance (of sorts) that exists in the asteroid belt is upset by the removal of more and more of it's mass?" - sod all. 

Simply because we would be unable to remove sufficient mass to make any difference on scales that would impact on the celestial bodies of the solar system.

Dr Pat.

I like our species.

Therefore I believe it should survive, and we should all work towards its long term survival.

Kind regards.Dave.

True, historically on this planet every significant/dominant species has eventually succumbed to the regular and inevitable extinction level event on this planet.

Which by itself is a good reason to colonise the solar system.

By the way, it has been estimated that the resources in the asteroid belt are sufficient to support a human population in the trillions for the foreseeable future.TV,

can they then feed, water, and provide for the resulting population increase?

the problems of Africa predominately relate to corruption and the inequitable distribution of resources.It may not directly cure cancer... that is true.

It however is a step the process being undertaken and by governments and the private sector to ensure our species has the ability to obtained resources from the asteroid belt. We will need them one day, Earths resources (and space) is limited after all.

The solution to many of our species pressing problems exist in this process and the process of industrialising (and colonising) space.

ps. one of the immediate spin off applications of Planetary Resources plans to mine the asteroid belt is the launching of cheap communications satellites which will provide (amongst other things) cheap and faster internet.I personally believe there are more than enough sensible people on this planet to ensure it will all turn out ok for our species.

It has done so far after all.Stirrer.

No one is advocating war.

People are advocating that nations regain control over their energy security and simply refuse to enable the current Russian authoritarian leader to continue with his current (and stated) geopolitical agenda of expansion by military means by simply not doing business with certain Russian companies and/or provide the capital and expertise needed to develop the Russian economy.Gary.

You mean the whole of Crimea or just the naval base which was still being leased to Russia? If the naval base is his only concern why invade Donetsk and Luhansk regions? You do realise a second black sea naval base in Novorossiysk, Krasnodar Krai, Russia will be ready in 2016 don't you?

Why did Putin need to invade Chechnya? Dagestan? Georgia? Moldavia? Why does Russia still occupy Kaliningrad?

Where is the west pushing? The last time I looked the EU hasn't invaded any European nations, though many independent nations that suffered under Russian rule have now sort the EU's protection from Russian (undue) influence.Stephen.

At no point has any government of Ukraine suggested ending the lease of the Sevastopol port to Russia.

Though... if they had decided to do that (not that they ever did) it would have been well within their rights.

Just like how the UK had to hand Hong Kong back to China when its lease ran out.Due to the recent reduction in demand of Russian fossil fuels (due to a change in the EU posture) Russia was effectively forced to sign a gas deal with China that was incredibly favourable to China (a deal that they had been working on for years).

Which is a clear demonstration of what you say Zing. China was able to be capricious and assertive as you claimed they would be because the Russians needed them more than China needed their gas.

The massive increase in USA fossil fuel output (which has caused a huge drop in crude prices) has by itself devastated the Russian economy.Stephen.

The Saudis have been cutting the prices in the USA in order to attempt to retain market share. They are also attempting to reduce the price to make USA shale oil uneconomic in order to retain market dominance in the USA.

It is just business. That is all.

Overall the drop in crude prices is a result of increased supply coming out of the USA.

Russia had been budgeting on crude being around $100 a barrel to maintain a budget surplus/break even. But now it is closer to $80 they are in an economic nightmare with reserves expended (they are now drawing down on the populations superannuation/pension reserve) to support their currency and maintain public spending.General Disarray.

Does your moral outrage extend to the killing of Ukrainians (eastern, western, southern and northern) by Russian Federation forces who have invaded Ukraine?

No?.......... thought not.Yesterday the OSCE mission observers registered the movement of record number of people in camouflage through the Ukrainian Russian border. In particular, about 630 people in military clothes entered Ukraine from Russia through the Donetsk checkpoint alone.

The OSCE monitors stated that the stepping up of the "militants" in the east of Ukraine may evidence the preparation of the offensive, especially in the area of Mariupol in the Donetsk region.

There is currently a meeting going on in the UN about the build up of additional Russian forces in Ukraine which are indicative of a resumption of their August offensive."Nobody is denying people from all over the world are supporting them.."

Indeed, .... around 170 men from the Russian Federation 439th Perekopsk, Order of Kutuzov, Guards Multiple Rocket Launcher Artillery Brigade were killed in Ukraine in an artillery counter battery strike yesterday.

Some people however are attempting to pretend this didn't occur."If Putin is so bad and for Russian standards he is moderate"

Actually that is the key issue here.

Putin is not a moderate.

All the moderates ended up in jail on bogus charges or are in exile (or dead).Matthew Dal Santo correction points out that "it's worth remembering his [Mr Putin] views are far from extreme in the spectrum of Russian politics."

Which by itself is an enormous indictment on the current state of Russian politics which has seen Mr Putin effectively jail or exile any and all moderate political opposition leaving the country in the hands of a group of nationalists and ultra extremist fringe parties.

Due to the behaviours of Mr Putin (and his political supporters) the west has begun to isolate Russian economically and ironically Russia has isolated themselves even further with their counter sanctions on imported foods from the EU (with the exception of Belarusian seafood).

It is perhaps important that the west continue to send the correct message (that military invasions of European and other nations is not appropriate) to Mr Putin and the elite in Russia that support him, ...it already appears that some of the elite in Russia are already dropping their support of Mr Putin considering how one of his inner circle has just had their wealth/assets/business nationalised by Mr Putin (as an example to other elites who would challenge Mr Putin's supremacy no doubt).Spot on Dove.

Getting consistence on the world stage is particularly difficult is it not.

Perhaps attempting to differentiate the behaviour of particular leaders from those of a particular nation state/population is the key.

ie. Putin is not Russia, and Russia is not Putin. Similarly Bush is not the USA, and the USA is not Bush.Hi Carbon.

I see you have had an overdose of RT.

what 'fascist Ukrainian government'? do you mean the moderate president who was voted in on a landslide on a platform of closer economic ties with the EU and ending corruption? or do you mean the moderates who were voted into power in last months parliamentary elections (noting that both the communists and nationalists failed to gain sufficient votes to get into parliament).

It has already been established that the BUK owned, operated and controlled by the Russian Federation 53rd Air Defence brigade Kursk shot down MH17 with the SA-11 radar guided missile with its stand off fragmentation warhead.

ps. The Russian designer of the SU25 already debunked the Russian fabricated story that a SU25 shot down MH17.
Frangipani.

The conspiracy theories of course will not mention that fighter jets are armed with heat seeking missiles (that target heat from engines), where as MH17 was destroyed by a radar guided missile with a stand off fragmentation warhead that detonated to the right front of the aircraft (primarily in the region of the cockpit)

They may as well suggest martians shot down MH17.

Actually the evidence does conclude the Russian 53rd 'BUK' air defence brigade Kursk was responsible for shooting down MH17, these weapons are highly complex and require a great deal of training to use (something that yahoos wouldn't be able to do).Sorry to burst your bubble here Pete.

But based on my experiences living around the world this nation (Australia) and this and the prior government are both massively socialist in nature due to the huge social security support they provide to the population (in particular to average families).

There is really nothing neo-con tea party about any major Australia political party."As for his current popularity within Russia"....

It also has a lot to do with the jailing (and / or exiling) of virtually any and all moderate political opposition on bogus charges.

Not to mention the assassination of any outspoken journalist or commentator who criticises the Putin government.

For example Putin critic Alexei Devotchenko was found brutally murdered in his Moscow apartment last week.JMJ.

Who is Putin's political opposition? (not counting those in jail on bogus charges or in exile or dead).

Who controls all the media in Russia?
Great post Left Right Out.

You also mention "both countries [Russia and Ukraine] has Ultranationalist, radical right-wing movements, both are marked by corruption and lingering problems"

In Ukraine the prior elected PM's consisted of a group of nationalists who received around 13% of the popular vote (similar to that in Russia). 

However in the presidential elections this year the nationalist candidate got less that 1% of the vote and the moderate chocolate maker got around 54% of the vote and came to hold the position of president. 

Similarly in last months parliamentary elections the nationalist party faired badly and failed to gain the necessary 5% of the vote to enter parliament (just like the communist party which failed to gain enough votes for the first time since independence).

There has been a remarkable change in Ukrainian political thinking by the population (from a relatively high level of political extremism to now one based around moderates) one that has shown a maturity and inclusiveness that bodes well for its future.

The major winners in both the parliamentary and presidential elections ran on a platform of closer economic ties to the EU, reducing corruption, improving the economy, and attempting to find a peaceful solution to the current (not the first) Russian invasion of Ukraine.Endemic corruption, nepotism, abuse of power, rejection of the rule of law and rights of the population.

No thanks!Ukraine has been invaded twice by Russia within the last 100 years as well.

Similarly Romania/Moldavia has suffered two annexations.

Kaliningrad remains occupied as well.

The entire Baltic coastal nations are also well versed with being subjected to Russia invasions.

These countries consider themselves to be free and independent nations, .... not "Buffer States" of Russia."Recent hysteria about Russian ships heading to Australia are further evidence of this"

The ABC merely reported that a Russian military vessel is currently in the region, they also pointed out that this is normal practice when Mr Putin or their PM is visiting other nations.

Try not to become to hysterical about a minor news item.Sorry Rinaldo.

I rarely watch the nightly news as it is mainly advertorials.

and as you point out ... sensational headlines to suck people into watching the adds between "stories".

I'd argue what you watched wasn't "news", but adverts.

meanwhile.... the Russians warship is continuing Russian SOP whenever a major Russian head of state is off visiting another nation.Quite so Jerry.

The fact that electrons only have a probable location and that the probability of the current location of any one electron (that is part of us) includes probabilities that include the other side of the universe is strange .... and yet true.

A part of each of us, at times, is probably spread out over the universe.

Also the fact that wave particle duality dictates that until observed a particle is merely a wave function ,.... hence until we are observed we are merely wave functions.

So in essence we are merely ethereal and spread across the universe (at times).

Now that to me is truly amazing.Hi Bazza,

What you have said is pretty much spot on.

At no point is an intelligent observer required so to speak.

But I would suggest you have misinterpreted the ramifications of the double slit experiment which directly provide an example of the how a particle is not a solid and specific object but instead a wave function that interacts with itself as it passes through both slits causing the wave to create in effect multiple waves which when measured result in multiple locations being observed due to the way in which waves interact with themselves. Something that doesn't occur when a particle / wave function passes through a single slit.

The ramification is that the particle is not a solid object. It is a wave (or to use lay terms, an ethereal thing) until it has decohered.

As for being spread out over areas beyond where we consider ourselves to be, we should consider how the electron cloud is a region inside the potential well where each electron forms a type of three dimensional standing wave. This potential well includes regions beyond where 'we are' at times.

I won't even bother mentioning how virtual particles are constantly appearing in our 4D space/time and instantly annihilating themselves with their antiparticle pair, or with at times they become 'real' particles. We see this with the Casimir force.

Though of course string theories suggest we are all nothing more than a series of vibrations.

I certainly agree that there is nothing mystical about any of this. It in fact makes perfect sense and is entirely logical.

ps. I also like how most people think that they are solid objects, yet when you consider the size of space in relation to an atoms nucleus and its associated electron(s) we are really just empty space.Hi Mitor.

Einstein, like you, disliked wave particle duality. He made reference to this when he asked "Do you really believe the moon is there only when you look at it?". But in the end he was wrong.

Most physicists believe that experiments like the double slit experiment suggest that a particle really can become delocalised in space. There is a sense in which the particle is in all these different places at once, but they worry about saying this is that there still is only one particle. So perhaps the wave function describes a physical wave in space along which the particle is spread out like goo, we never see this particle goo because somehow it contracts to one point when we make a measurement. Though some physicists suggest that this is in fact indicative of the multidimensional nature of space time and particles whereby in separate dimensions (to the standard 4) the particle has already arrived at all potential locations (in separate dimensions) and the measurement of the particle merely decoheres that particular dimension.

Which is similar (but not necessarily the same) as the curious results associated with quantum entanglement and quantum teleportation whereby the information is transferred at beyond FTL speeds, arguably by using other dimensions which are not subject to the limitations of the 4th dimension (aka 'Time').

ps. it is only decohered because you looked at it.Don't worry Ben.

Prime numbers will still exist even when we have evolved enough to not have (or need) fingers (in some very distant time).Are prime numbers (as well as integral and differential calculus) dependent on our having a base10 number system?

No.

You may recall that the English did not use the decimal system for quite a while but the prime numbers still occurred.

After all it doesn't matter how many fingers or appendages you have numbers are still numbers and math doesn't change."Matter and energy don't make themselves" - It happens all the time. Matter etc is constantly spontaneously appearing (and generally being annihilated immediately by its anti particle) in our 4 dimensional space/time.

"unless there is an actual experiment where this has been achieved that I missed" - Please learn about the Casimir effect and associated experiments which demonstrate this.

Quite right Stu.

Time always limits relative speeds within our 4d space/time to begin below that of FTL travel.

However interestingly quantum teleportation demonstrates (arguably) the multidimensional nature of our universe whereby information (entanglement) can occur at FTL speeds and beyond by simply not being part of or in the 4th dimension (time)."we can't forcefully or definitively say that this "god creature" doesn't exist."

Actually we have been able to disprove each and every single "god creature" dreamed up by mankind to date.

Be it the flying monkey gods of hindu mythology, Incan sun gods, and even the early iron age Canaanite demi god who went by the name of Yahweh (son of the gods El &amp; Asherah, brother to Ba'al and 59+ other siblings) whose story has altered over time to now be the one and only god in the Abrahamic faiths (excluding the holy ghost and JC, who make up the holy trinity that the 'one and only god' is alleged to be, of course).

Please feel free to suggest any particular god and I (and others I'm am sure) will provide you with sufficient evidence to disprove claims of its existence.We pretty much know how to do FTL.

We simply fold space/time, that way we don't need to breach the laws of physics as such.

For example the Alcubierre drive.

It is a speculative idea based on a solution of Einsteins field equations in general relativity as proposed by theoretical physicist Miguel Alcubierre. A spacecraft could achieve FTL if a configurable energy density field lower than that of vacuum could be created. Rather than exceeding the speed of light within its local frame of reference, a spacecraft would traverse distances by contracting space in front of it and expanding space behind it, resulting in effective FTL.

The energy requirements are much reduced too by altering the shape of the warp bubble from a sphere to a torus.Blzbob.

I too am a huge fan of the improbability drive.GRF,

People used to think you needed the mass/energy of Neptune to power a macroscopic space craft.

Later calculations showed that you only needed the mass/energy of something the size of the Voyager I space craft to power a macroscopic space craft.

That calculation was later reduced again when they realised that you just need to alter the shape of the warp bubble from a sphere to a torus.

Even more recent calculations using different warp bubble shapes have reduced the energy requirements again.

Please also note that once exotic energy sources have been discovered (ie. the tachyon) it will be relatively easy to obtain the necessary energy a normal sized spacecraft using an Alcubierre drive type system.oldfart,

Some good questions.

"is the universe in effect the product of a black hole?" - no, but some physicists have proposed that this universe could be a result of a white hole.

"are there multiple universes" - current and recent evidence strongly suggests that there are. For example various ripples in the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation map are alleged to provide evidence of impacts between this universe and other universes that exist with a higher dimensionality termed the "bulk" by string theorists (or the multiverse by others).As Hawking radiation is emitted by a black hole that would suggest that stuff and things (to use complex terminology) makes it into the black hole.

It is in effect particle - antiparticle radiation which is emitted from just beyond the event horizon. This radiation does not come directly from the black hole itself, but rather is a result of virtual particles being boosted by the black holes gravitation into becoming real particles. As the particle - antiparticle pair was produced by the black holes gravitational energy, the escape of one of the particles takes away some of the mass of the black hole.

In time sufficient Hawking radiation will be emitted to enable the evaporation of the black hole itself.

Do realise that in the insanely distant future when everything has been consumed by black holes that the black holes will evaporate in time - which will be largely meaningless by then.Blzbob.

It doesn't take an infinity for matter to travel from the event horizon to the singularity.

It takes a regular amount of time, for the matter to reach the singularity from the matters point of (relative) view.

For observers outside of the event horizon the time distortion caused by the warp in the fabric of space/time generated by the mass of the black hole would however cause the observer to think that it would take a greater amount of time for the matter to reach the singularity.

It is all relative."they are zapped the instant they cross the horizon. Dead, squashed in zero time."

Rubbish.

The event horizon is just the point of no return, it is not some magical point where the space-time warp caused by the mass of the singularity instantly crushes everything due to the vast amount of constant linear acceleration (aka Gravity) occurring."Even light leaving our sun takes longer to get to the suns surface than it does to travel from the sun to us."

Quite an amazing fact isn't it.It is in essence a part of the black hole as Hawking points out that all "information" (of anything and everything that has reached the event horizon) remains at the event horizon of a black hole and is not lost.

Which is why the holographic principle theorists came up with the idea that everything in this universe is just a 'holographic' projection of the information horizon of this one particular universe.Politically Incorrect.

Sorry, but I suspect you misread my post.

Please try again and perhaps learn about why the holographic principle was a result of Hawking's thoughts relating to information (relating to matter passing the event horizon) being retained at the event horizon of a black hole."Does relativistic time distortion mean nothing reaches the singularity because it takes forever to get there?"

It would appear so only to the outside observer.

To someone (something) falling towards the event horizon time would appear quite normal relative to them (it).

Relatively.... go figure.Hi Moi.

The same occurs in space as well.

Any space craft undergoing a constant linear acceleration also experiences the exact same relative change to time, quite simply because 'gravity' is merely the expression of constant linear acceleration within 4d space/time, be it constantly falling down a space/time warp caused by mass at a linearly accelerating rate, or be it constantly linearly accelerating through space/time in a space craft.
"So, space-time is not "made" of something"

we aren't sure of that.

for example if you could (not that you can) remove everything from space/time, ie. planets, stars, atoms, virtual particles etc, and you spun around you would still feel the sensation of spinning because you would be spinning in relation to something.... that something being space/time... something that is clearly real and made of something (even if we aren't really sure what it is ....yet)."The universe has always existed, it is just that it may not have always existed in this form."

Perhaps not.

It is postulated that naturally and regularly occurring interactions within the Bulk (multiverse) caused a transference of energy sufficiently large to generate the singularity which gave rise to the 'big bang' and this universe.yes they should stick to fantasy like "Noah" and "Exodus:God and Kings" and the "Hobbit".Dubious,

Cut out the RT rhetoric.

The west didn't install the current President nor the are the PM's from last months elections installed by the west.

The people of Ukraine have voted in proper democratic elections and voted these people into power.

Do note how they voted for moderates who are focused on the economy and ending corruption (and tackling/limiting the invasion by the Russian Federation). Do note how the extremists didn't fair well, ie. the communists didn't make it into power, nor did the right wing party.

"nazi influenced, pro EU brigade" - what utter nonsense. You should be ashamed of yourself.Dubious.

You could add how regularly RT (et al) simply fabricate stories.Aleksej,

Yes. The presidential and parliamentary elections that occurred this year resulting in the election of moderates."Russian gas exports will underpin a decade's diplomacy in Europe. May this lead to sense, peace, prosperity, understanding"

Unfortunately as the west has been dependent upon Russia fossil fuels for its current energy security it has allowed Russia to embark on a policy of military expansionism once again.

Chechnya, Dagestan, Moldavia, Georgia and now Ukraine have all been subjected to Russian Federation invasions.

That is hardly peace, nor understanding.... however ironically now that Russia has driven Georgia, Moldavia and Ukraine away from Russia by their invasions these nations are and will end up with prosperity with the help of the EU/West."the US is trusted less in Eastern Europe than Russia"

which is of course why all the Eastern European nations clamoured to join the EU and NATO for protection from Russia which has been and still is undertaking various military invasions of its neighbours.

Are Hungarians in Donetsk? no?....are Hungarians in Luhansk? no?.... are Hungarian simply reposted nonsense prepared by RT (one of the Russian State controlled media outlets)? .....yes.

"I cannot remember the last time we heard Lavrov speak? Do you?" -  I sure do. He said Russia had not invaded Ukraine with regular Russian Federation forces and instead suggested that regular Russian Federation forces had temporarily gone and resigned in mass (ie. entire brigades/regiments at a time) from the Russian Federation armed forces (as if you can), they then went on holiday,..... and just happened to have voluntarily joined the Russian Federation FSB/GRU controlled forces operating in Ukraine to fight with them..... oh yes... they just happened to have been allowed to take their T72BM and T80 main battle tanks with them, ... and their MRLS, artillery, APC's, IFV's, advanced AK's, signals intelligence systems, cluster munitions etc ...and BUK anti aircraft missile systems too of course."Russian actions in Ukraine have shaken the Western belief that Russia was history, safely put in the 'problems solved' box. This is exactly what Putin wanted."

Sorry but that is completely simplistic and incorrect.

The west (rightly) has never for a moment taken its eyes off Putin's Russia quite simply because he is an expansionist who has invaded Chechnya, Dagestan, Modovia, Georgia and now Ukraine (and has openly threatened the territorial integrity of Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and all of the southern ex soviet republics).

The west has been attempting to engage Russia to help them be a global partner, unfortunately this approach has largely backfired on the west which now has realised that it needs to divest itself from its reliance upon Russian fossil fuel supplies and in other areas like heavy lift launches into orbit (to name just to areas).

At the end of the day Russia is a relatively small economy (being the same size as the economy of the state of California) in comparison to the join western economies. Hence the Russia economy is in free fall after the implementation of the meagre and very limited sanctions the west has (rightly) imposed upon Russia for their current invasion of Ukraine.

Russia will once again suffer an economic collapse, which will of course ensure that the wealthy elite remove their support for the current authoritarian leadership.

Perhaps next time the Russians can do better and make a more serious attempt at being a part of the global community.Where is everything that we need likely to come from? - the asteroid belt has sufficient resources to support a human population in the trillions. The USA congress is currently trying to pass a law to allow private corporations the right to locate and mine/extract the resources from asteroids to enable the industrialisation of space which is a needed precursor to the colonisation of our solar system - primarily in orbital settlements - (which is necessary due the finite space and resources here on Earth).

How are we going to share it out? - based on capitalism.

What are we going to do with it? - provide for our species.

What are the Loads of Consequences of what we take, how we share and what we do, and are they bearable? - Yes.

Does all this make the great majority of us well, happy, and human? - Yes."Does this imply American hegemony over outer space?" - Yes it would at this point in time.

However as the corporation involved will be based on the capitalist system anyone will be able to invest in them. Thus it won't imply American hegemony but corporate hegemony.

Currently Planetary Resources and Deep Space Industries are trying to begin the first steps (along with other companies).

If you have a spare $100k you can invest now and be part of the potential hegemony (assuming these companies succeed) just like Sir Richard Branson has. You can even invest in particular funds who are also investing into these companies. You can't invest less that $100k directly at the moment due to SEC requirements.

Do I think the USA has wrecked and/or is wrecking our world? Not at all. Quite the opposite really. But of course we are both entitled to our opinions on that matter.
Hi Dubious.

I realise you are perhaps dubious (ironic?) but I recommend you learn about what Planetary Resources, Deep Space Industries, NASA (and others) are up to.

They are beginning the process outlined above to extract/obtain the said resources (oxygen/hydrogen etc) from asteroids as they are of enormous value to the space industry at present that currently pays vast sums to launch such material into space using Heavy Lift Vehicles (aka. big rockets).

ps. interestingly one of the new methods of making steel (in space) results in oxygen as a by product.I wasn't aware that the Russian Federation recently invaded Scotland.

When did that happen?

ps. the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine are still doing all they can to prevent the international investigators from accessing the MH17 debris site (for recovery and investigation purposes).Filz.

Sorry, what?

The Ukrainian government forces invaded Scotland?

Or...

The Ukrainian government forces invaded Ukraine?

ps. are you sure that it isn't an invasion by "little green men" (from Mars) with Russian accents?Spot on El-Viejo.

Not only have the Russians directly breached it with their direct invasion, occupation (and annexation of Crimea) but the western nations also failed to live up to their side of the agreement (thankfully ... as who wants war between superpowers).

I personally think the west is doing the right thing by supporting Ukrainians economic integration into the EU and by sanctioning Russia for its behaviour."I'm unsure if the Russian military of today still falls into the same category."

Unfortunately for the average Russian the military doctrine has not really changed.

The amount of "cargo 200" (dead) and "cargo 300" (wounded) coming out of Ukraine into Russia is extraordinary. With the "cargo 200" exceeding well over 4,000, according to the various mothers of Russian soldiers organisations, and that is just the regular armed forces and doesn't included paramilitaries, irregulars and mercenaries.What I find of particular interest is how the Russian Federation FSB/GRU operatives who and pronounced themselves as leaders of the DPR and LPR is how the have lamented that local Ukrainians have not been willing to join and fight for them.

Igor Girkin complained how he couldn't even get 1,000 (men or women) to join up despite their being (at that time) a population in the many millions.

Putin has plenty of time to expand the operations (to obtain coastal Ukraine and other areas of Donetsk and Luhansk) as the Ukrainian military and security services are still so corrupt and full of Russian agents (pretty much every operation is known about before hand - no matter how small). He has years before the Ukrainians will be capable of actually offering a real defence.

The only thing holding Putin back is the threat of greater sanctions by the EU/West as even the very limited and very targeted sanctions implement to date have caused catastrophic consequences to the Russian economy and to the wealth of the elite the support Putin (one of Putin's inner circle recently had his wealth/business nationalised so there are signs of diminishing support for Putin in the wings).

Putin's Russia would collapse (in time) if sufficient sanctions were implemented, ... but until the EU/West is able to regain control over their energy security (and other aspects) the pain of sanctions will also be borne by the EU/West. Which is perhaps why they are still just limited sanctions at this stage.

ps. what are the odds on a traditional Russian Christmas or New Years offensive (the Ukrainian national day offensive was a great success for Russia, and they love offensives to occur on 'special' days after all)."So long as there is the internet, the ideas will flow"

Which is why Putin has recently passed numerous laws making it difficult to share and express ideas in Russia via the net (or even by other means now all foreign press has been removed from Russia, ie. CNN is now banned).

For example it is now an offence punishable with years in jail for simply mentioning separatism within Russia online.

Controlling the flow of information is of paramount importance to any authoritarian regime/tyrant.Epic fail Eric.

"OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine (SMM) spotted increase in terrorist heavy weapons and manpower. On November 8, the SMM observed a convoy of more than 40 trucks and tankers loaded with 122mm howitzers on the eastern outskirts of Makiivka town, controlled by the DPR. The monitoring staff also spotted personnel in dark green uniforms without insignia. In Donetsk, at the intersection of Leninskyi Street and Kuprin Street, the SMM observed a convoy of nine tanks - four T72 [of a type only available to the Russian Federation) and five T64, also unmarked"

That is just one small snippet of the recent OSCE reports confirming the transfer of tanks, artillery, MRLS, troops, supplies, ammo, POL, APC's, IFV's, signals intelligence assets, air defence systems from Russia into Ukraine of late.

Do note also how the OSCE recently began using drones to monitor part of the border with Russia/Ukraine. They were unfortunately shot down by Russia or had their signals jammed by advanced jamming systems making them unable to operate.

Do also not that Russia only allows the OSCE to be based a two specific points on the border.Eric,

are you in dreamland mate?

reports of tanks, artillery, MRLS, APC's, IFV's, troops, supplies, POL, ammo, air defence systems crossing from Russian into Ukraine have been going on for months and months.

I guess you completely forgot about the Russian Federation invasion along the southern shores of Ukraine where they opened a brand new front and attacked and occupied Novoazovsk and Shyrokyne (and surrounds).

Did you also miss the entire August Russian Federation counter offensive that ended Ukraines dreams of successfully concluding the ATO operation in Luhansk and Donetsk regions?Sorry you lost me Eric.

Are you now saying that they convoy of Russian Federation tanks, artillery, MRLS, troops, POL vehicles etc that has been videoed extensively and which contains Russian Federation tanks only available to Russian Federation armed forces, which was also seen and reported on by the OSCE (as previously discussed) didn't in fact contain Russian Federation tanks only available to the Russian Federation despite no other country having the specific T72BM's seen and identified?

I do have to laugh how you aren't prepared to address the entire August counter offensive by the Russian Federation armed forces, or the direct invasion out of Russia which opened another front and occupied Novoazovsk and Shyrokyne. Are you honestly going to pretend that none of this occurred? People died mate,..... lots of people died (on both sides)."Russia is too big to isolate"

Not really.

Its economy is only as large as that of the State of California.

The world can make do without them.

The world would much rather do business with Russians, but while they are ruled by an authoritarian tyrant the world is rather unsure of supporting such a persons ambitions of expansion by military means.

ps. You strangely suggest "It is not Russia expanded to the West". Actually they are. They have invaded Moldavia and Ukraine, and directly threatened the Baltic republics (and continue to occupy Kaliningrad). They have also expanded to the south by invading Georgia, Chechnya and Dagestan and have directly threatened all the southern ex soviet republics. They are also attempting to expand northwards to obtain control over fossil fuel reserves which is putting them in direct conflict with Canada and claims by various European nations."Putin is doing only what the Russian speaking and Russian descended people of his region are begging him to do"

What is that? invade independent sovereign nations and annex theie lands and transfer them to the Russian Federation because Stalin once transferred some "Russians" to those lands?

"Europe is the responsiblity of the EU and UK. Nobody asked Obama and the US for their help"

Ah,..... I seem to recall the Europeans begging the good people of the USA for their help on a very regular basis. Europeans are still begging the USA for help as we speak to help them defend themselves from the current invasion by the Russian Federation (ie. in Ukraine). I also note how the Baltic countries have also been begging the USA/NATO to place troops in their lands to dissuade Putin from invading their lands (as he has recently threatened to do so).

ps. who has Obama invaded?Gerard.

you claim that "the only rightful residents, the indigenous, are and were the only true permanent residents."

however you overlook that fact that they too are immigrants to this land mass, and are made up of peoples who came in numerous waves over a period of 50,000+ years.

Do you even know that the human migration 3,500 years ago bought dogs (aka the Dingo - a chinese dog) with them? and of course those humans were just one of the many waves of humans that arrived to this land mass.

The most recent immigrants of course having arrived today.

So what you have is a land mass that has no actual indigenous population (as homo-sapiens et al are only indigenous to Africa) but a land mass that has seen numerous and never ending waves of humans come to these fair shores.General Disarray.

You are completely delusional.

Or have been digesting Russia Federation propaganda (which is the same thing).An unknown 'czech' who is in fact just a Russian working for RT (aka the Russian Federation state propaganda machine).On 8 November the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine issued their daily report noting that:

"At 13:55hrs, on the eastern outskirts of Makeevka (25km north east of Donetsk) the SMM observed a convoy of more than 40 trucks and tankers moving west on highway H-21. Of these 19 were large trucks - Kamaz type, covered, and without markings or number plates - each towing a 122mm howitzer and containing personnel in dark green uniforms without insignia. Fifteen were Kraz troop carriers, the remaining six were small fuel tankers, fitted with cranes. At 15:20hrs, at the intersection of Leninskyi Street and Kuprin Street (7km south west of Donetsk city centre) the SMM observed a convoy of nine tanks - four T72 [of a type only available to the Russian Federation] and five T64 - moving west, also unmarked."

Just a small snippet about just two of the many convoys of Russian Federation regular armed forces currently entering Ukraine (and that have been for sometime now).Not at all General.

Have look at the variously available video footage to this specific convoy seen and documented by the OSCE and you too will be able to see the specific T72's in the convoy.

It specifically is a T-72BM Rogatka. An upgraded version of the T-72B tanks. It is fitted with Relikt third generation explosive reactive armour, that is much more effective than the previous Kontakt-5. Upgraded tanks also have new main gun with muzzle reference system, upgraded fire control system and gunners thermal sight. It is powered by a V-92S2 engine, developing 1 000 hp. This tank was first revealed in 2006. Russian Army operates about 300 tanks upgraded to this standard. 

And that variant is only available to the Russian Federation armed forces.Peter.

Utter rubbish.

The OSCE, NATO, the government of Ukraine and the population of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and the population of the Russian Federation have all documented the latest increase of Russian Federation regular forces into Ukraine.

It is however funny how Russotrolls attempt to pretend that weapons systems, signal intelligence, tanks, armaments (and ammunition) only available to the Russian Federation forces haven't been observed by the above listed folks operating in Ukraine when they have been clearly documented (along with the specific Russian Federation units these tanks etc belong to).

It is similar to how the Russian Federation claims that the thousands of 'cargo 200' and 'cargo 300' returning from Ukraine to Russia all occurred while on training exercise in Russia. Just nonsense really.

As Putin said to Medvedev (in relation to Russian Federation forces in Ukraine):

"and then I said [to Merkel], 'ooh, they are on holiday....but only AFTER I had said they were volunteers... and THEN I said 'OK, let's have a cease-fire'....ROFL'"

Medvedev was unable to reply as he was laughing so hard.Cloud,

The Ukrainians are furiously trying to build the new wall between Russia and Ukraine to keep the Russian Federation forces from invading further into Ukraine and stealing more Ukrainian land and resources (having already lost Crimea, and most of Luhansk and Donetsk regions).

The currently have established and in depth defensive consisting of 3 lines of defence in the ATO area and are trying to build a wall/fence/anti-tank ditch along their porous border with Russia to slow and limit any further expansion of the current Russian Federation invasion of Ukraine.Peter,

You have family working for RT in Moscow do you?actually it was just a terrible mistake.

Guenter Schabowski, a spokesman of the East German Politburo made a generalised statement about new travel rules (where were meant to enforce the current and long standing prohibition on east germans travelling).

Fortunately he made a bit of a mess of things in a press conference and people ended up thinking (mistakenly) that East Germans could now travel freely.

This was then widely reported in the mass media.

As a consequence a large number of East Germans then attempted to do travel to the west.

At the Bornholmer Street border crossing station in East Berlin, guard Harald Jager, confirmed with his superiors that the travel restrictions were still in place, but due to the large number of people trying to cross he allowed a trickle to pass through the border, .... but after awhile things started to get out of hand for him so he simply raised the traffic barriers (at around 11.30pm) and the decades long cold war divisions in Germany collapsed.

A mistake...... pure and simple.

But a good one.Moi.

I wonder how many realise you are just doing a cut/paste job from the conspiracy theory website Global Research.

Who have done pretty much the same thing with William Blum's book called Killing Hope.

Which is very much just one man's limited opinions.

For example note that the reference (#8) relating to the section of his book on Germany in the 1950's detailing how he came by evidence of his allegations of terrorism (poisoning cows etc) is missing (there is #7 and #9 but no #8). 

Similarly his references for further allegations made (which you quote) merely refer to other allegations made in articles is various newspapers.

Opinions stacked upon opinions......it is just one grand onion of a conspiracy theory but with nothing of substance at its core.25 years on.....and now the eastern Europeans (Ukrainians specifically) are now having to build a new Iron Curtain just to try to keep out the invading Russian Federation forces."it is easily forgotten that the Wall when it fell -- it fell VOLUNTARILY, by the action of East German security forces "

actually it didn't fall VOLUNTARILY.... if fell mistakenly.

a spokesman for the east german politburo mucked up a press conference and made people think the travel rules had been fundamentally changed (when they hadn't).

the people turned up to border crossings as a consequence and the border guard (who had confirmed the travel restrictions were still in place) realised he couldn't contain the situation so let a few people trickle through the border.... which then caused the mass of people waiting to cross to become more agitated ... in the end he gave up and opened the border.

the rest is history.

it was just a mistake.... that was all.C of T.

Epic fail!

Any entity can offset the losses of one business activity against the profits of another business activity.

Even individuals can if the loss generating activity passes the tests associated with the commercial loss tests.

Please see an accountant.If you stop working will you still eat and have a house to live in?

Yes?

ah... in that case they are non business expenses that are personal in nature.

Simple isn't it.Dr Lauren,

I'm not sure I follow.

Wasn't the lady in the video upset because after 10 long hours of walking among millions of people she only got 100 comments.

Which is only 10 an hour.

Or 1 ever six minutes.

No wonder she was so very disappointed with such a poor result. 

No girl likes to be ignored after all.

ps. having been to NZ it comes as no surprise that a NZ "model" got no comments at all from the blokes over there. (which is no indictment on the 'red bloodedness' of men)Barsnax.

Fortunately the current political swing to the right in Europe is limited and to a much lesser extend that in nations like the Russian Federation which saw the far right Liberal Democratic Party of Russia increase its popular vote to about 11.5% and not to mention the 52.9% majority vote enjoyed by the statist/nationalist political party of Mr Putins United Russia.

Of particular interest has been how Mr Putin has embraced and courted the far right parties of Russia and Europe and how he has used their support of his wars with Georgia, Dagestan, Chechnya, Moldavia and now Ukraine to further his geopolitical aims.

Indeed the referendum control by the Russian Federation that resulted in the annexation of Crimea was overseen by various far right European groups in a poor attempt to lend some credibility to an particularly dubious fraud.

Similarly the recent 'elections' in occupied Donetsk and Luhansk regions of Ukraine by the Russian Federation puppets (FSB/GRU operatives) was again overseen by various far right parties of Europe and Russia.

There is a clear trend of Mr Putin utilising the far right to attain is geopolitical goals in Europe and in his 'near abroad'.Bassmanbob,

You ask where do "high energy objects come from at thirty one thousand feet?"

Clearly in reference to MH17.

To answer your question, they come specifically from the fragmentation warhead of a SA-11 missile fired from the Russian Federation BUK of the 53rd Air Defence Missile Brigade from Kursk that was based just south of Snizhne in Ukraine.

You see a SA-11 is a radar guided surface to air missile which is designed to detonate its fragmentation warhead in proximity to the target (MH17 in this case) which causes "high energy objects" to strike the targeted object.

In this case the fragmentation warhead detonated to the right front of MH17, and a hit from that position also indicates a launch point from Snizhne.

Simple indeed.Caffettierra Moka,

That is a very interesting take on the ramifications of this issue.

A further step would be the ability to sue other corporations involved in profiting from products that also turn out to cause harm to foetuses/unborn children (choose your favourite phrase).

Perhaps the widespread use of herbicides, pesticides, BPA, toxic compounds, radioactive materials (released intentional, unintentionally, accidentally and incidentally) and a myriad of chemicals and compounds which can/could cause harm will allow future generations to sue the companies (and shareholders) who directly profited from their harmful activities.

Calls that 'oh but we didn't know it was harmful at the time' will of course be no defence for the crimes committed against the foetus/unborn children (choose your favourite phrase).I hope the authorities will be successful.

As I look forward to the ramifications being that I reserve the right to sue any and all corporations who have released materials (intentional, accidentally, unintentional or incidentally) that have (or may have) caused genetic damage (if any) which will be passed onto my offspring.

And of course my offspring and their offspring etc will be able to sue those same corporations and shareholders for the same damage(s), if any.

This will open up an enormous can of worms,........ but perhaps for the best.Harry,

With a long history of providing capable, willing and rugged miners Australians are ensured a long period of employment as the process of colonising the solar system and in particular mining the asteroid belts is undertaken (the beginnings of this process having begun already and the legislation to enable the commercialisation of space is already before the USA congress).

Exchanging on isolated location with fewer modern comforts (outback mining locations) for another isolated location with fewer modern comforts (and orbital mining settlement) isn't such a big transition perhaps.Harvey.

They just need to spend more time educating themselves instead of doing selfies and taking pics of the newest sandwich creation.

Yeah self study is a bit boring at times, but it pays off in the long run.

ps. if a brickies labourer can retrain as an adult and become a international professional then there is little excuse left for others to whinge about a lack of work.Bulldust,

Replicate that 'remote operations centre' many times and you will have a glimpse of the future of work.

The same systems will be used to monitor, control and operate the future asteroid mining operations, orbital foundries and entire processes involved in the industrialisation of space and the building of the locations necessary to house the population that will exist in orbital settlements based near local planets and celestial bodies in our solar system.

Let the robots/drones do the hard work, they can be our arms and hands. We can be the eyes and brains of the operation.

It makes sense doesn't it, at least massive multinationals think so.... and you can bet they have an eye on the future of mining (in space) too.the lollipop guide.

that sounds terrible.

a democracy that votes based on the daily whims of "the people" and the 24 hour news cycle.

not a moment spared to fully consider the ramification of the laws &amp; legislation,..... not a ethics professional or gifted legislator in sight.

one of the great things of the current system is the slowness of the system and all the checks and balances that prevent most of the idiocy and abuse of power.Don't fret.

Our future generations will simply do other types of work.

The grain reapers of the past have been replaced by quantum computing technicians (who would have imaged that!).

How many people will it take to design, build, maintain and operate a 'Faster that Light Alcubierre drive' and supporting systems?

I suspect the lack of humans will be the greatest hindrance in the long term, after all space is really really big.LK,

The specific jobs of the future?

Just a couple of quick examples:
Quantum computer technician.
Software engineer/IT specialist.
Virtual hydroponic farmer.
Asteroid mining drone operator.
Orbital foundry remote centre operations monitor.
Fabricator of rockets, payloads, drones, nano cables, orbital factories &amp; settlements.
Soldier/Policeman (perhaps a combined job in the future).

And yes, as death and taxes will always exist doctors, crematorium specialists, accountants and lawyers will also exist (thought with advances in cybernetics, genetic engineering and anti aging techniques 'death' may become a thing of the past in due course).hahaha they said the same thing when the steam train was invented (and the motor car, and wheel, and the computer).

there will always be jobs, just different ones.Bulldust.

I agree with all your points, they are all valid and likely to be part of our species future.

What will occur I would suggest is that such a future will enable the expansion of our human civilisation into the solar system and wider cosmos. 

With a need of fewer humans to control and operate a system a greater number of systems can be used overall ensuring our species can spread out so to speak.

There will be a few initial hurdles, but it will work out well in the end...... in the same way that the land owners in the UK realised that it was more productive/profitable to farm sheep in Scotland than to have landless tenant populations of humans and moved them on to new lands (ie. Canada, Australia and NZ) during the clearances which opened up new frontiers for those peoples and in the end generated a larger global economic pie for all.

In time we will think nothing of orbital and asteroid mining settlements, and will simply accept their presence as part of the greater economic pie of this solar system."A real journalist offers a reliable account of events happening"

ah nope, sorry.

A real journalist offers an account that accords with the bias of the news outlet that will pay them for the "story" they have created/embellished/sensationalised so that the news outlet will attract a readership sufficient to attract advertising revenues from business looking to sell/market their products/services.

At no point in history has the media been anything other than a vehicle for advertisers.Hi Schneids,

The New York Times released the Pentagon Papers etc and made a lot of money selling their product by doing so

The NYT is known to have a liberal bias (also confirmed by the public editor of the NYT in 2004). Nixon of course was a republican.

The NYT Pulitzer Prize winning reporter Walter Duranty's work has been noted to be "unbalanced and uncritical, and that they [the NYT] far too often gave voice to Stalinist propaganda" and calls have been made for the honour to be striped from him.

Do also note that from the mid 1950's advertorials have been a key component of the writers articles (particularly the fashion writers, who were assigned to promote particular department or specialty stores).

Which covers the NYT, pentagon papers etc quite well really.

As for any public media, they of course make no money from advertising, but never the less are subject to political control to ensure an appropriate bias is achieved (subtly of course).

Journalism has a role in society, being the propaganda mouth piece of particular groups/organisations/governments (and while making a few bucks for the shareholders). 

As has always been the case.

Those that think they serve a higher purpose are deluding themselves."Hopefully the 'interesting times' occur after I die."

With the advances in quantum computing, nano technologies with medical applications, genetic engineering, cybernetics and break throughs in understanding how to reverse aging caused by DNA failure/wearing out over time, you may not have that 'luxury' of missing the interesting time to come.

ps. you might even get to enjoy a commercially provided tourist trip around the rings of Saturn in time, .....I hear they are mighty pretty this time of year.dan.

you ask a fair question (why do we pay $100 to get a tax return processed).

you pay $100 because you are too lazy/uninterested to spend years at university, and in work post university, to gain the knowledge necessary to enable you to correctly read, interpret and apply the particular tax legislation to your particular circumstances.

plus the accountant will chuck in $300 worth of "other work related expenses" which will on average generate an additional tax refund (or reduction in tax payable) worth about $100, which ensures you don't pay a cent in reality.

you pay income tax because in provides a more equitable outcome for lower paid people than if we only paid (more) GST.

fortunately someone will need to service the robots to remove the dirt from their servos after doing said gardening, so the job will only change from one occupation (gardening) to another (robot servicing).

3-D printers will perhaps make shoes better and quicker than elves.SdrawkcaB,

That is quite true. I understand that in NZ the average wage earner doesn't need to file a tax return as the system does it for them automatically. But then they don't get to claim any expenses (and so pay more tax that we do) and all types of income (ie. Interest Received) are taxed at source which ensures all tax revenues are appropriately collected.

You could attempt to do the same here, though the howls of complaint from those wage/salary earners who would dip out on the tax savings relating to expenses currently claimed might just drown out the calls for a simplified automated tax system.

As for the rest of your post it can be summed up quickly. "Death and Taxes", two constants in life. Which of course will ensure undertakers and accountants (and tax lawyers) will always be in demand.

ps. every business needs to know how it is performing, and what its financial position is, in order to be able to make appropriately informed management decisions. Simple isn't it.John,

I suspect that 1,000 years ago the pig farmers, reapers, wool merchants and so forth would not have been able to envisage what a quantum computing technician would do for a living.

Similarly the jobs of the future are perhaps beyond our current understanding (or are at least some of the jobs dreamed up by sci fi writers).

After all how many people will it take to build, maintain and operate a 'Faster than Light Speed Alcubierre Drive' system?

ps. the robots will always need humans, after all it is in their nature to need us.the howls of complaint from taxpayers who will stand to lose out on their ability to claim expenses as a deduction against their salary/wage income currently is sufficiently loud to ensure that an automated and simplified salary/wage tax return system is not implemented.
Not Such a Golden Oldie.

While space and resources are finite on planet Earth, there is sufficient space and resources (primarily in the asteroid belt) in our solar system to support a human population in the trillions.

All that is required of our species is to keep on doing what we have done best for the last few hundred thousand years, .... colonise new lands/spaces.

Our future is above us....and it is waiting....Corsair72.

Given sufficient time I would suggest the greatest problem regarding the human population and breeding rates will be the fact that our species will have colonised such a large part of the solar system (or cosmos) that our population becomes so diffuse as to make finding a mate/breeding partner difficult.

Perhaps it will become a semi automated industrialised process where insemination occurs remotely and gestation occurs in a series of commercially operated synthetic womb analogue organs?I'm sure someone once would have said that:
- computers were going to put us all out of work, 
- steam trains were going to put us all out of work, 
- wooden wheels were going to put us all out of work
- etc

Honestly I don't mind that I don't need a fletcher, a farrier, or a reaper in my life to ensure I have food and transport.

I'm quite happy with a abattoir worker, a mechanic and a combine harvester operator.

(to be replace with in time by a industrial vat monitor, a 3D printing technician and a vertical hydroponic farmer)Anote.

Wrong.

Resources are for all intensive purposes infinite.

You are looking for resources in the wrong direction... you keep looking down at your feet for them...when they are in fact floating right above your head (primarily in the asteroid belt, and of course also further afield).

Everything we could ever need is just spinning away merely above us, as it has done for billions of years now.

Will our species be the one that finally reaches out to attain them? That is the only question.Jimmy,

there are sufficient resources (as space) in our solar system in the asteroid belt to support a human population the trillions, .... let alone the resources within this one particular galaxy of billions of star systems (which is just one of billions of galaxies in the observable portion of this one universe).

resources are in effect infinite, so is space..... we just need to get out there and get them (hopefully before the next snowball from space causes yet another extinction level event on Earth).John Forbes.

You ask how to deal with our human economic system and wealth inequality when we have a system based on finite resources.

The answer is incredibly simple. 

It is literally staring at you in the face every time you look up.

We simply change the formula from one which is based on "finite" resources to one based on "near infinite" resources.

There are sufficient resources in the asteroid belt to support a human population living in orbital settlements numbering in the trillions.

and before we can out grow those resources we will have sufficient time to determine how to attain the ability to operate FTL systems that will provide us with the ability to utilise the resources of the billions of star systems in our local galaxy enabling a human population of billions of trillions to exists, and before those resources are used up we will have sufficient time to attain the ability to colonise other galaxies and access the billions of other galaxies enabling a population of billions of billions of trillions of humans to exist, ..... and then there are no doubt (at least according to current scientific opinion) an infinity of other universes to explore, and exploit.

Long live our species....Didn't Egypt have a crack a democracy recently and instead voted into power the Muslim Brotherhood who offered a platform of religious dictatorship, corruption, nepotism, religious/secular intolerance etc.

Who were then over thrown by the military who swiftly returned the nation to one run as a military dictatorship.

If the military did nothing you would have had "Oh Lordy's" version played out.

ps. do note how one of the first thing the Muslim Brotherhood did when in power was to block all fossil fuel supplies to Israel (coming via the Suez).
Yip it was pretty dumb of the MB to start mucking about trying to use the worlds most important strategic choke point (the Suez) as some sort of political/religious leverage against the most powerful nations on Earth.

I'm pretty sure a first year geopolitics student could have told the MB leaders what was going to occur if they did that stuff.jeepers that was one big spiel.

the MB brotherhood was a just another bunch of despots. they had a great opportunity, ... and they blew it.

They weren't disenfranchised guys with socio religious political aspirations hoping to create a marvellous society via religious civil governance .... nor did they want a hug.

ps. Turkey did so well because Mustafa Kemal Ataturk transformed Turkish society from perceiving itself as a Muslim part of a vast Empire into a modern, democratic, and secular nation state. There is a lesson in there for others want to be rulers of the middle east.Graazt,

A few outlaw bikies in Aussie who are disenfranchised and in desperate need of a hug might also vote for a bunch of despots too in the hope of gaining something or other for themselves.

ps. if those that voted for MB thought MB stood on a platform of creating a marvellous society via religious civil government then they clearly were watching the wrong political advertising.Hi Dove, lovely to talk again.

Ideological hollowness and opportunism undercut the MB claims to being a legitimate "Islamic democratic project" and the organisations structural deficits led it to be widely distrusted.

Specifically the fundamentally antidemocratic components of MB's dogma and the disconnect between the groups professed ideology and the policy positions it assumed highlighted its incompatibility with modern democratic politics.

It was their own personal greed, delusions of power and grandeur and pure corruption and despotism that caused their own failure.

Do recall that in November 2012 Morsi granted himself unlimited powers, and the power to legislate without judicial oversight or review of his acts. He also put a draft constitution to a referendum that opponents complained was an Islamist coup. These issues brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to the streets in the 2012 Egyptian protests (and a wave of violence was unleashed upon those protestors).

Sorry Dove, but even the worst of our lot don't attempt to granted themselves powers reserved for dictators and go around publically lynching (June 2013) those with differing religious (Islamic) views, and unleashing a level of violence upon the population that even the previous military dictators would not, and could not, sanction.

Go down the IMF conspiracy route if you wish, I'm not buying today though."they'd tear up the old peace agreements and start a new war with Israel"

Good point.

After all one of the first things they did was to attempt to prevent fossil fuel supplies reaching Israel via the Suez.Graazt,

The MB set about destroying the democracy as soon as they attained power.

They simply sort to establish a religious dictatorship, and were prevented from doing so.Actually Doc is spot on Dove.

Recall how in November 2012 Morsi gave himself unlimited (dictatorial) powers, attempted to create a new constitution (to suit the MB), unleashed a wave of unprecedented violence upon the population (that dare protest, or just believe in a slightly different version of the Abrahamic faith), and impose sharia law on Egypt.Zing.

Fair call.

The USA tried isolationism in the 1930's, it turned out pretty bad for the world and in particular for tens of millions of humans who died in the ensuing global conflict.Graazt.

The chinese are happy to allow the USA et al to make the necessary expenditures to minimise the impact of Islamic maniacs in the Middle East &amp; North Africa and have instead focused their energies on spilling Islamic blood in the western regions of China and the Near East/South East Asia and large parts of Africa.

Russia of course focuses their energies in the ex USSR republics, Syria, Iran and central African regions.

It is all nicely split up isn't it (the troubles in Ukraine/Baltics/Scandinavia excepted)?

The only threat is in relation to ensuring control over energy security which is of course a paramount national security concern of all super powers (and smaller nations).

After all overly cold or hot citizens don't vote for the incumbent government and can cause trouble for dictatorial regimes as found in China/Russia. Hence energy security is taken very seriously by government.

Islam isn't the issue, the super powers would happily suppress scientologists if they posed a direct threat to energy supplies too.You mean government agencies do things like plan for contingencies?

Oh my goodness! who would have thought!

ps. ISIL has been active in Syria for a tad longer than they have been front page news.You mean you don't want to expend the energy necessary to actually read the bill and be informed?

All laws can be amended and repealed. All that is required is that sufficient voters want this and like any government or 'want to be the government' political party they will listen if it will provide them sufficient votes.

"We invaded Iraq to get rid of al Qaeda" - no we didn't, we wanted to secure control over a key resource (fossil fuels) to be able to better control our energy security and therefore national security.

ps. ISIL are no worse that Boko Haram or Al Qaeda, or Carlos the Jackal et al."draconian restrictions on freedom"

just wait for the type of legislation that will be necessary to prevent Ebola from entering Australia, then you will really complain about restrictions on freedom.

ps. There is no right that says you should be allowed to travel to a war zone to kill other human beings over minor points of religious doctrine. That is an 'abuse' not a 'right'.Peerocracy.

What you are advocating is a system that would be at best utterly whimsical and be as fickle as the 24 hour news cycle (and be utterly influenced by the 24 hour news cycle).

It is difficult enough to get anything done even when you have only 150 members of the House of Representative trying to agree on something. Let alone when you have tens of millions of folks all acting as if they are in one giant committee.

Personally I couldn't think of anything worse or ineffective.

ps. if you don't like what your local MP or what the current government does don't vote for them in the future. That way your views and opinions will be represented in the future. You are allowed to contact your local MP by the way and talk to them. Mine came over for a cup of tea and a 30 minute chat the other day (he was a rather nice fellow too).Imagine if a sufficient number of voters disagreed with the legislation, made their thoughts known to political parties and with their shear weight in numbers encouraged a political party to back the repeal of the legislation in question, and then voted for the party that promised to repeal the legislation.

Isn't that called democracy?So 155 hours of reading to read the bills and the explanatory explanations.

155 hours relating to 130 bills.

Or a tad over 1 hour per bill (and explanatory explanation) on average.

How lazy do you have to be to find that onerous?I thought they all just got bored and went home.

Ireland still exist.

Northern Ireland still exists and is still part of the UK.

Lots of dead folks.... and no change.

ps. I lived with an ex IRA gun runner in the UK for a while. She used to run guns as a young girl .... for fun. Yip... just for fun, not because of an ideology, or a religious belief.... just for fun. People probably died because of her actions.... but what harm is a little 'fun'? Maybe someone should have stopped her..... just a thought.Phew!

With all that fuss going on in the media about the Foreign Fighters Bill I thought there was something to actually worry about.

Thank you David for showing quite clearly that there is nothing to worry about......unless you are a person seeking to do harm to other human beings.

If the police need to enter my property in order to access or observe the neighbours because they legitimately believe they intend to do harm then they just need to ask (primarily so I can put the big dogs away).

To examine your points:

1. Typos can be fixed quite eaisly (sorry make that 'easily', oh gosh that was easy!)
2. There is little point send out a letter of intent to enter the property.
3. There really isn't any public interest in warning clandestine groups that the authorities are about to come knocking on their doors in the wee hours. And no, selling advertising via sensationalist stories in the media is not doing something "in the public interest".
4. The NRMA is not about to be listed as a terror group. A hate preacher who is the leader of a religious following who advocates the killing or harming of others could however have his religious group listed as a terror group, which is a good idea if you don't want young men listening to his bad ideas.
5. It makes sense to dissuade young men from heading off to known war zones to fight as a jihadist/mercenary.
6. We need it as a threat exists, ie. young men returning from war zones indoctrinated into extremists beliefs.
7. ASIO and the AFP et al is not made up of wannabe stalins, hitlers, putins and such ilk. 

Please have a cup of reality before having a wee lie down your couch.

Where exactly is my 'civil liberty' to be protected from people stupid enough to believe the ideas of religious extremists and stupid enough to act on such beliefs? 

Or do my 'civil liberties' not count in your world?Jimmy,

Though... clearly insufficiently.Fred.

1. A bill, before it is passed into law, can have its typo's fixed. Do also note amendments to law occur regularly and are an ordinary part of any legal system.

2. Why wouldn't you just open the door?

3. So if it is just the same sort of thing, ie. not warning your target group, then why are folks getting all upset over a bill that contains provisions that pretty much exist already?

4. Sorry but a dose of common sense will tell you that statements by the CEO of the NRMA will not cause the members of the NRMA to become declared terror suspects. Try to stick to reality.

5. I see you are think that it is ok that they are encourage to kill others, that they then go and kill other human beings oversea, hopefully die in combat, though they may return as highly trained and capable combatants to spread greater terror events in their home countries capable of killing dozens+ of people not just an unarmed person at a cemetery. Do note how the fellow was shot dead when he attempted to approach armed people - most likely because he was completely untrained in the art of war.

6. Clearly they don't exist otherwise there would be no need for the proposed legislation. Or did you think this bill has been put forward because the MP's are bored and have nothing to do?

7. Common sense, and of course the lack of bent crosses and sickles.The Aussie corporates/investors would be the first to complain if Peru or some other party to the trade agreement decided to nationalise the business in question .... etc.

We are all bound by the same rules. Rules that protect investors from the whims of the government of the day.HPH,

If Cangaiman honestly thought this was about diverting attention away from the Trans Pacific Free Trade agreement (which will cover about 40% of global GDP) then he would have written an article/opinion piece on the Trans Pacific Free Trade agreement not the bill in question.

yardy yardy 'corporate power and imperialism', if you don't like what your corporate is doing take an interest in voting at the next shareholders election and ask your super fund managers how they intend to vote and provide your opinions to them.

Corporates are an extension of the will of their shareholders.... nothing more or less sinister than that.Hi Frangipani.

Yes I do trust the police, our intelligence agencies and elected representatives to do their job.

While you see a loss of rights I see a gaining of rights.

I gain the right not to be killed by a person indoctrinated into a iron age mythology.

I can still go where I want to because I have no intention of going to a war torn nation (and I also take into account DFAT warnings), I can still say what I like as I do not advocate or encourage people to go around killing other human beings over minor points of religious doctrine, the press can still report on matters so they can sell their advertising (do note the press can't and never has been allowed to report on everything and anything to sell their advertising), due process still exists.

Kind regardsSteve,

That legislation you refer to is a reactive legislation. It is too late for me if I am dead. 

I'd rather that they were stopped before they kill human beings. Killing is bad after all. 

Hence the need for some proactive legislation to prevent or strongly discourage those from killing before they do.

What right does anyone have to intentionally go and kill others? (ie. to travel to a war zone with the intention of waging war and killing others)

What right does anyone have to intentionally attempt to persuade people to go and kill other human beings?

Sorry they aren't "rights", they are "abuses".

Actively supporting any war in an unofficial capacity (as a mercenary fighter or doctor treating and fixing mercenary fighters so they can kill more human beings) is not something to be condoned in any form. So I see no problem with a blanket ban on travel to a war zone.

Brian, the NRMA is not going to be declared a terror group. Have some common sense.

Frangipani.

Ok, so imagine you get your way ....and so some Aussie then travels overseas and kills some human beings (over minor points of religious doctrine).

and how would you feel?

how would you feel knowing that you contributed to the death of other human beings with your selfishness?

we are all human beings, we all have a responsibility to help look after each other. That is what society is about.

It is a very small blue planet in a very big cosmos, lets help each other for a change.Being member of society is not just about having rights, it is also about having responsibilities.

How would you feel if the Police decided not to come to your aid one day because you refused to help them when they needed your aid? 

You'd be upset, angry and complaining about your "rights" no doubt.

Of course we could instead help each other, which makes much more sense. 

Maybe i'm different to most folks, I see everyone on planet Earth as a neighbour and part of our global society. Helping someone in another country by stopping an Australian from killing them (over points of religious doctrine) is the right thing to do. 

It is actually a really Aussie thing to do if you ask me. It's what a mate would do after all.Because today the west is the global peacekeeper, policeman, fire brigade, ambulance, doctor, scientist and hospital all rolled into one.

No one else is really stepping up to help the folks in Africa.
 
No one else will either (in any material sense).

So ... like normal... it is incumbent upon the west to resolve the problems of planet Earth.

(but don't worry, those demanding today that the west act now will lambast the west tomorrow for acting in some other problem area and dealing with some other issue).Spot on Mike.

Until the UN or some other world body is prepared to act as caretaker for the corrupted societies with nepotistic despots in control (and remove them) then this and other similar problems will simply be a reoccurring theme of the region.

A band aid is not a solution to this problem.

Recognising the true problem is part of the solution.

Removing the cancer that is corruption and the failure of certain socio/political cultures (ie. tribalism) is a prerequisite of a real solution.

And no... the west should not take it upon itself to resolve their issues, it needs a global response (so don't hold your breath).

ps. In the mean time the west is beginning the process of industrialising space (see the ASTERIOD act before congress) which will make the problems of planet Earth perhaps irrelevant to future generations that live in orbital settlements.Rubbish Blzbob.

The west has been attempting to stabilise a very destabilised region.

If you want to point fingers have a look a our Chinese cousins who are happily supplying various forces in the region in exchange for various minerals.

In comparison we have been attempting to create mutually beneficial trade.Part of the problem is local corruption, nepotism and despotism (which is why they have no health care system to speak of).

Part of the solution therefore perhaps would in reality entail the UN taking total control of the said nation and reforming the socio/political culture of the nation into one that is capable of providing a healthcare system with facilities and personnel for itself (and yes the Chinese will not like that one bit!).'The biggest danger to civilisation is human stupidity'.

which unfortunately is one of the most abundant things on planet Earth.Peter.

It seems that you can only think in terms of an outdated energy supply maxim.

However, by using a variety of types of renewable energy sources (wind, solar, bio, water of various types etc) in a diversified grid system you can have your clean energy, base load power, and energy security all for the same cost as fossil fuel alternatives (and damn cheaper that nukes).

It is just a case of thinking smarter.

Just to help you some more, the long term plans include producing solar power in orbit and beaming it back to earth via microwave transmissions. Very 'space age' I know, but then we do live in the 'space age' and no longer live in the time of the 'industrial revolution'

Yes, the days of boiling water to create steam to turn a steam turbine to generate electricity are at an end... just like the days of riding a horse to work.Greig.

Correct the AEMO reports shows we can have clean energy for the same energy costs as fossil fuels by investing $320 billion into it (not taxpayer money by the way, but from investors who will get a return on investment). We get the same energy security, the same energy costs, but without the damage.

By way of comparison the NBN costs about a 1/3rd of that so nerds can have better gaming, and employees can access social media quicker.

According to Treasury and new documents released early 2014, the fossil fuel industry receives support rebates and tax incentives worth around $10 Billion dollars each year, and has/will received $111 billion between 2005 - 2016. Which of course could be reallocated to the renewable sector.

Nuclear costs are utterly prohibitive. The cost of transmuting long lived dangerous nuclear waste into safer materials using industrial particle accelerators (which don't exist yet) make it prohibitively expensive. Simply dumping long lived nuclear waste in above or below ground repositories which can't hold the waste for even 1,000 years (let alone the 100,000+ years) is not a solution, that is merely externalising your costs to others. The costs of industry negligence are of course also externalised by the industry.

Many renewables already are cheaper than conventional fossil fuel alternatives, and all are cheaper when externalised costs associated with fossil fuel use are attributed back to the corporations profiting from the production of energy using fossil fuels.Greig.

Current suppliers of energy (using fossil fuels) also require an adequate Return On Investment (ROI). Hence renewable energy suppliers would need no more or less of a return. Thus the price would not need to be higher as you claim, which is something that the AEMO clearly demonstrated.

The NBN is future planning, not just business looking of a particular ROI.

Similarly transitioning our nation into one that obtains its energy from renewable sources is also future planning, with a minimal cost to investors.

As for waste, you are making up stories. Forsmark (the news repository being built) at best can store long lived waste for only 1,000 years before corrosion of the contains allows leakage via the various cracks in the rock. 

Note too that glacial periods lasted about 80,000 years and interglacials about 10,000 to 20,000 years. The current interglacial began about 11,500 years ago, and with long lived nuclear waste needing storage for 100,000+ (or 200,000+ if you ask Forsmark) it is only a matter of time before the weight of the ice (during the next glacial period) over Forsmark causes such a pressure differential to force out all the leaked material from the Forsmark repository into the wider environment. You seem to forget that 100,000 - 200,000 years is a very long period of time.

So while the nuclear proponents might claim that the "problem was solved decades ago" they are being ignorant of the basics of nuclear waste. 

Note too, as an aside, that the worlds largest nuclear waste repository in Washington State USA has been leaking for decades into the water table, local river and wider environment and even the new tanks built to deal with the small proportion of leaked material that was recoverable have failed as well, which makes a mockery of any claim that a solution has been found by the nuclear industry.

Nice to see you can't bring yourself to accept and discuss the externalised costs associated fossil fuel and nuclear energy.

You are quite right there is no conspiracy, it is just business....Greig,

As for the Transmutation of long lived nuclear waste, that is the only viable solution. Yet it is currently unfeasible as no industrial sized particle accelerators exists (which would need to be much larger than the LHC that has only transmuted small amounts of similar materials) and such a particle accelerator would make nuclear energy prohibitively expensive. The good folks and Los Alamos National Laboratory are working on this, which is where you are able to find all this information in greater detail.

Storing it underground knowing the containers will corrode within 1,000 years (short of the 100,000+ years needed) allowing the material to leach out into the environment and hoping that someone in the future will find a solution and also pay for that solution is not a solution, it is just externalising the cost.

Storing it above ground similarly has the same problems and is just externalising the costs.

Ignoring the problem and hoping no one will notice is also externalising the costs.

There seems to a reoccurring theme isn't there.......Greig,

That is not the problem.

The problem is our comparatively high labour costs.

Do note that renewables already are comparatively cheaper than fossil fuel based alternatives and continue to fall in price.

And with externalised costs returned to the nuclear industry (your favourite) it is the most expensive.

Q: how much does it cost to safely store long live nuclear waste for 100,000+ years?
A: no one knows because no one knows how to do such a thing.

Q: how much does it cost to safely transmute in an industrial particle accelerator long live and highly dangerous nuclear waste into less dangerous material?
A: no one knows exactly because the necessary industrial sized particle accelerators do not exist and no one plans on building them as they would by themselves make nuclear energy so prohibitively expensive as to make it idiotic.There has been no reduction in pricing of the level suggested by John et al.According to Treasury and new documents released at the recent G20 summit, the fossil fuel industry receives support rebates and tax incentives worth around $10 Billion dollars each year, and according to latest estimates, this is scheduled to continue increasing each year until at least 2016.

In total, the fossil fuel industry will have received more than $111 billion dollars in support between 2005 and 2016.

In rough terms at today's prices if solar had received the exact same level of subsidies (ie $111 Billion dollars) we should have around 37GW of solar installed in Australia.John,

it is sad to see you don't understand how industry specific subsidies like accelerated deprecation for fossil fuel exploration enterprises or diesel fuel rebates work.

Do recall that the excise on diesel fuel isn't just for the damage caused to roads, it is also for the cost to society associated with air pollution.

Hence the point that the fossil fuel industry should not be exempted from paying for the cost to society associated with the air pollution caused by their use of diesel fuels.

QEDWhohasthefish,

The largest insurers on planet Earth have of course been modelling the costs associated with the changes resulting from the observed accelerated rate of climate change and they don't like the results, which is why they are one of the largest proponents of transitioning the global economies into ones that use predominately (or exclusively) renewable energy systems.

They too understand that renewables will diminish the risks and costs sufficiently, just like you suggest.Cafe,

It is quite a funny statement by John isn't it.

It is hard to imagine someone realistically advocating that we burn coal to boil water to make steam to turn a steam turbine to generate electricity in this modern space age of ours, let alone for the next 1,000 years!

Scientists are stating that what we should be doing is (as part of the new process of industrialising space that is in its infancy) to harvest the energy of the sun using orbital solar panels which then simply beam the resulting energy back to Earth (using microwave transmission).

I hope someone saves Johns post in a time capsule for prosperity. People in a 1,000 years will have a jolly good laugh at it."Removing RET returns us to a level playing field"

hahaahaha! that is hilarious Greig!

The fossil fuel industry (according to Treasury) will get $111 billion in subsidies between 2005 - 2016.

Which if given to the solar industry would have installed 37GW of solar in Australia.

What is the RET again? somewhere between 27GW and 41GW depending who you ask.Peter.

So in other words.

After year 10 the current owners (all Australians) have lost out.

Do note that private enterprise will not magically triple the profits of medibank, that is only the fantasies of folks who never bother to study the effects of 'privatisation' anywhere in the world.

It is a lose lose situation."carbon dioxide (not just carbon) isn't a pollutant" - it is a gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect, and in that regard it is a pollutant when too much of it is produced by human activity.

"[carbon dioxide] feeds plants" - not by itself, it is just one part of the process.Mt_Syd,

'Skunk Works' are calling for investors to assist with the production of their Fusion reactor (the High Beta Fusion Reactor).

This month, Lockheed Martin declared that it would build and test a compact fusion reactor in less than a year, and build a prototype in five years.

If anyone is going to do it I'd put my money on 'Skunk Works', after all these are the folks that bought you the Blackbird, Nighthawk, Raptor and Lightning II, RQ-170 Sentinel and is bringing you the SR-72.The "TuNur project" is a solar project with will provide power for 2.5 million homes in the UK by generating electricity in Tunisia using massive solar thermal farms and then transmitting that electricity to Italy (via undersea cable) and into the EU grid.

It is expected to be online by 2017.

Australia similarly has plenty of land mass which is lacking vegetation and would be an excellent location to produce electricity from solar thermal farms that can be used in Australia or exported as they will do in Tunisia (to the EU/UK).

If the third world can do it so can we.

Who needs coal exports when you can just export a higher value commodity (electricity).
Hi Greig,

Not at all. TuNur project has calculated that the energy losses are not significant enough to price them out of the energy market. Similarly Australia has energy hungry neighbours sufficiently close to allow for the creation of an export market.

The investors (British company LowCarbon, developer Nur Energie and Tunisian investors) in the TuNur project have already spent 10 million euros developing the site and really need only to win a 'contract for difference' (CFD) contract from the British government. It is not in the phase of attracting investors as it already has them.

The project will delivery electricity to the UK cheaper than offshore wind and nuclear can. 

TuNur is a single project unlike the Desertec consortium that was trying to develop an idea in the face of massive political opposition funded by industrial competitors.

Note too how Iceland is looking to export hydro generated electricity to the UK via a 1,000 km cable. Such a system would put Indonesia and perhaps even Singapore and the Philipines within energy export range.

You also raise a very brilliant and accurate point. Australia is currently a nation that largely is dependent upon other nations for its energy security which is a sovereign risk to us. Having our own renewable energy systems capable of providing 100% of our energy needs (ie. like how the AEMO report defined how to do it) clearly makes sense on many levels.

Of course being a regional exporter of electricity would place us in a position of having influence over importer nations.Gregory.

The reason why your recent posts about the observed abnormal and unnatural accelerated rate of climate change were rubbished is due to the fact that scientists have attempted to see if there is rational natural explanation for the unnatural accelerated rate of climate change.

They found that nothing in the natural cycles of this planet, or orbit etc could account for the accelerated rate of change observed.

Whereas they have been able determine that human activity since the industrial revolution does cause the observed abnormal and unnatural accelerated rate of climate change.

It is pretty simple stuff.you are most welcome Gregory.

it is sad to hear you are poorly read on the subject matter, but it is heartening that you are willing to learn more.

I will happily take your wager.Dugong.

It is nice to hear you suggest that we should reduce our emissions.

You correctly point out that climate change has been happening for billions of years.

However what is remarkable about the last 200 years or so is that the observed rate of climate change is an accelerated rate that has not been observed in planet Earths 4,500,000,000 year history (comet impacts etc excluded).

As there has not been an extinction level comet impact in the last 200 years or so we are able to rule that one out as being the cause of the accelerated rate of climate change. Similarly other naturally occurring events are unable to generate the rate of change we have observed.

Whereas the impact of human activity from the industrial revolution onward has the ability to cause the exact same accelerated rate of climate change that we have observed.

QED.

very simple isn't it.Dugong.

Not quite right.

What the scientific community are advising is that the abnormal and unnatural accelerated rate of climate change that has been observed (and that the rate of change has not occurred previously in our planets 4.5 billion year history) is not a result of natural processes or cycles but instead is a result of human activity which has occurred specifically since the beginning of the industrial revolution.

The media then refine that statement to "climate change is occurring".

The scientific community is also advising that the accelerated rate of climate change is causing consequences which will have a detrimental impact on life on Earth, in particular for phytoplankton (which provides 50+% of our planets oxygen).

Humans have a requirement to breath oxygen.

Hence the consequences of the observed accelerated rate of climate change (and emissions) must be taken seriously, and appropriate action must be taken to minimise or reverse the effects of 200 years (or so) of emissions.Peter.

The abnormal and unnatural observed accelerated rate of climate change is a man made because it is unnatural and abnormal and a result of human activities.

Please feel free to attempt to demonstrate exactly the natural causes of the abnormal and unnatural observed accelerated rate of climate change on planet Earth.

We could all do with a good laugh on a Wednesday.Coal doesn't produce energy cheaply in reality.

The coal industry may be able to sell it cheaply at the moment but that is only because they have been able to externalise a large proportion of their costs associated with the emissions resulting form their electricity production.

When the political will exists to ensure the fossil fuel industry pays for all the costs associated with their business activities then renewables are cheaper (and already are in many instances).

We could export electricity generated from solar thermal farms as Tunisia will be doing by 2017. That is a real alternative for Australia.Australia is part of ANZUS. I repeat.

Australia is part of ANZUS. Its our fight.

The ANZUS Treaty binds Australia and the United States to consult on mutual threats, and, in accordance with our respective constitutional processes, to act to meet common dangers.

It was invoked by Australia for the first time in response to the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001.

As ISIL present itself as threat to both the USA and Australia (with particular respect to ISIL fighters returning to Australia and bringing with them the ISIL agenda and the negative global economic consequences of the loss of the Iraqi oil fields to ISIL) we can invoke ANZUS to support the USA effort.

I agree, this entire affair is another clear demonstration why humanity must break free from its addiction to fossil fuels (particularly in relation to ensuring nations have control over their energy security, which renewable energy sources can provide due to inputs being in essence free).Now that the PM has decided that the G20 media (circus) won't be getting an open bar tab and free hot meals during the G20 I guess the media can get away with having a good crack at him without worrying where their next free lunch (and drink) is coming from.

History clearly demonstrates that Russian authoritarian leaders appreciate forth right speech and certainly don't respect wimpish and servile behaviour (appeasers are merely invaded).

I'm sure Mr Putin would have indulged himself a wry smile when hearing that a 'budgie from down under' was going to lay down the law to the 'great poison dwarf' (himself).Iswide,

You suggest "which thug was responsible is yet to be determined"

Actually that is incorrect.

It has already been established that a Russian Federation owned, controlled and operated BUK based just south of Snizhne fired the radar controlled SA-11 missile with the fragmentation warhead that shot down MH17 by causing a massive explosive decompression of the aircraft. The BUK in question is an asset of the Russian Federation 53rd 'buk' brigade Kursk.

You can thank the black box data, the preliminary report from the MH17 investigation, US missile defence satellite data (data not pretty pictures), AP reporters, local Ukrainians (from Torez and Snizhne in particular) and the excellent work of Russian investigative reporters to bring together all the information needed to clearly establish that the Russian Federation forces operating in Ukraine shot down MH17.

Do note that the Russian Federation forces have invaded Ukraine and operate in Ukraine under the express orders of Mr Putin.

Hence we have been able to determine... "which thug was responsible", to use your words.Blax5.

The Russian economy is dependent upon the EU not the other way around.

Capital flight is occurring in Russia due to the enormous concern the global capital markets have over the behaviour of Mr Putin.

The only thing of particular interest to the global economy would be being able to access arctic fossil fuel fields through Russia using western capital and expertise. However the same returns and results can be attained by investing in Canada (and other nations) who also have access to Arctic fossil fuel fields.

After invading Chechnya, Dagestan, Georgia, Moldavia and now Ukraine (and directly threatening the Baltic States and Central Asian Republics) it seems the western economies have had enough of Mr Putin's intransient behaviours and have lost confidence in the ability of the Russian economy to provide appropriate returns on investment and protect the capital investment required.

Will China, India, Brazil and other nations forge ahead Russia has fallen into stagnation and recession due solely to the actions of the current authoritarian regime in power in Russia."Can you prove god exists? No, can you prove god does not exist? No"

actually you can easily disprove the Christian god called Yahweh.

In fact his own history disproves himself.

He is alleged by himself (via the written word of god kindly written down by mere humans) to be the one and only god.

Yet the Yahweh character began as one of 60+ demi god children (brother of Ba'al etc) of the early iron age Canaanite gods El &amp; Asherah who were part of a great pantheon of gods 

In fact there is a fragment of a clay tablet which discusses how Yahweh's dad (El) got horribly drunk at a party he held for all the gods and that El got into a fight with Hubbay ('he will with all the horns').

I digress.... a god who claims to be the one and only god who came from a polytheistic religion simply disproves him/herself.

As for the witches head nebula if you looked at it from a different angle it would be rather boring, much like the cats eye one. 

As for the moon being "placed" so it perfectly obscures the sun at full eclipse, well that is pretty boring really, the corona generated by the sun during an eclipse would surround the moon if it was much closer or much further away. 

Wave/particle duality is quite interesting but has little on the holographic principle of 'everything' being a mere holographic projection of the information horizon of this particular universe.

And quantum entanglement most likely is a demonstration of the interconnectedness caused by the multidimensional aspect of this universe, dimensions our evolved human sensors miss (like how human sensors suggest to our brain that everything is solid despite much of us just having a probable location with some of us being at times on the other side of the universe), it is also a lovely demonstration of the relativity of the time dimension of this universe which is non linear in nature.

ps. at no point do we need to digress to early iron age Canaanite mythologies to obtain an explanation.... a statement of "that's cool, lets find out more" is sufficient.Realist.

You say [atheists] "have nothing, absolutely nothing to offer as a replacement?"

What those of faith seem utterly unable to grasp is that the 'replacement' for religion is the knowledge that you don't need a replacement for religion.Realist.

Mother Theresa did good because she was a good person, nothing more.... nothing less.Realist.

I never met her.

She is dead.

I hear she helped some folks.

She will be forgot to history in time.

Eventually her decayed atomic structure will be consumed by the next local supernova (now that is cool)."5% (one in twenty) routinely pray that they can get away with something that they know that God won't approve of - ie they are petitioning the Deity to give them success in ungodly activities"

or in the old times that was called buying "indulgences".

Which was one of the reasons for the reformation period... and the massacre of hundreds of the thousands of humans beings over minor points of doctrine."It was Christian reason that built much of the Enlightenment."

ahhh nope.

The Age of Enlightenment was a cultural movement of intellectuals in the 17th century that emphasised reason and individualism rather than tradition and faith.

Its purpose was to reform society using reason, to challenge ideas grounded in tradition and faith, and to advance knowledge through the scientific method.

Nothing Christian about any of that sorry......Graazt

you say "Except that the overwhelming majority of people involved in the movement were Christian..."

So what? so was the population of Germany in the 1930/40's, and the population of Europe during the Reformation period.Craig.

The problem of religion(s) is not so much the power of the placebo effect upon the faithful indulging in pray / worship but the need to inject the religious doctrine of the said religion into the lives of others who do not wish to live by the same doctrines (on pain of death in many cases).Realist.

Great men and women did great things despite, not because of, religious doctrine.Sdrawk,

and we also acknowledge Newton was wrong about a lot of stuff.Realist.

Holding me back from what?

Clearly you don't know greatness when you see it.Generally of course it means getting Yahweh's blessings in the hope his intervention will provide health or the continuation of life on Earth (which is rather disappointing if you had your heart set on heading to heaven that day).

For the most part it related to sneezing and the various sneeze responses originated from ancient superstitions. Some people believed that a sneeze causes the soul to escape the body through the nose and saying "bless you" would stop the devil from claiming the person's freed soul. 

Others believed the opposite, that evil spirits use the sneeze as an opportunity to enter a person's body. 

There was also the misconception that the heart momentarily stops during a sneeze (it doesn't), and that saying "bless you" was a way of welcoming the person back to life.

There is also of course the idea that "bless you" is attributable to the Catholic patron saint of the plague (Pope Gregory) who believed that constant repetition of litanies and unceasing prayer for Gods help and intercession would help ward off sickness (fat lot of good that did).

Others point out that saying "bless you" was an Islamic tradition (but the Christians aren't fond of having that story repeated in polite company, it really ruins the atmosphere around the cake stall).Pink,

You suggest the conspiracy theory "There were international media reports at the time that a jet Putin himself may have been on flew over the same flight path an hour or two earlier."

which is of course nonsense as Mr Putins flight path never crossed Ukraine, he flew over Poland.

If you honestly think that Mr Putin has lost control of the FSB and the military then you better inform the Kremlin (and the UN) because you now have a situation where the worlds largest holder of active nuclear weapons has undergone a coup that even the leader of that nation is unaware of..... which of course is just utter nonsense designed to attempt to deflect blame way from Putin for his decision to invade numerous nations since he came to power after his coup against Yeltsin.Harvey,

The Russian Federation military suggested a Ukrainian SU25 shot down MH17, however the Russian designer of the SU25 pointed out that none of the SU25 variants are capable of engaging an aircraft at the altitude MH17 was at with guns, cannon or even the heat seeking missiles (which target engines and not the cockpit).

Meanwhile in the real world it has already been established that a Russian Federation BUK from the 53rd "buk" brigade Kursk, based just south of Snizhne, fired a radar guided SA-11 fragmentation warhead missile at MH17 and shot it down by detonating the fragmentation warhead in front of MH17 causing the massive explosive decompression noted in the black box data and which is consistent with the physical evidence.Ram.

The Russian Federation has alleged that a Ukrainian SU25 shot down MH17 with on board weapons.

However the Russian designer of the SU25 pointed out that none of the SU25 variants can engage an aircraft at the altitude MH17 was flying at.

ps. NATO has no forces in Ukraine.Harvey.

"High energy objects" is the term used to describe the fragmentation bits that are ejected by a fragmentation warhead like the SA-11 missile fired from the Russian Federation BUK.

You see a SA-11 is a radar guided missile with a stand off fragmentation warhead designed to explode and fire fragments at an oncoming aircraft (hence the great deal of damage to the cockpit and front of the aircraft).Harvey,

You are making up stories.

There are no photos of bullet holes in the cockpit. 

There are however photos of holes caused by a fragmentation warhead detonating outside of the cockpit which is exactly what a SA11 missile (fired from the Russian Federation owned, operated and controlled BUK missile launcher positioned just south of Snizhne) does. The SA11 is a radar guided stand off fragmentation warhead weapon.

The air traffic controller you refer to was never an air traffic controller anywhere in the world, but instead a Russian Federation mercenary (from Spain) who alleged he was a air traffic controller but never was (he lied).

ps. as per the Russian designer of the SU25, the SU25 can't engage a target at the altitude of MH17 with either guns, cannons or even missiles (which are heat seekers not radar guided), as alleged by you and suggested by the Russian Federation (as part of their poorly constructed attempt at covering up their culpability of shooting down MH17).Mick,

You are just making up stories.

All along the Russian Federation was accused of using a SA11 missile fired from a Russian Federation BUK to shoot down MH17.

Which is consistent with the fact a Russian Federation owned, controlled and operated BUK based just south of Snizhne fired a SA11 missile at MH17 and shot it down, the BUK in question being an asset of the 53rd "BUK" brigade Kursk of the Russian Federation.

Which is consistent with the black box data and evidence related to the type of fragmentary warhead used to shoot down MH17.

ps. do note that the Russian Federation is the nation that has invaded the Crimean, Luhansk and Donetsk regions of Ukraine.... Poland has not invaded Ukraine.Russia released some footage alleged to be from a satellite.

However it turned out it was in fact just footage from a video game called Lockon:Flaming Cliffs 2.

Please continue to provide any and as many conspiracy theories as you can come up with as they have all be previously debunked.

ps. the USA provided its satellite data, but I guess you didn't realise it was just data and not pretty pictures.SNS,

The official investigation determined that the weapon system used was one which caused the type of fragmentation damage to MH17.

Which has been identified as a weapon like the SA11 which was fired from the BUK missile system based just south of Snizhne which was owned, controlled and operated by the Russian Federation 53rd BUK brigade Kursk and which is known to have shot down MH17.

'Due process' yourself all the way to the Kremlin, via the 53rd brigade based Military Unit 32406."Abbott's intemperate remarks have virtually closed the door on any negotiation or understanding that may have been possible."

What's to understand? Putin has been overtly, and less than covertly, invading all this neighbouring nations ever since his successful coup over Yeltsin as part of his stated "near abroad" geopolitical policy.

Putin has no interest in negotiating away anything. He will take what you give him, and take what he wants... unless you stand up to him.

Mr Abbott hasn't said "lets have a fight", he has said "you are a bloody murderer and you killed Australians and I don't like you being here".
Tim,

What a load of utter nonsense.

you start with "the unresolved investigation into the downing of flight MH1" - there isn't anything to resolve. It has been established that a SA11 missile fired from a 9K37 Buk missile systems based just south of Snizhne belonging to and operated by the Russian Federation 53rd "Buk" brigade Kursk shot down MH17 and caused the death of all those on board.

You then suggest "Putin's reckless conduct in arming pro-Russian rebels with the sophisticated weaponry that allowed such a crime to occur" - as stated above, it was an advanced weapons system owned, controlled and operated by Russian Federation forces. There is no "pro-Russian" rebel insurgence as such, there is just Russian Federation forces operating openly in the invasion of Ukraine (and some pretty poorly made propaganda).

You should also add to your list of nations invaded by Putin / the Russian Federation... Dagestan, Moldavia and Chechnya. And all these invasions (including the invasion of Georgia and Ukrainian Crimea, Donetsk &amp; Luhansk regions and various central Asian republics have also suffered Russian interventions of various types) have followed the exact same format of Russian Federation forces conducting and invasion (with identifying markings sometimes - but not always - removed).

Russia can be a member of the security council all it likes, it can veto away until its heart is content as the UN is in reality a largely pointless exercise (in the same way the League of Nations was).

However pandering to authoritarian leaders like Putin, and supporting his geopolitical agenda by supporting his leadership economically is plain unwise and threatens the peace in those nations that fall within Putins definition of his "near abroad" which to him and his supporters should be invaded by the Russian Federation (ie. Latvia, Lithuanian, Estonia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan etc). Putin has already made it abundantly clear what is geopolitical ambitions are... and it doesn't involve peace with any of these nations (who in his own words aren't even 'real nations').

As such the west is right to economically and diplomatically isolate Putin and the Russian elite that support and maintain his leadership.

ps. good on Mr Abbott for calling a spade a spade.Mick.

Since when does the killing of one group of people by another group of people allow the condoning of the killing of a separate group of people by another separate group of people?

Answer: it doesn't.

None of Putin's invasions, interventions, annexations can be justified.

I realise you don't care of the evidence relating to MH17 because it doesn't suit your agenda.

Please feel free to roll out the many and varied conspiracy theories dreamed up by the Russian Federation in their poor attempt to deflect blame away from their responsibility for shooting down MH17 and killing all those on board.The preliminary report and other information is already widely available.Dove,

Perhaps people can be consistent in their criticism of armed interventions/invasions/murders?I want to hear what Lavrov has to say, not what the ABC correspondent thinks Lavrov thinks. - why do you like listening to nonsense and lies?

Are we too afraid of listening Russia's concerns directly, do we have something to hide? - concerns like: the Baltic states and central Asian republics not being "real nations" and therefore should be invaded and annexed by Russia as suggested by Lavrov and Putin?

Did we lie to the Australian public regarding the events that had occurred in Ukraine? - Yes. The ABC is largely unprepared to call the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation using FSB/GRU operatives, special forces, mercenaries and regular Russian Federation forces an invasion by the Russian Federation.Russia's economy is about the same as that of Italy and the State of California.

China has obtained enormous concessions from the Russian Federation due to the dire economic situation in Russia (utter stagnation now dropping into recession).

Australia has new markets available to it. Ukraine and Europe are looking for a secure supply of gas and are turning away from their traditional supplier (Russia) and are instead seeking supplies from nations like the USA and Australia that are reliable suppliers.The ANU has made a wise decision from a purely economic perspective as the longer term outlook for the coal industry is of diminishing returns and capital value to shareholders as economic growth slows down in primary offshore markets.
"Nevertheless, many believe that these institutions are supposed to be our main source of ideas"

Nah, they are just there to provide you with the tools that should enable you to teach yourself how to learn.

The rest is up to you.Enno.

You suggest that they "should be making those investments with the aim of making as much money as possible"

However that you be a rather fool hardy agenda for an entity like the ANU.

Their purpose should be to protect the capital value of the money and obtain a reasonable return on investment to ensure the capital value is not eroded by inflationary pressure.

If they attempt to make as much money as possible they run the risk of losing some of their capital (ie. higher return requires higher risk).

Do note that shares/sharemarkets are a long term investment (ie. decades) and as such the divestment from the fossil fuel industry (like many other entities are doing globally) is mere recognition of the diminishing returns and capital value associated with the fossil fuel investment opportunities.Baby XYZ from any number of pacific islands was also born here (and in other nations) in the hope that baby XYZ and said mother/father/extended family would get to live in Australia (or the other nation).

Country shopping for birthing (and hoping for citizenship and extension of residency rights to family members) is not unheard of.Jamie,

Which still allows the Ebola virus to be spread.

While it is not 'airborne' as such it can still survive for a number of hours on surfaces that have been contaminated by bodily fluids (which include a persons spit/cough).Zing,

According to a federal member of parliament there are currently 10 Australians in Australia who are being monitored for signs of Ebola (though no confirmed cases as yet luckily).

We don't let in anyone who can't prove they don't have TB (as part of our border protection health requirements).

But we have an open border policy when it comes to Ebola.

Perhaps we should shut the proverbial horses gate before the horse bolts.....

There is little point in waiting for the WHO to declare a global epidemic status on Ebola (as they have done with TB) before we close our border to all those people who can't prove they don't have Ebola.Sounds very ... ummm.... mythological really.

The religious connotations are hard to miss.

Much like the superstitions / religion / mythology in Africa that has helped the spread of the disease (including the massacre of health care workers attempting to assist those infected with Ebola).

Perhaps we are better off sticking with fact / reality / science.

Just a thought.....Spot on Frangipani.

The tricky part is safely taking off all that protective clothing without accidentally contaminating yourself or your "buddy".DethLok,

We already quarantine ourselves against TB.

As part of Australia's health requirement you can't come here without proving you don't have TB.

The same rules can simply be extended to Ebola.The strange this is that if you attempt to enter Australia from a nation that has TB you have to be able to demonstrate that you don't have TB otherwise you can't get in (as you need a health clearance to enter Australia and being unable to demonstrate you are free of TB automatically precludes you coming here).

Yet if you come from a nation that has Ebola you can just stroll right in without any need to demonstrate that you don't have Ebola.

Which to me appears to be rather silly and short sighted.

I realise that Tuberculosis is in global epidemic and emergency status, as declared by the World Health Organisation, hence the rules about coming Australia.

However perhaps the sensible thing to do with Ebola would be to 'close the horses gate' before it passes the proverbial threshold to global epidemic status. 

There is little point having a 'health requirement' relating to Ebola for entry into Australia if it has already breached our borders and begun to spread.

Having recently spoken with a federal member of parliament they have advised there are currently 10 Australians in Australia who are currently under observation for signs of Ebola (though no confirmed cases as yet).

Should we act now.... or act when it is too late?Ando,

The surest way to reduce population growth is through education and contraception.

Concepts which are an anathema to all the major religions that dominate the developing regions of this planet.

Encouraging large families ("go forth and multiply") doesn't help.Did you hear the latest news!

China, Russia, Brazil and India have just donated the resources and aid required to halt the spread of Ebola in west Africa.

Next week they will get together to end official corruption which is a primary cause of global poverty in developing nations.

opps.... sorry..... wrong universe.a wonderful point Gerard,

I work with an Aussie, offspring of Italian immigrants who arrived post WW2, who regularly bemoans 'those muslims' and 'boat people' coming to "our Australia".

How quickly folks assimilate...... in a mere generation or so.

Give it a few years and our muslim citizens will be similarly bemoaning so other new batch of immigrants to this nation (maybe Kiwi's?).because Ebola is less contagious it seems (an exchange of bodily fluids from a physically sick person is required.... not just a exchange of ideas/concepts from a mentally sick person).it is a rather strange article title...

I don't find Islands mysterious at all ('Isla-mysteria')

They sit in the ocean, get a bit wet ... and sometimes have beaches and trees on them.Horse racing is called the sport of kings... only because you needed to be (and still do really) as wealthy as a king to participate (and have a hope of winning).

Indeed the ability to launder money through race betting is legendary (it seems only the police and racing officialdom are unaware of it).Filz,

You may have unintentionally stumbled upon a real solution to the problems in Syria when you said "Turkey is then free to take on the Syrian armed forces, a dream coveted by Erdogan as he wants to re-live the splendour of the Ottoman empire".

Filz,

True, it is hard to note any clearly discerned, obvious and overtly stated strategy on the part of the Obama administration. Something that can be said of all the geopolitical events of his administration.

And yet... things aren't going too bad for them on a strategic level (in geopolitical terms). 

Iraq is desperate for their help (who would have thought!), Afghanistan held elections again and a pro American is in power (who would have thought!), The Assad regime in Syria is happy for their intervention in Syria (who would have thought!), Ukraine has embraced Europe and rejected Putin's Russia (who would have thought!), Gaddafi has fallen (who would have thought!), Tunisia became democratic (who would have thought!), Egypt maintained its alliance with the west (after a minor glitch), ... the price of oil has dropped to the low US$90's.

Clearly someone has a plan...... even if they aren't sharing it and forewarning others about it.The Yank,

You assume that the Russian Federation will be able to project greater power into Syria, which given the current geopolitical climate between the Russian Federation and Europe/NATO/Turkey over Ukraine it is highly unlikely they will be able to offer any material support, and any support that has previously arrived (ie. highly advanced anti aircraft missile systems) have been kindly blown up on the wharfs/warehouses in Syria thanks to the excellent work of the Israeli air force.

Iran is a mere proxy of the Russian Federation, but again it would find it difficult to project power into Syria due to the lack of a land border with Syria.

ISIL will disappear as soon as its political sponsors withdraw their support for this organisation (even captured supplies run out eventually and without a steady supply of ammo, P.O.L., and weapons all offensive power comes to an end).What is the UN going to do?

Make some vague statement that it may possibly make a statement in the future that they are concerned about an intervention by Turkey into Syria?

For example the UN recently stated that they recently obtained evidence of Russian citizens being involved in the conflict in south eastern Ukraine.... that is despite the fact the main recruiting office of the Russian forces operating in Ukraine is in Moscow (and has always been there), that the Russian Federation armed forces are (and have always been) operating in Ukraine, and that the leaders of the Russian forces are Russian Federation FSB/GRU operatives.

The UN is so toothless that it can't even bring itself to condemn the obvious... as such Turkey has a 'carte blanche' to do as it pleases.

"UN approval".... so funny!The USA doesn't need to invade Iraq...this time the Iraqi government is literally begging for them to come into Iraq.

Similarly the Assad regime is barely making a peep about western intervention in Syria.

Similarly Ukraine is begging for western aid and assistance (long gone is its relationship with 'mother' Russia).

How times change... and how they change so quickly.Dove,

The time taken was due to the west being unprepared to support the Iranian controlled leadership in Iraq.

The prerequisite for support was a change in the Iraqi leadership, that only happened recently, hence only now is the west prepared to support the Iraq government.Caffettierra Moka,

The west doesn't need to intervene in Nigeria because overall the Nigerian government is sufficiently capable of controlling their nation in the main (a few areas excepted, and those areas are dwindling in size due to the recent successful offensive against the group called "Western education is forbidden" aka. Boko Haram).

The west can't intervene in North Korea as you may recall North Korea has nuclear weapons and the ability to use them over a wide area thanks to their ballistic missiles. Note too the lack of a sighting of the current "dear leader" suggests an internal power struggle has resulted in a change of internal leadership. Note too both China and Russia will not tolerate any western intervention in North Korea that would result in a fundamental change in the system of government to one that supports the west.

and yes.... attack the energy security (and therefore national security) of western powers and they will respond accordingly (ie. the seizing of oil fields by ISIL and any drop in production/supply can cause a rise in oil prices and a consequential detrimental effect on western economies - thankfully only a few were seized and the USA has been increasing production which caused the price of crude oil to fall recently).

There are no surprises in any of the above.

The only surprise would be if say Brazil, India, China or Russia did something like suddenly supply west Africa with the necessary support to combat the spread of Ebola...... but you will never see that as it is constantly incumbent on the west to resolve the problems on this small blue planet.Because they are equally involved in the program of developing various pipelines to supply fossil fuels from the Levant/Arabia into Europe (via Turkey) without the need for costly shipping.In this space age of ours perhaps it is time for many to realise that it is no longer appropriate to encourage others to believe in early iron age mythological characters and their associated religions (and religious doctrines).

The flames of discontent, naughtiness, ill-discipline and irresponsibility can be best rectified with education and a reduction in belief in mythological notions.Ephemeral.

No.

The average intelligence is an 'average'.

If you examined the distribution of intelligence in a population you will see that the vast majority are of an 'average' intelligence and that it is statistically distributed in the shape of a bell curve which some being more intelligent than others, and some being less intelligent.

However the vast majority of the population would be within one standard deviation of the centre of the bell curve and would be of 'average' intelligence.That is very Iranian of them.

Iranian women/girls have been doing that for ages now, particularly the tight fitting clothes/jeans.Rhonda,

So if there are very few people wearing facial garments that cover their faces and therefore present them as a security threat to those who attempt to provide security at secure locations then there should not be much of a worry about banning such folk from such locations in such attire.

ps. I wasn't offended by tony abbott in his swimming costume, primarily as I am quite capable of not looking at things I do not wish to see. It is called self control."It also says you are not worthy to see my face, or if you did you would be overcome with lust."

That is an interesting commentary on certain subsections of the male population isn't it.

I find the idea that men will rape a women because she shows her eyes/face is rather strange beyond words. 

That some men actually agree with these concepts and do admit to such a lack of basic self control is however even stranger.

Perhaps they need to seek help from a professional medical practitioner who specialises in mental health disorders rather than have their inability to have self control justified by a religious authority/priest.Dove,

Of course we dictate what people can wear in certain circumstances.

Bars, restaurants regularly provide a minimum level of dress before you are allowed entry. 

Secure locations, banks etc regularly provide a maximum level of dress before you can enter too.

As such preventing a person who wears garments that conceal their face (and who are wearing garments which could conceal a weapon) should not be allowed into said secure locations.

QED.That is too much like logic and common sense.

As such it will never catch on.....But state schools are secular places, they aren't Christian places.

Religion has no place in a tax payer funded school.

Nor do any priests, imans, jedi or any other religious representatives.Hi Lulu,

Personally I'm really looking forward to visiting China one day.

It looks and sounds amazing in so many respects.

There is no point worrying about what the media says (state or commercial) they all have their agendas, talking to other humans is what really matters.

Have a lovely day.Hi Lulu,

We are all just people at the end of the day.

Yes it pays to look at different news outlets, you can be surprised by what you learn sometimes.

Thanks for your insights into China and some of the cultural differences one may encounter. Having travelled the world many times I've learned to appreciate the differences between people, although at heart we are all the same.

The Chinese people I have met and spoken over the years have always lovely, polite, and genuine people, ... like pretty much most of us humans, and like you.

Thank you for your welcome and kind words and maybe we will bump into each other when I manage to visti China, it is a small world after all.

As long as we all keep on talking there will always be peace.

Have a lovely weekend too.whohasthefish,

where someone has hidden a weapon under their burka, habit, or jedi robe etc and it is of a nature that standard scanners would not pick it up (ie. a plastic 3d printed gun etc) then the only real way security personal would be able to pick out the person would be by studying their body language (which they are trained to do).

The eyes and the face are the windows to the soul, and the same holds true when considering a persons body language.

Hence I wouldn't be (and shouldn't be) allowed to enter parliament dressed as Darth Vader despite him being a key part of the jedi faith (which is a recognised religion in Australia).

Similarly, other religions should be held to the same standards.No.

Because you can see their faces.Sack.

You ask " Do you really think that a purely military response will end things"

The simple answer is "yes".

The longer answer is "yes" but that it must also occur as part of a political alteration whereby the backers of ISIL are politically isolated to ensure they withdraw support for ISIL, and that other aspects like greater sunni representation in the Iraqi government are also implemented to reduce the political appeal of ISIL to disenfranchised moderate sunni.Considering the west is the dominant geopolitical entity on the planet Earth i'd have to say from a strategic point of view 'we' won and solved them all.

It all comes down to perspective doesn't it.Graazt,

Being unhappy that the west is currently in a position of geopolitical ascendency and dominance doesn't alter the fact the west is in that position from the prior geopolitical activities.

One line quips don't alter reality.
The reason we aren't doing anything at this point in time is merely because at present Ebola doesn't present itself as an economic treat to the western sphere of influence.

Cold hearted..... yip,..... pragmatic/realisitic... for sure.I guess in Australia people agree that the property belongs first and foremost to the owner (not the lessee of the property).So what you have in effect said is:

"PM's are risk adverse and prefer to invest into low risk, low return property portfolios"

they could have invested in the share market and generated greater returns at greater risk to their capital, .... but clearly they are adverse to that level of risk.

perhaps sensibly so.

it is nice to see sensible people in power.Negative gearing applies to all business activities in the 'market'.

Hence there is no interference or distortion of the market as you erroneously claim.Not at all.

Many start ups that are highly leveraged and/or have negative gearing would have initial losses.

Just like a highly leveraged / negatively geared property (residential or otherwise).

(sorry, I didn't understand your last sentence).sdrawkcaB,

If your 'friend' wasn't doing anything illegal or in breach of the ITAA then there is nothing the ATO can do.

How many years do you think Virgin Galactic has been running at a loss at now?The fundamental problem with renting is that someone else owns the asset (the property) and the renter is simply enriching the asset owner.

There is a reason why the worlds wealthiest are property magnates.just funny.

and people wonder why accountants/tax agents exist.......Geo.

Great advice.

Another bit of good advice is to not pay the final rent (equivalent to your bond) and simply lodge the bond release application yourself specifying that the bond is to go owner in lieu of rent not paid.

That way there is no bond left over to be stolen by the various dubious scams real estate agents pull (ie. $50 to change a light bulb that has allegedly blown etc).And the USA botched yet another execution leaving the person to die in agony over hours.

A quick beheading sounds preferable than a slow agonising death.

Luke... killing anyone is unnecessary and worse, all governments have killed innocent folks at times mistakenly (or no so mistakenly).Jack44,

I worked for a while in London for a jewish firm that employed many muslims (amongst others) from all over the world.

The funny thing was ....we were (and are) all just human beings with the same thoughts, desires and quirks.

All this "us and them" nonsense is just crud spouted by those too ignorant to get out and learn about humanity and the world they live in.

The bottom line is... we are all humans (and some of us are good, some are indifferent and some aren't so nice).You are right Pegaso.

A great deal of wisdom can be attained from studying the immortal works of Monty Python.

Be it the importance of (and benefits of) the Scottish suicide brigade conducting 'live' training.

Or the words of Reg pointing out why the roman empire was such a disaster for the Hebrew population at the time of Jesus (with due exception for sanitation, roads, medicine etc etc).

I'd suggest that we can all learn from Jesus when he blessed the Cheesemakers and realise that the blessing wasn't to be taken literally but refers to all manufacturers of dairy products.

I think if the middle east (and all of us) learned from these three 'Psalms' of Monty Python peace on Earth could be attained."I even thank door-knocking evangelists for their time and their sincere concern for my spiritual welfare."

Indeed, ... there is nothing wrong with taking pity on those less fortunate than you.

(though I do still maintain it is more comically entertaining to release the pitbulls).
"I tried it moments later with my taxi driver and he laughed, "Oh no! I am a Hindu!""

oh my ... oh dear... such ignorance.

Though it does perhaps explain why you believe that an early iron age demi god called Yahweh (son of the gods El &amp; Asherah, brother to Ba'al and 59+ other demi god siblings) from the Canaanite mythology is real.

And you probably thought that you didn't have a great deal in common with your fellow followers of the Canaanite mythology within the muslim sects.

Any change you lot can get over all this mythological nonsense anytime soon? after all humanity has more pressing matters to attend to......I guess you need to study religious history a bit then.

Try starting with the siege of Jericho (one of the various foundation moments in the history of the Abrahamic faiths) and the consequential genocide of the entire population of Jericho (every man, women, child and donkey stuff) in the name of your god.

Not too much peace, love and mung beans in that unfortunately.

But in a way you'd be right, peaceful folk did take a cue from the bible stuff... they rejected it because it was full of slavery, murder, oppression and violence to those not willing to join up to the Abrahamic faith (and to "lesser" members of the faith, like women and children).a submission tax?

is that like non believers subsidising a religion by allowing them massive tax concessions via a 'charity' status?

as happens in Australia.

or do you think religions should pay their own way (including taxes)?Quite well said there HPH.

Evolutionary traits of co-operation etc between humans has been around for some time and would predate humanity and homo species when you look at the behaviours of other mammals and cetaceans.

"they" even go surfing, wear jeans, play sports and shock horror go see Hollywood movies!The Chinese maybe smart enough to realise that Hong Kong is unique to a degree and that allowing a more realistic form of democracy in Hong Kong will satisfy the population and at the same time (and perhaps more importantly for the communist regime) end any news that may stir unrest and calls for democratic change in China itself.

A quite and soft approach will perhaps better suit the regime.

I doubt they will be able to do what they are doing in the west of china where they have a blanket media ban and simply kill and arrest those who oppose them.Hi HPH,

Ah... you do also see similar unrest in Macau (though as yet the numbers aren't the same as seen in the more politically active region of Hong Kong).

In Macau there is also a backdrop of political unrest relating to the same issues of universal suffrage for the 2019 elections for chief executive (and the whether voters have confidence in the sole candidate).

In August an unofficial referendum was to be held on democracy in Macau... however local police shut it down (though it was still held online).I wasn't aware tourists went to Macau to lose money at the Casinos, I was under the impression it was where the Chinese mainland communist party officials et al went to launder/clean their corruptly obtained funds.

You can bet your bottom dollar that Packer wasn't happy with the recent (August) protest/march by the local Casino workers demanding an increase in their wages and greater guarantees that foreigners do not replace them as workers.

:)*knock knock*

That will be the authorities knocking on your door to arbitrarily detain you without charge (or hearing) and place you in the appropriate 're-education' facilities for daring to complain about the country you live in and the government of the day.

Oh... hang on .... you don't live in China.

It's ok, it is actually just your local Seventh Day Adventist kindly offering you some biblical literature / kindling.Mortan,

Perhaps the more important question is "what percentage of the Hong Kong population is supporting the protest movement and the desire to have proper democracy in Hong Kong" (as was agreed by the Chinese government).

I doubt may (if any) would intentional choose an authoritarian dictatorial regime over democratic institutions.Mortan.

Really? you honestly would like to suggest people choose to live under and authoritarian dictatorial regime?

unlikely.....Zing.

But that is not "choice" is it.

And Mortan and I were discussing what they would choose given a choice.Hello Edward.

Indeed 'institutionalism' is a fact and way of life for a tiny portion of a population. As you say, weird as it is to the vast majority quite capable of being part of society.

I'm sure you will find a tiny portion of chinese (or any population for that matter) who would choose a dictatorship, but certainly nothing beyond what would statistically be outliers on a distribution curve of the population.

Who are we to judge you ask? "we" (ie. the west) are a population with great historical experience who can cast judgement upon various forms of government because we have experienced all forms of government from tribalism, feudalism, empire, dictatorships and democracy.

"Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all those other forms that have been tried from time to time." - Churchill.

Don't forget... they are humans just like us.Caffettierra Moka.

Of course authoritarian regimes can work, look at Stalins USSR, Hitlers Germany, the Roman and Baylonian Empires, Cromwells England, etc etc.

But that doesn't make them a preferred form of government for the population.

ps. yes, I can certainly understand why one R. Murdoch would have a love of authoritarianism.CP,

I see you are struggling to understand why so many people died in Gaza recently.

It is pretty simple really, it is historically how Hamas goes about generating political support for their group when it is election time.

They fire off sufficient rockets (in the thousands) at Israel, kill a number of Israelis, get the appropriate (and desired) response from Israeli, Palestinians are killed, people hate Israel more/again,..... Hamas polls well in the election.

Election campaigns in Gaza are a little different and perhaps more cynical than we are used to down under.Tory Boy.

You ask why the west doesn't bomb China.

China has nuclear weapons, and the ability to project them globally.

Simple.

But perhaps more importantly there is no need to bomb China as they are undergoing a cultural revolution (at their own pace) which will see them eventually become a fully fledged democracy due to internal cultural pressure that their communist authoritarian regime will not be able to resist forever.Graeme.

You, like all others, are free to vote for whom you choose.

You can only blame yourself and your fellow citizens for who wins elections.

There is no requirement for anyone to vote for any major party, people just choose to do so.

Whereas in Hong Kong they are a bit mad that they will only be allowed to choose to vote for either of the two candidates that have been hand selected by the Chinese Communist Party.as long as they don't adopt our 'preference' system and the ability of parties to wheel and deal those preference they should be ok.
