The trouble is Dean, that is what their actions reflect.  Menzies would be shocked to see what has happened to his beloved Liberal Party.  After World War 2 he was willing to open his arms and the arms of Australia with compassion.  And labor went along with him.

I find it so interesting that so many of the very people who support this policy of fear and retribution are descendants of those Menzies and Labor opened their arms to and said welcome.  It was Fraser, again of the Liberal Party and with support from labor who again opened their arms to the Vietnamese fleeing after the end of the Vietnam War.

But now sadly our governments and their leaders have become peddlers of fear and mistrust again.  All I see in this is a repeat of another version of the White Australia policy and the fear and misinformation that underpinned it.  The excuses of drownings are just that, excuses.  

This Liberal party along with its previous versions under Howard have simply managed to show it can always be nastier than labor could.  Those are the simple facts of the matter.  And by being nastier on this issues they demonstrated that they could take votes from labor.  So it has become a core policy for the simple reason that they can take votes off labor.
Oh, please GRF stop using the excuse of drownings for this very nasty vindictive policy.  It is an excuse and nothing else to try and excuse the nastiness of the policy.  "The liberals simply saw evil and stopped it".  No, the truth is the liberals saw a way to take votes from labor on this issue by being nastier than labor could.

And in the process they are quite happy to do damage to our democracy by treating Parliament with contempt through the excuse of 'Operational Matters'.  There seems to be no concern about the damage to our democracy as long as they win and hold power on this issue.

It seems neither this government nor many of its supporters understand or care that it is Parliament that the people elect.  It is not government or any political party.  That contains a very crucial fact.  And that is the government of the day must be answerable to Parliament and through Parliament to the people.  Those are very simple but crucial facts that underpin our democracy.Sadly Yank, it seems this government and a lot of this supporters simply don't care about the Refugee Convention.  Is it not strange how it was their so called liberal party hero Menzies who signed that convention.  

Is it not also strange that it was their liberal party hero Menzies, along with labor, who went against the prevailing public opinion to bring our a whole lot of refugees.  How things have changed in the liberal party.  

Fraser who did the same as Menzies by accepting a whole lot of refugees after the Vietnam does not even recognise the liberal party he once belonged to and led.  How the world has changed when two previous liberal party prime ministers would not now recognise the party they once led.John C. can't you see the fundamental damage this government's actions are doing to our democracy.  Or is your fear and dislike of these people so great that you don't care about the damage.

That is what gets me in all of this debate.  People seem quite happy to sacrifice the very fundamentals of our democracy just so they can say these people did not get asylum.

I don't know, maybe some people do not even understand  why we have a democracy in the first place, or why it should be more important than the politics of this.   Maybe some people don't understand that in a democracy the government of the day is answerable to Parliament, must be answerable to Parliament and through Parliament to the people.

It is a dictatorship where the government puts itself above Parliament; where it is not answerable to Parliament.  In a democracy the people elected Parliament and not the government.  So when any government deems it is not answerable to Parliament we have a serious problem with our democracy.  And when we have public servants who represent that government deem they are not answerable to Parliament we have an even more serious problem with our democracy.

So John C. I would suggest that you need to ask yourself a question as to whether your support for your side of politics is above that of your support for our democracy.  Now I don't know about you but to me protecting the fundamental principles of our democracy outweighs any support I may have for any political party or government.  And that is because I believe in this country.  And that is because I see the dangers of this in what happens overseas.Coogera, it seems you like John Coochey do not understand much about our democracy.  Our democracy operates under our constitution.  Within our constitution we do not have political parties, we do not vote for political parties.  We instead vote for a Representative of our electorate in the Lower House.  And in the Upper House we again vote for those who represent us in the Upper House.

The Government is simply the majority of those representatives who were elected to the Lower House.  We did not elect the government.  We the people elected those represent us in Parliament.  

That means it is Parliament who represent we the people and not the government.  That means the government of the day is answerable to Parliament.  That means the government of the day is not above Parliament.  It is and must be answerable to Parliament and through Parliament to we the people.  

I would suggest going and doing a course on our democracy and the way it operates so as to understand the actual facts.  The government does not have a majority in both Houses of Parliament.  And I would suggest thank heavens for that.  So sorry but your claim has no validity.No Mark, the Murdoch press just hide their dirty washing in some tiny corner of their papers.  That is if they get a mention in the first place.  You need to get the magnifying glass out first to find any criticism by them of our fearless leader.Esteban, if we were still a democracy they would have to be answer to Parliament.  But instead what we have is a government that treats Parliament with contempt as though they are above Parliament and not answerable to it.  

This government has and continues to ignore the most basic tenant of a democracy.  And that is that it is Parliament who represents the people and not the government.  In a democracy a government is not only answerable to Parliament.  It must be answerable to Parliament.  And for that reason there should be no getting away with this inexcusable excuse of 'Operational Matters'.  

That is why I say we have no democracy anymore.  It has been trashed and thrown out the window into the rubbish bin.No. Rgb was right.  The highest interest rates were under Howard when he was Treasurer.  Oh, and about half the debt that Howard and his debt bus went around complaining about as labor's debt happened when Howard was Treasurer.  Those on the coalition side like to ignore those facts.Palmer, is just copying what he learn't so well from Abbott when he was opposition leader.  So if they are calling Palmer a bully boy they must also be insinuating that Abbott acted as a bully boy when he was in opposition.

As I said in another media post sometimes these political parties should just shut up instead of Spruiking all these claims about how their fearless leader looks so statesman like and tough now as he stands up to Putin.  That is school boy stuff.John1, where were you.  Abbott repeated said his roll and only roll as opposition leader was to oppose.   Surely you could not have missed all of the times he repeated that claim.  

Labor got its bills through by working with and negotiating with minority parties and independents.  The only time he supported any of labors policies was when the public support was so high he was not game to opening oppose them.This article is nothing more than liberal media press spin.  Oh, dear Abbott does what would be expected of any Australian Prime Minister of the day.  Yes any Prime Minister!

So sorry his actions on this issue does not override or negate all of his lies, bullish behaviour, or his and Hockey lousy inequitable budget.  Just because we had the downing of the MH17 doesn't mean the inequity of the budget has suddenly been fixed.  And neither does it negate the over the top arrogant behaviour of Abbott over the past 4 to 5 years.

I hope Terry Barnes is not telling us that all of Abbott's actions in response to the downing of MH17 have been to improve his own image with the Australian people.  I wonder if Terry Bares had actually thought before writing this article.  Because if he had he may have just kept mum about making such claims as saying oh, look at how statesman our fearless leader now looks as he stands up to Putin.

Just a thought!  Sometimes political parties should just shut up and leave the person's actions to speak for themselves.  Bragging about how statesman or tough a leader looks may go down well in Russia.  But I would suggest it does not work that way in Australia.  Not the Australia I grew up in anyway.What a strange thing to say.  Abbott and Julie Bishop are doing what would be expected of any Prime Minister and Foreign Minister in such a situation.  As are the Opposition leader and Opposition Foreign Minister.

Cry in their cornflakes.  Sorry that is school boy stuff.  And it only diminishes the whole situation of what happened with the plane being shot down.So do you Gbe. Very selective.Gbe, what about the 23% under Howard when he was Treasurer.  The thing is no government of today would be game to allow interest rates to increase anywhere near those levels.  

And that is for one very simple reason, the level of private debt in mortgages, in the stock market and on the credit card.  Even allowing interest rates to increase a few percent higher than what they are now would send our economy crashing into recession with a hell of a lot of bankruptcies.   Plus the simple fact is interest rates can't climb that much now because the global economy is awash in credit out there with nowhere else to go.

If our budget and level of debt is the crises you claim than god help the rest of the world.  Because if ours is such a crises than the United States, Britain and Europe must all be plunging into the deepest of depressions."I am not suggesting, for one moment, that all criticism of Israel or protests related to Israel's actions equates to antisemitism, ...."

But that is the trouble, isn't it, for some people of the Jewish religion any criticism is made out to be antisemitism.  The types of examples you have provided are the worst of this type of abuse and is wrong no matter who it is aimed at.  

But the trouble is that picture of Israeli Jews standing and sitting on the hill overlooking the destruction and deaths in Gaza does not help.  On even first glance they look like a a group of people at best indifferent to that death and destruction.  And at the worst a cheer squad looking over their hated enemy.

That is the problem isn't it.  The hatred and wishing the destruction of their enemy Israel is not just the ownership of Hamas, proclaimed as a terrorist group.  That hatred and willing for their enemies total destruction is also there in a section of Israel's Jewish population.  

Many of the settlers and hardliners in Israel have stated by words and actions that they do not believe in a two state solution, or the rights of the Palestinian people.  Many have stated that they will not be happy until all Palestinians have been expunged from their land, the land of Israel.  And in that they mean all of land belongs to Israel and to the Jewish people.

If we are too condemn the radical views and hatreds of one, we must condemn it of both.  If Israel believes it is right to condemn Hamas for it views than it must also condemn those hardliners views within its own ranks.  And its actions to continue to build settlements within the Palestinian Territories including East Jerusalem say they are not interested in doing this.

The problem is that it seems to be the hardliners, the far right, the religious right, the Israelite settlers who dominate the politics in Israel.  The Jewish moderate voice is locked out with little influence over the politics of Israel.  Or, that is what it looks like to the outside world.  Even the United States is starting to see that fact.    

And that is the problem uncontrolled fanaticism drives uncontrolled fanaticism.  Israel's brutal bombing of Gaza, and it can not be termed in any other way, only gives further rise to such hatreds and expressions on both sides.Glen, the problem with your headline question of'why must my friends be afraid to be Jewish' is that it is all relative.  Many religious, ethnic and sexual groups are afraid be openly who they are.  Many are persecuted for being who they are including within Israel.

When you see such brutal unequal actions as those we have seen as those by Israel against Palestine than we see such responses come out of the woodwork.  Remember what started all this.  The deaths of those three Jewish settler boys.  Remember the hatred that arouse within Israel of hatred against all Palestinian people.  Remember the brutal death and attacks by Jewish people against those of Palestinian boys and people in Israel.

Of course all of those boys deaths were just an excuse for what happened on both sides.  But that is where such hatred leads no mater its starting point.  I have seen too often the brutal response by Israel where one Palestinian family member has committed an offence.  I have seen too often Israel than punishing the whole family including the destruction of their home.

Such actions do not lead to a moderating of such hatreds.  They only entrench those hatreds in the next generation.  The Jewish people returning to the middle east to reestablish Israel was never going to be a panacea to what that Hitler and the Nazi's did.  Going and forcing another people off their land to make way for the Jewish state was never going to lead to peace let alone safety.  

Remember the Christians tried that a thousand years ago and they fought that war called the Crusades for about 300 to 400 years.  Did it work, this attempt to make that region a Christian state.  No!  And it was never going to work.  Proclaiming some land a Christian state, a Jewish state, an Muslim or Islamic state, or any other religious state is not going to work.  

Modern democratic states can not be religious states, no matter how hard they try.  They stop being democratic states and can only be called something else.  But what ever you call them they all end up in repression and violence.  But I doubt the world will wake up to that anytime soon going on its record.'Hatred is the essence of evil'.  Yes you could say that, but I think you need to dig down much deeper than that to what drives hatred in the first place.  Ignorance of course is on of the things that drives politics, but than so is the politics of difference behind that ignorance, using that ignorance.

When you use the politics of difference, you not only create them and us.  You turn them into something less than us, less human.  That is what the politics of difference lives off, sustain itself off.  

When your very sense of self is of difference, whether it be of religion, ethnic, color or sex than that creates the politics of difference.  That create the idea that my right is greater than your right. Politics/power loves to play off these differences to suit their own agenda.  If you want evil than that is the source of evil.

When we see ourselves as human beings with equal rights than that politics of difference can not work.  But until we do than that politics of difference works very well.  And that politics of difference continue feed that hatred time and time again as we see all too often in this Jewish/Palestinian conflict.

Is it not interesting how in so many of these countries people can live side by side even be friends for generations.  Yet when the politics of difference arises all that ends.  And when it ends we see this cycle of violence and bloodshed that become ever harder to stop.JessC, I would suggest it was partly because of the guilt that many nations felt about the Holocaust and their part in turning away Jews trying to flee the Nazi persecution.  That was why we ended up with the Refugee Convention after World War 2.  

And partly because many Jewish people had decided even before World War 2 that they wanted to return to what was than Palestine.  World war 2 and Holocaust simply turned it from a trickle into a flood.  

The violence that than arose caused the British to pull out of Palestine.  And it caused many Palestinian people to flee that violence as the Jewish people forced their takeover in their effort to create the State of Israel.  And the contesting of this region has been going on up to this day between the Jewish people and Palestinians.  It is all there in the history books.I do not know the agreement with Lend lease.  But it became too costly in British soldiers lives.  And yes pressure in America through American Jewish lobby put a lot of pressure on Britain to pull out.  Again that had a lot to do with the guilt as well as the horror of the Holocaust.John M, wireless for the last mile.  I thought Turnbull said that the nodes would be within 400 meters of the a property.  Are you telling me Turnbull was lying to us.

But tell me this how many properties and end users do you think will be within that 1 mile radius, or if Turnbull is telling the truth, 400 meter radius.  Unless you are out in the country I would not like to rely on that option for fast download or even access.DannyW, go and look at the physics of wireless.  It has defined limits and technology innovation can only achieve so much based on those limitations.  And in the end it will all rely on fibre.Ardy, go and do your research before making such claims.  For a start wireless relies on the existing copper which limits and it will also rely on fibre.  It is all in the physics.

And fibre to the premise will make wireless much more effective functional as a method of broadband download.  Why on earth do you think they go to the trouble and cost of laying down these fibre cables between continents.  Satellites have a place but fibre cables are far more effective in meeting the broadband capacity needs.Poindexter, I would suggest that he has paid a Rolls Royce price for a rusty T Ford.  That's the 1912 model.SO, it was critical when we were back in the days of the Telegraph, before the telephone, before the internet.  And do you know what, there was just as much criticism and claims of the investment in the Overland Telegraph line being a waste of money.Ardy, are you for real.  Communications not critical.  The whole economy would come to a crunching stop without communications.  There is just about no business let alone government service that can operate without communications and access to the internet.  And that is without taking into account of it being the driver of productivity.Yes Malcolm Turnbull's business credentials has gone way down with his support of this 3rd rate NBN version.  Way down.Mr Chow, the NBN, the original labor version of FTTP, is the most important infrastructure project this country could invest in.  Turnbull simply managed to turn it into a 3rd rate version of what it would be, should be and needs to be.  

It is our future economy that is being shot in the foot by this decision of Turnbull and the coalition.  Changing the NBN from FTTP to FTTN as Turnbull and the coalition is doing is like throwing the biggest anchor you can find out the back of the economy.Gbe, are you telling me you actually signed up to the NBN of fibre to the premise when it came to your suburb.  You mean you were one of those lucky enough to get FTTP before the coalition put the kibosh on it.  

I am still waiting and will probably be waiting a long time.  But than I am at least lucky I live in a major city and not in the regions where many are on snail mail.Mr Chow, a free market solution!  Where were you during the Howard coalition government years.  They spent 11 years just talking about it.  And yes they were doing exactly that waiting on the free market to build it.  But the free market was only interested in the major capital cities.  

The regions, well the free market was happy to see them die a slow death as they didn't see enough money in investing in the regions.  That is unless government paid them a lot of money to build it.Yank, I can name you a couple of industry sectors that tend to do well in bad times.  The finance sector and the bankruptcy sector.  

We can see many of the big global finance sectors still doing very well after the GFC after government bailed them out and started flushing the market with plenty of printed money.  

As for the rest of us it seems we just have to wear it and hope we can keep a job and pay the mortgage or rent to keep the roof over you.Yank, did I say it was good.  All I did was point out whether we like it or not the finance sector, or at least some parts of it, have been making hay while the rest of the economy is struggling.  Look at our banks making record profits.  

And if we look in the US the finance industry has been doing very well off the back of the US government saving their neck and printing billions of dollars.  Little of it is going into the main bricks and mortar economy with most of it pushing up their stock market to record levels again.

The GFC has not stopped them taking crazy risks while they believe they can make money on the down market just as they can on the up market.   And all of this has the chance of taking the world back into another GFC before we even get out of this one.Oh come on Gbe, this coming from someone who supports Abbott who made it his trademark to oppose everything.  Oh, and he also said numerous times that he was the opposition and that it was not his job to provide alternatives.

Oh and as for biased forums, I would suggest you look at the Telegraph and the Australian.  Now they both make the DRUM look very balanced, very balanced indeed.

Oh and as for myself rather than being a so called Abbott hater, it more about his total hypocrisy with his attacks on Gillard for lying.  As far as I can see Abbott has made lying into an art form where he can't tell the difference when he is lying and not lying.Trev, Team Australia.  I could not help but cringe when I heard that one.  I had to wonder which Australia he was talking about.  I hope Australia hasn't been relegated down to just being a football team, or some other sporting team.  

I know most of us like our sport but even that taking it a bit too far.  Cringe, Cringe, Cringe!  When someone tells you you have to be a team player you start to look over your shoulder to see how you get out of there.Gbe, evidence would help to back that claim.  Oh, and don't compare it to the United States.  They have the worst welfare system with the most costly health care system in the developed world.  So much for the private sector doing it better and cheaper.  Not!Jordan, do you have some inside knowledge about these people that the rest of us are not given.  Because that is the only way you can make such a claim about them.  Under this government we would not have a clue with their use of so called 'Operational Matters'.  And since we don't have a clue because we are kept in the dark we can't trust anything they say to us.

Jordan, get this fact.  All asylum seekers are economic refugees.  The first form of persecution is economic.  It always has been.  When you are displaced from your home, from your country by war, it makes you into an economic refugee.  Very basic facts I would suggest Jordan.  

To use it as an excuse to treat people seeking asylum as we do in this country is simply political and another form of persecution.  So much for being a Christian country.  Not!Alpo, people who call them economic refugees of which Jordan is but one of many to do so, do not have a clue about the issue.  For a start all refugees are economic refugees.  The first form of persecution is in the form of economic persecution.  If was the first form of persecution by the Nazi's on the Jews.   And it was what started the civil war in Sri Lanka between the Sinhalese and Sri Lankan Tamils.

When people are displaced from their homes and from their country by war, by civil war, it is economic persecution on those displaced.  Economic persecution is always the first form of persecution practiced against individuals, ethnic, religious and coloured groups.  This is usually followed by physical violence and torture.

To call such people economic refugees is a misnomer and only demonstrates a complete lack of understanding.  That is the nice way of saying it. the other way of saying it is that it usually used as politics of division for political advantage of the lowest sort.So tell me Jordan what would you do in the United States.  Put a million troops alone the border.  Shoot anyone who dares to come across.  I doubt even that would not stop them coming.  That is what some people do not get.  Desperate people do desperate things for a better life for themselves and especially their children.

You ignore the flood of people from Europe to America from the 1600's.  Just as you ignore the people who took an even longer and more dangerous journey to Australia in the late 1700's and 1800's on.  The history of humanity is composed of such journey's/migration of peoples.  What we have now is nothing new, not in this country, not in America and not around the world.

I wonder Jordan how you and your family got to this country.  I know mine came here from the 1930's through to 1910, one of whom was a convict.  None of them would have had easy journey's here let alone adapting to their new life.  Many had far tougher journey's with many not surviving.  

Are you saying none of them should have made the journey's the did back than because it was dangerous.  And if you are saying it should have been the right of the inhabitants of this continent as well as the American continent to say they decide who comes here.  I would suggest that you need to ask our Aboriginal people's and the American Indians on that.  

They might agree with you on saying they should have had the right to say who came here.  But than they were not able to stop the flood of people were they.  And for all our carry on I doubt we will be able to say who should come.  Tell me how many years do we have to keep the ring of steel of our navy and coastguard in place up there.Correction:

I meant to say my family came here from the 1830's to 1910.Jordan, I am a little confused over your rant that I don't care about my country, about Australia.  I would argue the opposite.  I care very much about this country and where this government is trying to take it.  I care very much about our democracy and the way it is being treated by this government.

You see the difference is I put my country and our democracy above any government.  You see I have this funny view that it is Parliament that we the people elect.  And for that reason I believe that all governments and not just this government must be answerable to Parliament and through Parliament to the people.   

I have this funny view that the moment that a government starts treating any group of people as though they have nor rights as they are doing with these people.  That they are just as likely to start treating other groups of people as though they have no rights.  So sorry it has nothing to do with me not believing in this country.  In fact it is the very opposite.

But I can tell you what I don't have and that is any trust in this government or anything they say.  Oh, and don't blame me for that.  This government has given me no reason to have any trust in them.  In fact they have given me every reason to have no trust in them.Thanks for a good laugh.  But my question is this, is Alan Jones and his fellow shock jocks lifters or leaners?  Going on Hockey's definition it is not clear.  

And if we go by Hockey's definition it is not clear if him and his fellow politicians are lifters or leaners.  After all going by this parliament it is hard to know what they produce or add to the national economy.Simon, income management seems to much like what happened under the White Australia policy where the government handled the wages and income of Aboriginal Australians.  As far as I know we still have some Aboriginal people of that time trying to get back the money owed to them.

I thought the whole idea was to help people, to teach them how to handle their money responsibly.  If you take all financial responsibility away from them how are they or their children supposed to learn to self manage their own lives.  

Their are no doubt certain people who have severe drug, alcohol and gambling addictions who need help to better manage their finances.  But those people need programs to help them to deal with those addictions first and foremost.  Financial management support may be a part of that as you help them to deal with those addictions.  But it should not be a lifelong support just because they are on welfare.Terangaree, thanks for that clarification and background.  It demonstrates the set backs depressions, especially great depressions can do to an economy.  It also verifies for me the right of what labor did in keeping the country from slipping back in a recession and possible depression.Custard, did you even read what Tim Dunlop wrote.  Having to apply for imaginary jobs is not about putting in a bit of extra effort.  Even you who are a die hard supporter of this government have to see how bizarre and impractical this policy is.

This can only be seen as a government without a job creation plan and who are not even bothered to create one.  Tell me where is their industry plan.  You won't find one and don't tell me in that little brochure that they loved to wave around in the lead up to the election.Yep, it seems we have not got enough working poor in this country.  It seems they would like to increase them significantly so they can create more cheap labor for the top end.  The only thing it will do is create longer unemployment lines.Mack1, what tablets are those?  Are they ones that send your brain in to a state of comatose.  That about the only way you could not question this governments bizarre offerings.Dissenter, I don't know about the create a million jobs.  I think he has a started well on the way to losing a million jobs.  Give him three years and he and Hockey will probably get there.

A single government may not be able in one term to completely remodel the structures and entirely overturn the balance in a national society.  But they can do a hell of a lot of damage to it along the way.  They can certainly do a lot of damage to our democracy and peoples trust in it's structures.

So much for three word slogans.  They may help you get into government but they don't mean you know how to govern.  They certainly don't help you to govern for all Australians.John, where were you when Abbott was opposition leader.  His standard bi-line was that they were the opposition and their only job was to oppose.  They were not there to help the government.  He must have repeated it hundreds of times at interviews over those years.Tim, thanks very much for this article.  I must admit I never had much trust in Abbott and his three word slogans.  But even I never thought he could be this bad let alone move this far to the right.  They have moved so far to the right that to me they are off in a version of the ideologues cuckoo land.

Tim you say "The Abbott Government, and its supporters in business and the media, hold that Australia, egalitarian Australia, in contempt,...".  For me it is much worse than that.  

For me it is the fact that they hold our democracy in contempt.  Governments are not above Parliament yet so many of this governments actions demonstrate a belief that they are above Parliament and not answerable to Parliament.  Their use of so called 'Operational Matters' is just one example of this.

Of course the Abbott government is not on their lonesome there.  Our Queensland conservative Government has been going down that contempt path on so many issues right across government.   You really have to ask if conservative governments really believe in democracy and the protection of that democracy, or only in power.

We need to wake up to the fact that it is our democracy that we need to protect.  It is far more important than any government or any political party.  And unless we wake up to that fact we as a country are in trouble.GraemeF, that is one way of putting it.  I simply call them economic illiterates.  Because that is what their actions and policies demonstrates.  

In fact I would go as far to say they are willfully economically illiterate.  But than ideology, especially the far right neo-liberal ideology that they practice, does that to your brain.  It rots it from within.The problem is FG what amounts to a violation of the resolution?  If Russia continues to resupply the separatist, to restrengthen them, during this period, is that a violation.  From all the evidence that is what Putin and Russia was doing.

And if Putin and Russia are rebuilding and restrengthening the separatists, as they appear to be doing, can Ukraine sit back and allow it to happen.  If you were them would you allow your enemy to rebuilt up its strength when you had them on the back foot.  I doubt it.  And that is the problem.

No I can't see Ukraine backing off its offensive unless and until Putin and Russia take away their support from the separatists.  Can you see Putin doing that?  I can't.  And that is the political bind that this situation is stuck in.

The problem is that people in that Malaysian plane where unlucky enough, if you can call poor risk management planning by Malaysia Airlines, to be shot down and killed in the middle of a war zone.   None of these facts of the position make it any easier for their families who want closure.  But the trouble is we can't get away from these facts, for now at least anyway."Indeed, the AFP's Ukrainian hosts stand in breach of a cardinal provision of SC/2166,....."

The trouble was that there was always going to be a problem implementing this resolution.  This area just happens to be in the center of the conflict zone for a start.  Second if Russia is continuing to reinforce the separatist with arms and other support Ukraine is not going to be able to sit back and watch that happen for the next month or more.

These are realities of a war with separatists who have a very big backer like Russia continuing to provide them all the implements of war including people.  If we thought Ukraine could quickly take back this piece of territory, that is without Russia directly entering the conflict, this would be the best and quickest way to gain access to the crash sight.  The biggest question is, can they.

Without that happening I don't see the AFP and other investigators safely getting access any time soon.  And in truth even though Russia may have signed that agreement I don't see Putin backing off in his full support of the separatists.  This is the terrible truth that the families of those who lost their family members will probably have to live with no matter the claim of Abbott to quickly bring their bodies home."On the contrary, a dispassionate assessment of Australia's long-term strategic interests in Eurasia would suggest that a good relationship with Russia ought to be as important an objective of Australian diplomacy...."

The author makes a very big statement here without demonstrating how it could ever be achieved.  Maintaining good relationships with Putin, whatever the author means by that, would be severely tested over and over at ever step of the way.  Putin appears to have objectives that are bound to conflict with the West including Australia no matter what we do.

Every action by Putin appears to have only one driver and that is to rebuild the Soviet Union or as much as he can get away with achieving.  Putin's support of these separatists in Ukraine, if you can really call them that, is simply only one of the steps by Putin of achieving his aim.  Oh and why I say if you can really call them separatists is that seem to have Russia's stamp on them in everything they do.

You could even argue that this is a Russian insurgency that has moved into Ukraine under the appearance of being separatists.  Even Ukraine's previous President who was ousted was Russia's man in everything but name as far as I could see.  It was only after Ukrainians woke up to that fact along with his excesses of corruption and deposed him that Russia/Putin stepped in with this insurgency/separatists plan.

As Hitler showed in the lead up to World War 11 you can't continue to appease someone whose intent is go to war whatever its form.  We should have no doubt that behind all of this separatists facade it is Putin driving this Russian expansionist insurgency/war.  As we have also seen no matter the sanctions and condemnation by the US and Europe Putin's path is set.  Or, you could say he has locked himself into this path with few if any get out clauses.Sorry, Stuffed Olive, I also failed Harvey's satirical message as well.  For me it was too close to how the LNP think.  Or should I say, fail too think when developing policy and for that matter budgets.Harvey, tell me do you believe every story that goes around.  Don't tell the con artists that or otherwise you will have them all lining up at your door to spin you a line.

Surely you heard of the line of 'take that with a grain of salt', or 'that you'v been taken hook line and sinker'.  I would rather stick to proper peer reviewed research than the gossip over the fence or bar talk anecdotes hearsay.Pedro, maybe it was because Harvey was too close to the facts of how liberals think on this.  And he was too close to the point on how they seem to make their policy and what they base it on.  They certainly prefer to take anecdotes over actual proper research.  All we have to do is see their anti science on global warming to understand that.Ravensclaw, Job snobs, get real.  Another anecdote, but probably closer to the point.  I have known and heard of people who have had to play down their qualifications otherwise they are basically told they are overqualified for the job.  I have been told that some employers don't like to employ people overqualified as they think they will simply leave as soon as a job comes up that fits their level of qualification.

Job snobs, maybe they have a valid reason not to apply for jobs well under their skills level or not of their skills type.Paul01, you are talking economics there for a government who are economic illiterates.  Only an economic illiterate would put out a budget like the one they put out.  

It is all ideological with them.  In their world if the government gets smaller than the private sector will take up the slack.  If the government does not the necessary build infrastructure for a modern economy and provide services the private sector will take up the slack.  I am still trying to find any country in the world where that has happened.RDS, the thing is what will the electorate think if things in Ukraine continues to go nowhere, everything stagnates.  If the ongoing war there means Abbott can't sort it as he claimed what happens than.  

It is one thing to say you can bring them home.  But in a war zone such as this that is not a given.  Ukraine could get a lot worse yet before it gets better.

But than that is what gets me this should be about the families and their loss and not about whether Abbott looks more statesman like or he is going up in the polls.  Too much of that talk and he and his party may find it turns on him.  I find that sort of thing rather tacky in such a situation.Hey Craig it was Abbott's supporters in his party and the media who started this navel gazing by coming out and saying how statesman like Abbott looked.  It was them putting Abbott up as the tough man standing up to Putin.  If they had just shut up in the first place it would not got these questions being asked.

That was the problem they, his supporters, turned it from simply being about the loss of life and the loss to the families involved to Abbott standing as leader and in the polls.

As for me I have not forgotten the budget even though I am well aware of the loss of their families who are stuck in a terrible situation with what is happening in Ukraine.  As for Abbott and Julie Bishop I simply seeing them doing the job any Prime Minister and Foreign Minister would be expected to do in such a situation.  I don't care if was a Coalition or Labor government in power, the expectation would and should be the same.Gbe, it is simple, if there were more jobs there would be less people on unemployment benefits.  How about you ask Abbott and Hockey where all of these jobs are in the first place?  

Just because people put in more job applications won't mean more jobs magically appear.  I have never known the job market to work that way.  All it means is more and more people applying for the same existing jobs.  I for one can imagine a lot of businesses putting limits on the number of applications that they will accept for any particular job.

Than none of this deals with the fact that a lot of advertised jobs are filled in house.  People within the company or government dept apply for many of those jobs as their's come to an end or they themselves climb up the ladder.  On top of that many of those advertised jobs are filled by people already in employment but looking for a different or better paying job.

So the use of one job for every ten unemployed is in itself misleading.  As I said many of these jobs are being filled by people who are already employed before they even get to the numbers who are unemployed.  In the job market it is always easier to get a job when you are employed rather than when you are unemployed.I would like to think it was that they were totally clueless.  But it is far worse than that.  This is about the politics of the blame game.  Blaming those who can least defend themselves or do much about it.Hey, JC, I would suggest it also limits their capacity to apply for real paying jobs.  40 job applications a month, 10 a week is ridiculous.   Please tell Abbott and Hockey to show where all these jobs are in the first place.  

More jobs applications don't produce more jobs, unless that is businesses have to put on more people to process all of these job application.  Tell me is that the new job industry Abbott and Hockey see as the future of this country.  Processing job applications.  Now that would be bureaucracy and red tape gone mad, wouldn't it.
Dove, both sides don't have the same plans.  There may be some similarities, but there are also very large differences.  And those differences are readily observable in this coalition budget with the level of inequities in it.

Oh, and labor would not have got rid of the carbon tax except to make it a market based mechanism as it was always destined to become in 2015.  And labor would not have got rid of the mining tax.  The removal of both of which are impacting on the budget bottom line.  It certainly would not have put a co-payment on the medicare payment along with a number of other things it opposes in this budget because of their inequity.Agreed Yank.  I could have made a much longer list of the differences, even if those differences are not that noticeable to many people.  They would be if they were to be implemented.  People would not only notice it in their own pocket.  They would notice it in the economy and their ability to get a job.

One of the things that I find totally bizarre with both this government and our state government in Queensland are the cutbacks in funding they made to job training and job upskilling programs.  I am still trying to figure how both governments are supposed to meet their claims of the jobs that they recon they will create.  All I have seen is unemployment increase under them instead.

Strange that.  They cut the programs, many provided through non-profit organisations, that are supposed to help people get a job and yet expect unemployment to go down.  I am still trying to work out how the logic let alone rational of that one.  Maybe someone else can tell me the logic of how that is to reduce unemployment.Zing, labor would have loved to not have had a hostile Senate in the form of the coalition when they were in government.  But they did and that meant that they had to work very constructively with the cross benches of the greens and independents.  They didn't go moping around like Joe crying woe is me woe is me.

Oh, and they had to deal with a hostile Lower and well as Upper House when Abbott and Hockey were in opposition.  Surely you must remember Abbott saying time after time that his job was to oppose; that he was not there to help the government.  You can't have forgotten that already.Too true, Olive, it was only that I thought to check the news that I noticed this article.  But I suppose people will still be able to read it even if they can't place a comment on it.

All this government, Abbott and Hockey, has shown is that they don't really comprehend the meaning of the word equity.  I am sure they think it means the opposite to its actual meaning.  They must if they think moving us further down the path of the United States and the expansion of user pays is moving us toward greater equity.

If they can't see that taking us down that path, is to expand the level of inequity between most well of and the least well off.   Than I would suggest that they will never comprehend the meaning of the word.  Inequity is growing at an ever increasing rate in the United States, that to take us down that path, means you have no comprehension of the meaning of the word.

In fact interestingly people are now starting to realise that Capitalism is the opposite to democracy.  Capitalism is being shown for what it is, a Plutocracy where the government is owned and dictated to by the rich.  Instead of we the people it is we the rich, the 1%, if not the 0.1% who government works for.  People are now starting to say that we the people want our democracy back.  I don't see this government listening.B &amp; B, if only that could be the case.  Who knows maybe ICAC in New South Wales, which was supposed to see the demise of labor, but has instead seen the fall of many liberals, may achieve the start of what you say.  

I know that may only be wishful thinking.  But it is interesting that the next target of ICAC could be federal politics and this government.  That is the problem for many in politics when you set such a thing in motion you never know who of you may be caught up by it.   I think there could be more to fall from grace from this inquiry yet, possibly many more.

I would suggest we need an ICAC to go through all levels of government and politicians.  It is about time we got a proper look at their all too cosy relationship with developers and big business.  It is about time we actually saw who our politicians are actually working for, us, or the rich and big business.  It is starting to look like for at least some it is not for us.  The question is how many and how corrupt the system has become.

This is our democracy and we should claim it back from those who have hijacked it for their own interests and the interests of their mates.  As you say we should demand better governance from all contenders.Zany, the contradiction with "every man/woman for themselves and the devil takes the hindmost" is that we end up with mobs and violent mobs who rise up in protest.  Just have a look around the world, inequity in wealth and power tends to end up eventually in violent uprisings and violent repressions by those in power.

People think it is religion and ideologues that is driving the instability around the world.  They are just symptoms of the extremes of inequality that underpins it.Alfie, you are helping the cause of the government with such comments, NOT!  Simply repeating their spin does not mean it is the actual truth.Ian H, it is only around 25% of working people who earn the so called average income or greater.  Average on its own is the worst statistical measure than you can use as it can be very misleading.  And if you include all peoples income that average percentage is an even smaller percentage of the total.

The median income, which means 50% of people earn this amount or less, is the better measure.  Interestingly the median income is about 40% lower than the so called average income.  Even the median only provides you part of the picture and it is better to break income up into percentiles and percentile groupings as this provides you a better understanding of the income spread.

Oh, you won't find this government presenting peoples income or wealth in this way although you can find in in Treasury data.

Oh, and income in any given year does not give you a real picture of who has all the wealth let alone the spread of that wealth across this nation.  It is only when you look at wealth do you get a clear picture of the real level of inequality in this country, or across the world.Inequality does not only lead to social problems.  You are talking about a country like Australia which is relatively stable.   Inequalities is the source of all the problems around the world.  Maybe a big statement, but the truth.  

We have enormous inequalities in wealth and power within countries as well as between countries.  The greater the inequalities the more it impacts on economies and economic wellbeing.  Amazingly even the United States the bastion of Capitalism is starting to question the capacity of capitalism to provide them the American dream.   For many in America that American dream has been fading and is now seen as an impossible dream.

The market system as it now stands only increases inequality between the haves and have nots'.   This has always been the case.  And it was only when governments realised that it was the role of government to redistribute wealth, through the tax system, through the provision of services, that inequality was reduced.  Since the the 1980's with the rise of neo-liberalism, governments have forgotten, or ignored, this fact.  And since than inequality has again been rising.

What I found stunning the other night on the ABC Lateline was to see one of the neo-liberal ideologues, Michael Chaney, Chairman of the NAB, son of a former liberal minister Frank Chaney, state that this governments budget was to reverse our progressive system.  His complaint was that our progressive tax system was taking wealth from the most wealthy in this country and transferring it to the less well off.  And that the budget needed to be passed to reverse this wrong.

I found this a stunning admission because what it did was reinforce the inequities of this liberal government's budget.  It was not only inequitable, but it seems intentionally inequitable, because their was a belief that the progressive nature of our tax system needed to be reversed.  

Though of course none of this is new.  Neo-liberal ideologues have always argued for a flat tax system.  The progressive tax system has always been a hated target.  But in truth neo-liberal ideologues don't believe in government except in its smallest minimalist form, little more than law and order.Peter, getting rid of negative gearing only failed because it was not backed up with other policies.  If you are to change one policy you need to back that change up with other policies. 

What we need to do is get rid of negative gearing first on existing residential property.  We need to take investors out of competing and forcing up the price of existing residential property.  They are competing on an unfair advantage which is pushing up the price of property while at the same time forcing out new home buyers.

Than we need government to invest that saving from negative gearing into social housing.  And seeing we have an existing housing shortage in housing we need extra government funding on top put into social housing construction.

Labor failed in getting rid of negative gearing but it did at least invest money into social housing.  As far as I know that funding for social housing has been largely ripped out by this government.  This is only increasing the housing needs of lower income groups. 

It is very dangerous to the construction industry and home ownership when you have to up in the top 20% income group at least to be able to buy your first home.   With the continuing increases in home prices how long will it be before you have to be in the top 10% income group to buy a home?

We should remember before many young people can buy their first  home they have to fist pay off their student debt.  That is unless they have wealthy parents to do that.  They have to than save up the 20-25% deposit.  That is unless they have wealthy parents who can fund the deposit.  Than they need an income individual or combined up around the $100,000 plus.  Not too many young people fit into those groupings. 

Oh, and the mortgage on a home is probably only one of their debts they carry.Mick, the liberals have made a tradition of playing the politics of fear.  Howard made it a success for is government with issues from terrorists in Afghanistan, to Saddam in Iraq, to the fear that Indigenous land rights would mean we would all lose our land, to asylum seekers. 

Abbott continued on with this liberal politics of fear tradition in opposition making it successful enough to get him into government.  And he has continued to do it in government.  

Abbott just added to Howard's list with his politics of fear over the carbon tax and the level of debt and the debt crises under labor.  Strange that the world did not fall in when the carbon tax was introduced as he claimed.  Strange that our debt level has not caused that debt crises in this country as he claimed.Yank, what Terry Barnes does not seem to understand is that the Medicare co-payment was bad policy from day one.  There is no saving it whatever the form.  It should be put in the bin and burnt never to arise again.  

It is bad policy for so many reasons besides its inequity.  It is bad from an overall health care policy.  Preventive and early interventionist health care is the most cost effective form of health care.  Visiting a doctor is an important part of that preventive and early interventionist health care.  

It saves many more times its cost in more costly hospital care.  And it saves the economy from the cost of people ending up with ill health and unable to work in the short to long term.  But it seems this side of government can't understand this basic economics.Mongo, the problem is this lot don't believe in government per say.  They are believers in small government, flat taxes and user pays for all.  Well maybe they might retain some third rate health care system for the poor, maybe.

User pays is the mantra of this government.  Otherwise you must be a leaner, or so it seems.  Rational thinking, logic, no they are not to be found.  It is all ideology.  

No thought of the cost of health on the economy, poor health that is, on productivity.  No comprehension that investment in healthcare is actually an investment in productivity.  Not even the comprehension that if you are sick and take a day or more off work that for many bosses you need a doctor's certificate.  

And of course this is only one of their policies that attack the lees well off and the cost of health care.  It seems our Social Security Minister wants to change the category and payment for many who are currently on a disability pension, to move it closer to the lower unemployment benefits.   Yet for many of a disability pension they have additional medical health care costs due to their mental and or physical health problems.

The fall out of such policies would be that many of these people don't have enough income to pay for and manage their health issues.  And this would mean many of them would be even less capable of working.  Not intelligent, not thinking in even the most basic policy sense.Stupendus, the biggest and fastest growing area of increase to the budget when it comes to health care is the subsidy of private health care.  But that is only one part of the cost pressure of an expanding private health care sector.  

The private health care sector with private hospitals competes with the public hospital sector for doctors, nurses, and other allied health professionals.  This competition pushes up the cost of their wages and charges to the public sector and therefore to state budgets. 

It is about the national cost of health care, public and private, to the budget and to the individual.  The larger the private sector, the greater the cost increases.  For a start the public hospital and health care system needs to demonstrate a difference with the public system.  That means their costs are higher than the public system for the same procedure.Olive, if the medical Research Institute was going to fully pay its own way as they claim from its research than the government could set it up through the use of government bonds.  The research would eventually pay back the bonds and interest.  That is if it was to be as successful as they claim.

Just a thought.  There are always other options to the lousy one that they have put up.  I wonder whose thought bubble it was.Realist, you fail to understand the most basic tenant of cost effective health care.  And that is preventive and early intervention.  Seeing your GP is both of those.

We know in medical health care research that there is an existing problem with men going to see a doctor for regular health care check ups.  If you catch a health problem at the early stage than it is far more cost effective to treat it than at a later stage.  And who knows it may even save your life.

Sorry, I had to laugh when your said "after all, they (costs) also could go down or just stay the same.  You are talking about the health care system.  And you forget that going to a doctor is only one part of the health care system and it is the cheapest part of the health care system.  

If you don't catch something early enough than you can end up in the really costly part of the health care system, the 'hospital'.  But than maybe that is the why the federal government is only concerned about the cost of medicare.  Medicare comes under their budget costs where Hospitals come under the states budget costs.

But than if we had a half decent government they would be looking at how to contain if not reduce the whole of the national cost of health care.  That includes not only Medicare, it contains the government subsidy of private health care, state budgets for the Public Hospital system as well as the private hospital health care system.  

It is only when you look at the whole of the national health system costs, public and private that you can best understand how to contain costs.  Did this government do that? No! Because if it had it would have better understood the benefit of seeing a doctor in containing costs.  It would have better understood the place of preventive and early intervention in containing costs.Billie, the simple fact is this government does not have an industry plan except some vague ideology of leave it to the private sector and all will be well.  That is not an industry policy.

In fact under this government all we have seen is companies downsizing or leaving this country.  We just have not felt the full effect yet of that downsizing and exiting of this country as it is still a work in progress.  What will our unemployment rate be once that timeline is completed?  How much higher will it be?

Another fact about the economic strength of an economy is its breadth and depth.  And again all I have seen under this government is both a narrowing and a shallowing of our industry base and depth.  That does not augur well for the future of our economy.

To top it they have put the boot into investment in the low carbon and renewable energy economy.  While at the time killing off an NBN model that would have driven innovation and productivity across the economy.  Instead, replacing it with a third rate version of it that is outdated before it is even built.

Governments invest and drive investment in their economies.  Without their intervention, economies stagnate.  Without their intervention, business as well as people lose confidence in the economy.  And when business and people start to lose confidence in the economy they stop investing and spending.  And when that happens jobs go.  Basic facts I would suggest."It is not politicians' role to have industry plans."

What a bizarre thing to say.  All governments produce industry plans.  Only someone from the far right neo-libs who don't understand the role of government could even argue it is not.  

NBN blunders! The only NBN blunder is by the coalition.  The rest of the world must be laughing at us.  They go down the path of FTTP, fibre to the premise and we go and build in all additional costs in the form of an outdated and impractical FTTN, fibre to the node.  Sorry you have it completely back the front.  It is the coalition's NBN blunder.

If anyone came to me with a construction project like the coalition's NBN of Fiber to the node I would quickly show them to the door.  It is a dumb project in any language.  

By building FTTN you are building in a whole lot of operational, maintenance and upgrade costs that you don't have with FTTP.  FTTN will cost twice as much in the end and won't do the job that will be required of the NBN for our economy.  The simple fact is that before the build is completed it will have to be upgraded to FTTP anyway.  Dumb, dumb dumb.  No other word for it.AE, "...every worker on 457 here is paid full rate...."

Where have you been there have been numerous cases in the media where that has not been the case.

Like any visa they can are abused by unscrupulous people and businesses.  The only way you can restrict such abuse it to ensure their is proper oversight over such visas's.  There will always be that proportion of businesses who will abuse the system.  And they do it to the detriment of other businesses who are doing the right thing.AE, did I ever say stop it.  But it should have proper oversight and funded properly so the government can make sure the 457 visa is not abused.

One thing I would suggest where it may be abused in your industry is that it is too easy to simply take on an experience worker on a 457 visa than to train up new people or take on people with little experience.  

These days there is too much of this only wanting people with experience and that include people with degrees.  You can only get experience in the first place if someone takes you on and gives you that experience.  Otherwise we will end up with a lot of university graduates who can't get a job in their field because they don't have enough experience.  

Australia is one of the worst countries in companies only taking on people with experience rather than being willing to take them on and provide them that experience.  And they can only get away with this because of the overuse and abuse of the 457 visas.Olive, and one thing people forget is that money from the tariffs was going into the budget.  Once those tariffs finish, well that will be less money towards the budget.  

So we will have less money into the budget from the tariffs, no taxes from the production of cars and no taxes from the people producing those cars.  All of that hits future budgets bottom line.

I am still waiting to see what will make up for that tax loss to future budgets.  One time we thought that could be replaced by the investment in the renewal energy industry.  But this government is doing everything it can to kill off that industry as well.  I think by the time we get rid of this government there will be a long list of industries that they will have killed off.  Or, at least attempted to kill off.AE, please tell us of any country in the world where the car industry has stood on its own two feet.  They get subsidised in one form or another in whichever they locate themselves in.  And they have got much higher subsidy in many other countries than they ever got in Australia.  

Oh, and what you argument ignores or forgets is that they have invested in this country many more dollars than what they got as a subsidy.  We gave them a few hundred million and they invested billions.  So we stopped putting some subsidy towards them and now we get nil investment by them in dollars or jobs.  Oh that is right we have a few design jobs staying, for now that is.The problem is that our governments do not even bother to ensure our energy needs in gas are met first before export.  The United States on the other hand do.  They legislate that America's energy needs must be met first before export.  That not only ensures supply it keeps the cost of gas and electricity down in the US.Peter and Jackie, your heading says it all.  And that is the most dangerous thing in all of this.  When people start losing trust in the political process and those who are supposed to be looking after our wellbeing, than we have a problem, a real problem.

People should look around the world to see why this is such a problem, such a dangerous problem for all of us.My One, sadly John1 seems to ignore the basic fact that the government of the day is answerable to Parliament.  Something that this government constantly ignores as they go around blaming everyone else.  

But than that is about their best tactic.  Negativity, that is along with spin and lies.  It got them into government and they seem to believe that is all they need to govern.  So much for democracy and the fact that it is Parliament who represents the people.  So much for the fact that it is Parliament that we the people voted in and not the government.
"It is not the senates job to stop an elected government from governing...."

John1, the Senate is the House of Review.  It's job is to review government policy including budget policy that it outs up.  It is not a rubber stamp for government.  It has never been a rubber stamp for government unless the government has a majority in both Houses.  And only fools give any government control of both Houses because they can't help abusing that power.

I have to wonder where you were for the period when Abbott was opposition leader.  Don't you remember the numerous times that Abbott repeatedly said his job was only to oppose.  That he was not there to support or accommodate the government.  He did not believe that it was even his role to put up alternatives to the governments policy.  So how you can make this claim is beyond me.

Oh, and have you forgot it was the liberal party when in opposition who rejected budget supply when Whitlam was in government.  Is labor, or the Greens for than matter, threatening to do that? No.  The question is No.

Hockey just can't admit that this is one of the worst budgets, ever, in this country.  He even had the gall to say the pain was evenly spread.  It's not.  Not even remotely.  And he even had the gall to argue that this budget was all about a budget emergency.  Yet it is not even a budget for that.  That is if was a budget emergency.  And it is obviously not.  Not going by this budget anyway.John1 are you telling me that all of the negative polls against labor didn't count.  I wish you had told the media, especially the Murdoch media that.  Because they splashed those negative polls over their front pages and many pages after that.  

Boy, did they love the polls to hit labor with over and over again.  And so did Abbott and the coalition.  It seems they only don't like the negative polls when they are negative about them.  Strange how that is, isn't it.NoGoodNamesLeft, you forgot the one of Australia spying on East Timor.  Bugging their cabinet room, it seems.  Oh, and that was when Howard was in government.

Oh, and I would suggest it is only a minority of die hard liberal party supporters who support it.  Hell, it seems not even all of the members of the coalition support all of it.  In fact as far a I can see the list of things that many of them don't support only continues to grow as the weeks and months go by since it was announced.APM, are you talking about Labor, the Greens and PUP.  I thought you were talking about Abbott and the coalition when they were in opposition.  Not normal! Abbott spent his whole opposition blocking everything he could.  

Abbott declared over and over again that his only job was to oppose.  That he was not there to help the government out.  You can't have forgotten that."For Christian SRE, it means teaching plainly that true comfort and lasting hope in this life and the next is found only in the truth that we belong body and soul to our faithful saviour Jesus Christ, and that he has paid for all our sins with his precious blood."

Chris, you did your argument no favour with the inclusion of that statement.  That may be your belief and good on you.  But the use of the word "truth" twice in there probably only reinforces Dean's own argument.   

Now you may have a different view of education but for me education means to learn, to be taught to contest the known knowledge.  There may be a place for rote learning in education.  But overriding that rote learning should be understanding that the only way to understand knowledge is to contest it, to challenge it, to learn how to analyse the fundamentals underpinning that knowledge.

Whereas your statement on your belief is in fact the accepting of dogma as truth.  Knowledge, education does not and should not operate in that way.  I met what I would class as a very spiritual man in the person of Krishnamurti many years ago who argued that a Religious mind is one that questions.  That is instead of one who just accepted and or repeated dogma.   A vital difference, I would suggest.The "G20 should be focused on its narrow agenda of the world economy".  Sorry Dr B, but that demonstrates a total lack of understanding of the world economy.  The world economy is not something that operates in isolation from all these other issues.  The world economy is in fact directly affected by all these other issues.

Wars, instability and all their causes affect the world economy and to not comprehend this is to function in some narrow isolated bubble.  Society, the economy are not something separate even though it seems some think including you think they are.  I have to shake my head in disbelief to hear such arguments even though I should know better since such false arguments are constantly dragged out like this.Hi John.  Is that the way you assess the science of Climate change and global warming.  You go to your thermometer any given day and see if it is warmer or cooler on any give day of the year.  

Now I would suggest that you would be changing your mind every day of the year on that one.  Boy if you live in Melbourne where they can have four seasons in one day you would be changing your mind four times a day.  If you don't mind I think I will stick with the actual peer reviewed science methodology than your method.Please John, how about the source as well as its context for claim of yours.  So tell me how defined did you want the answer?  Down to the century, the decade, or was it to the year.  And what do you mean by cool?  And tell me how was he to provide an answer as to the absence of all human activity?

John, you seem to not understand the processes let alone methodology of the way science operates.  If you studied even the most basic science you would understand that science does not do absolutes.  It leaves that to God or those who think they are God.  Science works in probability.  

And seeing the peer reviewed work on climate change and global warming put that probability up into the high 90 percentile that is about as certain as you get in the world of science.  That is until the event has happened.  And even that does put it into the absolute bracket.  

Science deal in the probability of an event happening, being repeated, over and over under the same conditions.  Or at least as close as possible to the same conditions that would happen in natural systems.  So all I can say is the argument you are putting up does not have much credibility to it as it was an absurd question in the first place.But Harvey going on your logic there would be no United States of America.  It would still be a colony of Britain wouldn't it without their war of independence from Britain and than of course they had their civil war.  

Oh, and of course we should not forget their war before both of those with French.  And of course they had the one or were those ones with Mexico.  Plus of course we have to add the wars they had with the American Indian Nations/Tribes.   

Now how long did all of those wars go for?  It must have been about three to four hundred years or more without taking into account all the wars it got involved in after their Civil War.

As for Great Britain, it fought dozens if not hundreds of wars, from civil wars to wars to England's wars with the Welsh, the Scots and the Irish.  Than we have to mention all the invasions of what we now know as Britain over about two thousand years.  

And than of course we would have to mention all of the wars Britain fought in the forming and holding of the British Empire.  And that is without talking about its European Wars including those of the 20th Century.

The world is still an unstable place and when we look at history it provides us a lot of the reasons for that instability.  And when we look at the levels of inequity within nations and between nations we find a whole lot of other reasons for that instability.

Now Climate change and with the competition for resources that it will help drive we will find a whole lot of other reasons for instability around the world.  History tells us that instability will be one of the bi-products of climate change and global warming.  This is another consequence that the denialist?s of global warming are refusing to acknowledge.  

Interesting, the US military take global warming very serious as they assess it potential for causing instability and competition for resources around the world.  They take it very serious as do insurance corporations around the world.  They are already factoring in it potential costs and what they will insure and what they will not insure in the future.  It is called risk management a very crucial factor for any nation or business..Algy, the smart sewage plants are doing exactly that.  They are turning the solid sewage waste after treatment into a fertilizer.  And at the same time they are taking the methane from the sewage treatment process and using it to generate not only their own energy, but energy for sale back into the grid.  That is what you call a smart industry.

Now when it comes to smart industries that turn what are pollutants, waste by products back into a resource, our current coalition LNP government don't have a clue.  They prefer it seems to just dig up coal instead and use it to generate electricity and pollute to their hearts content.  Other wise it seems we are imposing costs on industry.  Me, I would rather see them turned into smart industries instead of dumb pollution industries."Humans at least have the capability to decide where it should go".  What into our atmosphere and oceans so you can pollute both?  Did you even ask the question how long it took those natural systems to store all of that coal, oil and gas in and under the ground and oceans.  

It took hundreds and hundreds of millions of years to store all of that carbon, all of that coal oil and gas.  Now I can understand if you are of the far right religious belief of creationism that you don't comprehend this fact.  But the simple fact is we are turning hundreds of millions of years of stored carbon in the form of coal, oil and gas in to greenhouse gas emission in a few hundred years.

That is millions of years of years of stored carbon into carbon emissions in a few hundred years.  I hope you can see my point because the two don't add up.  If nothing else that should tell you have a potentially very serious problem.  And that is especially when you understand why these are called greenhouse gasses.  Greenhouses heat up their environment and not the other way around.Aguy, sorry that is not a very good argument.  Human soil waste that we defecate, like animal waste can be turned in a very useful fertilizer.  In fact it has been done since time immemorial although it is better to treat it properly first.

After all every species defecates so to speak.  It is when it in too much in abundance for the natural systems to break down and reuse that the problems of pollution and disease happens.

Now if we took the time and the ingenuity to fully extract all pollutants before their emission into the natural world they in fact stop being pollutants.  In fact like so many waste products we could than turn them into a resource that we could use and profit from.

There are companies that do that sort of thing within their manufacturing process.  They have taken the pollutants of that production process, the byproducts and turned them into a profit making resource.  That is what you call smart industries.

The same can be done with energy where you take what was a waste energy product and turn it into bi-generation, tri-generation and quad-generation.  You may even take other waste products, pollutants of our water, land and air, of a production process and use them to generate energy.  That is again an example of what you can call smart industries.Duniya, I have to agree.  Paula is playing with words here which have completely different meaning for different people. Purist and realists, now I wonder which is which.  She could have simply used the more appropriate terms of science and denialism.

If you accept the science and its potential implications than you act on it in a way that actually attempts to mitigate those potential impacts of human induced global warming.  If you don't than you simply play politics as Abbott and those in the coalition have done.  Now I wonder who Paula thinks the purists and realists are in regards to the actual science.

As for Palmer and Gore, Gore was conned.  So , Paula says the key elements of the package including ARENA and the CEFC and the advisory Climate Change Authority have been saved.  Have they really.  Do we know if the funding has been saved and if they will be properly funded into the future.  The bodies themselves are nothing without the funding to support them.

Again if we look at Abbott's Direct Action.  If it does get up, is it and will it be properly funded into the future.  And how do you ensure that with this government.  Maybe Paula can answer that one.  Maybe she can get Palmer to answer that one.  Who knows maybe she can get Abbott to answer that one.  That is if you can trust their answers.  Or would they fall under non-core promises.

I would suggest lots of questions there Paula and none of them answered by this article.  Trust! I would suggest there is none.  That is the problem for labor, the greens or any of the minor parties in dealing with Abbott or passing his Direct Action.
I agree, the multi nationals or even Australian owners of our mining companies will always put there interests over the interests of this nation.  And as far as I can see by the actions of this government so far that goes this government.  Labor was bad enough, but this government does not even attempt to look after our interests over those of big business and big money.

One thing Ian could have also included in his article was the fact that neither this Abbott government or labor bothered to ensure that Australia's gas needs were met before export.  Now if you look at the so called great capitalistic nations of the world, the United States, it is set in law that energy companies must first meet the US energy needs before export.  

You have to ask what does that say about our governments unwillingness to do the same as the US.   Other countries must look at in amazement that we aren't even bother to first ensure our own people and industry energy needs are not ensured before export.  I find it hard to think of another developed country that does that.Rod, I have to agree with much of what you say.  The more I look at Germany I think the more it looks like the country of the fair.  We seem to like to delude ourselves into to believing that we are the land of the fair go.  But If we once were it is quickly dying to be replaced by the me-ism promoted by Abbott and this government.

Is it not interesting how in this country unionism is made out to be the hated enemy of business.  Yet in Germany unions are very much part of the companies decision-making process.  If I understand right the union even has representatives who sit on the company board.  

When you look at Germany industry you have to think that their approach is far more productive than our combative approach.  It seems many German companies even take this approach with unions overseas with them including in the USA.Yank, what we have is a government who in their heart don't believe in government except in its most basic tenure of law and order.  And of course you need law and order to protect the property of the rich.

Oh, of course they do believe in government for the personal power and influence it provides.  And even better, because of the personal access being in government provides to those who control the real power and wealth.  Am I over the top in what I say, I doubt it I very much doubt it.  It is all there in their actions and policies.

Truth, facts, they only have a place if they provide that access to the power and position someone like Abbott seeks.  If they don't than you twist them to achieve what you want.  And if that is not enough than you simply make it up and repeat it often enough and have others repeat it often enough so that it can be substituted for truth and facts.

For that reason I would give little accord or thought to any tract of thought by Tony Abbott.  Yes it is worth to analysis the reason for this particular tract of thought, but one should not put too much focus on the thought itself.  It is simply there for the sake of power and to provide some influence with a particular group who he needs to provide that power.Yank, core to this neo-liberal government far right belief are two things.  The first is lower taxes.  And the second is user pays.  And when you bring in user pays it means they can reduce taxes even further.  

Now who does that suite most.  Oh that is right it suites the very rich.  And everyone else bad luck and just be ready to open your wallets even more.  That is if there is anything left in those wallets to pay for those user pays services.  And that is because the tax cuts won't make up for them unless you fit in the very rich category.Rabbithole, I have to question some of what you said.  It is not that the ALP are really that keen on negative gearing.  The problem is that they do not want to have all the attacks they will get from all the negative gearing rent seekers.  And they also did not want to get on the wrong side of the well over a million mum and dad property investors at the ballot box.

They did the only thing they were game to do and that was to invest several billion in community/social housing.  The problem is that like every other inequitable thing about this budget Abbott and Hockey have taken the money away from the proposed future investment allocated for this area.  Like everything else Abbott has done he has said this is the responsibility of the states and not the federal government.  

The problem is as far as I know the states haven't been given any extra funding for it.  That has been the problem with every other area where Abbott has said it is the responsibility of the states and not the federal government.  Abbott hands the responsibility back but no extra funding.  

Of course the idea is if the states want extra funding for these areas than they can get it by asking for the GST to be broadened and increased.  That is the Abbott/Hockey back door way of getting the GST broadened and increased.  

And than of course they can say, or at least try to say, don't blame us, blame the states.  They asked for the GST to be broadened and increased.  And of course if the states ask for it I very much doubt that lower and middle income groups will receive any compensation for its increase from the federal government.  That will be the states problem if they are fools enough to go along with it.Rabbithole, because I look at the big picture I actually see the difference between the ALP and LNP.  To say they are no different is deny their very large policy differences.  Yes the ALP has over time moved further to the right than what it was traditionally, but the liberal party and its hang on coalition partner, the nationals, have moved even further to the right.

I vote on policy, of parties, but with the realisation that all parties will have policies that I do not agree with.  That is politics in which we have political parties.  There are no doubt people in each political party who do not like all of the policies that they put up.  But again that is the nature of politics and being part of a party.  For myself I am not a member of any political party.  But again I see that as neither a good thing or a bad thing. 

As for negative gearing there are no doubt many reasons politically why labor did not get rid of it in the last 6 years.  Some people in labor probably see it as a necessary thing.  Others will as I already said put it in the too hard basket because of the attacks they would get from the vested interests including rent seekers.Gbe, "negative gearing not discussed during the six years of labor", what rot.  Where were you?  It probably did not get as much media attention because of all the anti labor media that was going on at the time.  But that does not mean it was not criticised, or labor for hanging onto it.

Both Labor and the Coalition LNP are to blame on this issue.  Neither political party are prepared to tackle all of the rent seeks attached to negative gearing.  And considering labor was getting attacked from all directions I suppose they did not seek to add another group of rent seekers to their attackers.

What labor did do as part of its stimulus measures was to invest a whole lot of money into community/social housing.  Howard had pulled a whole lot of money out of that area when they were in government in preference to private investors and negative gearing.  And it seems this government has done the same thing with its first budget.

Now if negative gearing was only available on new property and more money was put into community/social housing than maybe the issue would not raise such a red flag.  But from what we have seen the coalition LNP are ideological bound to negative gearing, but not to community/social housing.Peter the lawyer, maybe it is you who need to get your terminology right.  Rent seekers get money from government through a very wide range of measures including favorable tax policy.  Rent seekers are the lobbyist in all of their varied forms including those who pay them to lobby for them.

Now when it comes to negative gearing I can think of a whole lot of different rent seekers of which the banks and financial industry are just one, or is that two.I agree the first step should be to take it off the second hand property market.  And two the tax rebate should be gradually reduced over time.  And three the money save from the reduction of budget spent on negative gearing should be reinvested into community/social housing.

One of the other problems with negative gearing that is not given enough account is that it lazy investing.  It is not investing in innovation or new businesses and therefor jobs.  And it is not investing in productivity.  All it is doing is pushing up the price for an asset.  

Lumping so much money into property is in fact quite dangerous for our economy, for our banks and financial industry.  I would consider it quite a foolish and dangerous form of industry policy, yet that is what we have.  Every dollar invested in over-inflating the property market and pushing up the cost of rents is a dollar not invested in other areas of the economy.This has come about because governments thought they could simply flog of the problem of housing for those who can't afford a home to private investors and the property market.  It was a lazy way of getting out of investing in state housing or what we now commonly call community/social housing. 

The problem is that once you put it in the investors hands and that of the property market the government looses all control over the cost of rents let alone the cost of housing.  As we have seen over the last two decades more and more first home buyers are being pushed out of the market in lieu of investors.  This makes the policy as it is a failure for first home buyers.

Where we once thought all bar the poorest in our society could reasonably expect to be able to buy their home.  Now we are at a position where first home buyers are only about 9% of all home buyers with the largest proportion being investors.  Not that long ago in Australia it would have been the other way around.  We now even have many university graduates who along with their HECS debt may never be able to afford to buy their own home.  

Australia was once the example to the world of owning their own home.  It looks like that may be those Australian dreams and expectations that will be gone for most.  Negative gearing may not be the only culprit but it is one of the major ones."Gillard was ineffective at reassuring the public that the sewn-together policy was not a harmful monster,......"

Julia Gillard and labor did not have a chance of selling it with the Abbott, shock jocks and Murdoch spin, lies and fear machine against it.   As we have seen none of that spin and lies eventuated after the carbon tax introduction.  It just went about doing its job of reducing emissions.

But ah, it will be interesting to see how this government deals with what will be its failure to significantly reduce electricity prices after its demise.  I wonder who and what they will find to blame then for their lies as electricity prices continue to go up.Helvi, educate the public better, now that is a good idea.  But how do we get them to realise that that is in their best interest.

The first step in educating the public is to get them to understand that protecting and standing up for our democracy is more important than any government.  The second most important thing to teach them is that it is Parliament, both the Lower and Upper House, who represent us and not government.  

Maybe they could be informed the important fact that our democracy is only valid if the government of the day is accountable to Parliament and its Committee system.  Maybe they can be taught that when a government acts as though it is above Parliament, not answerable to Parliament, as in Operational Matters, that it is our democracy that is being harmed; being treated with contempt. 

Maybe they can be taught that democracies are a living thing and not something that can be left to the politicians.  Maybe they can be taught that to live in a democracy and gain its benefits, you need to be involved in that democracy.  

A vote every 3 or 4 years and leave it to the politicians, the political class, is not being involved in a democracy.  And if we think otherwise all we are doing is treating that democracy with contempt.  Those are some of the things we need to be taught. 

The most basic of those lessons should be that power corrupts and wealth corrupts power.  And that absolute power corrupts absolutely.  And that uncontrolled wealth corrupts absolutely.10 floating ideas, now I wonder what they might be.  It might be useful as to some links so we can see what those 10 are.  You do realise that over the time of recorded global temperatures that short term temperatures fluctuate due to a whole lot of natural climatic factors.  

It is the long term trend that you take into account.  And that long term trend has been going only one way and that has been up.  Even if we only take into account the last decade it has been the hottest decade on record.  It seems a lot of scratching at straws there as far as I can see.

The CO2 and other greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere and ocean have not gone away,  The increasing acidification to our oceans has not gone away.  And global warming certainly has not gone away.  

The world deals in science and not in magic, puff, its gone.  No Harry Potter's in this world to magic away global warming just because some people can't politically accept the science.Now de Brere, I presume you have your peer review research to back up that theory of yours.  After all that is how science works.  If you put up a theory you need to produce some research to back it up.  Like even a few graphs would help.  Otherwise it is meaningless and adds nothing to the debate.de Brere, again you make claims without anything to back them up.  You deny the fundamentals of the science related to GHG's and than mention something about the timescales involved yet fail to define them  

And than go on to claim that the probability of I must presume global warming are less than 50% as if that has some meaning.  I must have less than this so called average intelligence you talk about because this argument makes no sense.Achadenfreuder, you must have not listened to or read the IPCC report to have come to that point of view.  The last decade has still been the hottest on record.  

When they look at temperature change they take into account not only the actual global temperature.  They also look at the natural and human drivers of temperature behind that temperature change.  

For a start natural influences are not constant.  We have those natural influences of 'El Nino' and 'La Nina' on our climate after all.  They along with all other natural influences on our climate need to be taken into account along with the human influences.John, what sort of democracy is that?  One built on spin, fear, misinformation and lies.  That is the only one I see now.  Maybe it is the type of democracy that you want, but it is not the one for me.

Before Abbott came into leadership we would have had the same percentage of people if not more supporting putting a price on carbon.  Even Howard went to his last election with a promise of a carbon market.  But it seems the Liberal party of today has retreated into the dark ages of ignorance.

Oh, and climate change and global warming haven't gone away and won't.  At some time whether the 66% like it or not Australia will have to act.  And the longer we delay the more it will cost us and our economy.  People can stick their head in the sand but one day they will have to put their head up and they will see it is still there.I have jumped out of a lot of planes and even been thrown out of them.  It all depends on whether you have been given a parachute or not.

As for whether anyone supports murder or not didn't Morrison suggest reducing the stringency of the test on whether someone might be tortured or not to a one in two chance.  Or to rephrase it less than a 50% chance.  

Now I don't know about you but I would want a better than 50% chance of my parachute opening if I was thrown out of a plane.  Or to rephrase it, a better than 50% chance that if I was an asylum seeker I won't be tortured if I was sent back."Excess intermittent power from solar / wind cannot be stored and is shed as waste heat."

GRF, on what evidence do you make that statement.  After all we know Spain is storing solar power in saline storage and we also know that the United States have a number of solar power generators built and being built using saline storage of power.

Meanwhile all this government will do will be to leave us back in the dark ages as far as the technology advances being made.  You can cheer them on all you like GRF but eventually even the Australian public will have to wake up as they see the world leave us behind.  Tell me this what do you think they will think of Abbott than when they realise how they have been conned.John, you are well out of date and you must realise that if you got this from the internet.  Germany this year has put through a law to put all emphasis on investment on renewables.

http://www.businessspectator.com.au/news/2014/7/11/resources-and-energy/germany-passes-renewable-energy-reform

And as for renewable energy production this year Germany has been breaking all sorts of records in electricity production.  So I would suggest you go and look again, but a bit broader this time.I would take it even further and say that Andrew Bolt is the most unreliable source of information.Helvi, it seems as long as we have this current government.  And I would suggest as long as people are willing to listen to spin, misinformation and lies as if they are the truth.  And I would also suggest as long as enough of us are happy to have our intelligence treated with contempt.  Until than nothing much will change.It will only happen if enough people speak up about it.  While we have so many quite happy to go along and not rock the boat, not ask the right questions than little will change.  

While we have so many people disinterested in politics and what is happening than little will change.  While we have so many people who don't think to question how this will affect them nothing will change.

And while we have so many people happy to accept and go alone with three and four word slogans than nothing will change.  

As the saying goes corruption of power of government only creeps in because no one bothers to look.  Because they prefer to look the other way.  Because for many until it directly affects them they can't be bothered because it is just to hard.Oh, so Mortan, when labor was in government the Greens were too close to the government in doing its bidding.  And now we have the coalition in government the greens should be doing the bidding of the government.  Now I wonder if you can see the hypocrisy there, because I can.

Now if I remember rightly when it came to professional spoilers in the Senate the coalition did a fairly good job of that when they were in opposition.  You remember that guy Abbott, who said his and his party's only job in opposition was to oppose.  That they were not there to support the government.  Surly you haven't forgotten him.

Oh, and wasn't it that guy Abbott, who also said that they would not seek or accept the support of the Greens.  I thought he went out of his way in stressing that point when in criticism of labor accepting the vote of the greens.  I haven't forgotten him saying that and I doubt the greens have forgotten.Oh Gbe, how hypocritical.  Now tell me did you say that when labor was in government and the coalition were in opposition.  You known that opposition where their leader Abbott said his job in opposition was to simply oppose and not to help the government out.  He said that so many time you can't deny it and neither can he or his government.

Abbott also said in opposition, again many times, that that there was no such thing as a mandate.  Yet amazingly when he gets into government than the 'Mandate' is resurrected, reborn and should be adhered too by all.   Sorry, but that is hypocrisy on top of hypocrisy and should be treated as such.Now Realist please tell me how you know Abbott and Morrison have stopped the boats.  Or, have you got inside knowledge that we have not got and that includes many in his own party.  If you are so sure of that fact than you must have more inside knowledge on this than our Parliament does.

Are you not even a little concerned in the way that this government and Morrison have treated Parliament in contempt.  You know, that part about our democracy where the government of the day is supposed to inform Parliament as to what they are doing in the name of Parliament.  You know, that Parliament that we the people voted in to represent us.

It always amazes me that some people seem to fail to understand this basic but crucial fact of our democracy.  And  that it is that Parliament represents the people and not the government.  But than I suppose I should not be so surprised as it seems many of our politicians when they get into government forget this crucial fact of our democracy.  This government especially seems to have forgotten this fact"The Greens, Labor, PUP and the Coalition all share blame for this state of affairs".

No they are not!  The government is to blame for bringing in the most ideological and unfair budget I have ever see.  That is the problem with authors such as this one.  They can't see the facts for their own blinked ideological view of the world.

There were a thousand other ways the government could have dealt with our current budget and deficit problem, but they didn't.  In stead they attacked the most vulnerable in this country and left the real structural budget problems in place.

Oh, and a lot of these structural budget problems were not only left by labor.  A lot of them were left by Howard.  Yet there was no mention of that by this author.  And of course no mention of the fact that when labor tried to deal with many of those Howard budget structural problems this government in opposition opposed them.  And they opposed them vigorously.Yes, I can't disagree with you there.  Lies were part of Abbott's way of operating in opposition and nothing has changed.  But what concerns me more than all of the above is the harm this is doing to our democracy.

When you look around the world at all of the countries in strife it is the lack of democratic process and openness or a failure of those processes within so called democracies.  When government thinks and acts as though it is above Parliament, not answerable to Parliament than we have a serious problem.

We do not elect a government, let alone its leader.  What we elect instead is those who represent us in Parliament.  All of them and not simply those who are part of the government.  That means in our system that the government of the day must be answerable to Parliament and through the people.  Otherwise our democracy and all we value fail.

Any government and I don't care of what persuasion, who fail to adhere to those basic principles are I would suggest corrupting our democracy.  Power corrupts and power that is not answerable to the people through their Parliament is an abuse of that power given them.  For our own well being and for the well being of this country we must always hold governments to accountability and not forget that fact."There are just too many people getting too much from the government and paying too little".

The question is who is the author talking about here.  Are they the people and corporations at the top, who are paying little in tax.  Are they the ones at the top who have the opportunity to pay little in tax because of the enormous tax loopholes in the tax system brought about by the power and influence of all their rent seekers.

Or, is this author only talking about those at the bottom half of the income sector who gain some form of welfare assistance from the budget.  If these are the people the author is talking about maybe he can explain why we have a need for welfare assistance in this country.  Maybe he could talk about the inequities of the market and tax system that overwhelming favour the rich and powerful over everyone else.  But I won't hold my breath waiting for him to do that."The choice is simple: either we significantly reduce government spending (politically painful) or significantly increase taxes (economically painful)".

What an absurdity.  The choice is simple!  Now I would like to see his analysis for that simplistic claim.  Significantly reducing government spending has many other consequences than simply political.  And if he has any economic credibility he should know that.  

You pull a significant amount of government spending out of the economy than it can very quickly pull the economy to a stop if not into recession.  Modern governments are a significant part of the economy and play very strategic parts in the economy.  Unless it is spent on fighter jets or new navy ship built over seas it goes straight back into the economy.

On top of that government spending supports a whole range of fundamentally important services let alone infrastructure spends that keeps the economy ticking over and improving productivity.  It even helps those workers in the bottom half of the income sector to not only be able to put a roof over their head and food on the table.   It helps them to be able to go to work and have the health to be able to work.

As for the taxes part we have tax loopholes in our tax system the size of the grand canyon.  And that includes most of our tax concessions that for some reason all favour the rich.  We not only should close those off and tighten them up, we need to.  This is where a lot of ground could be made up on repairing the budget.  But did this government attempt to do that?  No not on your Nellie.  

Oh, and we also have the lowest level of tax in this country as a proportion of GDP for about the last 60 years, or is that the last hundred years.  We have had a race to the bottom by both governments on this.  Yet this current government and this author have the gall to say our taxes are too high.  When are they right.  When they are down to zero.  That would be a quick death knell for the economy and the country.Janice, aren't you lucky to live in Australia.   I don't know where you were born, but by being able to live here you do not have to confront or deal with the situations these people come from.  

What you are doing though is to make a claim that these people have no right to seek asylum in Australia.  You don't know the actual situation behind their claim for asylum as none of us do.  We can't know because everything this government is doing is behind closed doors.

Now you may have no problem with governments doing this behind closed doors with questionable legality.  But if you value this country and its democracy than I would suggest you should.  That is the problem with any government that hides things they do behind the excuse of 'Operational Matters'.  In that action they are not only treating the country they represent with contempt, they are also treating its democracy and the people they represent with contempt.

When someone say 'Trust me', but give me not reason to trust them, that immediate raises the red flag of distrust.  And I would suggest it should.  It is not the government of the day that represents people, it is Parliament.  And when Parliament is kept in the dark as to the actions of government that Parliament is being treated with contempt.  And when the Parliament is being treated with contempt, than we the people are being treated with contempt.

Now if you and others can't understand that basic fundamental fact of the foundations of our democracy than our democracy is in trouble.  I do not care if it a coalition government, or a labor government.  No government is above oversight of its actions by Parliament.  

And for this reason, this is not only about the rights of those seeking asylum in Australia.  This is actually about the state of our democracy and about abuse of power, where government acts as though it is above Parliament itself.Michael, thanks for a very good analysis of what is wrong with Negative Gearing.  By its very name it tells you how bad a tax this tax is.  It is not only bad it is an incredibly inequitable tax and in so many ways.

This tax is not only inequitable, it is ever so slowly killing off the first home buyers dream of owning their own home.  It has now reached the point where those investors in homes are greater than those buying their first home.  That tells you something is seriously wrong.

But the other fact is that bad policy leads to several other bad policies.   That is not only one of the problems of bad policies.  You could argue that is a definition of a bad policy.  And it is one that leads to the implementation of other bad policies.

Beside the fact that you could tie the increase in negative gearing investment to the decrease in first home buyers.  I would suggest that you can link it to two other policies.  One is the drop in government investment in social housing including state housing.  The other is the increasing cost to the budget of rental assistance, which in itself has not kept up with the increases in the cost of rent.Continue:

The argument that private investment in rental accommodation is a furphy pushed by those who don't want to see the tax dodge of negative gearing removed.  The more money invested in property the more it has pushed up the cost of property and the more it has pushed up the cost of rents.  

Increases in rental property investment have not pushed down the cost of rents.  It has done the opposite and will continue to do the opposite until negative is put to the sword.  If government instead shifted the budget money subsidising negative gearing and put it in to social housing than we would see a stabilizing of rents and eventually a downward push.

But the trouble is neither the coalition, or labor, have been willing to go down this path.  Part of that is because of the heat they would get from the developers and property industry.  Part of it is from the so called mom and dad property investors.  But you also have to ask how much skin they have in the property investment game directly or through Family Trusts.

This, of course, leads to the other big inequitable tax break hit on the budget of Family Trusts.  Another of these tax breaks that favour the top income bracket.  And another tax break that I would suggest is being abused.  And I will suggest one that neither political party will do anything about.  You also have to ask how much skin our politicians have in this tax lurk that enables them and their families to reduce their payable tax.

Now I would love some journalists to be out asking our politicians these questions.  But I won't hold my breath waiting as I bet there are a few journalists out there also using both these tax breaks to reduce their own taxes.  So I have to ask how do you change things when the people who have the power and voice are making advantage of them.Jimbob, you miss my point.  Why can you barely get much more than 0% from a bank yet as you say get better returns from dividends and property.  It comes down to tax policy and which area of investment tax policy favours over others. 

As we have seen from the GFC, tax policy can have a whole range of consequences right across the economy.  A roof over your head for yourself and your family is a basic need of life.  Yet tax policy that favours those at the top with plenty of wealth to spare means that more and more people find it harder and harder to buy that home let alone pay for rent.

When property prices are increasing at a far quicker rate than the inflation rate or incomes for most people than we have a serious problem.  And when those ever increasing property prices are being directly driven by tax policy that favour investors over home owners and especially first home buyers that we have a serious structural tax problem as well as a serious social problem.    And this will only get worse unless something is changed.John, will that mean all the Grandparents, mostly grandmothers, will be able to claim the nanny subsidy for looking after their grandchildren.  There are a lot of them out there doing that for their children so they can go back to work.  

Although their childminding role may have to end if the government brings in that you have to work until 70 before getting the pension.  That is unless their childminding comes under work with this government.Peter the lawyer, where do you get this misinformation from.  "Australia and the UK were out of the depression by 1934"!  My parents grew up in Australia during the depression and I have no idea where you get you information from.  It can't be from the history books.

"Rooseveldt, was a really terrible President".  Even the Americans acknowledge him as one of the greatest presidents of the United States.  Every history book I have ever read acknowledges his programs helped to pull the US out of the Great Depression.   Do you just make up your version of history as you go along?Peter of M, please get your facts right.  Labor's stimulus, 100's of billions!  Now what coalition spin sheet did you get that one off.  As for 100's of billions flowing to China.  That is called trade, just as the 100's of billions that flow from China to Australia through trade. 

I thought according to the coalition that they were out of subsidising industry.  After all it was them who let the car industry go.  And when you talk about policies making our manufacturing uncompetitive.  I would suggest you look at the trade deals signed by Howard with the US and now Abbott's with Japan and Korea.  

Just look at where GM is shifting our Holden car Plant to.  Oh, it is Korea.   They will under the Korean trade deal with us ship GM cars made in Korea into Australia.  So I would look again at who you are blaming at the demise of manufacturing in this country.  At lease labor is more willing to support manufacturing and innovation than the coalition are.Todd, I think a rather selective and distorted analysis of labor's time in office.  As for Abbott and Hockey's budget being courageous.  That again is a rather selective and distorted analysis.  

I have a very different opinion of their budget but I can't describe it in the words I would like to use.  So I will just use the words 'ideological' and 'unfair' and a demonstration of 'economic illiteracy'.  

This was a budget to push Australia further down the flatter and lower tax regime and the user pays regime.  In other words a budget for the very rich and not for the rest of us."My profession is now really busy with lots of mergers and acquisitions"....

You call that a sign of the economy doing well.  I call it less competition.  And I call it businesses that are too lazy to build their own company up rather than buying other up.  

It is why we have one of the smallest middle size business sector in the OECD.  It is why we tend to have either very big businesses or small ones and not much between.  It is why we have so many monopolies or duopolies in this country.  Buy out your competition.  So much for competition.No, Peter, labor left the country with one of the highest growing economies in the OECD.  That is a thing your side of politics likes to conveniently ignore.  It wouldn't fit in with your spin, would it.Stella, thanks for your honest comment on this flawed approach by this government.  There is also a well worth watch on the Press Club talk today by the outgoing Disability Commissioner, a no longer stand alone position that has been axed by this government.Oaktree, you are right.  It would be nice if Michelle and the other journalists could ask this government this question first.   

'Where are the jobs, these imaginary jobs, for our existing unemployed, those given up looking for work and those underemployed'. 

And than yes could follow it up with this question.

'If we haven't got the jobs for all of these people looking for work.  Where are the jobs for those over 65 who they now claim should work till they are 70'.  And,

'It you haven't got jobs for the unemployed and those older people between 65 and 70, where are the jobs for those on the disability pension'.  

And than if the government somehow miraculously finds the jobs for these people out of wonderland.  She should than ask them the following question.

'Where is the funding for training and jobs skilling of these people to help them meet the skills criteria for these imaginary job'.  'Where is the investment in education to meet the needs of all students, not just those from well off parents'.

I would suggest that those are the questions among many others that Michelle and other journalists should be asking this government.  And they should not settle for the usual spin of 'the government will get rid of regulations' supposedly stifling business and wow, the private sector will suddenly produce them.No, you have got it wrong there Kerrie.  I would suggest that this government likes to penalise people by putting them into a detention center.  And it seems preferably somewhere off shore.  That could be the new industry of this country in building detention centers all through the Asia-Pacific where you put all of the unwanted's.

Or, I would suggest they probably like the idea of putting them in work gangs.  I have to wonder if we will see a whole lot of work gangs with a pick and shovel building all these roads this government says it is going to build in never never land.Jill, haven't you realised that Big Corporate's fund their party and help them get elected.  And of course Big Corporate's are a good place to go and sit on a board or work as a lobbyist after politics.  

After all you have to think of your future.  A nice job on a corporate board is not a bad little lurk after politics if you can get it.First they have to enroll and turn out to vote.  If they have any sense that is what they will do.  But we will have to wait and see on that.Michael, you are spot on in everything you say.  The only thing you missed saying was that besides this lot being far right tea party ideologues, they are also economic illiterates.  What gets me above all else is why anyone in regional Australia votes for them.  This government seems to be quite happy to sell regional Australia down the creek, without a paddle, at every chance they can.

As for Malcolm Turnbull, he lost all economic credibility with his pushing this third rate NBN we are going to be left with.  And again it will be regional Australia who will lose out the most from Turnbull's version of the NBN.

You sell off Australia Post and whoever buys it will quickly break it up and letter the letter side of the business die a slow or is that quick death.  And yes who will lose out the most.  Of course it will be regional Australia.

As for the CEO and the President of Australia Post, I have no doubt they are keen to sell it off.  They would no doubt be thinking of the windfall they can make by having it privatised.   Oh and I agree the first cost saving they could do for Australia post would be significantly cutting the obscenely high salaries of the CEO and the top executives that they are being paid.  For a public company they are over the top.Gbe, please tell me what the public service union has to do with who become the top department heads or CEO's.  As far as I can see the final decision made by government.  

And please tell me what do you think happens in the private sector when it comes to climbing up the ladder or getting the top job.  As far as I can see it is all too often a mostly boys club  with decisions made on who you know and not necessarily on what you know.  As far as I can see there is a lot of back scratching that goes on.   As far as I have seen Australia lacks a lot when it comes to good management in the private sector.".....but there are lines that should be crossed only in a manner which shows some appreciation for the population's sensitivities and the brutality of Honor Killings is one of those".  

Yank, there is one part of me that agrees with you but another part that says no, we need to have this idea discussed so that the spotlight can be put on it and seen for what it is.  By putting the spotlight on this morally reprehensible idea that such a thing could be called honor killings is the only way to show that there is no honor in it.  That it is the opposite of honor.

Equally by putting the spotlight on this abomination called honor killings we can also put the spotlight on other such cultural atrocities against women and girls.  This includes marrying off underage daughters to much older men and yes also against their own will.  It also includes the genital mutilation of women as it includes rape and violence against women.  And yes, it includes the denial of education of women/girls.

And the problem is not all of these things have the ownership of one culture.  When you have one you tend to have many if not all of them linked together.  And that is because in these cases all too often women are treated as property.  They are not seen and treated as individuals in their own right with their own individual rights.

These practices have traditionally gone across most if not all cultures now and in the past.   It is why in this country we still have a high prevalence of violence and rape against women.  And any culture that accept violence and rape against women at any level has serious questions over it.  It was not that long ago that such things were hidden, not to be mentioned, in this country.Mitor, another good argument.  Like you I was in two minds as to the pulling of this one from the Festival.  Like so many of these events the up front presentation does not necessarily represent the way it will be argued.  But you can only debate and yes even denigrate these practices by putting them out for all to see.

Of course the world and history is full of stupid dangerous ideas that people believe in and that is not going to stop anytime soon.  But it will only stop when we put such ideas out in the open with the spotlight on them to show them up for what they are.  That is different to us allowing the preaching and practice of such ideas.

We need to have not only laws against such practices.  We also need to argue the case of why these practices should be banned.  We need to put such practices out in the spotlight so that everyone can see them for what they are and that is an abomination. 

We also need to show that such people and yes cultures that practice such things are small minded an incapable of challenging what has been past down to them from generation to generation.  And in doing that that also means that we must look at ourselves and what we see as culturally acceptable and question it.  

That is what generational renewal should be about, to clean out the questionable practices of the past while keeping the good.  And by that I don't mean indiscriminately but by a constant reassessing of our values and what is good for us, all of us and our society as a whole.  Honor killing is a perversion of the meaning of honor and should be shown to be so.I wish we didn't need to argue the case of why murder should be banned.  But seeing so many murders in various forms happen it seems we do.  That includes here in Australia and than of course we have the instances of all the mass murders of people in the US and other non-Islamic countries.  

It seems you don't have to be an Islamic religious fanatic to cause mass murder or for that matter murder done for the misnomer called honor killings.  All you need is people and cultures with the capacity to justify their own actions to themselves at the time.  Saying something is illegal is in itself not enough it seems.  Society needs to constantly debate why it is wrong to harm another person, why it is wrong to kill another person.Frangipani, maybe I could have worded what I argued better but the problem is even though we have made these practices illegal they are still practiced.  And for that reason alone I argue that we need to constantly put them back out under the spotlight and argued for what they are.  

Making them illegal does not make them go away.  If that was the case violence and rape of women would have gone away.  It has not.  And neither have many of the other practices mentioned here against girls and women.  In the end it all comes down to the attitude of certain men and yes cultures towards women as being property and having lessor rights.

But of course the attitude against women is not the only dangerous idea that constantly needs to be contested.  We have had a dangerous idea in this country from the beginning of locking people up in detention without trial because we have put them into some particular group.  I thought that illegal but apparently not if a government decides to do it.

We did this under the White Australia policy against the Aboriginal people of this country.  And now we do it it indiscriminately against those who have sought asylum in this country.  And we continue to find all sorts of reasons to justify it in our minds and politics.  My point is all dangerous ideas need to be constantly put under the spotlight and challenged.  There is no time you can put them aside and forget about them just because they have been made illegal.Olive I also asked Simon in a post that it seems the DRUM did not see fit to put up as to how he could say Rudd did not take the ETC to an election.  

It is well known that Rudd along with Howard both took an ETS to the 2007 election.  It is also well known that Rudd would have got an ETS up if Abbott had not overthrown Turnbull as leader of the opposition at that time.  The agreement with Turnbull had pretty well been agreed to and would have been implemented except for Turnbull being deposed.

There are so many factual inaccuracies in this article that it makes its case laughable.  I wonder if my saying the obvious will mean this post does not get up either.  I hope not as I would like to see some serious debate on this issue as I believe it is worth serious debate.  I certainly don't believe that it deserves the continued inaccuracies that we seem to get on it.

I for one am glad to see that Palmer says he will only vote for the retention of the clean energy target.  I am also glad that he has agreed with the retention of the Clean Energy Finance Corporation.  But I find it a pity that he sees fit to vote for the removal of the price on carbon without making an ETS as part of the agreement.  

As far as I can see most of the conditions he set for an ETS are already there.  Pretty well all of our major competitors have already set in play an ETS or equivalent including many states in the US.  Obama's pollution targets will pretty well set in place an ETS or price on carbon in just about all states so as to meet that target.

As it is now once the Carbon tax is removed without a transitional arrangement to an ETS in place, there will not be an ETS without the removal of the coalition.  Without an agreement to implement an ETS first you won't get one through the Lower House at a later date.  That makes Palmer's position on an ETS a con as he knows we won't be able to get an ETS through the Lower House with this government at a later date.Peter, obviously you have not heard of the proverb 'power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely'.

Dictatorships do not work.  They only corrupt good people, that is if they weren't corrupt before.  And anyone with intelligence knows that dictatorships do not work.  As we see from all over the world they lead from one dictatorship into another dictatorship, often getting nastier as they go along.  

If our military is as trustworthy as you say they would say NO!  And than then they would lock you up as mad, dangerous and a danger to national security.Hey Mitor, I wonder if Peter would build on land that had the one in two years chance of flooding.  I know council wouldn't.  They for some reason set it as a one in one hundred year flood risk.  And if it is a dam that is being build it is a one on ten thousand year or higher depending on the potential damage it breaking would cause.  It all depends on how highly you value life.  If it was Morrison's life or his family I bet he would like it to be better odds that a 50% chance.Peter you claim to be a lawyer.  I don't think you are a very good statistician.  Now tell me Peter as a lawyer what do you think your odd would be of walking out of a court room if you were told that you had a 50% chance of not being shot.  Now I wonder if you would take that chance.  

I also have to wonder if you would want to go ahead with having an operation on those odds.  I very much doubt the surgeon would.  The only reason they might would be if they knew that you would die anyway if they did not operate.  And even than they would want a waver signed off by you or family.I will tell you what the 50% chance means statistically.  It means this government is happy with the chance that one in two of everyone they send back may be tortured or killed.  If a surgeon gave you a 50% chance of dying in the operation would you want to have that operation.  Would you like only a 50% chance that when you leave at the beginning of the day to go to work that you will come home to your family.

That makes this policy not only dangerous it makes it bordering on criminal.  It demonstrates a total contempt for the lives of these people who come here seeking asylum.  I find it hard to see that even this government though this policy out very well.  I know they like to present the tough image to their supporters but even this goes way over the top.But Peter, you are assuming that none of them are genuine refugees.

As for settling in the nearest country.  That is what many of them did and than those countries were overrun by war.  Or, they had no right to work bring up a family educate their children etc etc.  Now tell me how many Jewish refugees escaped from Nazi Germany to a neighboring country and still ended up in concentration countries if not dead.  I would suggest a lot.  That was why the Refugee convention was created with signatory countries after World War 2.Whose knows Olive.  Maybe they might have more mates in the road building business than the public transport business.  Although from memory Howard had a habit of promising to build roads but very few of them got built.  So I suppose until we see the roads built it does not mean they will get built."At this point it's hard to know whether yesterday's decision by the Greens to oppose the reintroduction of fuel excise indexation was an act of fear or hubris".

Paula, why does it have to either?  Why can it not be simply what Christine Milne said.  And that is if this increase in the fuel excise is to be approved.  And its role is to be as a carbon price on transport as Abbott claims.  Than it should be allocated to improving public transport.

Christine Milne also said if my memory is correct that this increase in fuel excise will tend to hit those people most who will be hardest hurt by it.  It will hit those in the regions and those who live on the extremities of our major cities who currently have poor access to good quality cost effective public transport.  And the problem is that many of these also come from the lower income groups.

So that means you are hitting those people who have little option at the moment than to use the car to go to work etc. without providing them any alternative option in transport.  One part of me agrees with the increase in fuel excise.  But that is qualified by the need to invest that money in public transport as well as rail so as to shift more freight to rail.  I see little if any of this in the budget.

An increase in fuel excise simply to be spent on more roads is not good policy let alone good transport policy.  We need much more holistic policy planning that that.  Or otherwise all we get is a lot of pain for people without any substantive gain.  And that is all I see in this budget.  As far as I am concerned it needs to go back to the drawing board and start again from scratch."The excuse of not knowing criminal practices where occurring despite authorizing the money is basically one of being incompetent".

Yes you can't sidestep that conclusion.  Either you were involved in authorising it, or you knew about it or suspected it but looked the other way.  Which means guilt by association.  Or you are not only incompetent, but I would suggest totally incompetent. 

Remember even if she only suspected it was happening, she and News Ltd., in the case of the News of the World were making profit from it.  That can I would suggest only open you to guilt by association because you did nothing about it let alone inform the police of your suspicion.  

Now how many times have we heard such excuses of not knowing within ICAC and many similar inquiries into corruption and illegal practices.  And all of them meant that they had some level of guilt including the guilt of looking the other way.  Or, they were totally incompetent.  And if so you have to ask why were they being paid such big money for the jobs they were doing if they are so incompetent.One thing you can be certain on this everyone else except for the most powerful in the financial industry will be the losers.  If I could have any trust in their being a proper regulatory and oversight framework in place than I would say go ahead.  But as we have seen all too often the powerful lobbyist in the industry will do everything to ensure the opposite.

The other thing with something like this be ready for an even greater rorting of the tax system.  I would suggest that these financial industries will use such a trade to further entrench the shifting of profits earned in this country to the lowest taxing  countries.   And in reverse they will shift their costs to the highest taxing counties.  

First governments need to come together to deal with the tax rorts by global corporations and the most wealthy in shifting their wealth and earning to tax havens.  Unless and until they do that we should not go down this path.  And just think of the problems we already have in dealing with the storm financial crises and how we are to regulate and control such schemes on a global basis.  It will be the GFC in turbocharged overdrive.Sorry to have to disagree with you OUB, but little has changed within the financial industry since the GFC.  It is still gangbusters ahead as far as they are concerned.  Anyone who thinks differently are kidding themselves and off in the land of delusion.Chris, before you go writing Shorten and labor off let us see what sort of budget Abbott and Hockey can get through the Senate.  Let us first look at the long term issues that arise out of such a budget, that is if they do get it through before next July, not this one.

I would suggest that there is a whole lot of fallout to come from this pig of a budget before one starts thinking of the next election.  That is unless we end up with an early election over it.  Nope this government has at least two budgets to get through before the three years are up.  Could be a lot of pain for this government and could be a lot of pain for most of us depending on what sort of budget gets up.It is interesting that in downturns in popularity conservative governments do tend to resort to showing how tough they are by resorting to the military or policing.

It is not that I disagree that there is an issues in the middle east, in Syria and Iraq that needs some sensible response.  But the trouble is I for one struggle to have much trust in Abbott as for his real reasons.  

Yet here we are where suddenly people fleeing persecution need our help and protection.  Though up to now we have had this fear campaign against asylum seekers fleeing persecution transgressing our borders.  And it is not as though there has not been a problem in Syria and the middle east for years.

It seems suddenly Tony and the conservatives have woken up to this tragedy.  Yet, why, is it only because Obama has decided something needs to be done?  Is it suddenly because his and his governments position in the polls and with this budget is going poorly?  

I can understand the questions being raised by some in labor and others over Tony suddenly finding the road to Damascus.  I would suggest it is called history and lack of trust.  And lack of trust with reason.TC, are you sure you have worked or owned a small business.  I worked most of my life for small businesses and I have never noticed them having a problem getting rid of people.  And now there is so much casualisation of the work force that your complaint has little if any reality.

My problem with business and small business was not necessarily the quality of the people working form them.  My problem was often the quality of the people in management or in ownership of them.  I would suggest that all too often those in management or ownership blame others for their own flaws and failures.

So I would suggest before you go blaming the people at the bottom have a good look at the quality, or lacking, of the management.John1, what is this swingers bit.  Anyway that does not have anything to do with what I have said.  It is not if you have the money to put on the line.  It is about good management versus poor if not bad management.  Just as it is about poor management blaming those under them for their own failings.

As for putting your money on the line there are lots of those in top management positions not putting any money on the line.  They only put their investors money on the line.  And going by the GFC and many other instances it seems many of them think it is monopoly money seeing it is not theirs.

Oh, and please don't say they are putting their reputation on the line.  I don't see any of them taking big pay cuts when things are going badly.  And I have seen too many of them allow a company to go bankrupt to save paying their staff and creditors what they owe them and than start up under a new name.

There are good business run by good managers and owners but there are way too many run by poor managers and outright shonks.  It is amazing how many managers make decisions without any consultation with those actually doing the work on the ground.  And even when they do it is too often just an appearance of  consultation.  Than they go and do what they were always going to do.

In the end John1 it is about how much you value, respect and trust those who work for you.  It has to go both ways you know.Oh, and who is that.  I am still trying to figure out who is on Team Australia and who is not.  Just as I am still trying to figure out who decides who is on team Australia and who is not.  The who decides who is on Team Australia is the scary one for me.A simple loyalty test.  Tell me what that is.  If it means we have to be on Abbott's team than I don't think much of Team Australia.  Unlike some of Abbott's die hard supporters some of us I would suggest are not into jingoism's.  

What I get sick of is the Americanisms from Abbott's side of politics.  Not everything American is good.  A lot of it we don't want to follow.  I certainly don't.Mike, I presume Pedro can answer for himself but I am confused over your comment.  Are you saying it is an either or?  Are you saying that we have to be on Abbott's Team Australia or on the side of Australia?  If so I would suggest that your view is a rather narrow black and white view of the world.

I must admit I know of a lot of people like Pedro who served this country but would think Abbott's Team Australia is an absurdity.   It sounds too much like every thing else he does, its divisive.Yes, I would have to say that the White Australia has not completely gone away, at least within politics anyway.  Even after the success of multicultural policy in Australia we still have this card played over who comes to Australia and who doesn't.  And we still have this card played over and over in politics of who is an Australian and who is not.

As a new immigrant I can have some understanding of the Restaurant owners actions considering the way politics has sometimes been played in this country.  People forget that the messages played by our internal politics gets aired overseas as well."This is a discussion for our times, and fascinating that a man like Kelly - an observer whose watch spans generations of political machination.."

Jonathan, Paul Kelly may like to portray himself simply as an observer of the political fray in this country, but he is not.  Kelly is and has been very much a political player just as his newspaper the Australian and its owner Murdoch is.  

On Q &amp; A he tried to avoid admitting this when questioned, but he is very much a part of the problem that he is using his book to complain about.  So sorry, but I find his stance on all of this rather hypocritical.  

Another interesting thing on Q &amp; A and in other interviews is how he continues to put the blame on labor previous and current as to the negativity.  Yet at he same time he puts a lot of effort to avoid any mention of Abbott's part in this when in opposition and now in government.  So again I find his whole stance rather hypocritical and have no interest in reading his book or hearing his comments.

Oh, Kelly crafts what he says very well to make it seem authoritative and even statesmen like and even above the fray.  But I would suggest this is all about creating a perception of balance when he is anything but.  Kelly is very much a player of the right side of politics.Rob, no, I think Abbott's "Team Australia' sounds more a comedy act.  I bet the cartoonists and comedians are having great fund with 'Team Australia'.Both my parents and all of my uncles served this country during World War 2 and I doubt any of them would think much of Abbott's 'Team Australia'.  

My old man didn't think much of those who wrapped the Australian flag let alone the spin of patriotism around their shoulders.  To him the flag was something you served under and flew over government buildings.  And not something to flout for politics.  And I must admit I agree with him in every way.  Team Australia, its enough for you to feel ill.I am sorry your father did not march on Anzac day.  My father marched, but it was not about the flag or patriotism.  It was about the men he served with in Tobruk and New Guinea and  about remembering those who did not come back.You are earning enough to pay the top tax rate and its not 49%, and you think you pay half.  It seems your jobs does not rely on maths.  Even earning a million dollars you don't pay half.

But to say you don't receive a cent from the government demonstrates your match is even worse than that.  If you have superannuation that you get a tax saying of over 30% off that superannuation payment.  Otherwise it would have been at the top tax rather than a rate of only 15%.

If you have private health care than unless you are on a very high income you get the health concession rebate from the government on the cost of your health care plan. 

If you have the money from your top tax rate income to put into an investment property that you get a negative gearing benefit from the government off your payable tax.

If you are using a Family trust as many high income people are using than you are not even paying the top tax rate on income over that $180 thousand tax rate.  And of course the use of that family trust reduces your payable tax to only 30%.

And that is only some of the means of gaining a benefit in reduction of your tax rate if you are on a high enough income to use them.  Most of the rest of us don't have an income high enough to take advantage of all of these tax concessions and tax breaks."...the view that the Liberals represent the interests of large corporate and financial interests has risen five points".

I don't think my view that the liberals represent the interest of large corporations and financial interest could rise five points more.   It is already at a hundred percent my opinion that that is who they really represent.  All their budget has done is reinforce my existing view of who they really represent.

What I find funny is that there are still small business people and farmers who think the LNP actually represent them.  Surely they have realise that they represent big business interests over theirs any day of the week.  But it seems no matter the evidence most of them still continue to vote for them.  

I always remember my father telling me of the time the than country party representative told that now he now he was a farmer he would vote for them.  My father it seems did not take too kindly to being told who he would vote for and very quickly told him where to go and never to come back again.  But than he thought for himself rather than being told what to do like some.RayS, I would suggest that Chris berg is not interested in the facts.  I would suggest prefers to play the politics of the neo-liberal far right that have little if any relevance to the facts.

Howard and Costello did what no government should ever do.  For a start they gave tax cuts in the best of economic times that Australia had not really seen before.  This had little to do with what the Howard government did and more to the overflow of cheap credit, funny money, funded by all sorts of flaws financial products in the global economy.  Even the mining boom Mark 1 was built off the back of that cheap credit. 

Second they made those tax cuts on the back of the greatest sell off of one off public assets.  You can only sell them once.  And third they were starving the states of their proper share of revenue.  They got away with that to an extent because the states were also sucking in revenue off the property and mining booms.  They are called booms for a reason because they don't last.

Yet Howard and Costello gave tax cuts on the back of one off situations when no government in their right mind should give tax cuts.  And even worse most of those tax cuts went to the top income group.  Little of those tax cuts went to the bottom half income group.  

I can remember one of Howard's tax cuts where the bottom tax rate got a tax cut of $6 a week while those on the top income group got a tax cut of $100 a week.  Beasley was leader of the labor opposition at the time and when he objected to the tax cut he was crucified by the Howard government and the media.  It appears many in the media who attacked Beasley and labor where in that top income group who would gain a $100 tax cut or greater.  Talk about self interest.OUB, come off it, Howard reverse those tax cuts.  It is not in the LNP's DNA to raise taxes.  As for labor, Abbott and Hockey fought every attempt at claw back of the Howard largess.  

Don't you remember how labor was accused of class warfare when they dared to attempt to impose a tax on Super pension.  And that was only to cut in at a superannuation pension of $100 thousand.  Oh, and Abbott and Hockey got rid of that the moment they came in to government.

And that was only one instance of an accusation of class warfare at labor whenever they attempted to impose a means test on the upper middle-class welfare.  So sorry, OUB, I can't agree with your accusation against labor.  Although I agree that labor could have gone much further in the claw back of the largess Howard gave out to the upper-middle class and top income groups.

As for your arguments against not privatising government services.  All you are running out is all the normal ones that right run on the benefits of privatisation.  You know I am still waiting to see any of those benefits that you claim it provides.  Please tell me where the competition is in the privatised banking industry.  All I see is big profits that could have gone into the government coffers and little if any competition.

The same goes for the privatisation of health care.  Where is the competition that has brought down the prices.  There isn't.  Costs haven't gone down all they have ever done is go up at an ever increasing rate.  And the same goes for the electricity industry, the communication industry and just about every privatised industry.

Look a the cost the privatisation of Telecom the now Telstra.  All they did was create a virtual monopoly, especially if you live in regional Australia.  Just think if we had not privatised pipes and wires of Telstra we could have had a far less expensive NBN.  And we would probably have it now.  We could have still privatised the service part of it as labor's NBN was going to be and we would have had greater competition.

As far as I am concerned this whole thing about the private sector being more efficient is just a furphy, a con, a lie.  All that privatisation has done is make some people very rich, especially those who run them and sit on their boards.  

These privatised assets have now become a very good lurk for ex politicians siting on their boards.  And all these privatised assets have become is another rent seeker of government opening us up for greater corruption.  If you doubt what I say look at what has happened with the privatisation of prisons in the United States.  They are endemic with corruption of the political process.Warshawski, if the United States and the UK and most of Europe with a virtually zero interest rate did not stimulate their economy why was it going to stimulate ours.  The simple fact is if labor had not used the stimulus measures it did the economy would have shrunk the budget would have been much worse off and the private sector would have shut down investment and with it jobs.

You must have a short memory if you can't remember the mining sector quickly shutting down investment along with mines and mine production once the GFC hit.  I can.  I also remember that they also did not return to investing in the mining economy until the latter half of 2010.  Oh, and it was after China started investing stimulus money into their economy.

So tell me it is wrong for Australia to invest in stimulus measures to keep our economy going.  Yet it is good if China and other economies invest in stimulus measures in their country.  Or, are you saying that China should not have invested stimulus measures in their economy even though it also helped to stimulate mining investment in our country.

Tell me are you against stimulus measures per say or is it only if labor uses stimulus measures.  That is even if those stimulus measures kept people in jobs and businesses from going bankrupt. 

I will tell you one thing I know from over 60 years of watching politics and the economy.  When government cut spending in the economy the private sector does not take up the slack left by the government.  In fact all of the evidence says they do the opposite.  

Only neo-liberal ideologues like Chris blindly think that they do.  But than that is the difference between ideology and the facts on the ground.  I will go with the facts on the ground.Esteban, "the stimulus cause the interest rates to rise".  Please tell me what period of history are you talking about.  If you remember at the time labor injected its stimulus measures the RBA also lowered interest rates because of the impact of the GFC on our economy.  Rates when down significantly lower than what they had been under Howard.

The interest rate rises happened much later after we had the flood of mining investment in the second half of 2010.  The started to rise in the response to both the mining boom and restart of housing investment.  Both of these were well after Rudd and Swan's stimulus measures.  They had already started cutting back the amount of stimulus by then.

I would suggest that you don't take Chris's word as gospel and go and look at the actual time line of things.  Chris is simply running his neo-liberal ideological argument of small government etc as he always does.Esteban, you are twisting of the facts and Chris berg has done.  

This is a better explanation:

"The Australian economy's unexpectedly strong performance during the global financial crisis was fueled in part by record-low interest rates that the RBA is now nudging higher to prevent inflation picking up. The central bank has singled out a run-up in housing prices - which jumped an average 4.2 per cent in eight capital cities in the September quarter alone - as one area of concern"

http://www.smh.com.au/business/rba-ups-rates-to-35-20091103-hukn.html

The simple fact was that the RBA never particularly like letting interest rates get so low as did when they got down to 3.25%.  They preferred to keep some ammunition in case their were further shocks from the global economy.

And the other issue was the pressure put on the economy by Mining Boom Mark 2 which got into full swing by 2010.  So sorry I have to disagree with you on your blame of labor's stimulus.  That is too simplistic a view of the complexities of the drivers of those decisions both national and international.Oh, JohnC, the LNP do more than nothing.  They make sure they look after the top end of town.  It is the rest of us that they do nothing for.  Well actually I an wrong.  They bring in more user pays and if you can't pay well bad luck.  

After all if you can't pay than you must not have worked hard enough.  Or that at least appears to be the logic.  Not that I think it has anything to do with logic.  After all it seems according to Hockey we are either lifters or leaners.  I am just confused over who are really the lifters and who are actually the leaners.But Todd, the simple fat is Chris is wrong.  Interest rates actually went down after the GFC hit including during the time of the stimulus measures by labor.  They were in fact the lowest interest rates this country had seen for decades.  If I am right they are still not back to the pre GFC period of Howard.

The interest rates only started to climb again after mining Boom Mark 2 started in the latter part of 2010.  And really they were in response to the re-insurgence in property investment and property prices that happened after Mining Boom Mark 2 started.  So if Chris is blaming the interest rate rises on the stimulus measures of labor he has got it completely back the front.  Chris should go and do his homework.Firthy, I think you are getting stimulus mark 2 confused with Mining Boom Mark 2 which was stimulating certain sections of the economy.  One of them being the rising prices of housing and with it property investment.  

The RBA have a habit of being rather skittish about increases in property investment and rising housing prices.  They get rather skittish about increased private borrowing and their loans by banks.  Once they see that happening they find it hard not to hit the interest rate trigger to increase interest rates.

I didn't agree with it than and I don't now.  And that was because outside of the mining industry and the real estate industry the rest of the economy was still struggling.  3% interest rates in Australia was once the norm and not the abnormal low as it has become and which sends the RBA in to fright mode at it being too low.AJS, Chris has got his fact completely wrong, but that that is nothing new for IPA.  His facts are so wrong they are the reverse of what happened.  Interest rates went down substantially after the GFC hit even with labor's stimulus.  Interest rates are still substantially lower than what they were pre GFC including when Howard was in government.

Go and look up the RBA cash rate history on the internet.  It is easy to find to completely dispel Chris's argument."A two-page memo released with Wayne Swan's new memoir reveals the GFC stimulus package wasn't an economic certainty, but instead a calculated a political move,..."

Wow, Chris, tell me how could it be any different?  How could there be any economic certainty when the world had just fallen into a Global Financial Crises.  The world including Australia had not seen anything like this since the Great Depression so there was never going to be any economic certainty.

It is not as though Australia was some isolated island from the rest of the world economy.  There was always going to be uncertainty no matter what Rudd and Swan did at the time.  And that was because whatever we did in Australia was always going to be affected by what was happening in the rest of the world.  It would be absurdity to think otherwise.
continued:

And Chris, of course it was a political decision.  We are talking about government operating in a political process of what decisions are put on the table and what are not.  Rudd and labor had the political issue of having to take into account both the short and medium term economic if not the longer term.  

I would suggest the need to make decisions for the short medium and longer economic terms is obvious.  Some of the stimulus was aimed purely at the short term of keeping as many people in jobs and as many businesses from going bankrupt.  While other stimulus, was aimed more at the medium term of the next two to three years.  And the longer term as to how long to retain the stimulus and how to wind it back.

All of that thinking was there in both their economic as well as political approach to dealing with the impacts of the GFC.  Debt and deficits was always going to be an outcome.  They were going to be an outcome whether the government acted or not.  

Just think of the debt that would have accumulated if the government had not acted and we had ended up with double or more the unemployment rate.  We would have had substantial numbers of businesses going bankrupt.  And we would have had the housing industry falling in a hole as people lost their houses in failing to be able top pay their mortgages and other debt.

Chris, it was not just to avoid "the political cost of being seen to do nothing".  I would suggest it was very much to avoid the economic cost to government and the budget.  The economic cost to the economy and business.  And the economic cost to individuals.  

If we thought the 1980's and early 1990's was bad in unemployment and the time it took to get back into work, inaction would have made it far worse.  The United States still after 7 years is still carrying a lot of unemployment and underemployment and long-term at that.  The same goes for Europe and the UK with even much higher unemployment and underemployment.

So Chris, sorry, but I don't rate your argument let alone conclusions at all.  I would suggest that they are very political and fail to deal with the actual facts.Yes, if only we could get back to paying respect to the ideal of "the truth", if only.  I won't hold my breath hoping for such an outcome but we can only hope.

The problem is that democracy has become the causality in this and people trust in that democracy.  How do we reverse that lack of trust?  That is the question we need to be asking.You mean you actually had trust in those findings on Zimmerman's innocence, in America.  I certainly wouldn't if I was black and lived in America.  I wouldn't even if I was white and lived in America.  There have been too many examples of total failure of justice if you are black in America.  Too many.

Although that can be the case if you are poor and white in America.  In saying that I would rather be poor and white in America than poor and black.  But than I am just glad that I am living in Australia, even taking into account our imperfect judicial system."Brown had a knife in his hand when he attacked a policeman".  

Aren't you confusing the second African American shot and killed there about three days later in what is deemed a suicide by police shooting.  Where the person goaded the policeman to shoot him.  Another place another approach by police and it could have had a different outcome and he would still be alive.Oh, and was't it stated that brown had his arms up when shot 6 times.  If you have seen the autopsy copy of where he was shot it fits in with that claim.  There were a couple of shots in the head and 4 hits on his arms at a similar height to his head if he had his arms in the air.Nina, I may be wrong, but I just have a suspicion that JohnM may be white and that may be shaping his thinking.  Or, is that lack of thinking.  And that is coming from someone who is white, or are we supposed to say of European origin. 
"While budget policy recommendations such as the Medicare co-payment might be justified by by dry economic evidence...."

But Maxine, the co-payment is not justified by even dry economic evidence.  It is in fact the worst of economic arguments.  All of the medical as well as economic evidence says preventive and intervention is the most cost effective form of health care.  All the co-payment is is simply a distorted ideological argument of the far right who hate the idea of anyone other than themselves getting something for free.

Going to your doctor for a regular medical check up is both a preventive as well as an early form of medical treatment.  That is without taking into account going to a doctor when you have a health complaint.  The earlier you treat a health complaint the lower the cost of treating that health complaint.  That is basic economics.

It is also far less costly to treat it at the GP or the home or community care level than ending up in hospital.  As it is there is already a recognised problem with men going to their doctor for regular health checks, or having the doctor treat a problem at the early stage.  The last thing you want to do is impose an even greater disincentive to see a doctor.

Than we have the economic and productivity incentive of seeing a doctor.  Poor health has an economic cost not only to the individual and their family.  Poor health has an economic cost to business and the economy in productivity outcomes.  

A healthy workforce is in fact the economies greatest asset.  Or, I wonder does the government want more people ending up on the disability pension because of the failure of investment in preventive and early intervention health care.  I wonder if that is dry enough economics for you and this government.Maxine, thanks for your comments.  But I still have to disagree that there are any economic arguments for this co-payment.  Any basic economic analysis would quickly demonstrate its flaws.  

Without all of the other reasons that I have identified its method of implementation and collection is a bureaucratic nightmare.  For a government who claimed they were about reducing bureaucracy and red tape this does the opposite.  They are making doctors surgeries tax collectors than paying them a $2 fee to do so.  

This is an absurdity and would be laughable except for its impact on the overall health care system.  But it is even worse than that.  This is simply another example of a cost shifting exercise from the federal government to the individual and the states.  

This proposed co-payment does not do anything to decrease the cost of health care to the nation.  Which is the only proper economic way to evaluate it's impact.  If you look at only one part of the whole cost of health care and make policy on that part alone, it is bad policy and bad economics.  

As I have previously said besides being a bad policy it badly fails the whole of government policy process.  But than I would argue that most if not all of this budget fails the whole of government process.   

Simply cost shifting to other section of government, to other levels of government, to business, to the individual, to make the budget look better, is bad policy.  It is also bad economics.  But than that is what happens when government simply make policy on the basis of ideology and short-term politics.  Proper analysis and fact don't comes into such decision-making.Alex, I think you may find that both Nelson Mandela and Che Guevara saw their actions as in the support of their people against their oppressors .  

I would suggest that is a bit different, a lot different, to the reasons of ISIS.  Their actions are not about supporting their people against their oppressors, but about becoming their oppressors.  

In the end it is not about religion or ideology.  It is always about power.  Stalin, was not about communism and the ideology of it being about the worker.  Stalin was about power and keeping power.  And he did it through brutality. No one should ever forget about that.

But Alex to ask the question if the sacrifice of Mandela really did improve the state of the country as a whole could only mean you are white and not black.  Yes South Africa still has a long way to go.  But I would very much doubt that black South Africans and for that matter most white South Africans would want to go back to Apartheid South Africa.

What Mandela did was give the country a chance to provide a better life for all.  He could not do it all for them.  That is the thing about democracy.  It needs all people involved to make things better.  You can not just leave it to those in power.  Because if you do, than corruption will just take over. 

Democracy is just as often two steps forward and one step back.  And if you take your eye off things than sometimes it is two steps backwards.  Democracy is never something that has ended and you can forget about it.  It is always a work in progress.  That is something that none of us should forget.Mike, I would suggest even to the very large percentage of people of the Muslim faith ISIS is an extremely perverted version of Islam.  

I wonder what you would have thought of the perverted version of Christianity practiced by the Christians who went to fight the Crusades.  I wonder what you would have thought of the perverted form of Christianity practiced by those who fought and killed each other in the Catholic/Protestant wars.  Or of those who burnt people at the stake as witches as recent as the 17th and 18th centuries.  And that is only a start of the various examples I could bring up.V, the bullock and husky team is a good analogy.  It makes me think of the bullock driver out there with his whip to keep his bullock team in line and moving forward.  

I suppose that is one way to use us so call leaners making us all lean into those bullock harnesses to pull good old Australia along.  But what does that say about the lifters?  Are they to be sitting up on the bullock tray being pulled along by all us leaners as they reap up all of the profits.

Yes it creates a vivid picture of how to put all of us leaners to work for good old Team Australia.AE, if you are talking about South Africa I would suggest that you go and look at the history of any of our major democracies, Britain, the United States, France, Germany, Japan etc including even Australia.  There is rarely an easy path from what was a brutal Aristocracy, Dictatorship, Apartheid, or other form of government to a democratic state for all.

I am not sure that any of those countries, especially the United States provide a great example of a democratic state that works for all.  The United States does not have a great record in meeting its Constitution claims when it comes for all its people even after what about 240 odd years.  And when it comes to crime and imprisonment and executions they don't have a record to write home about.

And all of that is without talking about Russia's transition from a Stalinist state to a democracy.  It is a bit hard to call Russia's form of government a democracy for all by all.  I think it still has a very long way to go to achieve that.  Oh, and if you noticed I did not include Israel.  I find it a bit difficult to call Israel a true democracy while it continues to call itself a Jewish state.Paul01, all we have to do is look at the periods of the Crusades, the Inquisition and the wars between the Catholic Church and the Catholic states against the rise of Protestant religion and the Protestant states.  

Beheading and torture is not the ownership of Islam.  Christianity did a pretty good job of that in their time.  And they even added the burning at the stake.  I very much doubt being burnt at the stake was a very pleasant way of conversion or meeting your death. 

Oh and of course we can't leave Hinduism as a religion out of it when it comes to wars torture or appalling and brutal practices.  Or, for that matter Judaism.  The Old Testament with its eye for and eye and all the other retribution of their GOD down on anyone they did not like provides a brutal picture.  

Maybe all of this brutality from religion down through the ages was because religion has too often been one part about God and four parts about power.  Or, is that one part God and 10 parts power.

Until democracy and the so called separation of church and state, religion was always intricately woven into the auspicious of power.  Religion and the State walked hand in hand and in truth was not separate.  One gave power to the other.Lucky, the British in World War 1 had their 'mates, battalions who all joined up from the same towns and localities.  And when they all died together, often on the same day, it left those towns and localities traumatised.   For some even to this day as that trauma passed down through generations.

For Howard, maybe because both his grandfather and father served in the First World War it had some meaning.  But I would suggest it was good spin that he used as well to divide and conquer to say you were either Australian or not.But China, what are these things that bind us.  All I see from Abbott is a two word slogan.  As for actions, Abbott's actions up to date, when in opposition and in government, have been more about divide and conquer.  As for the slogan, what is it we are supposed to be a team of.  A football team?  Team Abbott?  Because that is what it sounds like.  

As for your saying "diversity is good but disunity is death".  A far better way to look at it is 'unity through diversity and diversity through unity'.  You actually achieve greater unity through the valuing of our diversity and what it gives to each of us and to the country.  

But as I have said all I have seen up to date from Abbott is the politics of division.  

Please tell me how this budget is anything else other than the politics of division?  

Please tell me how Hockey's talk of us either being 'lifters or leaners, not the politics of division?  

Please tell me how their politics on asylum seekers/boat people, not the politics of division.

Abbott and Hockey got themselves into government on the politics of division.  And now we get this cry of Team Australia from them.  Please, the hypocrisy is just too much to stomach. 
Paula, seeing Parliament has supposed to have passed about 90% of the budget that makes it only 10% of the budget that is Palmer's plaything.

Oh, and if the budget is just resting.  I would suggest it is not resting on its laurels.  I don't think what is left of the budget has any laurels to rest on.   

I always find it interesting that it the most well off in this country who say the medicare co-payment needs to be passed.  But they never seem to be able to give any justifiable reason why that is so.  I have still not worked out why a disincentive at one point of the health care cost, seeing a doctor, or paying for medication, improves the bottom cost of health care in this country.  

As far as I can see all it does is shift the end cost of health care somewhere else, to someone else, including the states and the individual.  Will a disincentive to see a doctor or get medication mean the reason for seeing a doctor or taking the medication go away.  No.Good planning does the same thing.  In fact I would say good planning is more likely to increase public transport use than higher fuel prices.  

If you don't have good planning that facilitates employment and services closer to where you live than higher fuel prices change nothing.  If you don't have good planning that facilitate walking, cycling and use of public transport than higher fuel prices changes nothing.  

If you don't have investment in good planning than it does not matter how high our fuel prices are.  Investment in more road capacity does little for facilitating good planning outcomes.  In fact all the evidence suggests the opposite.  But of course that won't any difference with this government.  They don't bother about what the evidence says.I am also wondering how spending billions on building more road capacity while spending much less on rail is supposed to shift freight from road to rail.  It is rather strange when talking productivity we politically facilitate the movement of freight on road over rail.  

Moving freight by rail is only about 20-25% the cost of road freight.  That is one cost saving.  Other cost saving include the costs attached to road freight by trucks on road maintenance, new road capacity construction and of course road accidents.  

It is not that I say we don't have a place for road freight.  But that place needs to be its integration with the increased use of rail wherever possible, especially along the East Coast.  And that will only happen if we have governments who understand the need to invest and drive investment in rail over road.Olive, have you noticed that they only ever use the statistical average in talking about data on different issues.  Besides being the laziest form of statistics it is also often hugely misleading.  

It is like talking about the average income.  It tends to suggest that the average person out there in voter lands earns that average income.  We don't.  

If you are talking about people who work, than only about 25-27% of people earn that so called average income of around $75 thousand depending on your state and region.  Doesn't sound too average the way most of us think of use of average.  The use of the statistical median is a better statistical term to use because at least 50% of people who work earn that amount about $54 thousand, or more, or that amount or less.  

But even the use of the statistical term median on its own can in itself be misleading.  Though at least it is a lot better than the use of the average as is too often bandied about.  Statistics only has value if you break it down in a way that allows you to understand the larger picture.  But I suppose that does not fit into the politicians and media short sound bites.  And it certainly would not fit into Abbott's use of three or four word slogans.aGuy, I don't know where you get your info from, but I would suggest that it a bit suspect.  How far have you traveled in this land?  "Many farmers are multi-millionaires".  Considering the length of the drought I think you will find many of the same farmers have multi-million debts.

But if you had traveled out in the regions you would find that the people who actually work on those farms are a very long way from being millionaires.  Many of them fit into the lower income groups.  Yet they still have to drive to get to and from work and long distances at that.

"The research demonstrates that the more you earn the more likely you are to drive".  Please tell me which groups of people are you talking about there?  Where do they live and where do they work?  Oh, and just a thought how many of those higher income people have their cars and fuel for those cars paid for by their business or company?

Tell me does this so called research distinguish between people driving person kilometers in their own cars and petrol paid out of their own pocket.  You know, not claimable as a business expense off their payable tax.  Lower income people and the poor don't tend to have business and company subsidised cars let alone petrol that they can claim off their tax.  Just a thought!!!Daniel, you ignore the politics of the time and the pressure every government is under to produce so called budget surpluses.  Plus you speak in hindsight.  Hindsight is a wonderful thing but it always comes after the fact.

Of course the claim to get back to surplus was crazy, but labor was condemned if they did try and condemned if they didn't.  The opposition was claiming labor only ever produced deficits and the coalition produce surpluses.  And they had the mainstream media, especially News Ltd, along with the shock jocks, continuing to attack them over the deficit and the debt.

Plus I have no doubt that labor along with Treasury along with many economists expected the global economy to return to growth much faster.  I can remember many economists were predicting the mining boom Mark 2 to continue way into the future with strong growth and prices.  Hindsight shows that they were well and truly wrong on that one as they have been with many other forecasts. 

As for few politicians having a clue about economics.  I would suggest that there are a lot of economists who don't have a clue.  For too many of them all we get is ideology that fails to deal with the actual realities of the complexities of our global economy."After a horror budget sell, could the Coalition be at risk of losing its reputation as the better economic managers? Peter Lewis and Jackie Woods write".

Peter and Jackie, they never had that reputation with me and I could never understand the constant claims that they did.  It was all illusion and spin.  

Just because Howard and Costello produced budget surpluses in the 2000's does not mean they were good economic managers.  With the economy going gang busters on top of the flood of easy credit and the mining boom any government could have produced budget surpluses.  And considering how much they squeezed the states for funding at the time it would have been just about impossible to not produce budget surpluses.

It was the states that were taking the blunt of Howard and Costello's budget surpluses.  It was the states who were paying the price.  And it was the people who relied on the states for their funding of services.  I would also suggest that you can say it was the long-term economy that paid the price with the failure to invest in infrastructure leaving this country with a large infrastructure deficit.

So please don't try to tell me the coalition have any economic credibility especially with them giving all of those tax cuts with most going to the most well off.  No, sorry to say this but the coalition have no economic credibility.  The first law of any government should be you don't give tax cuts in the good times.  And that is because it is virtually impossible to take them back in the bad times, let alone anytime.  Not very smart at all!!!!

Good economic managers would have put that surplus away for the bad times that were always going to come, as it did come.Anne, you are right.  Unless they know they will do prison time it is farcical.  And unless there is a police body set up to investigate and charge those who break the law on this it will not happen.  

That has been the problem with the financial industry or for that matter the development and building industry.  Unless people know they are going to go to prison than the laws mean nothing.  In fact they are worse than nothing because they put up the pretense of prevention of wrong doing, when they are nothing of the sort.Peter the Lawyer, how could those on lower paying jobs be worse off than Newstart.  The tax rate does not cut in for anyone working until you earn $18,500 which is well about the yearly income on Newstart.  That is for those who are on it that long.As far as I know there is GST on fast foods as well as all processed foods.  I thought it was only on fresh foods that there was no GST.  Otherwise why have the supermarkets been charging GST on processed foods.John, an independent tax commission.  From what I have seen with this government that is about Buckley's and no chance.  So far I have seen every commission, every report, stacked with jobs for the boy's and the occasional girl.  The finding are decided before they even start.Frank, if you have followed John Hewson at all you would have observed that he is not exactly on the inner circle with the Liberal party.  He appears to be more on the outside commenting on what he sees as he sees it.  So I don't expect that he is really expecting a job from them anytime soon.You are right Olive that they are usually from the right and you could have included the terms climate change, global warming and sustainability.  All have been attacked and misrepresented in their meaning to simply create misinformation.

Feminism is attacked by the right because the right is largely boys club and a largely a white boys club who come from the private education sector.  And before people attack me over that statement, I said largely.   Just to demonstrate their non-bias they let in an occasional female and occasional non-white into their boys club.  But of course they can't think of themselves as a feminist. 

Plus of course you can also include in that largely boys club all of the wantabe's.  They are the ones who follow the same thinking of the right because one day they hope they might be wealthy enough to  be allowed into that boys club.  As they say it is who you know and not what you know.If you think feminism has lost its meaning than you live in a very different world to most women.  Oh, and that comes from a bloke, a white bloke and one over 60.  Australia may be a lot better than a lot of other countries in this area because the bar is so low in those countries.  But I would suggest that we still have a long way to go for most women.Oh socio-economic factors no doubt have an influence and probably an even greater influence is whether your mother was well educated for her day.  But those are the minorities.  And even if you fit into that socio-economic group it does not mean you necessarily are on an equal footing.  The boys club is still pretty strong in the upper income groups.

That is the interesting thing most people see the world from the economic/social group that they come from and associate with.  Unless you step out of that cosy little world you end up with a very narrow understanding of the rest of the world.  Oh, and the research in this area very much backs that up.  You first have to step out of your cosy little world to understand that.I agree that the use of Sovereign risk is too often an overused term in politics.  But I would suggest that this attack on the RET is a risk on the long-term restructure of our economy.  

The RET is of course only one vehicle in diving restructure throughout the economy but it is an important one.  If you look at the RET in a broader structural term it is not just about reducing our overall emissions.  It is also about driving greater productivity outcomes in the way we use energy in our homes as well as in industry.

That is what demonstrates the political farce of this Abbott's governments stance on the RET.  They talk about productivity yet cling to old dirty industry policy.  The RET is not just about wind towers and putting solar panels on roofs.  It is also about driving opportunities within industry to invest in the technologies of bi-generation, tri-generation etc in the more efficient use of and production of energy from multiple sources.

If people argue the governments Direct Action policy will do that I would suggest think again.  There is not enough money in the Direct Action to even start to do this and if you reduce the RET where is the real incentive.  What their argument on the RET means is as we increase energy efficiencies and therefore reduce overall energy use in the economy they will simply reduce the GWh's allocated to renewables.  It is a self defeating policy.You don't have to look back at London of that time for pea soup fossil fuel pollution.  All you have to do is look at China and many other Asian countries that live in a fog of pollution with boundless health costs attached to living there.Frank, I can only agree with what you said.AE, I have to strongly question your idea of productivity.  Productivity comes down to processes and the most efficient and productive use of resources whether it be labor or materials. 

If you use only one part of a resource for productive output and treat the rest as waste than you are not gaining the greatest productivity outcome from that resource.  If you gain multiple productive outcomes out of a resource product than you are increasing your productivity outcome.  

Those are pretty basic principles and can be applied to the importance of the RET for industry and for the economy.  Sadly it is something that this Abbott government can't comprehend.  That is why I have called them economic illiterates on more than one occasion.  I personally would not let them run a broom shop.Bulldust, no misunderstandings on productivity on my part and no need to insinuate there is.  You would not need a RET to force people to use renewables?  On that argument you also should not need to heavily subsidies the coal sector and coal generators either should you.  On that argument there should not be the need to heavily subsidise the nuclear industry either but it is isn't it.

As for productivity drops with the enormous investment in mining, that is an obvious one.  I just question if we as a nation are really getting any benefit from the cost of that investment.  Remember that investment is being written off against the current profits from the mining sector and of course comes off the budget.

The other problem with all of that investment or should I say over-investment in the mining sector is that it has not really resulted in greater returns on our minerals for this country.  As we have seen a lot of the downward pressure on the price as been from the over production in comparison to the global demand.  Not very smart as far as us as a country gaining the greatest long-term return on what is a one off product.

There is another problem with that over-investment in the mining sector which is costing the budget heavily in lower tax revenue.  Is that the big miners have simply used this excess in capacity to shut down or down-scaled their other existing less productive mines.   This may be a good investment for them because of the increased productivity of the new mines but as I said it comes at a cost to the rest of us through its impact on the budget.

Oh, and that is not Tony speak.  When it comes to Tony speak that usually means spin and lies with little of substance.Paul, population is a factor and it would be foolish to ignore it.  But in itself it is not the number one factor driving climate change.  Our willful disregard to act is the number one problem.

We have a situation on this planet where we have one third of our population who disproportionately over eat and consume resources way beyond our need.  In fact in a way that harms both ourselves and the planet.  While we also have a third of the global population who go hungry and use very few resources.  

But of course the third who overeat and consume resources way beyond their need also do that extremely wastefully.  And in the process severely pollute this planet to the extent it harms them and all other life on this planet.  It is not only the inequity that is the number one problem it is the way we go about that inequity.

If we used our resources in a more equitable way, in a less wasteful way and a more constructive and inventive way we would not now be having this debate.  We are having this debate because continually over the years those with the power have willfully continued to go down this destructive path.  

In the end inequity is the number one problem.   All other problems stem from that inequity including the population problem we have.  It is poorer less educated, less resourced less equal including women's rights who are driving up the global population.Yes, an interesting thing that common sense.  I call it the rarest commodity in the universe.  And even though it is talked about I think it tends to be mocked rather than supported.

As for the natural estate.  If we have no value for equity among ourselves how are we going to value equity in the natural estate.  That is the problem in that those with the power in the world only see everything around them as a commodity to be exploited for their own personal benefit.  That includes their fellow humans as well as the natural estate. 

All you have to do is look at how multinationals exploit people in the developing and undeveloped economies paying what can only be called a pittance for their work.  And of course the same goes for the natural resources of those countries.  Exploitation is the only term that you can use and it can barley be classed much above slavery if we were truthful. 

Although of course those are not the only countries that they exploit.  When we look at the tax they pay even in developed countries we see their exploitation is not only of developing and undeveloped countries.  The stupid part is we allow them to get away with it with hardly an argument about it.  We allow them to operate in our countries and take their profits overseas without paying their fair share of tax in return.  Does that not make us fools.Greg I have never know a time when either police or security organisations like ASIO reject being given additional powers.  That was so during the era of Bjelke Petersen up here in Queensland and as we know those powers not only led to their abuse but also to corruption.  So I have to wonder if it will be different under this Federal government.

Abbott and Brandis ask us to trust them just as the Federal polices and ASIO ask us to trust them.  The question is though when given so much power can we trust them, should we lay all of our trust in them.  

I for one find that a step way too far to put that much trust in anyone let alone this mob.  And I would suggest history tells it would be foolish of us to blindly place our trust in them in this way.Tell me Zing when have the police ever rejected additional powers in the past.  I have been around for over 60 years and I have never know such an occasion.  But I have know times in Australia when both police and governments have abused those powers.  I have also known times when security forces have abused their powers.

You know that thing power and the the abuse thereof.  It is kind of part of human history if you ever thought to study it.  Power and its implementation needs open oversight of at all times.  These latest laws kind of take away that basic prudent oversight I would suggest.  And I am not on my own in saying that.Oh dear so we should not take any notice of history and it lessons on the abuse of power just because Abbott was in power.  I wonder if you would say the same if labor was in power and made this overreach in the use of power in this way?

Or, are you saying that just because Abbott and Brandis are in government we are supposed to trust them.  History tells us when someone says trust them without giving us any justified reason to do so, we should turn tail and run a mile.  All I see are Danger, Danger, Danger signs.  Or is that Fool, Fool, Fool signs in big flashing lights.

I prefer to learn the lessons from history than to trust someone just because they say trust me.Michael, the trouble with this sort of argument is that none of it deals with the unmet demand.  And by the unmet demand I mean that proportion of people who would like to buy a home if they could only afford to do so.

The current price of housing has simply cut a lot of people out of the home buyers market.  That means we will never know what the real demand is unless we include those people.

That unmet demand may be in people who have jobs but don't earn enough to even think of buying a home.  More and more people are now fitting into that group.  If house and unit prices keep increasing at well above increases in income than that group will continue to expand.  And that is without taking into account people who are significantly underemployed or unemployed.GRF, I would suggest that the concept of the split goes even much further back than that.  With the split of the Roman Catholic Church under two Pope's, one in Rome and one in than Constantinople the Christian world was split into the West and the East.

And if go even further back to the time of the Greeks the idea of the world was even than split into the West and the East.  And I would suggest that the idea probably goes back even further to the time of Alexander the Great with his conquering of the East.  That is at least as far as Afghanistan and India.  

And if we go back even further we have the split between the East and the West with China perceived as the mysterious East where peoples went to trade even before Alexander. 

The interesting part is of course that the further one goes eventually West becomes the East.  But I suppose that is another debate to be had with the debate being not just about geographic's but about ideas.Robert, the clash of civilisations started at the beginning of civilisations some 10 thousand years or more ago.  Nothing new in it really other than a rehash, or is that a re-clash of ideas, or is that a re-clash of beliefs.

We will have a clash of civilisations as long as we have civilisations.  All we can hope is we get to a point when those clashes are more civil.  Than we might just have created our first real civilisation.Matthew, and interesting argument or is that question.  The only thing is that your headline acts as though the clash of civilisations is something new.  The clash of civilisations has been a reality since the formation of the first civilisation.

This interesting thing though a clash of civilisations does not have to be through wars and instead through ideas.  The clash of civilisations through ideas has been around probably as long as the clash of civilisations through wars.  The question though is which came first or if they can be separated. 

The question about language and the use of the word the West is an interesting one.  Again you have to ask how early did that differentiation and it use really start.  Is it really something new, an offspring of the creation of democracies.  Or did it start with the separation of the Roman Catholic Church with its two Popes, one in the West and one in the East.  Or did it start even earlier with the Greeks, or even earlier with Alexander the Great.Tim, have you not seen our Senate election voting forms.  They already are a lottery for most of us having little idea of who we are electing.  On second thought I could probably say that about the House of Representative election voting forms when it comes to actually knowing who we are voting for.You may be right on the lack of a mature debate in our political although that is probably true for all countries.  All we have to do is look at the United States to see that.

What I find hard to agree with is your argument on the GST and the fuel excise.  Both are regressive taxes.  Both are extremely in equitable in their imposition.  Both are about user pays.  And because of that both require some level of compensation to lower and middle income groups.  Which in the end mean both only add to the complexity of the tax system.

We once had a proper progressive tax system, the only tax system that can properly compensate for the inequity of the market system.  But over time that progressive tax system has been more and more made less progressive.  And guess what the biggest watering down of that progressive tax system happened after the introduction of the GST.  

With the introduction of the GST Howard than it it to step by step flatten out that tax system through tax cuts and the lowering of the top tax rate.  Although the lowering of that top tax rate was only one of the methods Howard and Costello used to reduce the level of tax paid by higher income earners.  

Howard also introduced and broadened out a number of tax mechanisms for those on higher incomes meaning that many of them rarely even pay that top tax rate.  Interestingly there was very little opposition from other politicians or for that matter the top reporters and commentators in the media many of who use those very tax measures to reduce their tax.  I suppose that is called self interest.

I would suggest that you only come back and argue for the increase in the GST and the fuel excise when you first argue for government to reinstate our progressive tax system and remove those tax avoidance measures.  Or should I call them tax loopholes or even tax rorts.  They may be legal in our tax system but that does not make them right.Barry the only reason why we have the current political system is that everyone lies and is able to get away with it.  The politicians lie to us, they lie to each other and they lie to themselves.  

The media also lies to us, they lie to each other and they no doubt lie to themselves.  And of course both politicians and the media are able to get away with their lies because we the voter also lie to ourselves.  If we didn't lie to ourselves we would not allow either the politicians or the media to get away with lying to us as they do.

I could take it even further and say that the current political system can only exist because too many of us are so happy to wallow in our own ignorance.  In fact we have politicians standing proud as they wallow like pigs in their own ignorance.  And it seems too many of their supporters are quite happy to also wallow in that trough of ignorance with them.

That can only change if enough of us are willing to question not only what we are told but what we believe.  Nothing changes unless you are willing to question.Alpo, you are on the money there except for competition.  When all they do is promote the big corporations over everyone else there is no competition.  Competition just becomes a fallacy, a lie, promoted by monopolies/duopolies of which we have too many in this country.

Australia has either a few very large corporations or small business with very few medium sized businesses in between.  As far as I know we are the worst in the OECD as far as this goes.  This demonstrates there is very little in the way of competition.

But that is where the neo-liberal ideology takes us too.  Domination by the few over the many.  Or should I say domination by the very rich over the rest of us.  If we are lucky they drop a few crumbs down to us.  That is called the trickle down affect.  Very little trickles down.Andrew, I have never seen a more shortsighted and stunted debate in intelligence than this one on higher education.  That is I suppose except for the one argued over climate change and global warming.

Like investment in scientific research investment by governments in higher education pay back the economy a return of many dollars for every dollar spent.  If you are to pay for that education investment it should be done like everything else through the tax system by those who make the greatest benefit from the economy.  That is the most equitable and effective way of paying for such investment.

This has debauched down into another argument of user pays by a government that ideologically lives and believes the false ideal of user pays.  Why is it false because it is never about who can afford to pay or who gains the greatest benefit.  And it is certainly never about equality.

Why would anyone sane in mind want to take us down the United States path on education and health and yet that is where we are being taken bit by bit by this government.  The United States is even now having a huge debate over the cost to individuals of their education system and the sever debt it is leaving students in.  And yet this is where this mob ideologically want to take us.  Stupid!

The argument is often why should someone who does not go to university have to subsidise or as they say pay for someone that does.  Why?  The question is simple.  Our economy will need more and more people going on to higher education if we are to remain not only a competitive economy, but a first world economy.  Those are the simple facts.

The other simple fact is every business and every job in this economy will rely on this economy having the skills and knowledge sets to underpin that economy.  Without those skills and knowledge sets those businesses and other workers won't have a competitive economy to work in.  

Even if your job does not require you being of a university education directly.  It requires other people who have those qualifications.  And our jobs and our economy will require more and more people with a university education.  As I said, simple!  Oh, and it does not require spin or misinformation to support it as we get from this government.A little bit of a facetious reply there Forrest, that has little reality to what I said.  Where did I even remotely say a tax should be a 100%.  If we simply cut out a lot of the tax loopholes and rots out of the tax system that would take us along way.

Oh, and if we have more people going on to higher education and earning more money than they will be paying more in tax.  That is if we have a proper progressive tax system without all of the loopholes in it.  

But as anyone with an ounce of intelligence knows not every one with a degree or even several degrees make big money.  Many of them in fact earn less than the so call average income of around $75 thousand of which only about 25% of people working earn that or greater. 

That is why you tax according to income!Most Vice Chancellors support deregulation.  I think you need to qualify that statement.  I think you should have said most from the top universities support it although they even qualify that support.  I very much down too many of the regional universities do as they know they will end on the wrong end of things.

In saying that I have to really wonder at the intelligence of these university Vice Chancellors from the Group of 9, or is that Group of 8 universities.  Don't they ever look at the history of such decisions by government in the past?  Don't they realise that as more money comes into their coffers from increased fees that governments including future governments will use it as a reason to further cut government funding.  Because that is a guarantee as to what will happen.

This is all about user pays, whether you can afford to pay or not.  And behind user pays is the excuse to cut government spending itself and continue to cut it.  And even further behind user pays is ideology of flattening our progressive tax system.  

And who does that benefit.  Why of course the most wealthy and with it will even further disadvantage those less well off.  Which of course will make it even harder for those from less privileged backgrounds to go onto higher education themselves.  

Oh, and we should not forget who will gain from a further flattening out of our progressive tax system, which is getting less progressive every year.  Well, actually the Vice Chancellors will as their pay packet put them up in the highest income bracket.  That is unless they have a social conscience and argue against a further reduction of the top tax rate.  I am yet to find someone on that top tax rate do that.  

But my point still goes if this government is able to further deregulate the cost of doing a degree and if universities revenues from those degrees increase than government will reduce their own funding to universities.  I very much doubt that they will come out ahead.  I know their students will certainly not come out ahead.  And I very much doubt the economy will come out ahead.

People should remember if students who complete degrees end up with higher debt and significant higher debt than they will have less to spend elsewhere in the economy.  They certainly won't have it to spend on housing, or at least for many many years.  And as it is housing is getting further and further out of the pockets of first home buyers, even many with a degree.  And that is only one part of the economy that will be affected. 

Oh, and of course they will want higher wages to pay for their degrees.  Which of course will only lead into increased costs for their services.  Anyone think of that.Dove, influences demand!  amazing that you did not say in which way.  Because it is not about influencing demand is it.  It is more about restricting that demand without even taking into account the cost of restricting that demand.

There might be 0.00000000001% of people who are abusing the medicare system by going unnecessarily to a doctor.  While on the other hand we know we have a significant problem with some people, especially men not going to see a doctor when they should.  Oh, and that also has a significant cost to it.

Not going to a doctor for a regular health check up or to check our a health issue at an early stage can and does have a number of cost impacts.  First off they have the impact on the persons personal health which than can lead a number of other significant costs.   

These further costs can include ending up in hospital with all of those inbuilt cost.  Than you can add to that productivity costs with loss of work days.  Plus you may need to that further medical host in rehabilitation etc etc which for some people can go on for months, years or even for the rest of their lives.

And that is without taking in the personal economic cost or the economic and social cost to their families.  That is why the best solution to any health problem is to treat it early with early intervention alone with prevention.  But of course this ideological policy of the Abbott government takes none of that into account.  Which only reinforces my belief that this government are economic illiterates and should not be left in charge of anything.Oh, and do the Republic right in America hate the example of the Canadian health system.  They definitely hate your pharmaceutical system in their support of Big Pharma.  As they no doubt hate our pharmaceutical system and would love to see it pulled down in their support of Big Pharma.

Countries like Australia and Canada and their people have to be ever vigilant in their protection of their health systems from the right who hate them with all their being.  For many of those people Australia and Canada's health systems verge on being socialism if not communism.  It seems they would rather people not be able to get health care rather than them be able to get it free or subsidised by government.The problem with your article and its analysis is it does not get down to who these energy prices hurt the most.  Before the latest price increases for electricity for electricity and gas of which I regrettably have both the supply charge component was around 45% of my total bill.  Since the latest price increases in Queensland the supply charge component of my electricity and gas bills will be closer to 60% of my total bill.

The supply charge for electricity in Queensland went up by about 60% and that is after it going up by around 60% in 2013.  The gas supply charge in both years has jumped to a similar degree over the past two years.  And for someone who lives on their own that means the supply went from around 20% as a component of my total energy bill to around 60% over two years.  And you can not do a thing about it as they have you over a barrel.

There should not be any separate supply charge.  This has been brought in as a distortion of the market and has allowed energy companies to get away with the gold plating of their networks.  I have no problem with a minimum charge that includes a minimum amount of unit's of electricity or gas and paying a higher price for what you use over that minimum.  But this supply charge is a rort and nothing else.

The supply charge also distorts the system because it favors higher energy users over those who don't use as much including those on pensions living on their own.  It also distorts the system because it does not cater to the use of multiple energy sources.  If you want to reduce the peak demand on our electricity generators than you need to promote the use of multiple energy sources for your energy need.The problem is if you are in a rental situation and do not own your own home than they do have you over a barrel.  If I had been able to afford to own my own home than I would also have had solar, but I don't so I can't.Scott, with this government back to the future is a realism and not just a saying from a movie.  The problem with the debate is that it missed the productivity debate.  

The whole idea of a price on carbon and investment in renewable is to drive energy efficiencies and productivity outcomes within our economy.  And all we will be left with after this government is a less efficient and productive economy.

Not very smart as far as I can see.  And for our business sector to go along with this government raise big questions over their own competence.BJA, I agree. Where are they.  Labor did try to place some limits on the tax subsidy to the most wealth in this country including a mizley tax on super pensions over a $100 thousand a year.  But the first thing Abbott and Hockey did when coming in was to undo even those mizley attempts to wind back the abuse of the super tax concession.

John Hewson is right in saying that our current super tax concession, most of which goes to the most wealth in this country, will very quickly outstrip the aged pension cost to the budget.  But than as far as I am concerned the coalition are only in there for the rich in this country.  The rest of us stiff bickies.  

Plus we should remember even a Backbencher now earns about three times the so called average wage of which only about 25% of people even that average wage or greater.  So even a Backbencher is up in the top 5 to 10% income group.  Which can only tell you how far out of touch many of them are with the rest of us mere mortals on far far lower incomes.Harvey, you are right in saying it is a gigantic con.  The GST especially as a state tax is a con for a start.  It has never been a states tax.  In the end all the GST is is a part of the tax mix that the Federal government provides to the states.

We can see the con it is by calling it a states tax when the states are arguing over the fact that they do not get back all of the GST revenue from their particular state.  It was also a con as increasing state revenue.  All Howard did was reduce the amount of revenue the states received from the other sources of federal government revenue.

It has also been a gigantic con in that it would increase the overall revenue in taxes collected by the Federal government which includes GST.  And the GST did not increase the overall tax revenue because Howard gave out tax cuts in compensation for the GST.  And most of that tax compensation when to upper income groups with the lowering of the top tax rate. 

The GST was always a con because it was always simply a means to flatten out the progressive tax system which is an ideological driver of the conservatives.  The conservatives hate the progressive tax system like poison and if they thought they could completely get away with it they would do it now.  In stead they have been step by step doing it trough policies like the GST and user pays.Oh Harvey and the other con I forgot to mention is the con about the getting rid of tariffs on imported goods.  Tariffs on imported goods had to be replaced as a source of revenue by some other tax or source of revenue.  The GST of all goods, excluding fresh food and health, can be said to be a replacement source of tax revenue for the revenue previously received from tariffs.  

Which of course is the greatest con.  And that is both on us the consumer and on our own industry.  At least previously the tax, through tariffs, was only on imported goods which at least gave our own industry a competitive advantage at home.  

With the GST the consumer still has to pay a tax on the product.  But now it is on all products, those we import as well as those we produce.  And of course our home industry and the products and services they produce have no competitive advantage over those imported. 

Now of course taking the tariff was supposed to drive greater efficiency in our own industry as well as supposedly reduce tariffs in the countries we export to.  The trouble is that in many cases this has not worked.  We have instead lost much of our industry and many of our competitors still impose significantly high tariffs on our products that we export to their countries.

Even the so called free trade deals are far from free trade deals with all of them still imposing some tariff or limit of the products we can export to them.  So what we have ended up with is another con loaded on top of all the other cons.It seems still about 30% or so who are silly enough to take Tony's word.  But I am sure that poll was done in another parallel universe about another Tony and another government.RayS, I will tell you why Abbott is considering a GST hike,  It is not to increase government revenue let alone increase them for the states.  After all the GST is not a states tax.  It is a Federal government tax.

But the real reason why Abbott would like to increase the GST is so he can further flatten our the progressive tax rate.  If they were to get a GST increase through, highly unlikely, they would decrease the top tax rate.  And who would benefit the most from a decrease in the top tax rate.  The most wealthy in this country of course.  That was what happened when Howard brought in the GST.  All it does is increase the level of inequity in this country.the Yank, I agree, but I also believe a healthy democracy demands that people be involved in that democracy.  Which of course requires as a first step to vote, to have some understanding of what they are voting for and to question the actions of their politicians and media.  Without those you don't really have a democracy.

Paula is right that everything is politics.  But that in itself means little unless you also include that everything is about society and about the economy.  That means you have an interconnected triangle of politics, society and the economy.  

Which than takes us to the forth link, the 'environment'.  The above three are underpinned by the environment and the state of that environment.  And that is something that our current politics can not grasp or accept.

Paula touches on it with her inclusion of the issue over climate change and a price on greenhouse emissions, but it is a vague touch.  Unless we understand the interrelationship of all four we are just wallowing in ignorance.  And I see a lot of that in this government and our current politics.Yes and like Snake it is the one good thing that I give Howard as doing.  We are still paying for virtually everything else he did.

And that includes the over-inflated property prices built on the back of an enormous level of private debt.  I always remember how he claimed when questioned over property prices with his reply being look how rich we all are.  I am not sure who that we was but it was not the majority of people let alone those looking to buy their first home.Demand! What demand is that?  The only demand that I can see is demand in the form of investors subsidised by the tax system.  The other demand, that of first home buyers, cannot be met because they can't afford to buy.

So Peter of Melbourne I would suggest that your argument is a false argument based on false premises.Tom1, GRF and this government have lost all credibility with their use of this $600 plus billion debt claim.  If you were looking at Australia and our level of debt without understanding the misleading politics of this you would think Australia's current debt is $600 billion plus now.  Rather that is than some projected time in the future based on all sorts of over the top assumptions.

But than I for one find it hard to find any credibility in this government, especially economic credibility.  I always thought a government was supposed to talk up the economy rather than talking it down as they are always doing.  They constantly talked the economy down when in opposition and they have been doing the same ever since they came into government.

Going by what they say about the economy you would have to wonder why any foreign investor let alone Australian investor would invest in our economy.  And going by their submarine and ship building decisions it seems they are saying even they the government don't believe in investing in our economy.  It seems they don't want anyone investing in our renewable energy sector.  What does that say to any private investor.John, I can only make one answer to that claim about the actions of the Governor Generals dismissal of Whitlam.  And that is what a lot of 'ROT'.  It is such a lot of rot that no government since has been willing to go down that path and I would suggest no Governor General since would either.But the conservatives are giving it a very good try!All I see here John1 is an attempt by you and the conservatives to rewrite history.  It seems to be the thing of conservatives this belief that it is their right to rewrite history into their own image.

To ignore the role both Rudd and Gillard had in staying off a recession in Australia is to ignore the very fundamentals of what they did.  You know that so called surplus that Howard was supposed to have left the country.  It disappeared the moment the Global Financial crises hit.  That is why it is called a Global Financial Crises.  This is something the conservatives can't comprehend or accept in their ignoring of the facts."GW and Global cooling has been occurring for millions of years".

But GW Sceptic, that is where your argument breaks down.  The science on global warming looks at all of the influences on and drivers of global warming.  It looks at both the natural influences and drivers along with the human influences and drivers.

They don't just say Oh, the climate is changing and therefore it must be human induced.  The research on climate and climate changes is very broad research coming from a number of scientific disciplines based on the fundamental science of the day.  In difference to your claims the human impact on our climate is not a religious belief or pie in the sky claims.Warwick, the question is this - how can we get government and our politicians to do something about the high cost of housing and especially negative gearing when they are benefiting from it themselves.  As we have seen from other research many of our politicians have investment properties themselves.

When we have a Backbencher who is able to earn as abase rate around three times the so called average wage, a misnomer in itself, than it makes it difficult.  Even a backbencher is up in the top 5 to 10 percentile income group.  And that is without including what those who make the real decisions in government, those who are in Cabinet, earn.

I would suggest we have a problem of understanding the real world were most of the rest of us live in having to deal with the high cost of housing and rents.X:, and it has been how many people have also lost their homes.  This borrowing on the equity in your home can be a real trap for many people conned by shysters.  If at any time the bottom falls out of what you invested in, or your income no longer meets that debt than you are in serious debt.  In the end the banks want their pound of flesh.  

Too many people who were comfortable before they borrowed on the equity of their home suddenly found themselves much poorer if not homeless.  I would suggest that people stay away from any so called financial adviser who offers that advice.  Once they have their fee they are shy of all consequences.Warwick, thanks for this article.  Nothing makes me more angry than having spin from politicians and economists about how wealthy people are because of the price of housing in Australia.  It is not just spin but a lie in every possible way.

For a start the only people who really benefit from the price of housing are as you say the banks and to a degree investors who are able to make use of negative gearing.  For the rest of us we need to be able to put a roof over our heads and the cost of that is going up at a much much faster rate than inflation let alone earnings.  That is for most of us anyway.

As an investment, housing does not produce anything except profit to the banks made on the back of borrowed money and an increase in national debt.   It is not producing an export product that we can use to help balance that increase in national debt.  And like any investment, personal or for profit, you need to be able cover its debt.  If you can't that you lose out with the banks taking it back off your hands in a forced sale usually at a lower than market price.

And if you can't afford to buy a home, let alone borrow the money to do so and more and more people can't, than you are left with having to rent at ever increasing cost, or be homeless.  That is the side effect of this over priced housing.  More of people's in come is going towards the mortgage, to rent, or you simply become one of the increasing number of homeless.  So much for being more wealthy.I watched that Q&amp;A and I was quite impressed with the now Catherine McGregor.  As far as I am concerned being someone who was lucky enough to be born in a gender that I am very comfortable in as far as my sexuality I don't have any right to be critical of this person to have a sex change.  

I don't believe anyone who does not live in their shoes have a right to be critical of them.  It is their right to do what feels right for them.  And it is not that this person, Catherine, did not take the time to come to this decision of having a sex change to fit the sexuality of the person that they feel in ever way that they are.Tedd, I have to agree.  What a bizarre link to make in saying we have the Ebola crises because the WHO was too focused on obesity and tobacco.  Maybe Chris should look at how many deaths obesity and tobacco kill through shortening people life and contributing to other deaths including heart attacks and strokes for a start.

The WHO on its own can't deal with the Ebola crises.  As with dealing with obesity and tobacco it can only rely on governments acting at home and internationally.  And of course that includes governments around the world providing money as well as people to help fight this disease.  The NGO's on their own can't deal with such an epidemic.Hairy nosed wombat, if you are going to go down this path with Chris than we might as well go back to the 1960's in car design along with no seat belts or air bags.  A lot more people will die or be left with sever injuries, all with a cost mind you to them their families as well as society as a whole.

Also what about before the implementation of sewage system and when people simply dumped their night soil and rubbish out on the street.  After all building sewage systems and providing rubbish collection has a cost to it.  Although if you think long enough about it also has a benefit to all of us as well.  I don't think too many of us would want to go back to the days when night soil and rubbish was simply dumped on our streets.

And of course we could also argue about getting rid of the controls on alcohol and drugs.  You could save a lot of money there.  If people take and drink them that is their problem, if that is the attitude.  Although all of them as with obesity and tobacco have a lot of other costs to the individual family and society.

Than of course we could go down the United States path on guns and gun ownership saying if people want guns and they shoot themselves and each other that is their problem.  You see that is the problem when you go down this so called civil libertarian path although I should take the civil component out as civil informs us that we live in a society.  And living in a society has all sorts of laws attached to it to protect both each other as well as our self. 

If you don't think obesity and tobacco has not only a cost to the individual but also to society and the nation as a whole than I don't think you have looked at them deeply enough.  I have to wonder if Chris has mentioned these two because IPA has in the past been funded by such industries.  I am happy for someone to prove me wrong because I can't see any other reason to link them to a need to deal with Ebola."The GST was a necessary reform...".  The question is why.  And one reason was to replace the money lost to government on getting rid of the tariff on imported goods.  It never seems to get mentioned that when we reduce and or get rid of the tariff on imported goods, the goods may be cheaper but the government loses that tax.  After that is what a tariff is on imported goods, a tax on those goods. 

So what we did was over time from the time of Whitlam, Hawke/Keating, Howard/Costello and now Abbott/Hockey pretty well wipe out all tariffs on imported goods.  Keating understood this and wanted to bring in a GST than accepted that the party did not agree with him or the public for that matter.  

Than we had the liberals under Hewson go to an election and lose on it.  And eventually Howard and Costello brought one in and used the excuse of to reduce the income tax rate as a trade off.  The problem is that most people don't understand is that it was the top income groups who made the most from that tax reduction with little going to the lower income groups.

What was interesting is that no government told us the real reason.  That being what would have been a substantial loss to the budget over those years from the reduction and eventual loss of funding from tariffs on imported goods.  

But of course that is not the only areas of loss of income to the budget from the reduction and eventual end of tariffs.  With the reduction and end of tariffs we have also seen a loss of manufacturing industry and their jobs all of which would have contributed to the budget.  

New industries and industry sectors may have been created over time but back than 2 to 3% unemployment was the norm.  Now the norm is 5 to 6% or more, sometimes much much more with a lot of underemployment through casualisation attached to it.  All of that also has a cost to the budget in both incoming tax revenue and outgoing expenditure.   Which is why a 10% GST does not make up for it and why there is the push to increase its rate.GJA, yes all the transformation of this country can be largely seen in the labor years.  Mostly all the coalition tries to do is take the country back to the dark days of greater inequality.  They find it hard to see past looking after the 1% along with the multinational companies.

Although in truth I doubt Menzies would recognise our current liberal party.  Even Fraser is further to the left than this lot and for all of his faults largely stayed true to a lot of what Whitlam implemented.  Unlike our current lot who are trying to undo so much of what Whitlam and other labor leaders later introduced.  And that includes taking health and education out of the reach of the lower income groups if not the middle class.Jusme, I agree.  As far as I can see Paula and the coalition have misread things here.  What gets me with Paula and the coalition twisted logic is that we have to go to Iraq to fight ISAL at the source.  Yet it seems for Ebola we don't have to go to West Africa to stop Ebola at its source.  I am still trying to work out this twisted logic in my head.

As far as I am concerned it is very simple.  If we think it is too far to transport people who may become infected back to Australia.  Than we set up the capacity in a hospital ship off shore as the Brits are doing.  Or we build a hospital on land with the capacity to treat them.  I can't see how our navy and army are not up to doing that.  And we have the trained medical people to staff them who say they want to go.Well Damon, you have just told a lot of regional Australia not to expect help if they have a car accident.  

I wonder did you ever thing instead we could take the hospital to them such as a hospital ship with helicopter capacity.  We do have such ships that could be used in the navy for that purpose.  Or, that we build a hospital on land with the capacity to treat people.  I have a feeling our engineers in our army are capable of doing that.Reaver, so on that basis you are saying that our armed forces should never be involved in treating diseases and epidemics.  Tell me how are they to gain that expertise in the first place.  

As it is the armed forces if they were to be sent would be in support capacity of those medical people who do have the experience in dealing with such an epidemic.  It would be their engineering capacity in constructing hospitals along with the organisational and logistical capacity that would be required."Almost as silly as Morrison not letting the opposition get a word in"

Moi, if you have watched Morrison's interview you will find that is his standard tactic to talk over the journalist asking the question or the other speaker trying to make a reply.  As far as I am concerned all that does is demonstrate his total arrogance and adds nothing to the debate or issue.Paula, where did you get this convoluted argument from.  So it is ok for labor to agree with Abbott on responding to ISAL by sending aircraft and troops to Iraq but not for Australia to medical and other support to fight Ebola at its source.  So one is labor being sensible and one is not.  What rot.

I find even your argument that there is no difference between labor and the coalition on climate change bizarre and convoluted.  Other than the 5% agreed reduction targets, minimum for labor and maximum for the coalition, there is no similarity between their policies.  In fact I would suggest that there is an enormous gap between them the size of the Grand Canyon.

As for labor politicising the issue of Ebola.  They did not do that.  It was Abbott and the coalition who did that by their crazy spin that it would be too dangerous and they had no viable options to treat the people they send.  I have to wonder if our troops and our special forces did not think that they were being sent into harms way when they were sent to Iraq and Afghanistan.  I would have to suggest that they would find that an equally absurd thing to say.

I would suggest that the opposition speaking up over Australia not sending anyone to West Africa had little to do with politicising the issue.  I would suggest that they like many of us find it incredible that the government can make up this farce of an excuse to not send medical and other support people to West Africa.   I can also suggest that had people like me telling the opposition that they needed to speak up over our total failure of a response to Ebola.

In difference to you Paula and the Abbott government I know the best way to ensure Australia's security when it comes to Ebola is to fully support the fight against it in West Africa.  Waiting until it gets here or Asia as Abbott and the coalition were saying is too late, way too late.  

The world has already taken too long to act in any substantial way leaving it for too long to the NGO's who though doing the best they can are being overwhelmed.   Ebola needs all of the governments of the world with the capacity to act doing so and that includes Australia.  

Please tell me how Japan and China are any closer to Africa than Australia?   Please tell me why we can't send a hospital ship with helicopter capability?  We have them sitting up there north of us keeping asylum seeker boats out.  Or, is that more important for them to be doing?  Also please tell me why we can't set up a hospital there or nearby with the capacity to treat any of the people who may get infected?Crony capitalists is the word alright.  But than that goes for all of the so called free market.  The great free market bastion of the United States went crawling to the US government when they needed to be bailed out.  And that included a whole lot of printing of money that did not go to main street but went to the money street of the financial institutions.

They all talk about taking risks.  But what you find is that they shift all of that risk to we the suckers while taking most of the profit.Yes, of course it is not a free market.  It is like the spin on free trade deals that are not free trade deals.  And which when it comes to jobs we always come out on the wrong end.

Getting cheaper cars and electrical and white goods are only good if you have a job and earn enough to pay for them.  And in the end you can only buy and use so many of them.  They are not like food you can't eat them.  Or for that matter a roof over your head which many people can't afford to buy or pay for these days.Well they are the opposites if the government continues to heavily subsidise coal while cutting support for renewables.  And they are the opposites in that one produces energy through dirty pollution of our air sea and land while the other does not.Yank, did you look at how long and how complex that piece of legislation was.  I doubt even those who wrote it up understood what they were writing.  In truth I doubt even the full bench of the high court will be able to properly under it and its implications.

So much for the government of deregulation and their making regulation less complex.  This mob have gone and done the complete opposite.J.T, where did I say that I think it is a good thing.  As far as I am concerned all of this legislation is overkill and unnecessary.  And I agree with the Yank that labor should not have voted for it.  But than I don't think the liberals and nationals should have simply rubber stamped it either.I am certain that they do it on purpose.Terry, I am a bit confused here about who should leave the country.  After all we all have our different opinions about what we like and don't like in this country.  We have the conservatives complaining about the progressives and the progressive complaining about the conservatives.  

So does that mean they should all leave the country to only leave those in the middle.  But than if we look at those in the middle they are complaining about both the conservatives and the progressives so does that mean they should also leave the country. 

And seeing Hockey is complaining about those he considers leaner's, although I have still not worked out who are the leaner's and who are the lifters.  So does that mean Hockey should leave the country because of his whinging. 

I would suggest going on that requirement there will soon be no one left in the country as they will all be told to leave.  Just a thought as to the absurdity of who is telling who that they should leave the country.Disraeli, one thing I know was that my father who fought under the flag was disgusted by people who wrapped it around themselves in sanctimonious patriotism.  To him and the ones I knew of his generation believed the flag only went on government building and or you served under it.   

So I doubt that neither he or any of his generation would have thought much of people wearing it as a shirt with that crap on it.  I would suggest that companies selling the symbol of the flag in this way only degrades that symbol and therefor the flag itself.  And I would suggest the same goes for anyone that wears the symbol of the flag in this way.

I would suggest using, or should I say misusing the symbol of the flag in this way, says more about the company or person than it does about who the words are aimed at.  Woolworth was very smart to take it off their shelves.  They just weren't smart enough not to put the shirts on their shelves in the first place.Haven't, you realised that the mining industry must be protected at all cost from both taxes and criticism.  It is the first sacred law in the bible of the coalition and IPA.Olive, I thought the liberals were the party that promoted the right of choice.  It seems not if the choice is to not invest in the mining industry.   

There must be a law that I missed here that says you must include mining shares in your portfolio.  It seems the ANU missed seeing that law as well.  I wonder if all of our superannuation funds including self-managed funds have to by law include mining shares.  I will have to check up on that one.Olive, we will have to check to see if signing up to being on Tony Abbott's Team Australia means we must invest in mining shares.  It is probably in the fine print somewhere.John1, and you don't think this decision by Sinclair Davidson to write this article is not a political decision let alone the Abbott governments decision to criticise the ANU is not a political decision. 

What gets me is the coalition is supposed to be all about the promotion of choice.  Yet the moment an organisation makes a choice against the mining industry as to their investments they are suddenly against choice.  Don't you see that as hypocritical.

Or, tell me are the mining industry some sacred cow that needs to be protected by this government at all cost.  It would seem so with their getting rid of the mining tax, the carbon tax and now criticism of ANU for daring to disinvest from the mining industry.  After all the ANU are not the only organisation or individual to decide to do so.David, did you not realise that when you sign up to being in Tony Abbott's Team Australia, that in the fine print it says you must hold mining shares in your share portfolio.  It seems we should have all checked the fine print first.Ingenous, do you not realise that Malcolm Fraser has been dis-inherited from the liberal party long ago.  And I have a suspicion that John Hewson has probably not been sent his liberal party membership renewal.  

I am sure it must be in the liberal party platform that thou shalt fervently support the mining industry and fossil fuel industry to thy dying breath.  If not thou will be excommunicated from the liberal party for ever more.Gregory, how about some evidence for your claims about ABC's opinion presenters and writers being mainly one sided.  The crikey report demonstrated this lie for what it is in that more former ABC people had stood for and or worked for the liberal party than for labor.  I would suggest that your claim has been shown time and again to be bunkum and little else.Harry, you do realise that that 20% bias can go both ways.  The only problem is that if this was a report done by Howard than I would have to question its "independence".  

Going by this Abbott government I have not found one of their so called "independent" reports that could remotely be called independent.  When they put their own liberal party people in to do the report than it is a bit hard to call them independent.Loranzo, which Australian's are those you are talking about.  Are they the die hard far right liberal supporter you are talking about because they are the only ones I have heard wing about the ABC.  I certainly don't put all liberal supporters in that or even the majority of them.  And I would doubt you would find too many National supporters in your so called many Australians.

You know the problem with the wingers who complain about the bias of the ABC is that they don't like Abbott or any from their party being asked the hard questions.  It is ok to ask labor and the greens and others hard questions but not their side of politics, or so it seems.

Well I am sorry to tell them this but it is the job of the ABC to ask the government hard questions just as it is their job to ask all Members of Parliament hard questions.  Otherwise you could not call the media the fourth arm of our democracy.  

If all we had was a compliant media, a compliant public broadcaster, we would not have a democracy.  What we would have is a corrupt dictatorship.  So I have to wonder if that is what you want.  I hope not as too many have fought, struggled and died for this country and its democracy.It would be nice to see a report done on all of these so called independent reports, that are simply jobs for the boys and the odd girl and how much they cost in total.  It is a nice little earner if you can get one although it seems you need to be a liberal party supporter to get one.

If someone can show me one non-liberal party supporter/hack who was given the job of doing these Non-independent reports I am happy to take it back.  I can say that knowing I won't have to take it back.SoSirius, no so called independence in this report.  It is like every other report they have commissioned since coming to government.  Not a page, not a paragraph, not a sentence and not a word of independence to be found in them.  All their claim of independence is, is no more than another lie to put on the stack of all of their other lies.  I don't think that is too strong a claim to make going on the evidence so far.Margaret, such a simplistic analysis of the reasons for our educations outcomes.  I think you will find a failure of both politicians and in fact parents lies behind this failure.  Politicians have too often looked for the cheap option whether it is the investment in our schools themselves or in our teachers.  And they have constantly failed to properly invest in the generational poor.

It has long been known that the best way to break the cycle of generational entrenched poverty is through education.  Yet when we look at the funding for schools it has been those poorer areas of our cities and regions who have missed out the most.  Yet it should have been the opposite which was what Gonski funding was all about.

Is it not hypocritical that those who constantly say that money is not the answer spend big money on sending their children to the best private schools.  Money is not the answer yet that is what they spend along with more spending on extra private tuition.  And than more money to send them onto the best universities.  As I said hypocrisy!Yes, interesting isn't it that Jesus was a progressive and not a conservative.  Buddhism and the Jane component of Hinduism taught many of the same ideas expressed by Jesus in his teachings long before he was born.

"Though shalt not kill" has been expressed in all of the major religions though there have been failures of their implementation in all of them as well.  In fact Christianity failed on that one through just about all of its history including all of their religious wars along with the Inquisition.   That is the problem when you go looking too deeply at the Judeo-Christian history you find all of its flaws warts and all.Bev, "less progressive propaganda and more of our western background heritage"!  Strange your argument considering our western background heritage was built on the back of progressive ideas.  

I wonder where you think the democracy we have came from other than progressive ideas.  Please tell me how giving all people the vote including women is not core to being a progressive.  

Than add to that the end of slavery, the idea that all men and women are born free with equal rights.  And than add to that the right to free speech and the separation of powers etc etc.  And those are only the start when it comes to the way the way progressive ideas shaped the world as we know it.

In fact I would suggest it was not so much Judeo-Christian ideas that shaped our world but more the challenging of them.  Interestingly if we go by the New Testament it was progressive ideas from Jesus that challenged Judeo thinking and the authorities of the time  that got him into trouble.  You could argue that he was the radical progressive of his day.  

I would like to say that Christianity under the Roman Catholic Church followed Jesus in his progressive stance, but they didn't.  The Roman Catholic Church had to be dragged kicking and screaming against it will through all of the progressive changes that happened since.  In fact it is still kicking and screaming in protest against change.

So sorry Bev but I have to disagree with your argument as to progressive being anti western thought.  It underpins it in every possible way in the best of western thought.All you have to do is look at who produced this 'Non-independent' report, Donnelly and Wiltshire, to dismiss its findings.  As far as I can see you might has well turn our education over to the Catholic system because that is what they are appearing to advocate.  Sorry I will stick with Gonski any day of the week when I want to know how to improve educational outcomes in this country.

What I want to know is what they mean by "a smaller, more parent-friendly curriculum".   Which parents are they talking about?  I suppose ones that fit into their category of parent with their narrow world views and not ones that challenge that world view.  

What I would suggest is that what we really want is curriculum that is broad and built in inquiry and not dogma.  The best way to teach a child is to teach them to question and how to question the world around them.  Those are the best tools to give a child in an education.  I somehow don't think that is what Donnelly and Wiltshire mean."It always takes longer to fix than wreck"

Than it seems the sooner we get rid of this mob the quicker we will be able to fix the wreck they are creating.

I wonder if Hockey will take more funding from the ABS to pay for their war.  Oh that is right Abbott said it is not a war.  If not I wonder why Hockey wants to make more cuts to pay for it.  I wonder how the ABS would model that discrepancy.Paul01, I have to wonder if Barry had to write the article in the way he did to give the ABC the appearance it is balanced for all the critics of the ABC out there.  The only thing is if it was balanced it would also have covered the issues brought up by ICAC in NSW.  

That is the problem with the article.  Not all of those who represent unions are corrupt.  And not all of those who represent developers and big business are corrupt.  But it is obvious for both parties that the more distance they can put themselves from power brokers in both unions and developers/big business the better.  I would suggest the better for them and the better for our democracy.

So sorry but that is what I call balance.  I am quite happy for the Royal Commission to continue as long as the NSW ICAC inquiry continues its inquiry.  And if the Royal Commission into unions and ICAC are to continue how about we set up a Royal Commission and or ICAC at the Federal level of politics.  If Abbott did that I would actually give him some credence.  Until than I see this as basically a political witch hunt.Monty B, I very much doubt Robert Menzies would recognise this liberal party as the one he formed.  He would be seen as too far to the left by it, especially when it comes to issues of refugees.  And he certainly would be seen too far to the left when it comes to the neo-liberal ideological far right policies of this government.

I would suggest that there would be a lot of past liberal leaders who would struggle to recognise the liberal party of today.John1, are you really trying to claim that we don't need to broaden it to all political parties after what we saw with ICAC in NSW?  I would suggest we need to not only broaden it but include the political parties of all states and all levels.  That is if you are really concerned about corruption in this country.What a stunning statement to make about both the failures of our national government as well as the top brass in our military.  What are the use of these White papers that we produce on the future shape of our military and threats and yet no planning for a case to deal with deal with infectious diseases.

It is not as though we have had no hint as to the need to be able to deal with infectious disease outbreaks around the world.  Did our government's now and of the past simply believe that we were immune from them or had no part as a First World Nation in responding to them.

The one part the author of this article, Dr Kamradt-Scott, did seem to overlook is the organisational capacity of the military.  It is a big part of the reason why the United States has sent both medical as well as engineer capacity to help deal with the Ebola outbreak.

It is not just that these countries don't have enough doctors and medical support people to deal with this outbreak.  They also don't have hospitals and medical facilities along with the organisational capacity to deal with the Ebola outbreak/epidemic.

The simple fact is it does not have to be military doctors and medical staff that is sent.  The military could quite well work in support of non-military medical specialists in this country as well from other countries using their engineering and organisational capacity as support.  And you could probably do that with as little as one or two hundred people from the military if not less.I can only endorse what John Faulkner, who I have a great deal of respect for, something rare when it comes to our politicians.  What I would suggest though is that it is not only labor that needs be more inclusive.  All political parties need to be more inclusive including the liberal party.

When it comes to our democratic ideals and democratic needs, both of our major political parties fall down when it comes to not only the promotion of our democracy.  They have both fallen down in the protection of our democracy.  

Too often within political parties in their chase for political power they forget that it is the protection of our democracy that is most important.  If in their chase for power they in any way treat our democracy with contempt, they are in fact treating all of us with contempt.  Something they should remember but too often forget.Dame, I stopped buying the Australia a long time ago.  It treated my intelligence with such contempt that I thought the only way I could keep reading it was to have a lobotomy first.Graham H, where in what I said does it say I still read the Australian or that I had a lobotomy.  From what I hear of as debate in this country I may think I have had a lobotomy because of its too often lack of intelligence is another thing.Oh, Simon, I think you will find there are also a lot of liberals and nationals who also support the ABC.  The problem is that they don't have much of a voice in the liberal and national party these days as they are seen as too moderate.Pat, that revelation was printed in the media overseas including the UK and Indonesia as well as in other media here in this country.  Are you saying the ABC should have purposely ignored it?  That would have made the ABC look ten times worse.  

As of yet we do not have a public broadcaster or media that is dictated to by the government of the day and told to self censor itself, thank goodness.  Or, are you saying we should go down the path of dictatorships where the government dictates what the media is to print and say or not to print and say.  I would hope not.  But I must admit that is what it sounds like.Simon, if the ABC fails on fair and unbiased reporting as you argue, I would hate to see what you say about the standard of the Murdoch newspapers like the Australian and the Telegraph.  They put the ABC up as a beacon of light when it comes to fairness and balance.Mr Murdoch does not care about politics!  Are you kidding.  Have you not seen the scandal with News Ltd in the UK and Murdoch and his son being brought up before the inquiry on it.  I am sorry but if that is what you really think than you must live in some parallel universe and are talking about a different Mr Murdoch.David, do you know what I hear when I see people on the conservative side putting arguments up about the ABC being biased.  It is that they don't like being asked the hard questions.  You do know that is what journalists are supposed to do whether they work for the ABC or elsewhere.

Journalists are not supposed to be simply propagandist machines for your side of politics or for any side of politics.  We see too many of them in the Murdoch newspapers, especially the Telegraph, to want them in the ABC as well.  Why would you want more spin doctors working for the government within the ABC.  They already have an oversupply of them within their political staff and within the government departments.

It seems if a journalist does their job and asks the government questions they must be biased.  You do realise what that sounds like don't you.  If you want scrutiny of the government no matter what side of politics than you should want an ABC that asks the hard questions.  Otherwise I would suggest we don't have a functioning fourth estate and if we don't have that we don't have a democracy.David, have you never seen Crikey's report on this claim that the ABC is a hotbed of left wing journalists.  The report showed that there were just as many journalist or more who stood for or worked for the conservative side of politics as for labor.  In fact from memory there were slightly more that stood for and worked for the conservatives than for labor.

It is easy to find all you have to is search for it on Google using Crickey and journalist and political parties.  So sorry but this is just another misleading claim and is totally wrong.JessC, those options are via the internet so they options provide options for Australians within Australia as well as Internationally.  You are aware that Australians live and work as well as travel all over the world.

When I traveled in the 1970 and 1980 a lot I had to go to Consuls and or Embassies to often get Australian news.  It is very different now.  Oh, and it is also crucial for those non-Australians around the world to also be able to see what is happening within Australia.  It is good for business and it is good for international diplomacy.Heather, you have many options with ABC radio depending on your choice of program.  That not only includes your normal radio and digital radio.  You can also access it online by going to the ABC website and than ABC radio.

Iview online also offers you options to catch up to other programs that you may have missed.  It is your ABC so depending on your interest it is up to you make use of all of its options that it offers you."Influenza pandemics are more a concern...."

Any pandemic that has a death rate as this one seems to have in Africa of at least 40 to 50% or more should be a concern.  And any pandemic that is growing exponentially where it is doubling in infections every 20 day should be a concern.  America and Europe took too long to understand this though they are starting to now.  But it seems our government in Australia does not yet understand this fact.

We can spend a possible billion dollars on going to war against ISIS.  Yet so far we have offered 7 million dollars and no medical or other staff to the fight against Ebola.  I would have thought that was a slight discrepancy in the understanding of their comparable dangers.  After all we do have the people with the medical knowledge along with the money to make a difference if we really thought it was a priority.  Or, so I would have thought.The problem is Alan we would have to see housing prices fall through floor, so to speak, before we could say there is nothing wrong with renting.  

What you did fail to identify was that Australia actually had a history of State government housing that at one time helped to keep the price of housing down.  The problem started when the Federal and state governments stopped investing in state housing during the time Howard was in government.  This problem was made even worse when state governments started selling off their state housing in the upmarket locations in our major cities.

What you also failed to identify was that labor did start to reinvest back into social/community housing when they came back into office.  But of course there was not enough of an investment to make up for the need.   And of course as far as I understand the Abbott government has decided to take back some of the money labor had earmarked for social/community housing since they came in.  

So it seems nothing as changed when it comes to the conservative side of politics on investing in cost effective housing for the lower income groups.  The only problem is that with the cost of housing the need for social housing has only increased and not decreased.  I can only see the problem of housing getting worse and not better whether you are wanting to buy or to rent.Whogoesthere, I am trying to figure out how far to the right the ABC has to go to appear to be balanced.  You must realise that bias is always very much in the eye of the beholder.  The more to the right or left your views are the more likely you are to believe that the ABC is biased.

Does balance mean the ABC has to promote arguments and ideas that fail the basic proven facts of the day as well as the basic proven science of the day.  Does the ABC have to put people or articles on that are simply spin and misinformation if not outright lies.  Does the ABC have to put on or promote the known right wing shock jocks to meet the far right rights view of balance.  And if it did how would the ABC than uphold to its standards and principles that it is supposed to operate by.

That is the problem with the idea of balance.  What are you actually trying to balance, known truths with known non-truths; known science with disproven opinion.  Again you have to ask if the ABC did that how would it be meeting its operating standards and principles.The problem is that many of the investment interests are the politicians themselves as many of them have investment policies.  It might be a bit much for us to expect them to do something about this when they are making money from it.  Just a thought.

It is like the abuse of Family Trusts which really needs to be fixed up.  But again we have many of our politicians themselves using Family trusts.  It would be interesting to have some research done on how many of these tax reducing measures that need to be changed or got rid of are being used by our politicians.Peter and Jackie, as usual your articles are informative but scary.  The scary part is how few people even understand anything to do with climate change and global warming.

Your first question demonstrates that there are 44% of people who don't have a clue as to what is happening with 30% saying it is due to natural climate changes and the other 14% saying they don't know.  At least the 14% are honest in what they say in saying they don't know.

Although what is even scarier is that there are 76% of people who vote liberal/nationals who don't have a clue about climate change and global warming.  Although I am not sure which is scarier.  That 76% don't have s clue who vote for the lib/nats or the 32% who believe climate change is happening and caused by human activity yet still vote for teh lib/nats.

I just wonder how far down the path to global warming we have to go before people accept the science.  Although I have to wonder whether it is that these people don't believe in global warming or know, or that they don't believe in science or understand the basic fundamentals of how science is practiced.  If it is the latter than than that should really concern us."....a responsible government taking action to try to ensure the safety of its citizens".

JohnM, I have to wonder if there is anything this government does that you would question.  There is not much that I agree with Chris on, but in this I agree.  These laws were not needed.  In reading through them I found them that extensive and so broad that they could mean anything.  

I doubt even a full bench of the High Court could come to an agreement of what is legal under them and what is not.  From what people in the know said on the previous Howard Terrorist laws, they were overkill.  This lot takes them to another level of overkill.

There have been plenty of existing laws to cover the needs of protecting this country from terrorism.  As far as I can see all these do is attack the very fundamentals of our democracy.  And we do not even have an 'End date' clause attached to them.  This makes these new terrorist laws not only unnecessary but potentially dangerous in their impacts on our democracy and us as citizens.You are right there Alan, although I am not sure pollies are inducted into the human race.  I though going by their budget that they must have to be inducted out of the human race and into some other alternative universe.

Now if you had listened to Q&amp;A on the ABC last night you would realise that nothing had changed as far as the pettiness and nastiness of their budget.  It is still stuck in the same narrow distorted neo-liberal far right ideological view of the world.  It is like there is this brick wall in their mind that no comprehension can get past.The problem is Alpo fear always wins out because it negates any intelligence people might use.  The question in the end will be will the fear of terrorism prevail or will the fear of the budget prevail.  I think it all depends on how much intelligence breaks through the fog of spin and misinformation put up by this governments and their backers the Murdoch media.Todd, I would say intelligence should always trump party allegiance instead of getting dumbed down as it too often is.  If principle is not based on intelligence than I would suggest that principle is worth little.  

In fact this government probably believes that they base their decisions on principle even if many of us don't agree with the principles that they base them on.  That is the problem in that unless ones principles are based in intelligence than those principles can end up being baseless and an act of distortion.

Just a thought.
