Sorry a double dissolution is not the way forward.  If Abbott can't make the parliament work of his own doing, he should step aside and let someone who can.  This government has made on cockup after another and told lies, upon lies to muddle it was through crisi after crisis.  They've made the mess they're and we're in, keep them there to fix it. It is only 26 more months of this rubbish and then we can get rid of them.Actually PUP is extreme right wing, almost as foar to the right as the government.Dear Noah: Was the administration aware of this sort of missile system being present under a major international route?  Why wasn't one of the many other flights shot down on the same day and in faxct in the same hour?Will there ever be justice in this lifetime for the victims of MH17?  Our legal systems are simply not set up for justice.  Do we know who fired the missile?  Do we who gave the order to fire?  Do we know who picked over the remains?  I saw a lot of "men" hiding their ugly faces behind balaclavs and sunglasses.  Who exactlly (names) were they?  I don't blame the rural people of the area. Does anyone really think someone will be brought to trail?  If so, does anyone really think that it would be a fai trail (given the emotional tack the media has been portraying)?  Remember a trail is based on facts against a person/persons charged, not on what might have been and might have happened.  As disgusting as this has been, I really can't see anyone standing trial.Now if you are mentioning Isreal sorting out Hamas, yes I'll grant you that it is an illegal invasion, but let's stop and review the fact.  This could have been all over last Tuesday, but Hamas wouldn't agree because it didn't meet its "demands".  What maniac wouldn't stop a war if he had the chance?  This started over 3 Israeli children being kidnapped and murdered, from there it escualted tit-for-tat and so the sons of Abraham are at each other throats again.The Americans knew that Saddam once had WMD's, because one Donald Rumsfeld brokered a deal for the Americans to supply them in 1988.  The weapons effectiveness would have well and truly expired by 2003.  Saddam was falsely accused.Good point Frank, but a geography lesson, Russia was never the USSR.  Ture the Soviet Union was born out of the 1917 Russian revolution, but other republics include Georgia, Armenia, Azzabijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Khazakstan, The Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus and after WW2 Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.I agree with Zing, one defeated, and they will be defeated, the pro-Russian rebels will simply blend back into the genral populous, because of the fact they hide their faces.  Only cowards don't want to be recognised.Sorry aGuy, that logic doesn't hold up, because the palne was shot down over a busy international air route, it only because "unbusy" after the shooting down.  The palne would have also been under the direction of Ukrainian Air Traffic Control.  The proabablity is still pro-Russian rebels.  Probability is not proof though.Dear Claudius I believe the the shooting down of Air Iran 655 was deliberate, so much so the the USS Vincennes at the time was nicknamed "robocruiser" in relation to other incidents.Dear JAL it was over one the busiest air routes from Europe to Asia, why wouldn't fly over it?  There was no "no fly zone" established.Dear Beck, actually the Ukrainian armed forces are slowly pushing the pro-Russian separatist back into a smaller area.  The Ukraine has taken back some cities.For argument's sake, are the pro-Russian rebels in Eastern Ukraine signatory to the Geneva Conventions?  One would hope the perpatrators could be tried, if aprehended, in the Hague for crimes against humanity.A verys sad day. 298 beautiful human snuffed out and for what?  My sympathy goes out to all their families.  We still don't know who was behind this heinous crime.  We all have our suspects.  We can only home that the perpetrattors can be brought to justice and the appropriate prison sentence imposed.  A death sentence would bring us down to their level.Dear Zing there has been no confirmation of who has committed this disgraceful act, however on the balance of probability it would appear to be Pro-Russian separatists who somehow got their hands on sophisticated anti-aircraft missile launching platforms (either captured from Ukraine or supplied by outsiders and those outsiders would be the Russian Federation).  But probability is not proof, so I'm prepared to wait and make my mind up when the facts are in.Quite true James, we don't know that the Pro-Russian separatists have done this, but on the balance of probability, it is pointing towards them.  Irrespective of who committed this crime, it is an act of torrism, because you can't accidently fire a missile which can reach the height it did.No the government has said they have stopped the boats, 2 very different things.With today's monumental backdown by Morrison and cronies and they have egg all over their collective faces, at last those boat people will off that prison hulk.  Funny they had to bury the annoucement on a Friday afternoon in the mist of MH17 and the Israel/Hamas conflictAbbott had no option but to become a "PM".  However let's see in six months time when MH17 is forgotten and if the old Sir Tony the Toxic re-emerges or not.I'm sorry, I'm not convince that Tony Abbott was speaking from the heart or from a prepared spiel.  Yes he said all the right words, as any leader would and should, but his past record leaves a lot to be desired.  Let's see in six months time, if this leopard has changed his spots, I hope so for the sake of the nation.You're not suggesting that Abbott is a goodie, wasn't he part of Howard's war cabinet during the illegal invasion of Iraq and is partly responsible for the deaths of over 250,000 Iraqi civilians.You're right they behaved and said exactly what they should , but there was a manner in saying it, which this government doesn't get, they don't have the gift of diplomacy, but brash self-righteous types rarely do.No one in his right mind could ever call Abbott or Bishop statesmanlike, it is not in their makeup.  Yes they are saying "all the right things", tuggin on the emotional heart strings and a little bit over the top. But this is the same Bishop who was part of a legal team that tried to deprive Bernie Banton of asbestos compensation from James Hardie, the same one calling for justice - I doubt very much if she knows the meaning of the word.  Abbott is just glad that his shambolic budget is off the front cover for a while.The same was said by tories about Julia Gillard, who is streets ahead Abbott in international relations.Dear Dapsta don't complain when, not if but when, you're charged under these "laws".Better to be a do gooder than a paranoid psychopath which this legislation panders to.Dear Michael T are you sure you have nothing to hide?I'm a Labor voter and no intellegent person would call me a lefty.Are Tropicalcat suggesting to drop to the level of the terrorist similar to way Goerge Dubya Bush did by allowing the CIA to torture suspects?Dear APM do we include white supremist groupd like the KKK or the Australian Tea Party or Hansonites in that group?Bit Orwellian isn't it?Dear Baz we have plenty of law to cover this, as in "law and order" the problem is that there is no order.  But how can you instill fear into the community if you don't come with consiracies to terror bomb the country and so you make it look like you're doing something to curb it.  It worked in Queensland with the so called bikie laws, where you made up a problem, enacted laws to curb the problem, put people in jail because it without harking back to the making up of the problem in the first place.Who are these left?  There is no left wing in Australian politics.I don't know which is worse, the Bolt Repeal or having to prove your innocence.If nothing else Abbott is a political animal.  By they way I'm holding George Brandis partially responsible for what happened on that school bus.  If he wasn't so manic about repealing 18c to help his mate Andrew and his remarks on bigotry, plus there was the Israeli attacks on the schools sensationalised in some areas of the media, maybe this wouldn't have happened.  Another thing that hasn't been given much media attention is the burning of synagogues in France and Germany over the last couple of weeks.Hitler was a Roman Catholic.Dear TGU it wasn't a target of opportunity, it has been revealed that these germs were dressed in school uniforms to get onto that school bus.  Irrespective of whether or not these minors were drunk doesn't come into it, they got onto that bus for one reason and that was to terrorise those children with nazi and other slogans.I'm sorry mike, I'm a Christian and I don't like being lumped in them, whether they're a miniscule faction or not.If there is as many as one deliberate death that "organisation" is at the top of the list.  They're all equal.There is never an excuse for this sort of thing.  The parent of these young thugs ought pull them aside and expalin a few facts of life about taunting children with hate in the form of bigotry, in this case religious,and political.  Hitler was a prime example of what is wrong with the world and it appears his legacy is not dead and buried.Gee Sir Trent Toogood, Rupert will be inconsolable.  This, News of the World and the Time Warner deal falling through he may contemplate suicide.Doesn't John Hewson regualrly present articles on the Drum.  He is right winged.Histroy tells us that empires last on average 500 years, and you ignore history at your peril.  It would appear that the next empire that will dominate the world could very well be Asian.  The USA is now becoming impotent, its techologies, especially military eg F22/F35 debacle, are starting to lag behind other "powers", it is only a matter of time.I'm sorry but the adult thing to do is to steer well of all things nuclear, the risk is just too high and as for nuclear powered submarines apart from the nuclear risk, they are inherently noisy, therefore easier to detect.  They are also prohibitively expensive as compared to conventional powered submarines.  What I'm reading into your post is that you assume that China is the greatest threat to us.  Why?  China is our biggest trading partner and why would anyone antagonise them?  If you believe our 'beloved' the 'age of entitlement' is over and we can't afford to increase the defence budget.That's a big assumption that Germany would have done the smae to us if they had won.  That assumption justifies the harsh treatment in the treaty, which was supported publicly by the USA, but has appalled the president.  But then again Germany was the only 'enemy" still standing and someone had to pay and someone had to be blamed.  After the British and the French got to draw lines on the map of the middle east and expand their empires, which one the main reason why there is so much trouble today.What type of misslies?  anti-ship?  Antii-aircraft?  Please don't say 'tactical nuclear' or ICBM.  Where would they be deployed? Unless the international intelligence community has gone out of business, wouldn't a future enemy know which approach route to come and avoid these missiles?Sorry gbe, Australians were part of that debacle, we got our backsides kicked as much as anyone else did.  Let's keep the romance and the myths out of it.  The ANZACs were defeated.  But that is not why ANZAC Day is commemorated.Monash was a colonial and if he had made Field Marshall, he still would not have been given Haig's command.  The aristocracy would have allowed it.WW2's ending was not justifiable.  Even after the two bombs were dropped Japan still wanted to fight on, but when the Soviets were poised to invade the Home Islands, Japan capitualted, because the government knew that the Soviets would put the emporer on trial and have him executed.  The terms of the surrender were exactly the same as Japan had proposed in February 1945.Well actually Dr Pat, China does ahve a signifcant navy, it also has more vessels that the US Navy, but can't match the US in the projection of power through things like aircraft carrier task groups.  Having said that China is building carriers, it very sophisticated military aircraft and thank God they're fighters and not bombers.  On the other side of the coin, the US has not been exactly "moral" when military power either.Dear Rob have a look on the other side as well.  Hamas has it hands just as dirty.  Is legal under the Geneva Conventions to set up rocket launchers in palces of refuge?  Is legal to hide behind women and children during a battle?  Is it legal to a constitution to say that the Jewish State has no right to exist?  You're right about Israel, it doesn't have the right to kill innocents and the perpatrators should be brough to justice.  But also HAMAS doesn't have the right to kill women and children the the perpatrators should be brought to justice.  I suppose you think it is alright that in the last week, synagogues have been burnt down in France and Germany?  What does that remind you of?To a degree the author is right, in the sense that there is no real threat to Australia militarily.  That may change if we have an antagonistic goverment towards our neighbours.  But the way I see we are part of the ANZUS pact and under that pact if one of the partners is attacked, the other two come to its aid (simplified I'll admit), however it seems to me under ANZUS it appears we are always coming to America's aid, not in defence, but in attacking other nations.Got to agree.  Patrotism is also rampant nationalism or tribalism and that is a very dangerous thing.I'm sorry Pedro, I'm of German heritage and Germany should be very ashamed of WW2.  The German people didn't have to blindly follow Hitler,  The recruits of the Wehmacht (the collective name of the the 3 branches of the German armed forces the Heer - Army, Kriegsmarine - Navy, Luftwaffe - Air Force) didn't have to swear allegiance to Hitler.  They could have refused to carry out the monsterous crimes of which they were ordered (It wasn't only the Waffen SS who committed these crimes).  Having said that I don't believe Germany was any more guilty than anyone else in WW1.Sorry WW2 was a horror story and there are still people out there wanting the genecide of the Jewish people.That may be true, but we're still just as stupid, because wars are still going on and this nation following blindly after the USA has been involved in starting 2 wars this century.Bit hard not to get your backside kicked when you're outnumber 20-1, but it was the unreasonable, ignorant, arrogant and criminal terms of the treaty to end WW1 which probably sowed the seeds for WW2.Germany didn't start WW1, despite what British "history" says.  It was a country on "our" side that started it  (Serbia).Having a German heritage and very interested in the History of WW1, it was Germany that was blamed for it, yet it didn't enter until hostilities broke out between the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Serbia, but that time Russia was supporting its ally, Serbia, France was supporting its ally, Russia, Britain was supporting its ally, France and hence the British Empire was dragged into it.  I suppose "dragged in" was not quite the right term as everyone was up for a stouch.  At the end of the war, Germany was blamed because it was the only "enemy" left standing and someone had to pay the bill.  If one looked at the treaty today, a case could be made that signing this document in a railway carriage in France in 1919 could have been the catalyst for WW2.Dear pockerful of wry, can you name any "dole bludger" or is that a generic term used for those honestly on unemployment benefits, disability pension, aged pension, carer's allowance, DVA War Widow's pension and new start etc.Dear Kerrie you've hit the nail on the head as far as gettng menial work after completing a qualification, there are providers out there which "guarantee" a job on completion of certain course of study, They're there, but the student has to go through the jobs adds and apply for those as part of the study.  That is a guaranteed job but not necessarily in the course of study.  This is a little unclear when signing up.That is why the government wants to either close down the NBN or giver it to Murdoch.  The goernment is not interested in infrastructure, it interested in health, it is not interested in education, it is not interested in taking care of abused children in detention centres, why would it be interested in the unemployed?Dear Stockel, you are correct, employers only want casual staff these days, that saves on a lot of award conditions.  Still waiting for the government to unveil the next version of work(slave)choices.We know that the vast majority of those on welfare are honest, this include indiginous recipiants.  Unfortunately the Hanson mindset is still out there and this needs to addressed as well.There is little doubt that the pro-Russian separatists are flexing their muscles in the area of the crash site.  It is great to say all the right things, but when you have to get down and back it up, this could be a little bit hard.  Yes the Ukrainke government has (to their credit) provided a "safe corridor" to the crash site, but for the lfe of me, why did we have to antagonise the Russians?  Maybe the last 5 days of no go were a direct result of that antagonism.  Also can anyone explain to why was there was a request to arm the AFP in this situation?Didn't the unemployment rate just hit a 10 year high?  Doesn't that suggest that there are not jobs to be had?Cyberpirating is a very crime and it does happen here.  There is no use denying it.Dear Pau I'm not denying that we're paying too much for entertainment, but that is not my issue, I'm just pointing that cyberpirating is a crime and shouldn't happen.Dear munz the BCA is one of the most exclusive unions in Australia.Is this any different from the LNP claiming that leaked doucments fell off the back of a truck.  However that is posting to the article.  Weren't there damaging remarks said by the then Liberal premier in relation to his colleagues?Dear gbe both Sir Tony the Toxic and Frankenlatham are two peas in a pod.  They're both thugs.Dear Forrest that is easy to fix, set the MRRT to 70% of profits.Well put RobW, but we don't have the government that is capable of mature, calm and inclusive debate.  The government promised it wouldn't negotiate with the crossbench, however the that is not true and negotiations skills are in short supply with this lot.  They're luck there is another tory party in form of PUP to help them out.Let's take a look how a parliamentry term proceeds, using the coalition in opposition as a template.  First year in your budget reply to attack everything in the budget, ditto for Labor this year.  Second year the same.  Third year talk exclusively about getting rid of carbon pricing and nothing else.Dear Waterloo, Hockey doesn't believe that the budget is in "precarious state of imbaklance", if what he said to the Kiwis is true.As I predicted there was a spike in Abbott's approval, however despite his grandstanding, we're no closer to getting people to the crash site.  Another interesting point is that Malaysian airline officials did get the black boxes and they didn't have to make a song and dance about it.  Another interesting thing is, why has fighting broken out in the crash site area?  Is this Putin's payback?Why waste your retirement fund on a house?It doesn't.Dear Ravensclaw, in relation to these farmers who want fruit pickers, are there there unemployed in that district who can fill these jobs?  Ihope you're not suggesting that fruit picking on farms be work for the dole?  If so why should the taxpayer pick up the tab for farmers?The main issue here is governmet using anecdotes as policy.  I suppose the word slogan is starting to wear thin, even if it is correct, so anecdote is a good substitute.Some of us have dropped the odd LNP dolt a line and tried to point out the error of their ways and make a few suggestions, especially in the area of manufacxturing, but typical of the LNP, most, not all, who I wrote didn't acknowledge, apparently I'm only a voter and only worth something at election time.This mornic "policy" on applying fo 40 non-existant jobs per month has no support within business, the Senate and the wider community.  It is right down there and makes as much sense as giving the go ahead to dump millions of cubic metre of toxic sludge on the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park.I'm sorry, but they are not following the tenants of Islam.  This sort of rubbish has nothing to with being a Muslim.  As a Christian, I'm worried about these false "Islamic" practices in the same way I'm worried about cults passing themselves off as Christians.Dear Peter let's conveniently forget the Israelis who have been killed.  Yes there have been more Palestinians killed and atrocities have been committed by both sides.  This could have been over two weeks agao but those butchers from Hamas said no!That's bs Ricardo and you know it.  Anyway better to be a bleeding heart and than sub-human like those who think it's alright to illegally intecept boats international waterrs and lock them up in hulks.Stating the bleeding obvious, sort of like Basil Fawlty's quote "don't mention the war".Dear Dave, let's take a deep breath, get a grip and assess the situation on the ground.  Talking tough might sound nice, but now is the time for cool rational thinking, going in gung-ho and arming the AFP might not be the wisest of options, it might just invite an attack on the people trying to investigate this diplorable act.Dear voyage, on the facve of it, you appear to be correct.  Tough talk might be fine, but to date it has accomplished very little, except  give the PM a bit of respite from his basketcase budget.Dear NoGoodNamesLeft, maybe, just maybe, our PM might have done better if he could have consulted with the Dutch as well, before flapping his gums with "tough talk", and Bishop's ideas of arming the AFP and sending them in to guard the site defies all common sense.  Imagine armed police guarding a crash site in a warzone, really?We all know that the latest stouch in Isreal/Gaza orignated from 3 Isreaeli children being kidnapped and murdered, it all escualted in a tit-for-tat way from there, till what is happening to day.  Israel is losing the propaganda war, but it winning the intelligence and ground war.  Both Israel and Hamas have committed atrocities, Israel shelling and boming homes and safe refuges, Hamas, indiscrimate rocket fire into Isael and hiding behind women and children using them as shiels and according to the Geneva Conventions, human shields can be killed.Dear Tony Woods, our foreign minister is reported to say that she is in favour of arming the AFP.  Think that through.  Would it make it safer or more dangerous having an armed contingent roaming around in a warzone?Sorry old timer, but Labor didn't have many or any if all diplomatic stuff-ups.  These people in this government, who haven't a diplomatic brain amgonst them, are making a bad situation worse.  Diplomacy is not about point scoring, it is about finding common ground in which to present your case.  This mob in charge don't understand that.  But what could you expect from a lawyer, who wanted to rob Bernie Banton of his compensation.The "blackbox" has already revealed that the plane was shot down by a missile.  The most likely culprits were trained pro-Russian rebels.  We propabably knew that from day 1.  Now we've got ourselves into a "diplomatic" slangin match which could and most likely will turn very nasty.dear Nonna wave the LNP flag.  Ever hear of common sense? Ever heard of a "blackbox" (which has already revealed that the plane was shot down by a missile)?  What good would it do anyone to get member of the AFP killed?  We can't assist the dead, they are in a far safer place than the living.  Really exactly what can be done?We really don't understand what is going on.  We are colouring the scene with our own preconceptions.  Let's not forget this is a warzone.  I noticed that our foreign minister has suggested arming the AFP.  I think that is a wrong thing because being armed in a warzone can invite misidentification of combatants.  The last thing we want is members of the AFP being killed.Dear Ursus, is it any wonder the tax collected next to nothing?  The mining companies wrote it,  It is painfully obviouse that the Mining Profits Supertax was the way to go.The economy worked extraordinary well under Labor to name one.  It grew by 16%+ in 6 years despite the GFC.The only way to get the message is to be fully open, secrecy even unde "operational security" only leads to speculation and inuendo.  Better to be upfront and honest.Dear Zing, it is not an obstructionist Senate.  The government lied, the budget has put thing in the budget tht weren't voted upon, then the Senators have to remain loyal to their constituates.  You have replaced the term "democractically elected under the constitution" with "obstructionist".Abbott has hung Hockey out to dry.  He has stabbed his treasurer in the back the same way he did with Malcolm Turnbull.  For Tony, political expediency outweighs loyalty."Team Australia" not quite a team after today, with Tony distancing himself from Joe.  Plus there is public dissention in the ranks.Another difference is that one side could work with the Senate where the other hasn't got a clue.Politics of fear works, it makes people insecure and willing to give away their freedoms when there is no need to.You're right Monday's Morgan Gallop poll which is universally recognised as the most accurate, shows on a 2 party preferred Labor 56% - LNP 44% as opposed to the propaganda of Murdoch's newspoll.Dear Realist, why should we "give it a try and let's see"?  That sounds like a hit and miss attitude which is ridiculous, but then again that would be in line with these fools who are in government.  Why stuff round with something that is working, unless you want drop to American standard and that's below third world.Please remember that the $7 copayment does not go into helath care.  The goverment stripped funds out the CSIRO where health research should be conducted.  Hypothetically, the $7 goes into some new research centre, but know this mob who are in charge and they, being totally foreign to the truth, will use the copayments for improve the bottom line of the budget.I don't do anything wrong, so why should the government collect data on me!  I'm sorry, I said "I don't do anything wrong", this government doesn't believe anyone, we're all liars according to them.Good ol' Linux is not so bad after all and its free.  You get Thunderbird, Libre Office, Firefox, automatic updates and upgrades.  What more does one need from an operating system.That only puts them in line with all right winged governments in the world.  Not only do they want to spy on you, they want you to pay for the privilege.The reason why the government want to interfere with our privacy or some people might want to give part of there privacy is fear of the unknown.  Fear that somethnign MIGHT happen.  Government's play on these fears and introduce draconian laws or water down safeguards such as 18C or maybe set up something as evil like a department of Homeland Security.Dear AJC They didn't "annex" Crimea either, since the people had a referendum and willingly joined Russia on their own initiative.  But don't forget the part about at that "referendum" anyone who voted no or who was suspected of voting no or might vote no was intimidated and bashed.And dear burke, that is five too many!Dear Gary I have to admit Abbott talks tough, but there is really sweet fanny adams he can do in practical about this situation.  This would be the same for another PM in this situation, but another PM might not run off at the mouth quite as much and might have achieved at least a dialogue.Or go full renewable and clean energy and corner the world market.Dear Mark O, I doubt that most European countries are that stupid.Dear Nevwww, "where does ISIS get the money from to buy weapons, who supplies the weapons, how do they operate their banking and communications" - try Saudi Arabia?Well to start with Fred, Australia was a willing participant in the invasion of Iraq and you can add Afghanistan to that.  Should we impose sanctions on ourelves?Nuclear power can really warm the world - 3 Mile Island, Chenobyl, Fukashima just to name 3 nuclear warm spots.  Yep you're definitely right on that one.I am probably Labor's most ardent supporter, I am also a Christian and being a Christian take precedence over everything in my life and in my home.  My Lord and God (Jesus Christ) went through utter agony because He thought I was worth it.  Jesus suffered so that NO ONE ELSE SHOULD SUFFER.  I have no problems with chaplains in schools and from what I have heard from my local State High School is that students would prefer chaplain be there because they don't see the chaplains as being part of the staff like teachers and counsellors as as such are more willing to discuss issues with them.  Relgious Instruction is not compulsory in state schools and state high schools and neither should it be, but it should be available for those children, whose parents deem it worthy.Mike Abbott should be pilloried by the centre-right as there is no left in Australia, for his sexist remarks.  So should anyone else, male or female, in the name of decency, but then again decency not part of the Australian standard anymore.Year mike, but it wan't the wink, but the creepy smurkDear Ms Lambie is a woman of the 21st century.  She is hard and brash, probably because of her experiences in the army and I don't hold that against ther.  I'll be honest I don't like her because she is a tory of the PUP persuasion.  I don't like the tories of the LNP persuasion either.  Another things, I don't like what PUP stands for - pollution - and since PUP supports pollution, she supports pollution and therefore she is a polluter.  Pollution is the biggest debt this country has and her party is partly responsible for increasing that pollution.Dear Criag if Lambie resigned, she would be replaced by another PUP person.Was it a good thing or a bad thing to repeal the carbon price?  Since it was introduced, power comsumption was down.These senators, love 'em or loathe 'em, are their to vote on policy of their parties and those who voted for them.  Why should the senate support the government?  Would that be a good thing for the country?Dear Culex it appears the Australian public is now tired of the Abbott Truss government.So Andie the senate should lay over and pass every lie the Abbott Truss government comes up with?Dear custard, I agree with you about Jackie Lambie, but what do you expect from a former soldier.  Soldiers generally vote right winged, why wouldn't one be part of a right winged conservative party like PUP.Hano if 28% say this mish mash is bad for democracy doesn't that mean 72% think it is good?Right din, it is at best a second division competition.We don't do too badly at the Olympics, the London games was the first in at least 20 year where Australia didn't win more gold medals that the whole African continent.By the size of the team, it looks like this nation spends more money on the commonwealth games that the olympic games, probably because it is easier to wind medals because it is a second class competition.  We should send teams from our states rather than a national team, similar to the way Britain sends teams from individual countries rather than a British team.  Better still we should become a republic, leave the commonwealth and not have to worry about this sideshow.We should definitely let the "to big to fail" organisations fail.  In this country, for better or for worse, we have a market based economy.  Should an organisation not meet its financial obligations, why should the txpayer bail them out?  We pay taxes for governments to provide services and to protect the country from things like invasion, not prop up the stock market.  Having said that, stimulus spending in time of need is totally different as to ensure the economy doesn't decend into recession.Who says The Russian Federation is an anti-Western nation?  We're not talking about the old Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  The Russian Federation is a democracy with a market based economy and is at the moment the third most powerful country in the world armed with some of the latest and technically advance waeponry.Sorry gbe, Nikola is making a legitimate point.  What is the difference between supply one group of thugs with weapons and supplying another group of thugs with weapons?Dear gbe, I agree, Putin must shivvering in boots over the G20 and what Australia has threatened.  Let's say for argument's sake Abbott stops Putin from coming.  The more than half the G20 decide not to come because one of the major players was banned.  What does this mean for Abbott on the world stage?  Sor like between Iraq and a hard place.Please AJS let's decend into the 37 Australians bit,  Let's get above national pride and say 298 innocent beautiful souls are lost because such destructive weapons have found their way into the hands of those who don't respect life.Some action is better than none at all, but Direct Action is an imposition on the taxpayer that achieves absolutely nothing as far as climate change is concerned, but it is a nice little bribe to some polluters to keep going on their merry way.AT least when we had a carbon price, energy usage went down signicantly, to the point that energy providers were compalining.  Solar panel have made a significant difference to the household energy bills, to the point that enegy providers were compaining.  Another thing to note is the fed's language has changed from "households will be $550.00 better off" to "on average, households will be $550.00 better off".  Define aveage houshold.But at least we know that the unions are not in the same class as  business when it comes to thuggery, standover tactis, bullying, corruption, blackmail and extortion.  And we all know there will never to a royal commission into this, because there is not enough money to swinddle out of the royal commission into child abuse.We know that in March 2013 the IPA agenda said it would be good to breakup the ABC and sell off SBS.  Privatise the CSIRO and if necessary give Rupert Murdoch the NBN.  We've already seen the first stage of getting rid of Medicare with the $7 per visit to the GP, the Pathologist and the Radiologist, plus the surcharge on prescriptions.That might be so custard, but most Australians are now saying what have we done. By the who said the boats have stopped?  The only reason why we knew the last two boats were there, was the fact that those boat let themselves be known to others than the authorities.  Scrapping the carbon price was the biggest mistake this government ever made and will become the biggest debt any government left the people.  It is one thing to have a small monatary debt, but it is another thing to have the debt of a polluted atmosphere.Actually I would like to see what Rudd origonally proposed, the Superprofits tax.  The MRRT didn't hinder jobs growth, neither would a superprfits tax, because the directors of those mining companies would sell their mothers to get at the minerals.They paid a high price in the Stafford by-election (18.6% swing) which would probably translate to a 14-15% in a general election and it was all Newman's fault.This article suggests what a lot of people are saying that Australia is just a big hole in the ground for multinational companies to get a low tax motza.Dear Blax5, Except now the coalition sucks up to PUP and they lead Abbott round by the nose.Dear pink feather duster, you're one of the few making sense.  The Carbon Price was a big imposition and can anyone show me where it cost jobs, we have a few from the pointy end of town coming out with doom and gloom but nothing to back up their scaremongering.  And don't you like the change of wording but Abbott and his cronies.  We're now not going to get $550 per house hould, but $550 on average.  Please define the "average household"?  I think it is a Masion in the suburb of Warringa.Dear JohnM, "The absence of warming over the past 15 years" surely you jest.  Last year was the warmest year on record and 10 of the warmest years on record have occurred this century.This bad news for everyone over the age of 50.  This makes it easier for the shonks in the "financial advice trade" to ame a killing at the expense of their clients.Once a climate change denier always a climate change denier.  Long live slime like Abbott, Bolt, Jones and Monkton.If the government doesn't own anything, it can't offer services to its people.  Why then should the populous pay tax?Sorry Joe, but if you don't like exposing what grubby deals &amp; issues the government has been doing, it is you who has the problem.  Governments, especially our should be open, transparent and honest.  That goes for both sides.This would be one way of keeping the truth from the general public and treating everyone like mushrooms.  The other way is to cowardly hide behind "operational matters".Why should the government get away with illegal activity?Who is responsible for this debacle - Tony Abbott, but stabbing Malcolm Turnbull in the back and going against Coalition policy!Well, it has all boiled down to filthy lucre.  We're prepared to throw away a clean earth in favour of the "money god", the almight buck or whatever term you want to use.  It is going to be great to be part the the richest pigsty in the world.Define energy bills, if the carbon price was scrapped it would save ON AVERAGE each houslhould around $185.00 pa, for around $55.00 pa, that leaves a lot of leeway to find the extra to make up the $550.00 per hoousehold per year.  Where is the extra?  Is it fuel?, Is it groceries? Is it manufactured goods which are mainly imported?Dear clete, this is democracy at work.  Gillard made the partliament function and passed legislation, in fact it was harder for her because the House of Reps was hung, but she got here legislative agenda through because she knew how to negoriate.  These prize fools are saying you're going to do it my way or I'll pick up my marbles and go home.  In the case of Abbott he lost his marbles years ago.It has been estimated that the carbon price added between 2 and 3% to power bills, late lastyear the Newman government said it was around 5% and if the carbon price didn't come off, power would rise by 13.5%.  Power did rise by 13.5% in the current Queensland budget, but Nicholls swapped the figure around by saying the 8.5 was due to the carbon price.  Either way the Newman government is wrong.A few things you can say about Gillard, she  got her legislation through a hung house and a hung senate, she had negotiation skills, and what she did she believed it was for the good of the country.Will the market forces allow that to happen?Abbott is PM and thinks he runs the country and Palmer thinks he's PM and runs the country.  It is a strange concoction where the extreme right is fighting itself.The Ukrainian army is slowly but sure pushing the separatist rebels out.Russia is not the USSR and the Ukraine is no longer a republic within the USSR.  The might red army doesn't exist anymore.  Time for a reality check the USSR ceased to exist around 1990.  Vladamir Putin may have a standing army of over 1 million soldiers, he might have some 6,000 military aircraft, Russia might the third most powerful nation on earth, it might have weapons of mass destruction, but it doesn't have the stomach to start a war (and neither should it) which could drag on for years much the same was as the American, Nato &amp; friends invasion of Afghanistan.They're quite as gullible as tory voters.Wouldn't have Jonesy, Hadley and Bolt loved it today.  Can you imagine the vitriole on 2GB and in the Murdoch press tomorrow?  This is better comedy than the Marx Brothers.Figures out today show that carbon pricing has only added 2-3% to electricity bills, not the 8.5% Noddy Newman is claiming in 13.5% rise in electricty charges this budget, that makes it 51.5 % in the three years he's been premier.This is an embarrassing defeat for the Abbott/Truss government.  No matter what happens in the parliament whether in the house of reps or the senate the government is ultimately responsible and if they haven't got the negotiation skills or won't bend or whatever, it is on the government's head.It appears the government tried to pull a swifty by saying pass the repeal act today and we'll get your amendments in later.  With this governments track record on the truth, no wonder Clive said "two to  the valley".  Pup 1 - Abbott/Truss government nil.That's what happens when only four questions are asked and someone (whoever he/she is) can make an informed decision.  They must have IQ's of 350+.Either candidate winning will not effect Australia in the short term.  However, a moderate is always mores desirable than an "extremist" to head any government, as we are finding out with our own government.  The effect on foreign policy and by extension Australia will be felt in a bout 3 years time, because the winner will be more interested in domestic issues.Dear Rhonda, Newman is a more extreme version of Bjelke-Petersen.  It has amazed me that the special branch hasn't been reinstituted.  But then again there are ordinary police walking around with cameras at rallies.They'll have one more after the 19th July.Dear gbe, if newman hadn't told so many lies (no public servant needs to fear for his job readily comes to mind), if he hadn't cut services to almost nothing, if he hadn't put electricty prices throught the roof, if hadn't pushed unemployment up to over 6%, if he hadn't been such an environmental vandal, if he hadn't reneged on the solar panels rebate, then maybe he might have some respect out in the community.This is the man who said no public servant needs to fear for his job 16,000 public servants and god knows how many ancillary staff later hence the state with the highest unemployment rate on the mainland, this is the man who put electricity prices up by 51% over the past 3 years, This is the man who brought in laws that 3 or more people meeting and if another parts "suspects" them of doing sometjing unlawful it would be up to the accused of proving themselves innocent (aka bikie laws), this is the man heading the push to bump millions of cubic metres of toxic sludge in the Great Barrier Reef marine Park, this the man who has delivered 3 straight deficit budget and the 2nd was one of the biggest in Queensland history.  This is the man that ripped $1B+ out of the child protection agency and tried to make himself look good by putting $440M back this year. Yep he is a great man of the people.Let's see what happens in the Stafford by-election on the 19th.Polling suggest that the LNP may lose UP TO 40 seats (not necessarily) in the next Queensland state election.  The majority of these seats would be through electoral correction (voters returning to their traditional heartland).  Since this government came to power, unemployment in my electorate has risen from 5.4% to 12%.Should the USA elect another republican president, it would only be a matter of time before we're dragged into another illegal war!Dear John Coochey, that might happen in the movies, but anyone with a shred of human decency would not make an assessment on 4 questions.Those who come by plane have some form of documentation, whether or not it is fraulent is another matter.I find it hard that this government would have the gall to use the word "moral" seeing it is completely devous of morals.There is nothing leftist about this.  This straight out inhuman brutality by someone who claims he is a Christian.  I know where Christ is in all of this, He is with the boat people.  But then again Abbott syphoned off money from the Child Abuse Royal Commission so there was less to fight his mates on that issue.No thinking or intelligent Australians would ever side with Abbott.  In fact should the LNP disaapear completely from the landscape the IQ of the country would rise at least 10 points.Sir Tony the Toxic said it was the so called "carbon tax".You're right it can remember the hysteria about the Greeks, the Italians, the Vietmanese.  We complete stopped the European Jews.  Now it is about more people (like the Vietmanese) who are not white and the rednecks are shivering in their boots.A sample of 30 is valid for statistical purposes, but the bigger the sample the more reliable.  Opinion polls sometimes don't have a sample as big as 1000.  So a tsample of 1000 is pretty reliable.Like they are returning now.  Remember Harry the only reason why these two boats were coming iwas that the boats broadcast the fact and this government couldn't hide it from the public.Neil which are worse, the perpatrators or those who stand idly by doing nothing?Is it legal stop and board boats in international waters?  Is this called Barritry (if that's the correct spelling)?  If not it must a akin to piracy?So anything said against the Abbott/Truss government or there propaganda rags like the Daily Telegraph, Courier Mail or the Australian automatically make a person left of centre?  What rubbish, I'm centre right, but well to the left of these grubs running th country and presumably you.  Does that make me one of McCarhty's "reds under the bed"?Well then he is good company with 75 other senators.The only thing shambolic about federal politics, is the Abbott/Truss government.  One example, this government is in breach of 34 articles of the UN Convention on the rights of the child&gt; Annyone they sent 51 refugees back to Sri Lanka so the men will be murdered with the woemen and children to raped before being murdered.One thing is almost certain, by the end of next week Australia will revert to being a pigsty.Really?  Or is it that Scott Morrison has said the boats have stopped?And the one into Pink Batts already had about 8 inquiries previously so absolutely nothing new came out and all the recommendations of the inquiries was acted upon.Don't expect the PM to set up a Royal Commission.  He won't investigate his mates and it would too glaring to take more money away from the Royal Commission into Child Abuse to fund this one like he did with one of the his witch hunts.Dear Michael has the $90K story been collaborated or is one person's word against another?We know gd everthing is Labor's fault, the GFC, Global Warming/Climate Change, the illegal invasion of Iraq in 2003, the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 so a pipeline could be layed down from the former Soviets Republics to Karachi.  Yep all Labor's fault.Dear marty can't you make the connection? Would conservatism and like minded thinking have anything to do with it?They didn't do too badly this morning, but went down to Belgium in extra time.Is this Coulter for real, for a start Germany did not start 2 world wars.  At the end of WW1, Germany got the blame as it was the only power that was left standing that was on the "other" side and someone had to be made pay for the outlay spent on the war.  Even though the American president opposed this the USA went along with because they wanted a slice of the action.  Soccer does not denegrate a nation, stuff like professional wrestling posing as sports entertainment denegrates a nation.  And Coulter's definition of good is probably the same as the NRA's "you need a 'good' guy with a gun to stop a bad guy with a gun".What a load of claptrap.  Obvious you're a denier and obvious you are happy to wallow away in your own little pigsty and let your grandchildren and great gandchildren pay the price.  Climate change is a far worse debt and any measly 15% of GDP budget deficit.  By the I'd wager the dirtbags of ISIS are climate change deniers also.  They are right winged ratbags equivalent of Nazi SS Einzats Gruppen so they would be more in line with your thinking and the psychos are running the assylum in Canberra.I'm with you frangipani, and it is not as though this bloke hasn't been there before.  I really feel sorry for Cronulla.  They offered this clown a lifeline and this is how he repays them.  This immature spoilt brat needed worry, he'll probably go to English Superleague and wind up in a mess over there.Dear Pete, I am outraged, he has now been with 3 NRL clubs and kecked sand in the faces of all 3, did a stint up on the Atherton Tableland at semi-professional league in the Cairns local comptetition, I'm not sure if he represented Cairns or Townsville in the Queensland State League or not.  Now tell me he didn't get a fair go.Dear Jimmy, it is legality we're talking about here, no morality.  Carney broke the terms of his contact.  This may be not justice, but it is legal.Dear Catherine hei s28 and WAS on $650 p/a.  But as I indicated elsewhere, English Superleague will pick him up, I've also heard that French Rugby Union is also interested in him.  To both of them, best of luck, the lucky one will be one who does not get his signature.Dear Not such a Golden Oldie, Todd Carney isn't and never was a moral role model, his loutish records proves that.  However he did sign a contract and apparently he broke the terms of the contract.  End of stroy.Make that professional sport in general.  They must be larning this sort of stuff from the WWE.Dear Ray did did Carney wear the green and Gold?  I kenw he played Origin for NSW, but I can't recall him representing Australia.In life, I wish I had as many chances as this fellow.  I've been made redundant twice in the last 27 months and I'm at an age where I'm not particularly wanted by employers.  Now we have this little emperor who thinks everything should be handed to him on a platter, just because he has a talent for playing Rugby League Footabll.  Yes is is a very good talent, but it seems it is wasted on someone who can't comply to social standards.  Can anyone tell me why 28 years olds need to go out and cause the sort of mischief a 16 year male would do?The Carbon Price (not tax) will be scrapped.  However there will be no repalcement mechanism put in place the clean up the pollution caused by white Australia (I'm a white Australian).  This mess is a bigger debt than some measly 15% of GDP budget deficit.  Now you're happy that there is a chance that the AVERAGE household will save $183 p/a in electricity bills.  If Sir Tony the Toxic gets his direct action it will cost household around $6,000 p/a.  Yes the Greens have a very important role to play and at least they are more responsible that the PIGS in power.Dear Jeffro, I am anything but a Greens supporter, but the there were reason why the Greens voted agains the fuel price hike, never mentioned in any of Sir Tony the Toxic's election slogans, sorry policies,like the money being spend in the wrong place like public transport.  Please tell the whole story.Australia loses everything - Check!You're right Alfie, both have them plunged Australia in becoming a toxic wasteland.  Does anyon really think that electricity prices are going to come down?  They are more like to go up because of privatisation and household will be worse off by about $6K.  Does anyon really think there is going to be an ETS?  Does anyone really think there will be a climatechange/global warming reducing mechanism of any kind put in place?  Everyone is talking about we have to start paying off our debts now, there is no bigger debt than this one.Sorry Scotty A, the reason why the Greens voted against the clowns in the parliament was that the money was going into the wrong area.Does Gore really know with what he's been tainted?  Do Australians really think we'll get an ETS?  Do Australians really think there will be any action on climate change and global warming with a deal stitched up between Palmer and Abbott?  Do Australians really think that electricity prices will fall?  In all probability what will happen, is that we'll return to being a sewer and even a greater world wide laughing stock.All Clive Palmer is interested in is getting rid of the carbon price.  In this way he is no different to Abbott.  The difference between Abbott and Palmer is that Abbott can't do anything (thank God) and Palmer won't do anything.  Name one thing Palmer has followed through.  He is great headline grabber, but that's it.  Do Australians really believe they will be $550.00 per house better off idf the carbon price is scrapped?  Do Australians really thing electricity prices will fall.  How can the government legislate to make electricity price fall and administer it?  Are Australians really that naive?  Then again we voted these pigs in.Fuel excise hike was coalition "policy".  Therefore why should it get passage through the Senate?  The same could be said the the big new GP tax.  Labor has every right to oppose the goverment on its carbon pricing repeal "policy" to keep faith with its supporters.  The same could be said for the Greens.  Ther are government members saying that not only this part of the budget, but the whole budget is a dud.Dear Harry since Hockey has become treasure, the estimates have blown out from $55B to over $123B.  He is in the hot seat, this happened on his watch, he has changed the "efficiencies".dubious you must be kidding, anyone who shows up and votes against a pro-Russian canditade in the pro-Russian areas in the eat of Ukraine is beaten in the streets or worse!  That is not democracy.Ukraine was a country before 1917 wasn't it?  It has definitely been a country since the collapse of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.This is a far more dangerous situation than that in Iraq and Syria.  This one involves a country with nuclear weapons.But GRF the trend of warming over the past 15 years is alarming and should not be ignored.Dear Clarke who of any consequence says what JohnM is "peddling" is lies and fantacies, sury not Bolt, Jones, Monkton, Hadley, Price or Ackermann."the opportunity to do a better job when, inevitably, a new pricing system is established"  Lots of luck, this government is thinking about abolishing pollution targets and crawling back into its slimey, fetid pigsty.The wotrst debt this country is leaving to the next generations is pollution.  We've all but destroyed the Great Barrier Reef and this mob want to pollute it more.  We now have a government squibbing on its commitment to lowering greenhouse gas pollution.  It appears we are fastracking to 1830's.Dear APM the West did create this situation in Iraq and Syria by:
1. The illegal invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the subsequent f*ckup of it.
2. The West including Australia backed the opposition in Syrian civil war against the government and by extension IS.Spot on Yank.  "No new taxes" or should I say "GP Tax &amp; PPL" Tony wants his war.Yes paulinadelaide, there was Grenada.Shoosh RayS:  Stop throwing facts around, someone might hear it above the manipulated hysteria by the government.There has been acts of terrorism carried out on Australian soil.  The time was about about the late 1970's - early 1980's by Croatian separatists (Croatia in those days was part of Yugoslavia).Well Davo alarmists are a little slow at the best of time when it comes to intellectual energy.Dear AMP is that the difference in the boats being stopped or the need in stopping the boats. (Using Morrison language).Dear Craig of Bathusrt: What terrorism?A fear campaign will take people's minds of government fiscal mismanagement. A war will even do better.Sorry gbe, but the Syrian war was between rebels who didn't like Assard and the Assard government (please forgive me if the spelling is wrong).  It turned out to be bruatal and the one caught in the middle (like in Iraq) were the Christians, the Druze etc where beign protected by the government.  The rebels didn't and don't want these minorities in Syria and have been committing genecide from day 1.A legal case for interevention into Syria and Iraq must come from the UN Security council or it will end up a shambles like the coalition of the willies, sorry willing.  We all know the ISAL is funded by states like Saudi Arabia.  I agree with Judy Bee (below) that our involvement should be humanitarian, because we created the mess, well actually the League of Nations and in particular Britain and France created the mess at the end of WW1 by carving up the Middle East into states that decided should be there, so as to increase their empires and prosperity to their empires at the expense of the people living there at the fall of the Ottoman Empire.Unions, like them or loath them, get wage rises for every worker, whether that worker is is in a union or not and the unions are the only getting workers pay rises.Seeing there is no left, but centre right and extreme right, I take it TC you're extreme right, Tea Party affiliation perhaps.  This current federal government and business do want to get rifd of the the minimum wage, they have made no secret of it.  They also was to get rid unfair dismaissal, so employees can be sacked at anytime at the whim of  some less than ethical boss.No the a royal commission should be held into corruption by the Liberal Party/LNP, if ICAC in NSW is anything to go by, a royal commission into unions was set up on hearsay.Another thing skeleton, wages deals are normally tied to  an inctrease in productiveity rate.  We've been hearing this sort of condition now for around 30 years and my estimate EVERY worker in this country is performing and about 350% efficiency.  Why aren't bosses satisfied?I wouldn't like to turn back the clock either.  It is now the 21st century, not mid 20th so things will have to be done a bit differently.  What that is I don't know, but trying to cut wages and conditions is a step back to the 19th centrury.Then some idiots came along and suggested a 24/7 economy with our measly population, suggested the yuppi's become dinks, suggested that privatisation of public owned assets was the way way to go with a bs slogan "competition would bring costs down", free tade agreements would increase trade and employement, and it funny that these idiots came from both sides of politics.  And we wonder why prices and unemployment is going up and an aging population.Did Abetz really say there is a wages explosion.  Is this the same Abetz that coached Godwin Grench (apologies if the spelling is worn) in the "Ute-gate Affair"?  I think it comes down to current government and reality or lack there of.Dear Adman, you don't understand Christianity.  Christians believe that you can't earn your way into heaven, it is an impossiblitity because no human being is "good" enough to do itbecause we're all tainted by sin.  Heaven is a free gift, Christ earned it for us and His is the glory.But money is being taken to fund the other.  The other one is a political witch hunt, where the one into child abuse (the more important one by a long shot) is trying to get to the bottom of systematic child abuse and cover up by organistions, not only the Church, but also state and privately run organisations.  If this has to go anothe 10 years so be it the funding should be made available, it is too important not to.  Get to the bottom of it, sort it out, never let it happen againNo Jeremy you're wrong in your assumption, "works without faith are dead".Sorry skelton that code is called law and there is very little in common with law and morality.Dear baska religious organisation will always exist, simply because human beings are looking for some sort of higher reason for existing.  A lot people believe that we're more than just "intelligent", warlike animals.And organisations like governments don't?"That religion is a fairy story is a perfectly logical, and reasonable assumption."  But an assumption none the less.So what you're saying is that any organisation that has covered up anything has not moral right to exist.  Does that includes governments, the judiciary, charities, police, armed forces, busines organisations, unions, scouts and guides, sporting organisations?  All of these organisations have had members commit crimes of this nature and tried to cover therm up.  I agree EM Laidly, the Church (Roman Catholicism being part of it) will always exist.

(Disclosure: I am a Lutheran)The main problem with the Church of Rome is that its leaders can't see that any wrong has been done.  Instead of showing Christ to the world, it has set about to cover up forgetting all the time that Scripture says (paraphrase) "what is done in private will be shown in public".  Another problem is that Bishops , Archbishops and Cardinals are told that they're princes.  So they start acting like little princes and do things that would protect the "name of the the Church", but in effect their actions tarnished the name of the Church when it things could have been dealt with in the open and by civil authorities.Again this article describes our government as disjointed, dysfunctional, non-communicative, out of touch and scare mongering.  Is it any wonder, according to the Morgan Gallup Poll, the ALP is ahead 55.5%-44.5% two party preferred.  Doesn't the government get it.  Look at the additional savings of scrapping the PPL and the JFS with no political pain, you could also scrap the submarines as we don't need them, but that would put Sophie Mirrabella out of a job.Primay vote, ALP 38.5, Coalition 37.5, Greens 10.5, PUP 4.5, Other 9.I'm with you rancher, I've been a union member since day of my working life in 1970.But union directly get wages and working condition increases and betterments for all workers.  Then there are those who stupidly and willingly throw away their working conditions and thus try to erode the conditions of their workmates.Don't hold the whole CFMEU for about a half a dozen rotten eggs and remember these colluded with the bosses.Team Australia and patriotism sounds like a paradox.  Team Australia and national pride would be closer which makes it dangerous, because national pride always leads to war.Is that because they won the world series?Does that mean he gets a taxpyer funded junket to the grand final?Dear TC it may also be just a bs thought bubble.Dear Robert, how few people have you met?  My whole community of over 3000 think it ridiculous.Dear Terry2 the captain today hit a $20B black hole in his funding model.Quite correct Marty the "Your RFights at Work" campaign was one the most successful campaigns in the history of Australian politics.Business interests, how many are represented by the Business Council of Australia?  I would say far fewer than represented by unions.Well Alpo yes, according to the captain and they're all guilty.  Just ask him.There ar4e no bogan or idiots in the LABOR Party, they all seem to congreage to the LNP.  Let's see the idiot brigade in Queensland, Newman (will lose his seat at the next election), Seeney (leader in waiting), Nicholls (incompetent treasurer), Bleijie (second class conveyancing offer - Attorney General), Dempsey (Lead footed police minister), Stewart, Springborg just to name a few.  These cretins have successfully destroyed the Great Barrier Reef, want to sell off asset to their mates to build toll roads, and the assett are are revenue raising asset which less revenue for the state and higher prices for consumers.The right winged adage "for the greater good"."Through its control of territory in northern Iraq the Islamic State now receives millions of dollars in oil revenues daily."  If air attacks are prudent, wouldn't it be wise to destroy these oil fileds, take out all infrastructure, thus depriving these reptiles (with due apologies to lizards, turtles, snakes and crocodillions) of revenueRight RoxyR, and the government itself has added $100B to the budget forward estimates since September out of sheer incompetence.You mean to say there are only three of them.  Take Scott Morrison for instance and the language he uses.  he no longer uses terms such as "stopped the boats", but terms like "in assisting stopping the boats" inferring the boats haven't been stopped.Dear Proffessor, Labor will never agree to a co-payment of any sort on Medicare.Labor should give this mob the same treatment they gave it "there's the door, get out and don't slam it!"Should be UN not NATO.I'm speaking as a Christian and we Christians did much to same things 500 years ago or later.  This was done under many guises, one of which was the Spanish Inquisition set up by good King Ferdinand and good Queen Isabella.  That generalised Christianity to the late 19th century.  So let's stop generalising Islam, because what these bastards are doing and what Islam preaches are completely opposite.And think of the fear campaign the government can run to strip Australians of their their rights and have big brother surveillance increased.  Worse still, gun sales to rednecks in the USA will go gangbusters.A double dissolution won't happen.  Supply has been passed.It's a pity a lot people have overlooked those remarks.All Senators have the right to vote which way they see fit.  Just because the boofhead who is captain of "team idiot" or "team australia" or whatever, can't get his pet slogan through or sdloppy joe can't get hus unmadated, unfair taxes on the poor through, you can't blame Palmer for that.  By the way what was incorrect about what he said about China?Must be a state election coming up, time to ramp up the "law &amp; order" hoo-ha.Why don't we privatise the military, AFP, ASIO, ASIS, and Border Protection we'd save a motza!Yes Abbott did, but he wants to give us a second grade used copper NBN which will be more costly.We should cancel the F35 as well as the Anti-air destroyer which just blew out another $500M and th assualt ships.  We don't need any othem seeing they appear weapons of offence rather than defence.After a doubling the current budget deficit on foward estimates since coming to power, this mob shouldn't point fingers at anyone.  After all 90% of the budget has been passed, including all appropriation bills, it just the stuff they lied about and the unfair PPL that is being held up.Political corruption in hast tainted both leading brands and it seems to be hurting the government more than the opposition, which is natural course of events, governments can do things about it, where oppositions can only support or oppose."Julie Bishop is doing well compared with other Ministers".  Talk about a left handed compliment and whacking someone to death with feint praise.Dear chipinga "Done a stirling job as foreign minister"?  Surely you jest.  She and Abbott flapping their gums so far have cost Australian agricultural export $500M.  Anyone can talk tough, but backing it up is the problem here.  What about bringing them home in days not weeks or months.  Some people should not be allowed near a microphone.A wealth of what?  They haven't got the talent to appear on the Mickey Mouse Club.They're putting forward ideas?!!?  Is that why Abbott wants the crossbench to come with alternatives?  Let's not forget that since this mob come to power and the disasters they have imposed upon Australians, they have successfully more that doubled the budget deficit on forward estimates!Can this government do anything right?  Dud budget, dud cabinet, dud government.  Julie Bishop is not a distration, if anything will make ol' sloppy look even  worse.  Then on 4 Corners tonight, you have that poor excuse and ipsqueak Greg Hunt approving more coal through the Great Barrier Reeffplus allowiing toxic sludge dumping in the Great Barrier Reef Park.  This on top a damning report into the water quality.  Just where do these fools get off?ICAC wanting to get at Labor through Eddie Obied got the liberal between the yes.  Liberal looking at a total wipe out in Newcastle/Hunter region come March 2015.  Opinion backed up by the liberal not even fielding candidates in the region's 2 upcoming by-elections.Simple renewable energy is for the clean, fossil energy is for pigs.Mark you are absolutely correct, there will be many extreme right boofheads who'll try to put you down.  But the only media singing Toxic Tony's praises are those subjective psuedo-journalistic clowns from newslimited.  They're all peas in a pod all stuck in the 1830's and no credibility amongst thinking people.Dear Andrew Thoams, stop quoting facts, the blikered tories will have their  own (wrong) recollections, but facts and tories don't mix, they thrive on deceit, undendo and unthruths as been shown by the pm and this government.Dear GRF Abbott has brough everything upon himself and stop trying to hide behind the myth that Labor put this country into debt when it was the squanderings of Howard and Costello.  It appears the tories can dish it out but can't take it.Dear Phillip di Abbott stand up tp Putin?  15 minutes behind closed doors and conflicting stories about what happened.  Couple that with both men are not exactly the epitome of honesty and what have you?Sorry AE coal is a dud commodity, it's not worth digging out of the ground at the moment and hopefully it will stay that way.  By the way I'm the son of a former coalminer.I like the way China and the USA sidelined Australia while about was distracted when "shirtfronting" Putin.  Did Russia, China and the USA work a swifty on Abbott?  Wouldn't have been hard.Where'e the navy when you need them?  Proabaly protecting us from unarmed refugees.Just a bit of showing the flag.  Nothing to worry about.Will these ships be making a goodwill visit to Brisbane?  Think of the economy with hundreds of Russian sailors on leave.  No different really to when US naval ships arrive here.There is talk about sending "assylum seekers" to Tasmania.  I suppose that is not mainland Australia.Dear Alpo how can things be scrutinised when the government is degulating or "cutting red tape" if you will.  It only makes it easier to rort.Or Brief Comment that unions want a fair deal for their members and will fight for them and when those fair deals go through it flow through to the non-union workers in those fields.  Business and conservative government don't like that, they much prefer an undemocratic plutocarcy like the USA.So far the only 'evidence" is that this RC is a political witch hunt funded by skimmed monies from the RC into Instiutionised Child Abuse and extra money was found when it was not asked for.Yes Labor does believe in regulation and safeguards.  These knuckleheads in power at the moment will "cut the red tape" similar to the way the Georege Dubya Bush regime did in the USA in which $700B of taxpayers' maoney was wasted on bailing out the big banks in America.  The stipulation being that those monies could be spent with no restrictions, end reult big bonuses to to Ceo's and directors.  Same mentality here.With blessing of Lehmann Brothers and the other big banks that really run America.An FTA with CiHina.  Who wins?  Hint, it won't be Australia.  For starters there will be 1,000,000 live cattle per year exported to China.  Australia is in a drought at the moment, the national herd numbers are down, and we'll be exporting this number.  Will this livestock be for Chinese consumption or building up a Chinese national herd?  If it is the latter, how long before we start importing beef from China and at what cost?Didn't the last two FTA's with Japan and South Korea have the result in closing down Australia's vehicle amnufacturing insudtry?  What will we lose this time around?Australia was out of the war when Saigon fell and became Ho Chi Minh City.  It was the Americans who left them behind because they were running so fast.Banks don't need bailing out by the taxpayer (they are private entities).  Kind of reminds you of Fahrenheit 911 where it reported  that during the GFC the American banks got $700B of taxpayers' money and congress "cut the red tape to make it easier" to the point that there were conditions put on who that money was supposed to spent and as a con sequence it was wasted on CEO and Directors' bonuses (sound familiar, especially the part about "cutting red tape to make it easier".Dear brian that is utter BS.  Abbott has no fiscal bedside manner whatsoever and niether hass any in his incompetnet cabinet or backbench, that is probably why his government recorded the second highest deficit at first attempt.When you rulled on 19% of the vote like Bjelke-Petersen did, there is always a stench.  The despots of that era thought they could do anything, similar to the current (and soon to be former premier) of Queensland irrespective of who wins or retains power.No phil they are not aussies, but they think of themselves only, and I doubt very much that they were around at the time, or they wouldn't be coming up with such guff.A fitting eulogy to the great man, by another great man of equal eloquence.Knowing this government, data could be used for anything so divorce could be a fair bet.Well actually it was a genuine sword, according to the deputy commissioner, and I think there were quite a few properties raided, but there was only one arrest and I'm not sure if that person was charged or not.You're right zany they are dangerous, but worse than that they are dangerously incompetent.  If they knew what they were doing would put them in the class of Franco, Mussolini, and Hitler, but they don't that puts them in the class of George Dubya Bush.Dear Paul, the country can't wait 5-10 years for these clowns to catch up.  Did you see the trade figures today?  Oh I am sorry that was Labor's fault.Sorry yank, but there will be no sifters or jailers because they be crooks as well.  In the end the system will fall over.dear ted there is no "could" about it.  It is the "can" and "will" we should be worried about.  This government has no b*lls and therefore doesn't like criticism, and those who criticise will be brought to heel when they send in the goons.Are you telling me that homeland security in the US is in the hands of mercenaries?As with everything about this government it is the  "we'll tell if you need to know" and "we'll keep tabs on you so watch it" attitude.  No wonder it is on the nose, see yesterday's Morgan Gallup Poll In early November ALP support rose to 54.5% (up 2.5%) and now clearly leads the L-NP 45.5% (down 2.5%) on a two-party preferred basis.As with everything about this government it is the  "we'll tell if you need to know" and "we'll keep tabs on you so watch it" attitude.  No wonder it is on the nose, see yesterday's Morgan Gallup Poll In early November ALP support rose to 54.5% (up 2.5%) and now clearly leads the L-NP 45.5% (down 2.5%) on a two-party preferred basis.At least the unions are not as corrupt as big business and big business, it would appear, can't save Napthine.We were stupid enough to vote Sir Tony the Toxic in, the greens couldn't be any worse than these fools running the country or Victoria or Queensland.The same stench is in Queensland but it is not showing yet.Well stirrer all serial crooks start out as liars, therefore Abbott is fulfilling one part of the criteria.Sorry Mungo under the Abbott regime of the only was who share the blame are Labor and the Unions.  Everyone else is a "mature adult".  Just ask him, Toxic Tony will tell you.Dear aussieinjapan the LNP has turned Australia to the closest thing to a totalitarain state I've seen.  This is both a federal level and on a state level in Queensland.This business class welfare is now an embarrassment in light of the UN findings reported in the news today.  Plus this government is dragging the chain on renewable and clean energy targets and wants to the Labor party to cave-in and support its cut backs on those targets.  What a herd of pigs.This present government one of of anything but reform, it is a government of reverting to failures of the past.Tories will hound you mick on this they're pull out false figures out of their arses to do so.Dear yank, haven't you leant yet, if it not in line with murdoch, jones, bolt, hadley and price it is biased.To quote Sir Humphrey Appleby, reports must be reported, minutes must be minuted and files must filed inccordance with the laws and regulations of and in the best trraditions of the civil service.Good on you Redfella.  However this government is not listening to science, it hasn't got tyhe balls to do so.  It gets it orders from murdoch and the pointy end of town, all else is irrelevant.  As for Greg Hunt he is the environment you have when you don't need an environment minister, he and his ministry will soon be obsolete like the science ministry.They are now!"In fact economically functionally carbon trading systems will ALWAYS increase global net emissions." the very reason why intelligent people will and are looking for an alternative to this stupidity.Seante last night.  pigs 1 humans 0.  At least the polluters and the miners are appeased.Where did power bills go down in the last quarter?  On a more seroius note, does anyone believe that man made global warming/climate change is not happening?I'm in favour of abolishing the federation and letting the states go their own way.You're probably right on that one.  Nothing this government does benefits ordinary Australians.An increse to 15% is a 50% increase in the tax.  Won't that increase inflation?The GST always disadvantaged low income earners.  They still have the pay the same as high income earners on the sames goods and services.Dear aGuy you are right on one this Abbott is naive.  He heads a dysfunctional, disunited government that can't make the parlaiment work even with the advantage of having the numbers in the lower house.  His budget is a complete dud and achieved the second hightest defifit in history at first attempt (so much for being in surplus after a year).  He has made this country a total disgrace on the world stage by refusing to anything on the ebola crisis, to add to that disgrace, our "beloved" foreign minister refuses to to accept the genecide in Armenia under the Ottoman Empire (can't upset the Turks with the 100th celebration of ANZAC).  Unemployment has gone through the roof since he has become captainWhat you imply by the answer to the question is that people who have these benefits taken from them will have to turn to crime just merely to survive.  Thanks Tony.The GST makes low income earners poorer!He this has to pay for his unmandated war.It is about $5B for "border protection" which more than 10 times the cost if all the refugees were brought here and living in the community.Abbott is considering the hike because he promised "no new taxes (not counting the GP Tax and the PPL) and figure by increasing an exisiting tax he figures he's telling the "truth".He's going to have to find some money from somewhere to pay for his unfunded slogans and war (sorry its not a war , Tony said so).  Palmer this mornbing has said he'll oppose the "education" bills, so that it yet extra this failed PM has to find.Dear chiping what is wrong with the traditional owner owning their land?  Why is that a travesty of democracy?We all know that freedoms are diminished during war, but the PM has said Australia is not at war so why the scare campaign and the taking away of our rights?There still seems to a lot of gun related crime about, especially in Sydney and South east Queensland.Dear traveller the plodder got turfed out in 1983 because of high interest rates and high unemployment - haulmarks of the tories.  I seem to recall that inflation was out of control as well.Got to agree with you snake, the only good thing that Howard did was the gun buyback.  Apart from farmers, I still can't see why anyone elese in the public would have need for a gun or a rifle.  Howard left a legacy of high unemployment, high interest rates (higher than Keating) and dispite the myth he did not leave a big surplus if any at all.Dear SVJ keep up the LNP rhetoric.Yes Tom1 you are correct, howard squandered almost the entire surplus on middle class welfare, which left next to nothing in the coffers.Only Al Gore was telling the truth.Is the peddling or pedalling fear?Dear catherine something worse happened here around the same time, 3 people wre murdered in Victoria by a neighbour who had a minor issue with them.Totally correct virgil, It is amazing what governments will do when they're behind in the polls.Dear ij, Goebbels was an extreme right winged politician, we have an extreme right winged government, they're soul-brothers, why wouldn't they be on the same page about media releases?By far the best thought out post on this subject.I for one DannyS would like to see the government cancel the order for the full 72 of the useless things.Dear APM I wondered when someone would mention this mythical idea of a left in Australian when there is no such thing.  Then you compund it with the stupidity of a woollies t shirt printed by some right winged stooge from the Australian Tea Party.Dear Clownfish the yank is not hiding under his bed in fear, unlike those who are trying to put him down.Why should that put the wind up our lot?  They've blown the budget so there is nothing to spend unless they cancell the order for 72 dud fighter jests.Dear Dave why would it silence the critics of this idiot government's attack on Australians and their civil liberities by using scaremongering and paranoia to support its agenda.  If you want to live in fear be my guest, but don't take me along with you.Something happens in Canada and paranoia grips this mob, and dear traveller you can crawl under your bed and hide.  Besides that, a far worse incident happened in Victoria over night where 3 members of a family were shot over a minor dispute with a neighbour.  Let's keep things in perspective.It's almost as comforting as being Canadian, know that there are about 300 million psychopaths carrying guns just south of the border.I'm not a lefty but you are a extreme right wing.  Sir Tony the Toxic, your PM, not mine, I didn't vote for the grub, is running a fear campaign to get his polical agenda through.  We a re not living in a free Australia anymore, we are living under an oppressive regime that will do anything to get its way.What about Western Budhists, Sikhs, Tamals, Hindus etc.  However the largest group that are killed every year are Christians, simply because the rst of the world hates them because they have the free gift of slavation bestowed upon them.  People from EVERY other religion have to earn it.Dear frangipani I'm 100% with you.  There are too many nutters in this country would wants us to become a closed state over an incident like this.Dear Lil Paulie what do our eyes plainly see, edited news footage, the whole story or what we perrceive?  You people on the extreme right should grow some backbone and get on with life.The countries in the middle east that exist today were carved on the map by Britain and France afer WW1.  Before that most of the middle east was part of the Ottoman Empire, Iran was Persia and Afghanistan was Afghanistan.The most progressive PM as compared to what we have now the most or one of the most regressives PM's.   Gough had the courage and paid the price.  Australia is a better place because of him.  He brought Australia out the dark ages and made us independent.  The achievments speak for themselves.  Univesal basic health care (Medibank now Medicare), family court reform (n blame diverce etc), land rights, recognizing The People's Republic of China (proabably the first "Western leader" to do so) and the benefits of this action continue today, education feform especailly making university education availabler to low income families, ending conscription which saved me from going to jail as I was going to be a draft dodger, bring the troops home from Vietnam.  With all great refotrms comes a cost both in monetary and political terms and Gough paid the price, but he changed Australia forever, his was the decisive government in our history.Dear Gregory to quote Inspectory Brakenried - Murdoch Mysteries "what a load of bollocks".Gough Whitlam, the epitome of an Australian patriot, the epitome of a Rhodes Scholar, the eptiome of a progressive reformer. Because of him we have our own national anthem, a magnificent health system, Aborginal landrights, no death penalty, a proper appreciation of the arts, NO CONSCRIPTION!, relations with China, a proper education system, family law reform.  Gough Whitlam the defining PM of Australia, rest in peace.Actually he served two terms, he won a DD of Parliament election.In 1972 it waa time.  The time that changed Australia forever for the better.  RIP Gough.History has vindicated Gough as one the greatest, if not the greatest.  He changed Australia for the better forever, but paid the price politically for being so courageous.There will two leaders of the same mindset at the G20 Abbott &amp; Putin.  Both have similar policies on security, both have similar views on the gay community, both have similar views on war.  They should get on like gangbusters.Actually we NRL fans of a different era would use the terms "like stiff arm", "Liverpool Kiss" or "spear tackle".Hide behind silence like "operation soreign borders"?Actually I think twice that number since 2003 would be more accurate and yep Sir Tony the Toxic was part of that war cabinet.Correct harvey, but I digress into the Queensland state public service where the Newman regime offered to 2% payrise to the public service (well under inflation).  However Neweman himself got a $70K pay rise from the "independent" tribunal he set up to look into pollies payrises.Yep it's all Labor's fault, the war in the middle east - Labor's fault, climate change &amp; global warming - Labor's fault, the loss of revnue with the repeal of the carbon price and mrrt - Labor's fault.  The loss of consumer confidence - Labor's fault.  It's alright to be a bigot - Labor's fualt.  The downing of MH17 - Labor's fault.  The big bun fight in the tories' party room - Labor's fault."Turkey must act now"  against whom would be a mtter as to whom Turkey sees as the greater enemy - the Kurds or ISIL?Why isn't he taking credit for his monster deficit?So Zing is that why Hockey and the illegal immigrant presided over the second highest budget deficit in Australian History?Well Martin I would like to earn what the premier of Queensland got for his payrise ($70K).dear AE our vehicle manufacturing industry had to go because of the free trade deals done with Japan and Korea.Morgan Gallup even tightened up as expected because wars are popular amongs the masses.  Labor 53-LNP 47.But why go to war unfunded?  Is the government going for THE record deficit?Dear graham, you solution is genecide.  Get rid of all welfare?  Well let's see, the aged and retired they're no good to anyone just kill 'em off we can recycle their pesnions into buying war machines, the sick and disabled they're just a drain on the public purse just kill 'em off we can recycle their benifits and pesnions into buying war machines, the employed (800,000 vying fo less than 100, 00o jobs and Abetz amended his solution so it will only 16,000, 000 job applications a month instead of 32,000,000) better still just kill 'em off we can recycle their pesnions into buying war machines.  Seeing we'ved killed off the sick and disabled we don't need hosptials and carers, just kill 'em off we can recycle staff salaries their pesnions into buying war machines.  Simple we've funded the war and the next scheduled for next year.Well the vast majority can pay and leave those who don't support it alone.I like yiour thinking Andy, tories will always go to war in preference to more important issues.  By the way this is not about the defence of the realm, this is about getting into to stouch in the middle east and will end up with an almighty cock-up by the West as always happens.  Aboot has got his war he is happy and yes the polls have tightened slighly by this week's  Morgan Gallup poll shows Labor 53 - LNP 47 closer from last fortnight 54.5 to 45.5.The problem is this governments rubbery figure's, it monumental budget defitic (second largest in history and its all their fault) .  Extreme right winged government love of going to war and somehow trying to make it sound patriotic when its all about polls.  The check the lates Morgan Gallup poll.Abbott made the claim that it was found very early in the piece, but then backtrackedCan anyone tell what she has achieved since becoming foreign minister?  I can vaguely remember her chairing a meeting of the security council after roughly criticising the previous government for getting the position, then there was operation brign them home which really hasn't achived anything yet, but "we'll have them home in days, not months", the Chinese pulled her into gear over butting our noses into disputed islands, the Indonesians pulled her into gear over telephone spying, she was like her boss and was "trangely" quiet on the largest issue facing the planet - man made climate change and global warming.Dear HistoryRepeats:There are a lot of laws being passed that reverse to onus of proof, both federally and at least in Queensland.  This could have the effect of corrupting the police, if they are not careful.  And as far as Queensland is concerned, giving police powers to certain public servants in relation to strip searching is one example.  I don't call you a "leftie" because what you've stated is "centre right" and what has made this country great, only a tea party clown would call you a leftie.dean
First of all the boats haven't stopped, Morrison has admitted that, secondly, there is absolutely no proof that there were thousands of deaths on the high seas under the previous government policies, thirdly under the current goverment's policies women and children are being sexually abused in detention.  Why doesn't that surpirse me?So a stouch in the Tea party room is about governments in general?The biggest threat to this government are thinking people of Australia and they've turned off.This stouch a couple days ago in the party room where Hockey said that Barnett Government was the worst in Australia with regards to the sale of public assets, really set the cat among the pigeaons.  The wicket witch of the west bought into it as some insignifcant former WA treasurer.  Up upshot of of it was that Abbott verbally slapped down Hockey.  Our dear, dissention in the ranks.So we just repeat overthrow after overthrow in other countries until we get want in those sovereign countries?  Sounds like empire building to me.A military alliance or coalition can fall apart overnight and should the US go completely bankrupt through overspending on armourments it is goodbye western military might.  Don't say it can't happen, because it can.Godd point true, hate is getting dangerous in Australia as well, and with our PM giving his opinion on the Burka and tacit support to Lambie and Bernardi, it is urging the indbred redneck element of our society to continue to abuse Australia muslim women and children and to grafitti and otherwise vandalise mosques and other muslim establishments.  No I'm not a muslim, I'm a Christian before anyone asks or accuses.It may be our least worst option, but those in our society who can least afford it will be paying for it.  There has been no thought gone into the funding of this military campaign, where is there a levy or surcharge to payand cover for it?  Or simply there is no nor was there any budget crisis.What makes matters worse the current Morgan research suggests that:-
 Unemployment climbs to 9.9% in September as full-time work lowest since October 2011; 2.2 million Australians looking for work, or more work.This is going to more embarrassing to Noddy Newman and bunch of thugs.  He and his motely crew might dicide not to co-operate and that would only make things worse for them as it would appear that they're hiding something, or they could co-operate and be found out.  One thing is for certain, there are a lot documents being shredded as we post.  Please also keep in mind this 2nd grade army engineer, 3rd grade lord mayor, 4th grade premier was also mention in dispatches at the NSW ACCC in connection with AWH.Not as condemned as this flea circus if chooses not to co-operate.Queensland not having an upper house and therefore no house of reveiw, a government of any colour can do what it wants.  Someone or something has to keep them in check.. Take the present government, it legislates in the wee hours of the morning bringing in all sorts of draconian laws which would make Bjelke-Petersen blush.  Let's review a few things that have happened since Caustic Campbell has had his sway:
1.  No public servant  may fear for his job - 16,000 redundances and 20, ancillary staff gone.
2. $1B ripped out of the Child Protection Agency, although they put back around $440M this budget.
3.  Anti-association laws (some poeple think they're bikie laws, but in factit is aimed at the ordinary person in the street - scenario some paranoid member of the public may think that three people standing on a street corner waiting for pedestrian light think they may planning some sort of nefarious activity.  The three are arrested and need to prove they were not palnning such activity.
4.  75% of the staff of Biala (sexually transitted diseases agency) have been made redundant.  Although most, if not at STD's are deadly, they still need to be reported, but only HIV/AIDS will be acted upon.
To use tory speak, if the Qld Govt has nothing to hide, it would open up and be transparent to the inquiry because we know that no documents would be shredded.Let's talk about something that is equally interesting.  The stouch in the liberal party meeting room where Hockey called Barnett of WA and ihis government the worst in Australia as far as privatising assets are concerned.  Then the wicked witch of the west jumped in along with Christaina whashisface former WA teasurer.  In the end Abbott had to "slap hockey down".  At last some excitement from the tories.  However it appears Hockey's days are numbered as treasurer.Dear Greig people with solar panels are not deluded, it is those who deny climate change are not only deluded but dim witted.  It is a fact that man made pollution is responsible for at least one third of global warming, this includes big concrete slabs like cities, big ashphalt strips called rodads reflecting heat.Murdoch does have more power than anyone should have, he preaches hate, he hacks the phones of the dead, he tells lies about climate change and he in charge of atr least 70% of the media in Australia and that is why he wants to get his grubby hands on and control the NBNDear Troy and this current bunch of mass killers running this are dysfunctional?Considering there was no such thing as a carbon tax except in the feeble minds of the tories.Dear purrum so it is easier to pollute the planet with these pigsties called coal fired power planrts or nuclear power plants?Dear mick will we be able to adapt to the diseased caused by human folly?Dear AE you're just another denier, ignoring the facxts and you're in the minority thank God.  ANd I will hold morons like reponsible for polluting and destroying this beautiful planet simply because you don't want get up off your arse and do some hard yards to save it.Yes Trev we must withdraw from this convention since we are among the worst of human rights abusers in the world and have no right to associated with such an august body.  We have a government that is destroying every facit of decency in this country, we have a government that turns a blind eye to child abuse and abuse against women.  We have a government that sends refugees back to countriies to be abused and this government knows very well that it is doing so.  This government even abuses the human rights of its own citizens as has come out in a bipartisan report today.  But what would you expect when the pm is a foreign war criminal.I'm with the protesters in spirit for their idealism, but they haven't lived long enough to gain the wisdom that this is not going to work.  The government of the Peoples Ruplic of China, like all totalitarian regimes doesn't like protestors or demonstrators.  They'll send in the goons eventually and break it up with violence.  Sounds a bit like Brisbane gearing up for the G20.Thes new "laws" makes it look like the government is doing something.  This is mainly an exercise of duplication most of what is there already, and didn't this goverment accuse the former goverment of duplication?  Another thing is that this gaining momentum on the eve of the Victorian State election campaign - coincidence?
