Hello IanM

You state .."a general failure by the ALP to accept the results and implications of September 2013".  

Well, apart from the hypocricsy in that statement. Who can forget Abbott's failure to accept results and implications of 2010? Longest dummy spit in Australia's political history, and he is in power because after three years of it, we thought we could not endure another three years of Abbott in opposition.  Did we know that he had no integrity? That none of the promises he made would be kept, except those he made to IPA and the cashed up corporate Lib supporters.

All Australians are reaping the results now, of having elected this sour and miserable team of politicians.   If we did get a DD, Libs would lose seats, but would get over the line on the disgraced 'stop the boats' policy alone, and yet another deceitful campaign.  A weakened Abbott government or a hung parliament would be the likely outcome.Hello Peter,
But Abbott has created the mess this nation is in.  He presented the nation with the biggest pre-election con ever performed. We got conned with the 'budget emergency', with 'no cuts to health and education', with 'no changes to pensions', with the effects of the carbon price, with fear of 'invasion of the people smugglers'. 

On one issue alone we can judge him as lacking integrity..there is footage of him promising open and accountable government on asylum seeker policy.  He repeated that assurance, over and over, as is his style.  And what have we got?  Complete silence on the application of 'stop the boats' policy.  He has draped himself in the Australian flag and attacked the ABC for reporting allegations about the treatment handed out to people being 'turned back'.  And when we don't know how this policy is being implemented, under our flag, why do we continue to look the other way?  Instead, we make a 'back pocket' fuss about carbon price repeal.Yes, Alpo, spot on..not enough credit given where credit is due, to the Rudd, Gillard terms. Especially the 43rd Parliament. And LIb supporters forget that it was their leader who failed them in 2010.  TA had the opportunity to negotiate with the independents (most of them coming from conservative backgrounds) but they looked deeply into the character of the man and considered him unworthy or not fit to lead the nation.  

He has in government, not redeemed himself from that judgement.Yes, go to an election soon.  I would think that Tony Abbott will come off worse but not lose.  Bill Shorten will do better, but lose the leadership. Tony Abbott would campaign on 'stop the boats'  and win over the fearful voters who have been misinformed. The News Limited tabloid macine will kick in on Abbott's behalf, the newly appointed (to the ABC) culture warriors will do their best to stifle or shut down the ABC.  It won't be a win for Australia though, just a win for the IPA and the Liberal Party propaganda machine.  Not good for the nation.  

But it would be a weakened Abbott Government and it would mean the nation would have a shorter term of this government to endure.Hello jimmy,

Better get out the seasoning for the eating of those shorts.  Check out The Conversation today, and the reporting of Rupert's current political views, and a declaration of love for his man, Tony Abbott.  If we have a DD, it looks as if one tweet from Rupert such as 'kill the ABC' or 'Kill Bill'  will see more attacks on those politicians and institutions Rupert chooses to oppose or even seek disintegration.

Clive Palmer seems to be the only politician in Australia brave (or foolish?) enough to stand up to Murdoch.Yes, Cisco, how quickly we forget the insult poured on the previous government, particularly the application to have a seat in the UN security council.  Woudn't it be great if credit were given where credit is due?  Just now and again, acknowledge the good work that went before, because it just might restore the government's falling stocks.

In the meantime, let us have a break from the argy-bargy and give consideration to the grieving families of those who lost loved ones on that flight.Let us hope that the Security Council will play a role by requesting the ICC Prosecutor commence an investigation into the incident. As the article states ... "Such a referral by the Security Council would overcome jurisdictional hurdles and create an obligation for all UN members, including Russia, to cooperate with the investigation and any court proceedings that may follow"

In the meantime, let us put concentrated effort towards implementing a dignified and hasty return of loved ones to grieving families.  It was touching to see that some people in the village where the fallen lay, had laid flowers. A small comfort.
Compassion is in the DNA of the Labor Party.  Is compassion in the DNA of the Liberal Party?

And compassion is inherent and not subjective.  You are either raised that way, with family values that practice compassion.  All Australian people were once characterised that way, we belonged in the land of 'a fair go'.  Past tense.Exactly Fran,

With Abbott, it is all performance. Squaring the jaw..."ready for my close up, Mr DeMille".This article is an obvious example of ABC balance. ABC bashers take note.  This is a Liberal Party partisan piece, of which there are many many on The Drum.

Abbott may have rushed the gun here with his John Wayne moment.  No evidence.  Did Australia invent the Kangaroo Court?

And to compare his actions with former leader, John Howard is unpalatable and a confection.  There is no comparison.  John Howard's lasting legacy will be his quick response to Port Arthur...Tony Abbott has taken this once great party downhill, and there is no argument that would redeem him. There is no redeeming argument of any lasting value.
Trouble is, mike ando, 
We did understand him all along, so no surprises that Abbott performs as an opportunist.  And this article comes from the partisan right, who may see the need for more performances that mimic 'reinvention'.It is, just that, performance. A 'John Wayne Moment". 

There is no argument that can redeem this Prime Minister, who has taken the once great Liberal Party into very dark places.  We used to be able to take Liberal Party integrity for granted.  From the get-go we heard about Tony Abbott rorting expense entitlements, while on the campaign trail he took lying to new heights. And the sad fact is, he is indifferent to how Australians have reacted.

He cannot be trusted. And as he has demonstrated, with a secretive implementation of asylum seeker policy, he does not trust the Australian people.Exactly anote,

Tony Abbott is comfortable in situations when a clear polemic is presented.  'goodies vs baddies' etc.  He will always be an opportunist of the worst kind.  Hard to forget that he posed in front of posters "ditch the witch" and "Bob Brown's Bitch". He compromised himself and the Liberal Party, and he did it for the cheap political advantage.  He declared and gave us insight, in that moment, into the depth of his character, and where he would take the Liberal Party.  And currently, he has been presented with, and grabbed,   a 'John Wayne moment'.  He just might be out of his depth this time.Hate to burst your bubble Nonna,

But ALL Parliamentarians wept and announced 'heartfelt responses' when people (not 1200- that is exaggeration) drowned off Christmas Island.  All crocodile tears, from ALL of them.  

And Tony Abbott does a fair job of discrediting himself, with no help.Nonna,

Whether they grieved or not, we cannot get into their head space.  These are only our subjective perceptions and coloured by our personal bias. Our recent governments have been heartless.  We have bipartisan heartlessness when it comes to people who set out on boats.

Where are the politicians now who will move motions of condolence for all the children being killed in Palestine? This very moment.  Last week children who were playing on a beach were killed.  I want to see more speaking up for those children from Tony Abbott.Hello Bruce T,

I would ease up on the name calling, leave the abuse to the IPA posters from Team Abbott.I truly hope the tax payers are not funding their efforts. 

It is enough to say that we have doubts about the proper administration of current data records, let alone the sheer volume of this new metadata set up.

As Professor Warren sums it up ... "As in the discussions of 2012, the appointment of an independent privacy commissioner would be needed to ensure that the defined policies and procedures are correctly followed and that metadata is used by intelligence and law enforcement agencies only for the tasks identified and approved"

What are the chances of that happening?Hello FlapDoodle,

We are in for a long wait before things improve. 

Did we even suspect how quickly 'the training wheels' would fall off. Perhaps we should just buy them a better tricycle.Exactly Malcolm,

Wish we had electronic monitoring for discretionary entitlement rorting(Brandis, Joyce, Abbott and others).  The key word to be flagged would be 'Gina's jet travel service', 'Book Launch', 'wedding', 'ironman events'. With the money saved we could probably fund something worthwhile, like a family room in children's cancer ward.Hello Alfie,

.'gag her critics'.. selective blindness.

Julia Gillard was attempting to restore Journalistic integrity.  Journalistic codes were being blatantly flaunted. And writing vile sexist misinformation is not criticism.Well said Bahbet, well said. BTL could well be just another schoolyard bully. We don't know.Thanks Jonathan, there is something very appealing about a pen, a typewriter, an envelope, and a stamp. Australia Post would welcome it.




There appears to be a new kind of culture - a culture of resentment..an absence of empathy and generosity, a resentment directed at those who need welfare.  This is coming more and more from Joe Hockey and from those who seem desirous of a scheme where their tax dollars flow in one direction...back to them.If we are to believe that we are 'living beyond our means', then a PPL would be unaffordable, and the millions being spent on Royal Commissions in order to criminalise Union officials, Kevin Rudd and Julia Gillard look pretty self-indulgent.  

Regretably, the policies around the unemployed are ineffective and shackled to taking revenge, prejudice and the past.

John Hewson, a good man and a good Liberal Party member, reflecting on the definition of insanity, in relation to Eric Abetz's hardline welfare reforms .. "insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, and expecting a different result'.  I am in agreement with John Hewson, that work for the dole policy does not reduce unemployment.  The fact is, schemes such as this have been tried over and over and over again and consistenly show the same result..they do not work.Exactly Mike,

The first semester of this Government is devoted to 'paying back'.  No only revenge taking on the previous, but jobs and favours must be given to mates who supported them into office (the latest being 'Twiggy' getting the $$$$oxygen to push his agenda with no evidence as to effectiveness) 

This move, which goes against Liberal Party political values,  may be in order to please Rupert's business interests and little more? Just asking.  Foxtel might be losing money on a few other fronts?  Many people I know, have thought their Foxtel subs a waste of money, and contracts were very difficult to get out of. They have vowed to never return to Foxtel.

I personally wouldn't be a subscriber because I think Rupert's hands applied to Australian Political Life is not benign.  I resent this interference from a NewYorker,  which is having an impact on policy and in danger of putting at risk this nation's well being. Many of us will not touch Foxtel and we moved our super investments around when we discovered a big percentage of them were going to News Corp.

Exclusive HBO deals with Foxtel which limit local competitors are worth a good hard look from inependent sources.You are right ingenuous,

The carbon tax was working, and it was cut down out of pure grade political spite. 

We are being asked to fund more political spite in the form of poorly evidenced Royal Commissions into Unions and an attempt to criminalise K Rudd and Julia Gillard.

The fact is, this government has ineffective policies and they are shackled to taking revenge, to prejudice and the past.Hello Morticia,

None of the budget cuts were forecast (except by K Rudd, over and over ad nauseum).  But Abbot did not forecast them, due to his expicit contrary promises to the electorate. "There will be no cuts to health" "There will be no changes to Medicate", "There will be no changes to pensions". Pretty explicit.  If he had forecast that he was going to go after his favourite 'job snobs', asking them to apply for vacancies that do not exist. 

The reality is there are about 146,000 vacancies and unemployment at about 700,000. Basic maths reveal that the policy is ineffective, but targeting the unemployed with good old populist lies that we are inundated with 'dole bludgers', is a lie is a lie is a lie.Hello Alpo,
Love your comment. "in order to exact a neoliberal revolution".

We are experiencing an historic moment. A notorious moment.  No Australian government has ever proposed a budget as neoliberal and contrary to the notion of the fair go as this one.  

But what can we expect when we have a government practicing a sadistic refugee policy?  Practicing a sadistic domestic policy via the budget?Perhaps a 'true liberal' would be dismayed at the direction taken by a once great Liberal Party. Those of us who grew up with the security of consistency and integrity within the party, have to work to stop the rot.I guess in the interests of balance we have to have the partisan IPA writing articles on the Drum. Sigh! Wish they could put forward a report disclosing just how the IPA is funded, and by which corporations. 

Just taking one budget measure, a punitive measure directed at Rupert's favourite target 'dole bludgers'.  Or Tony's favourite 'job snobs'.  To counter that, we should note that the Australian Bureau of Stats data show there are now about 146,000 job vacancies, and unemployment is about 700,000.

Now anyone with a basic grasp of maths will know Chris Berg, the reality is, punitive budgets that are ineffective and destined to fail, are impossible to 'sell'.

Hello Tator,

Thanks for your feedback.  What is relevant is that the punitive policy is being adopted NOW.  There are more unemployed than there are vacancies..  The proportion is unlikely to ever be in favour of job seekers. We haven't had full employment since the mid-1960s. Automation is increasing, just look at the self-checkout revolution. So why wouldn't you wonder where the jobs are going to come from?

And if we are waiting for the next mining boom, mining jobs will diminish because I believe mining is fast-tracking to driverless trucks and robots for underground work. If a large sx listed corporation wants to lift its share price, it goes into cost-cutting mode and announces hundreds of job cuts.  The share price usually goes up. Those who remain in their jobs are usually doing the work of two people. 

We have been indocrinated into the fallacy that the unemployed could find work if they tried harder, or had more training (training providers get a government handout?). It is magical thinking to imagine that jobs will magically appear.Hello Chris,

What Tony Abbott could try when we tell him "you're lying to us, you're lying to us"...He could say "Yes. I know! But hear me out!".  Would we be listening to the 'sell'?

Most Australians are opposed to many of the government's budget cuts, because these cuts were not forecast, none of the budget cuts had been forecast, due to Abbott's EXPLICIT contrary promises to the electorate.Hello Tory Boy,

Wouldn't have equated a Tory with cruelty, but you might be the example. Does a cruel disposition ever get exhausted?

And 'the people have spoken'.  They would be the people who will change their minds, when cruel acts are committed on children. We cannot keep looking the other way.  Especially when these children are deemed, as is predicted, to be genuine refugees and are future Australians.

Well said Hub, well said.No BF,

Give your 'high hat' 'faux outrage' and the blindfold a rest Brian.  Abbott is an Abbott is an Abbott.  In the interests of equality it is a shame we cannot semantically fit 'Liar' into the word 'Abbott'.    Perhaps he could change his name.  

And as is common knowledge, it is The Mining Industry, and the collectives they form to lobby unashamedly for the right to be milking the 'cash cow'..We, the dills who voted in the Abbott government and those that did not, are the collective 'cash cow'.gbe, what hysterics!

"The hand that feeds us"!  Rubbish, absolute rubbish! Outright Myth making, that benefits no one.  

Small business, collectively, are the hands that feed us, quiet achievers employing most Australians. Looking after their employees, not harming the environment, not turning Australia into a dirty quarry and then taking the profits offshore. Small business employs, pays taxes, is not on the tax-payer cash cow, and does no harm.

Small creative resourceful business that does not mechanise to reduce the workforce, small business that does not have the lobbying power, but achieves, quiety.Hello TC .
This is not a left/right issue. It is a humanitarian issue. Remember your humanity TC?

There is no even playing field.  Anywhere.  Israel is applying disproportionate force in what began as a murder of three teenagers.  There is no evidence that Hamas committed the murders.  Why not an Israeli murderer?.  

Take away ALL Israeli and Palestinian weapons and allow them only stones.  Disarm them all.

The murdering of Palestinian children, who are not part of Hamas,  playing on a beach or at school,  has GOT TO STOP!!Israel is killing children, children who were playing on a beach, children in school, good people trying to collect the wounded in the street.  

So whose policy is that? Whose policy has it been that if a Palestinian throws a stone, Israeli tanks will roll in and take lives.  Does one stone bruise on an Israeli equate with dozens of Palestinian lives?  It has been going on for a long time.

Israel cannot claim any moral ground here.  The powers that govern Israel and the Nationalistic fervour that can justify killing children has no moral place to hide.  Comparing other murderous regimes doesn't help, as the people in Gaza have nowhere to run.  There are no borders for them to cross into safety.  Israel is firing on sitting ducks.

There is willfull blindness in your post aaron.There is no anti-Israeli sentiment, except in the minds of those who wish to use that polemic as a defence.  Our shared humanity wept for the millions of jewish people who died in the Holocaust. Our shared humanity allowed us to be angry when Holocaust deniers got oxygen for their views.  Forget the polemic for a day and see things with clarity. 

No one can justify murdering children. And it is emotional, it speaks to a common humanity, to know that such acts have no justification. It is humane to decry, with emotion, such activity.You might be confecting an anti-Israeli sentiment, and confusing it with anti-murdering children sentiment. Being against the killing of children is hopefully a universal sentiment. And in the name of God, let us ALL be emotional about it! 

Asking for the killing to stop is just that.  You can put an hysterical spin on it if you wish. But we will continue to ask for the killing to stop.Agree Alpo, was just reflecting this morning that Tony Abbott offered to sell his arse for the top job in 2010, and ended up selling his soul in 2014.

The unelected people who bought it are shaping policy.Yes, you could make an argument for polygamy.  Depending on your desires and preferences, BTL. Would you like to make polygamy legal? How would you divide assets after divorce? How would you assign custody? 

And anyway, in a country where we have a 'right to be a bigot'..anything goes.Lovely piece Annabel..

We, the girls of the good ship Lollipop, will always love our Captain Malcolm.  He reached hero status, when he stood up to the biggest media bullies in Australia - Alan Jones and Andrew Bolt. Oh how we celebrated.  If he could only take on the biggest bully of them all , Pirate Murdoch,  who pillages our shores, and OUR ABC, from overseas.   If Malcolm protects our ABC, if he can thwart the intentions of the ABC killers now placed strategically within ABC management, he can forever be held in the highest esteem.  So God bless the good ship Turnbull, and all who sail in her.Forrest, the reality is that Tony Abbott does a pretty good job of denegrating himself.  He is an interesting case and not surprisingly, a magnet for negativity.   Gross negativity was something he practiced, as if it were second nature for three years.  We are all hoping for the sake of the nation, that he really does redeem himself.  To do that he needs to get out of the grip of the unelected who are shaping policy.This is a a good piece from Jonathan Green.  If we are not already aware of it, there are better sources of information than the fear-manipulating organs of News Ltd.  There are other sources that can be trusted to give effective in-depth analysis. e.g. The program "Background Briefing" on Radio National, The Saturday Paper, The Monthly magazine, Crikey, The Conversation, The Brisbane News, and The Guardian.

We cannot trust media that exaggerates and "promotes anxiety to lever the improved popularity that comes from soothing paternalism". The idea that Captain Australia will somehow be able to 'save us' from an imagined threat constitutes comic book style heroics. Our Ton's John Wayne moment is just that, a comic book moment.  

The media fear beat up, as Jonathan says "seems not that far removed from the original tactic of the likes of the Islamic State:  using fear to overwhelm your enemies and cement the loyalty of your friends". 

And there are bigger worries on the domestic front with Rupert and Gina and the IPA putting pressure on the government and calling for the privitisation of the ABC.  Now, where is John Wayne when we really need him to save our ABC from becoming yet another propaganda machine of the coal industry and assorted hysterical right-whingers?  

Will Tony Abbott along with the few remaining good men in the Liberal Party have the backbone to stand up to Rupert, Gina and the IPA?. Operation Stand Firm? Or will their concerns lie buried internally  within the campaign budgets of the Liberal Party?Hello Waterloo Sunset, thanks for the feedback.

If a government is behaving in a particular way, it gets reported.  Both good behaviour and bad. Currently, it would seem (within the context that there are unelected vested interests pushing to have the ABC reduced or dismantled), 'reporting' is getting confused or deliberately conflated with 'bias'.  It becomes a justification without evidence, to suit a prescribed agenda.

Visit 'The Project' any week night, and they report the same information.  So do Channel 7 and 10.  

We have watched ABC 7.30 presenters adopt a interviewing policy which does not allow politicians regardless of party afilliation, to just use the public broadcaster to spin the message of the day.  That is what is called top rate journalism, by any measure.

If it does not suit our world view, and it often does not suit mine, then we just have to find the backbone to view it for what it is.  Reporting.Hello WooHoo

No one can ignore the barbarity, the actions of a deranged man with no religion or regard for his 'alleged' faith.  

What is questioned here in this article, is the agenda, the intention to manipulate, to spread fear. 

It is a fair question to ask if a News Limited editor who places a graphic confronting image of an act of barabarism on the front page, is being manipulative.  A manipulative act that serves the aims of barbarism. To spread fear.The polls (and general community sentiment) might indicate a broader church than 'the left', who think Hockey is out of touch.  Anyway that is off-topic .

The security that is currently in place is more than adequate.  If the 150 or so godless deranged barbarians who have travelled overseas to indulge their murderous impulses return to Australia, warrants can be applied for and granted to monitor their every move.  We have the resources now. The so called m-m-m-metta d-d-d-data collection and storage seems more like a thought bubble at the moment. 

We have a great rule of law in Australia.  'Team Australia' and the latest stumble into more d-d-data c-c-c-olletction is a sideshow, a distraction. Don't you worry about that.No we do not need 'Big Brother'.  Data retention, in the context of national security, needs to be in the hands of those who know what they are doing. An independent body, with integrity, and incorruptible .  Cannot see it happening.The greatest historical problem is 'the distant men'  drawing the lines on the map.  Again and again and again. 

"There are no easy answers here, most importantly to the question of how any division could be structured in such a way that was not ultimately just a reply of distant men drawing lines on a map and calling them borders".  How do you decide who owns the oil rich areas? 

Drawing borders without consultation and agreement (perhaps impossible) with the diverse tribal groups, is a definition of insanity. Doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result.Who gets bailed out, is definitely a decision made by politicians. One can only hope that the politicians at the time, will be making considered independent decisions.  And also that these impartial decisions (not bound to those who donate to or lobby the relevant political party) are taken with the respected advice of impartial, independent economic advisers.  

We have recently experienced the problems (the current budget) when 'economic audits' are carried out by those who are not impartial, may even be driven by ideology,  and may be tainted by conflicted or vested interests.
Hello Todd,

Where do you find your anti-green misinformation?  No political party is anti-industry.  Some enviroment checks and balances (regulations) placed on industry do not make for 'crazies'.  We only have one planet, and in Australia, environmental protections, with the current environmental vandals in power, are being rolled back.  Wilderness areas, wild rivers and healthy aquifers must be left for all the Australian generations to come.Ideological predispositions should be disclosed before federal and state politicians go to elections.  Just as political donations are (supposedly) disclosed.  

If they were to tell the voters that they, once elected,  don't really care what Australian's think of them, that they are only listening to the minority (party members and donors).  This federal government, and at least one state government (Qld) has taken ideological predispositions to the maximum, alienated those with integrity in their own party. Those in Qld with integrity intact have left Campbell Newman's government. One can only hope that there are some in federal politics who will do the same.Isn't 'direct action' the darling of the right wing cashed up (by resources and other industries) think tanks?  Those same institutions that are formulating current policy, would not take kindly to their darling, Direct Action,  being deemed a 'son of Frankenstein'.  

We may be facing a period of no climate action but globally, economies are moving towards the post-carbon economy.  Creative, innovative, Renewable Energy Companies are going to be the future big business movers and shakers. I have faith that Australian policy makers will catch up eventually.  

We just have to endure a short period of ignorance and globally out of step policies.  No sweat.No Harry, both if implemented in good faith, are supposedly designed to reduce emissions.  AN ETS is mostly derided by those who wish to continue burning coal. Follow the money.Yes, Mark James, spot on..bottom line, Clive is in the coal business.  All the rest is fairy floss.Hello Jim,

You hit the nail on the head there.  The 'axe the tax' rhetoric was proved to constructed with cunning political imagination.  But  'Axe the tax' came with 'axe the truth'.Yes, the tax is dead, so is progress. Ding Dong, hello 20th century thinking.Actually Harry, your cant "The mess Labor left behind" is a belief system, a myth, a slogan, a deception, a fraud on the electorate, and a great big new lie.  The evidence though not good for conning the voters, is quite the opposite.Yes, Coles are also reducing prices over their entire range! Every shelf, every aisle, every imported packaged item is displaying carbon tax reduction fever.  It rewards our faith in our fearless leader, when you can buy an extra six legs of lamb for the price of one carbon tax weighted one. How many legs of lamb can you buy for $550. Awesome!

I am already building a $550 wish list for the end of the year. And how many of us who voted to 'axe the tax' will want our dirty energy money to come in pieces of silver. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$You are right Alternative3, there is only one decision for the government to make.  Not "two types of democratic decision" being your criticism of this article.

The only decision possible for Team Abbott, is to repay the industries that donated to the Liberal Party.  There is no democracy involved.Hello spud,

No mix-up.  If there was 'repayment' to unions, the policies involved would have meant more jobs for Australians, better protection of existing working conditions, fair work practices and the like.  No evil to be found there, no interference with the ABC, no danger to the environment.  No comparison between coal industry policy dictated to Team Abbott by the big carbon emitters.Hello PTL

The Pacific Solution came undone with the public reaction to the Tampa incident.  K Rudd went to the 2007 election with the Tampa fallout and the Howard lies about 'children thrown overboard' fallout in Rudd's favour.  His mandate was to treat asylum seekers more humanely. (He also achieved a mandate to act on Climate Change, another story). Subsequently we have seen people being used and abused for political gain.  'Stop the Boats' has never been about people drowning or suffering at sea, or about stopping smugglers (out of our hands as they operate offshore).  It is about covertly feeding xenophobic views for political gain, it is about covertly feeding islamaphobia for political gain, then posturing as military style heroes on the new 'border protection' front.  And it is truly pathetic that so many Australians have been seduced by being given permission, by being openly given entitlement 'to be a bigot'.  

And for the record, the argument that we will be inundated with 'hordes of asylum seekers' , clogging our highways and suburbs has no justification whatsoever.  We are a wealthy country, we are squandering money keeping people out, and we were at one time, as recently as 2007,  a generous and compassionate nation.It is not anything to do with conservative vs nonconservative polemic.  It is about ethics and integrity.  And from day one, Campbell Newmann has misused his mandate.  Currently spending millions advertising attempting to boost LNP stocks, and paid for by tax payers, and we are all very aware of the partisan nature of the advertising. It is a terrible waste of tax payers funds that also went to fund an interactive 'strong choices' web page, which was designed to justify selling assets.  Costing millions.

Also tax payers fund the Deputy Premier's chartered jet while commercial flights are available.  People are fed up.

Campbell Newmann has misused his mandate from the very beginning.  He brought in a partisan team of auditors to justify the 'debt' rhetoric, the job cuts, and the advertising which attempts to persuade the electorate that the LNP needs to sell assets.

From the very beginning the Newmann Government has been beset with problems relating to 'jobs for mates', misbehaving and subsequently disgraced ministers, conflict with the conservative Medical and Legal professions, all acid coated with irrational responses from Newmann himself.  

We all wanted better than this..and Anna Bligh's government was punished by voters for far less than this.Well gbe, Labor governments have been punished for lesser misdemeanors.  This current government is using tax payers funds to vindictively settle scores, and are unable to clearly define themselves without blaming the previous.  Exaggeration, hypocrisy, and a worrying trend for dividing people into tribes who are either lifters or leaners, earners or learners. And never before have the Australian people been treated with such contempt.Hello BTL,

With respect. your rebuke is a bit rich (coming from your good self), 'extreme, partisan hack', is on your CV isn't it?  

If you are not already on the payroll BTL, it would be worth your while to read the article by Sarah Whyte, SMH, July 5, describing the whopping $4.3 million of tax payers money that Tony Abbott spends on 'communicators' of spin.  "The Abbott government has created a hub of 37 communication and social media specialitsts"..engaged to spin Tony Abbott's messages.  I am sure he could afford one more 'extreme partisan hack' to monitor and respond to comments here on the Drum.Chris, perhaps you can supply comprehensive evidence of media snobbery?

Which media outlets are denigrating the new senators or employing 'snobs' for journalists? 

I think we, the voting public, would be better informed with articles about back-room  influence and deals, which shape policies that affect all Australians.  Would you be able to help Chris?

This person was not really a harmless 'bogan' was she...she was a shameless bigot.  And Rolley, I wouldn't classify the abuse or the woman as anything else.  We are going to hear a lot more of this if the RDA is watered down, so please, let us label these ignorant folks for what they are...bigots being given permission to be racially abusive by the current government.Trish argues ..."If the concern is that subsidies should not be going towards wealthy families for their 'high-end' nanny care when most people have to make do with 'mid-tier' formal care, it is a peculiar concern to have".  WT??

Many would disagree with that assessment.  Subsidies definitely should not be going towards wealthy families for 'high end' nanny care.  Why is this whole argument becoming one between the have and have nots?  What is peculia Trish, is this climate of resentment from the wealthy directed towards the funding going to those less wealthy.  Children of lower socio economic birth should not be used in this way.  The money should go to those children whose parents (often single working parents) need the help. 

There is a worrying trend towards 'me tooism' from wealthy earners guarding and demanding more of what they consider to be 'their money' (tax).  In a decent society, governments look after those in need,especially vulnerable children.   

And if there is currently nothing to stop wealthier families from being choosy with the quality of care in a long day care or family day care service and using taxpayer money to subsidise that choice, then let that be stopped by means testing.  

IF high end child care is the choice then those who can afford to pay should stop diminishing the welfare dollar available to those of greater need.Is this for real?  Tax payer funded nanny care?  Is this the new field for employment for school leavers? (You know, those kids who cannot apply for Centrelink assistance for 6 months).  Is there a job recruitment agency geared up and ready to go?  Does the employment recruitment industy have a powerful lobby group? Are they donors to the LIberal Party?

Just watch the recruitment industry for new 'fields' of employment.  Will we see Teenagers working in aged care facilities, on factory assembly lines, and in the nanny business?  Someone will make money out of these school leavers.  So much for all that positive economic and social investment that we have made in these children.The consequeces of austerity measures are inevitable damage to the economy. Britain discovered that recently.  Common sense is nowhere to be seen.

Trouble is, the designers, the corporate powers who poison democracy, are all for severe austerity measures and they are not the elected.  And if governments do their bidding, how far will they go? What do they want?...

Possibly, they want sweeping new legislative agenda, proposoing an end to social security, a return to child labour, and give them enough rope, possibly an unprecented gun rights bill for family pets.  And while they are at it, why not measures such as electronic ankle bracelets for asylum seeker children, and surrounding the entire perimeter of Australia with barbed wire (long overdue).

Given enough rope, the unelected would see that we put all disabled folk and Australians under the age of 13 into work.  In their jaundiced privileged view, they should all be in factories assembling Xboxes, not playing with them.Leyonhjelm and Day, if they intend to push for a reduction in the minimum wage and support privitisation of tax payer owned facilities (schools and hospitals), and if they are successful, will almost certainly contribute to an economic slump.  Perhaps a 'python squeeze' is about to be realised. There is already a reduction in consumer confidence.  We, the consumers,  are hanging on to our money while there are people in power who will not address revenue and redistribution. Those who can least afford it, are the ones being called on to do Hockey's 'heavy lifting'.Hello gbe,

Today we are aware that 'the majority' can change their minds.  This week, as reported in The Australian, Asked whether they were satisfied with the way Abbott was doing his job as prime minister, 31% said they were satisfied and 62% were dissatisfied, translating to a net approval rating of -31. The Australian said this net approval rating was the worst for a prime minister since Julia Gillard scored -34 points shortly before she was rolled by Kevin Rudd last year.  

So, gbe, it would seem that your 'minority zealots, might need a more specific definition.  They might be the 31% who still approve of the government, including your good self?
It does matter who made the art. Always has mattered. And for a variety of reasons.  Personally, there has always been 'the cringe factor' for me with Rolf Harris. And his works? Do they qualify for a place in the art history canon?  I doubt it.  

Having bought a painting from a popular Sunshine Coast artist, of a little girl in a white dress and straw hat, running along a beach, because I loved it. It is evocative of childhood holidays.  Discovered recently that the subject of the painting, the girl daughter of the artist, was abused by the artist, her father.  The man spent time in jail for sexual abuse of his daughters.  I now cannot look at that painting, the pain experienced by that child is too real,  and have removed it from the wall, not possible to enjoy it at any level.Hello Tropicalcat,

The adults in the electorate are not too impressed with the quality of the 'adults' in government..probably could mean this so called 'mandate' to keep the coal industry happy is not actually of concern within the electorate.

TODAY'S VIEW OF THE GOVERNMENT - Asked whether they were satisfied with the way Abbott was doing his job as prime minister, 31% said they were satisfied and 62% were dissatisfied, translating to a net approval rating of -31. The Australian said this net approval rating was the worst for a prime minister since Julia Gillard scored -34 points shortly before she was rolled by Kevin Rudd last year.

Hello Brian Francis,

I agree with you that various organs of the media will feed the demographic it addresses.  We are all aware that journalists will push an editorial line that suits the E.I.C., and media bosses. We have grown cynical and mistrustful when too much misinformation is headlined, tabloid style.  But with Clive Palmer, we are stopped in our tracks, and we listen. It might be called hope. Maybe we are hungry for some honesty, and looking for it from newly elected politicians. Some politicians in the past, a few of them independents,  have rewarded us with wisdom and good judgement, and honesty.  

N.B. Cathy McGowan is one courageous politician who deserves more media coverage.Hello Forrest Gardener,

I would not agree that 'hurting our democracy' is sensationalist, especially as it stikes a chord with many of us.   What is alarming is how much (unelected) behind the scenes power is shaping policy which affects us all. If we continue to just keep looking the other way, our democracy becomes very fragile.  

We have the democratic right to vote and elect a selected representative into government.  But how well informed is that vote, if the mainstream media feeds us tabloided misinformation?  How well informed is that vote if big corporations are funding that representative (favours to be delivered later)?. 

In 2007 K Rudd was elected with a mandate to behave humanely towards asylum seekers, and to address climate change.  In 2007, News Limited endorsed K Rudd.  We were not to know then that the combined forces (islamaphobes and the resources industries) would pressure the government, through the media, to form policies that are cruel and in the case of the mining tax, ineffective.  The carbon tax should stay, its effect on the economy has been negligable, but in a fragile democracy, vested interest is going to win out yet again.This article is infuriating!!! Is the Centre for 'Independent' Studies another right wing organisation, ripe for tax expense deduction for those powerful vested interests who asked and received what they wanted from the Hockey budget?

Simon writes .. "The marked difference between the public response to the first Howard-Costello budget and the first Abbott-Hockey budget can be directly attributed to the current Government not walking the public through the (very real) budget challenges facing Australia in coming years"

Why would  Simon of CIS not consider the budget structural pressure that had its genesis in 2003, and 2005, under Howard/ Costello?  The so called 'real' challenges 'in coming years' began then.  And as if the current government hasn't exaggerated 'emergencies', lied and deceived and subsequently hammered us and polarised us with 'lifting or leaning', 'earn or learn' 'end of entitlement' rhetoric . What an insulting mess!!  The first act of Joe Hockey was to double the deficit, and not subsequently honestly and fairly address the structural problems which began in 2003.    


Simon in this article comes to the conclusion that the government can just do a  'walking the public through the budget challenges'.  It is too late for that.  My granny used to say, 'you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear'. 
It is unfortunate that the comment stream began with BTL (nom de fantasy) chosing to bag the ABC, when such important matters are under discussion.

Worthy of note -- Jonathan writes ..."Sending refugees to take their chance with torture, Medicare co-payments, even a gutted ABC. We weren't asked"

No we were not asked if we would mandate Medicare co-payments, changes to the aged pension, the big new tax on fuel, gutting the ABC, and sending refugees to take their chances with torture.  We did not ask for many punitive cuts that this government has delivered via the budget.

What we are becoming aware of, is that the budget has given Liberal Party donors and powerful interest groups, including News Ltd,exactly what they asked for.  

Key point ..."The Australian Government should oppose financial deregulation and investor rights to sue in TISA, the TPP and in all trade agreements.  And it should end the secrecy by publishing the text of all agreements for full public and parliamentary debate,  before Cabinet makes the decision to sign them".

End the secrecy?  Let us first seriously investigate why the need for secrecy in the first place..and not be fobbed off.  How can we vote for a particular political party when we are so illinformed on so many crucial aspects of government activities.  Trade should benefit all Australians, and not make us vulnerable to litigation, but how would we know if these deals DO benefit all of us?There is no need for Labor to rebuild an economic reputation.  Australia was guided through the worst global economic crisis in recent years, we retained our AAA credit rating and employment and the economy was healthy.  None of this applies a negative for Labor.

In 2013, the IMF examined 200 years of government finance records across 55 leading economies.  It identified only 2 periods of Australia fiscal profligacy in recent years...both down to John Howard's terms in 2003 and 2005.  The Rudd stimulus spending during the GFC doesn't rate as profligate.

Since being elected, Joe Hockey has doubled the deficit, and consumer confidence has dropped significantly, which doesn't bode well for the economy. The structural problems in the budget began with John Howard, and the May budget does not address the structural.  Talking up the Liberal Party as economic managers, is just that...Talk.Chris, you state ...."Climate activists have tried to respark climate change as a political issue - every once in a while the Climate Institute puts out a poll to try to get momentum going again".

Chris, our own observation of extreme climate events is 'the driver'.  And using labels like 'climate activists' is misleading, when we have a climate denial industry headed up by Andrew Bolt, which qualifies for the label of 'activists'.  And we have our own Prime Minister acting in the role of coal embassador who we could, if we were being fair, label as a 'coal activist'.  Coal is finished..we have to be more creative and less reliant on what is left of the coal industry.

And climate change is an economic issue which if everyone used their better judgement, would need no activism.Hello JohnM,

Your post tells us nothing about Co2 and temperature.  It tells us more about where you are coming from.

Just check out Government BOM measurements on temperatures if you really want to be enlightened.Good point Yank,

We do not have the money, we have a budget 'emergency'..it requires a $7 medicare co-payment, it requires a fuel tax, a doubling of university fees, etc etc. We are living 'beyond our means'. So ..action has been taken..Joe Hockey doubled the deficit, Tony removed a few $b in income stream items, bought a few airplanes, and we have yet to bleed a bit more from a gold plated PPL.  Then there are the assorted $$minor rortings of entitlements. So, yes Yank, who is going to pay for another war in Iraq?Interesting point...have our services been requested by the Obama administration?  


Not a bad idea Yank,

The wealthy Arab states have to step in.  Restrict our involvement to humanitarian help. 

As Jonathan states : "The Abbott campaign was not a triumph of an optimistic alternative vision, but a calculated doing down of a confused and disoriented opponent. And this goes to the heart of recent anxieties: that the destructive but smashingly successful uber politics of recent years might become self-replicating".

We are witnessing the lack of vision, a party unable to positively define itself away from their comfort zone - negativity,  towards the previous government, and towards others in the community.  We might just be seeing a confused and disoriented government as a result.  It might be better to consign the Liberal Party to a few more years of opposition where they perform in a manner more suited to their innate impulses.Hello ij,

It might go beyond intelligence and education. What we need is integrity.  Let us have a grassroots campaign that does not rely on donations from vested interests.  What we are experiencing is unprecedented.

We have a government that does not have a mandate to remove or interfere with the RET.  Community sentiment towards renewables is very positive. It is unprecedented and inexplicable that a government would request a report from someone hostile to the RET, ask the tax payers to fund it and then hold back on the findings. 

If this government had any integrity at all, it would disclose just who it is who has donated to the Liberal Party and has requested the not-mandated removal of the RET. But what are the chances of that?Real leadership is soundly absent right now.  The sloganeers are in charge.  Khaki and camouflage is the new black. For now.Evangelising doesn't enhance the Liberal Party fiscal status. It just demonstrates that financial management myth making is alive and well.In 2013, the IMF examined 200 years of government financial records across 55 leading economies.

The IMF identified only 2 periods of Australian fiscal profligacy in recent years, both attributed to John Howard's terms in 2003, 2005 and 2007. 

Can we suggest the reason might have been to 'buy' votes. Fiscally irresponsible structural problems had their genesis during the Howard Years. (remember Peter Costello's disdain of the spending in 2007?)

According to the IMF, the Rudd stimulus during the GFC does not rate as profligate.

Chris, trying to evangelise otherwise is just plain dishonest.  And biased.The 2013 analysis comes after 2007.

There is a good deal of evidence that The Howard government were the biggest taxers and spenders (as a proportion of GDP) the country has seen.  So much for the free market.  

And if you want to go back into history, In June 1996, John Howard told a conference of international bankers that the Australian economy, inherited from the Keating government three months earlier was "really better than the 'curate's egg" and "there was no doubt that the Australian economy continues by world standards to enjoy very strong growth".

John Howard was suffering an outburst of candour but he just might have been doing what a leader should do..sell Australia as a good place to do business.Hello AE,

it is worth checking the interest rate hikes that occurred during the Howard period.  Especially after 2004, when the Howard Government was re-elected based on the fantasy that 'voting for a Labor Government would remove the food from the plate..specifically a lamb chop.  It turned out to be a fantasy on a grand scale, just check the interest rate rises after 2004. 

More than one lamb chop would have been removed from the family dinner, and quite a bit out of the family pocket.Hello Aaron,

You ask what more do you want from a Prime Minister?

A little integrity, sincerity, empathy, and a dose of 'tell the truth' serum would go a long way. 
Hello gbe

In case you haven't noticed, there is a broader church of awareness and even criticism of the nation damaging policies of the current government,  and yes, of Tony Abbott. He is aware of it, and is indifferent to it.Clete asserts that 'every major country in the free world at that time believed that Saddam Hussein had WMD's"

Well, declassified documents show that the Bush administration was not interested in changing Saddam's policies, WMDs were invented.  They wanted him gone and were determined to launch a war to achieve that.  What would the pretext be?  Various scenarios were outlined. The talking points made it clear that Cheney, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz and others were determined to invade Iraq. The 9/11 attacks made it politically possible. 

To achieve the goal, secret intelligence was twisted, massaged and wildly exaggerated, through the artistry of speechwriters and case-presenters. (ref msnbc "How the Bush Administration sold the War in Iraq").

Everyone should read this because it is sounding a little too familiar in the Australian context and in the context of this article.But NomdeP, 

The murdering of children is a horror that would be reported wherever it occurred. And we would be against such terrible acts. Reporting goes this way - As they say in the newspaper business, 'if it bleeds, it leads'.

There were media folk in Israel during the recent outbreak of hostilities. There were journalists embedded within the population, including being with some who were safely watching the destruction of areas of Gaza from an Israeli hillside. The media was there and they were very excited about the Hamas rocket that got through the defense shield and landed on a car.  It seemed to bring folks, including tourists, out of their hotels and into the street. Oh the horror!

Hello Nom de P

I searched the article and couldn't find a single reference that would qualify your judgement that Jonathan Green is attempting to 'lecture them (do you mean us?) on how they should think."

A statistical picture of  Australian society as it stands is just evidence that we are a diverse and complex society. Perhaps too complex to be drawn simplistically  into one coherent team?China begins the commentary by calling the stats "disingenuous" and the comments that follow show the ugly reality of 'Team Australia'. In his article, wasn't Jonathan just showing the reality? The disparity that exists among Australians. 

This morning, between 8.30 and 9.00pm, on local Brisbane ABC radio, the Minister for the Environment, Greg Hunt,  launched a personal attack on  two fellow Australians..one Australian was from the Solar Industry and the other Australian was a female journalist who was filling in for the regular presenter.  If you can download that interview, you can judge for yourself, whether 'Team Australia' is anything more than a pipe dream.Thank you clete for the feedback,

In my view, gender was an issue. It is doubtful Hunt would have attacked Steve Austin (the usual presenter) in the same way.

Hope others will listen and can back me up.  

The attack was personal and amounted to bullying. He rendered Kelly 'speechless' not easy if you are only being 'polite'.  Greg Hunt was very angry, defensive  and certianly not polite.  Understandable, as he is currently receiving wide criticism for his allowing the dumping of dredging of soil including clay onto the Great Barrier Reef, against the best advice of the scientific community. 

The emotional cost on KHD was obvious by the change in timbre of her voice.  She was the one who apologised for not having the information re the RET.  But the attack had an effect and it took her some minutes to recover.

I guess everything is subjective, clete.  If you want to take the trouble, how about you transcribe the acutal words spoken?

And as far as the attack on JOhn Grimes, Kelly gave John Grimes the opportunity to respond and Greg Hunt's behaviour previous to the stouch is reprehensible. It would appear that, according to Grimes, there was no conversation as described by Hunt, and further, Grimes explained that Hunt threatened him with character assasination, if he did not pull out of his solar campaigning. It would appear that Grimes has documented that exchange.

But everything is subjective.  We hear what we want to hear.  I was hoping for better from the Minister for the Environment.Team Australia is a pipe dream, a thought bubble, a distraction, a political move, pie in the sky, another catchy slogan.  The stats say it all.There was no attempt to embarrass Mr Hunt, Brian Francis.  Holding him to account is another matter.

The questions re the RET were relevant, and important that they were asked of the minister, as the RET report is being conducted by a known climate sceptic, possibly hostile to any measures to reduce emissions.  And correct me if I am wrong, but there is a widespread view that we have a government who wish to abolish the RET.  

That the information was not to hand for the presenter might have causes beyond her control, and beyond the resources of the national broadcaster, considering that the $$$$resources have been severely curtailed. 80 jobs have been cut perhaps for political reasons.  If the journalists have neither the staff nor resources to investigate, we should all be concerned about the outcome.  

Who will be left to hold them to account?Chris, it is always a sign of a failing government when it resorts to legislation within an exaggerated 'law and order' narrative. 

And we only have to look to Queensland with a resident 'dripping behind the ears' A G,  for 'laws conceived in the abstract becoming absurdities in practice".  A man walks into a bar and is arrested for wearing a particular belt buckle. 

Poorly resourced Queensland prisons are groaning under the weight of 'abstract legislation'.There is a saying . . .  "Economics is the only field in which two people can get a Nobel Prize for saying exactly the opposite thing".

And this article states "we have a Government struggling to build momentum as its first anniversary approaches".  This serves  as "a warning that in 12 months the Coalition is on the verge of squandering its core brand advantage: economic management".  We could disagree with that assumption, considering that the Howard government in 2003, 2005 and 2007 was considered to be the most profligate in recent times, according to the IMF 2013 study.

We could say that like all 'branding', the story of Coalition economic management relies heavily on whallops of myth making, and denial.Corrupt editorial policy needs to be addressed also. Remember the "Kick this Mob Out" tabloid screaming? And it can be seen to be corrupt, because Tony Abbott is now 'paying back' the favour.  What kind of enquiry might ask for  the disclosure of Rupert's wish list?  Integrity might be restored to the Libs if the promises made during the Abbott/Rupert meetings were freely disclosed, without an enquiry.

Hope someone is documenting the 'pay back' damage being done to the ABC. Two reviews, funding cuts, 80 jobs axed, and a hostile News Limited staff member placed strategically into ABC management.  On the campaign trail, Tony Abbott was very specific in regard to 'not touching' the ABC.  

Throwing my arms around you, ABC.Hello Realist;

Did you realise the irony in your post?  You call yourself, 'realist' but The REALITY is very different from the spin (by the way, Tony Abbott spends a whopping $4.3m on spin doctors). We are paying for the political myth that has to be perpetrated -  that only the Liberal Party can manage the economy.  There is evidence to the contrary. The reality is different.

The IMF examined 200 years of government finance records across 55 leading economies in 2013.

It identified only 2 periods of Australian fiscal profligacy in recent years, both of them down to John Howards terms in 2003,2005, and 2007.  Hence the budget needs adjusting in that context.  Those Howard years fiscal profligacy have to be seriously addressed.

The years that Wayne Swann was at the treasury helm, which indluded the Rudd stimulus spending during the GFC does not rate, according to the IMF, as profligate.  Our fiscal position, thanks to Swann, was cause for global fiscal envy.  Still is.

Why has deficit obsession become the main issue?

There are many who believe that the composition of taxation, the contributions to all forms of taxation and their impact on diverse sections of the community, ought to reflect equity, or if you like, fairness. 

It is a valid question to ask which groups can least or most afford to pay particular forms of tax and taxes overall.  Having disposable income benefits the entire economy.Well said NSaGO,

Especially like your call to broaden disclosure of finanacial interests to include all lobbyists. We must also include those unelected folk who have a $$$$$$ hold over the Liberal party, and who are shaping policies. The IPA comes to mind. Why are we unable to call for fiscal disclosure from the IPA?Isn't this all just a gift for the media?  Salivating for some new form of hysteria, they were very quick to roll out the graphics showing out of scale ships against a map of Australia and countries to our north.As you say, the issues are very complex indeed.  But first we have to unravel the xenophobia and islamaphobia.  Because I am close to certain that if the refugees by some quirk of fate were white and christian, the numbers we could accept would be infinite.  

In the meantime, we continue to de-humanise arrivals.There is no risk in investing in renewables except in Australia.  Investment in renewables is rising and is healthy in many other countries.  Bad Policy which favours coal is backward looking and creates uncertainty for Australian renewable investors.  We will have to play catch-up sometime soon.
Rent-seeking and large donations to political parties? - In THIS universe it can be termed "corruption". How did it become so endemic and acceptable?Chris writes of a dilemma - "one of the central dilemmas of government - how can we ensure that government works in the interest of the people who elect it?"

Answer - with greater transparency..something lacking now - it would seem that conservative governments do not act in the interest of the people who elect it.  And when we have an elected Prime Minister behaving in a role as the ambassdor for coal, or as the ambassador for logging old growth forests, and with a mining magnate (PUP) having the power in the senate, how can any of us believe that OUR interests are being served? 

And Chris, none of us believe that corporate donations are given with no expectations of benefit.  That simply is not good business.  We are not  that gullible.Lovely comment..it's time for giving credit where credit is due.  What does it cost to spend a moment to reflect on how we have all received the benefit of reforms introduced by that man, Gough Whitlam.  It is time to put the mean-spirited impulse in the back pocket.Hello Nabiru

It doesn't matter that Noel Pearson is working with the conservatives.  It is irrelevant and it was forgotten in the context of yesterday's commemoration speech.  He actually gave them (the rows of conservatives) some pretty uncomfortable moments when he recalled the ultra conseravative spiteful racist behaviour of JoBjelke Petersen.  

And when he recalled the situation that existed for Indigenous Australians before the Whitlam reforms, he was speaking from the heart and from very personal experience.

His speech was delivered from the heart, and it moved me and many Australians when he said of Gough -
"He (Gough) never experienced discrimination, but he UNDERSTOOD the impact of it's malice.". Awesome!Yes, let us remember November 5th, and find within us, the maturity to give credit where credit is due.  Because most of us here commenting on The Drum, have received the benefit of the Whitlam reforms.  

And we have also to be grateful to Malcolm Fraser who had the grace to continue implementing the reforms.A controlled experiment would show a variety of women(shapes, sizes, ethnicity etc) walking the same streets, same outfit, same attitude and pace of walking. 

But if the experiment filmed males walking the same streets, would we see no reaction, no harassment?Bev, you just hit the nail on the head.The bigger problem here is that this party led by Tony Abbott has lost the trust of the Australian people.Why another report?

Because it will depend on what they want the report to report.  The other reports did not report what they wanted to hear . e.g. no need for climate action.Exactly.John Howard wanted an ETS.  He saw the economic future.But Peony,

We are not powerless..we vote.  This time of ignorance and this time when political parties are in thrall to the resource industry lobby will not endure.  Sunset industries like the coal industry will be transitioned out eventually.  The world is waking up and we had a chance to be a front-runner, but we can always catch up. There is always hope.Hello Stranded,

You single out for criticism, the ABC and Fairfax for calling this a 'non-event'.  There were plenty of other media commentators doing the same thing.  Ch 10 The Project's Steve Price (very right wing radio jock) was very eloquent on the subject of this being grubby journalism and he supported Nova's right to privacy.  He agreed that there was no wrong doing. 

And Stranded, unlike the grubby tabloid media that produced this rubbish, The ABC follows its charter for journailistic standards.  And if you have a complaint, there is a process for you to follow. Let us know how you get onIt is time to move on Erick Quang,

As the article justly sums up: - "In Peris's case, what wrongdoing has she actually committed? She pitched for Boldon to be brought to Australia for a legitimate purpose, and her close connection with Boldon appears to have helped him decide to come. Athletics Australia, for whom Peris was then an ambassador, was happy to sponsor Boldon's visit. The visit apparently proceeded to everyone's satisfaction, including the kids he coached. Nothing that has been published or reported has shown any illegality or impropriety involving taxpayers' money".

There is no case.  Case dismissed.  We are witnessing Grubby Salacious Journalism from the usual suspects.There is no happy ending.  Ginger is 'not in Kansas anymore' and he has no red shoes to click.Thoughtful article Ruby. Keep them coming please.

You mention Tony Abbott's claim to be 'disappointed' that his cabinet was bereft of women.  He was referring to Sophie Mirabella who lost his seat, and whose angst ridden style was going to be an asset.Tony Abbott and this government has no real notion of connecting with the Australian People, except, perhaps, for the purpose of leaving us with a nagging sense of unease.  A nagging sense that there is something unknown to us that is to be feared.  

Masters of spin they can spin a slogan that stops you cold..'stop the boats'..'axe the tax' Complex issues are crammed into a small space. 

Now we have our elected representatives voting on security legislation with little time or capability of applying thoughtful consideration.  

Perhaps the crucial thing to be feared is ignorance and incompetence that comes from the absence of proper public policy debate. In the meantime, some new slogan will be found to draw us in and drag us along."Here in SA the only thing holding windfarm construction up is the slowness of approvals from the Government".

And why would the "Australia is Open for Business" Government be holding up approvals?  Why would our PM, the Ambassador for Coal be selective in such a way?  When subsidies are handed out for R&amp;D in other industries, why discriminate against renewable sources of energy?  Why would coal get $$$preference when most Australians are interested in renewables? 

Would it be because there are stock-piles of our resources, with resources companies looking for sales in a global market which is increasingly moving towards reducing emissions. This government, with a leader declaring that 'coal is good for humanity',  is on the wrong side of history."Repealing the RET would deliver a windfall gain to coal-fired generators of over $16 billion NPV. Cutting the RET reduces competition, increases greenhouse and particulate pollution in our air, and does not reduce electricity prices".

Thank you Dr Hewson. Would you send a letter to Mr Shorten to that effect?  He appears to be missing in action.  Would the resources industry lobby have a hold on Bill Shorten as well as the government?  Will we ever know?Renee Zellweger looks beautiful. 

She works in an industry which is obsessed with youth and the way women look.  If she had been rejected for work because of the appearance of a naturally ageing face, then of course she would be pressured to iron out a few wrinkles.  But sadly, for the tabloid mag trash editors, she becomes easy prey.  They are on a relentless search for (often fictitious) stories about baby bumps, failing relationships, weight gain or loss, and the evergreen voyeuristic attention to botoxed celebrities.Yes, caution is advised with email.  I was advised years ago not to put anything in an email that you would not write on a postcard.  Sound advice.  

Prof Spurr would seem to have been foolish to air his tasteless and not really funny linguistic talent (based on race and gender etc) in an email.  After reading the content, it is difficult to believe that he has not taken literally, the Brandis blessing of 'the right to be a bigot'.  

In future, he would be best advised to act out his comedic impulses in the privacy of the dinner table with like minded friends.

Hello Bill,
If you want to refer to a period in Australian government when there was evidence of a leader who was 'hopeless economically', check out the IMF research into government profligacy. You will, if you can drop the arrogance for a second, discover that John Howard's terms in government were the most profligate. 

Just give up the myth making for a day, and show some respect.Ahh Waterloo,

Can you really be persuaded? Can you be a little generous and hold off on the myth making?

Anyway today is just one day to leave off the bagging and show a little respect for an Australian who loved his country, the people of his country, his family and much much more. Goug Whitlam will be remembered by most Australians in a positive light.  Nothing to fear. Respect.Some hard liners just have no grace. It is a time for honesty and paying respect.  Gerard Henderson could have done himself a favour, and waited a day before continuing his hard-right line of thinking and spruiking.  He seems to be a most unhappy man and his political position might be contributing to it. This is a day for paying respect to a much loved Australian.Hello Dove,

Don't know about redemption.  But there are some wonderful inspirational messages regarding inclusion, forgiveness, and doing no harm.  I think Jesus was a greenie as well. And he had scant regard for the lovers of money.Collingwood is a suburb of Melbourne in the state of Victoria.  The only state in Australia to have invented a decent football code.  

I don't think there would be many who would be embarrased by Richard Flanagan. The man has a high degree of integrity.  An articulate, intelligent Australian who has just received a prized International Award.  When your friend Tony Abbot receives any kind of International Award he can walk in the same street.MMMM .That was the period that the IMF published a study into 200 years of government financial records across 55 leading economies.

It was during the previous government period that the IMF identified only 2 periods of Australian Fiscal Profligacy in recent years..both in John Howard's terms in 2003, 2005, and we could add the goodies handed out pre-election 2007.  

No shame for Australians as The GFC was well handled by the government of that period and received international credit for it.

Nothing to be ashamed of there.  In spite of Labor's internal problems they conducted themselves on the international stage with credit. Credit where credit is due."So coal is good for humanity".

So long as some of us live in some kind of ivory tower away from the rest of 'humanity' . That would be those "in poverty" who would prefer their children to breathe clean air, be safe from rising sea levels, and have the economic ability to survive and recover from extreme climate events.Life is peaches and cream Zing.

The cream is generosity of spirit and a valuable component of a universal welfare system. And I think it is out of respect for others that we who earn,  provide for those who cannot.  An entire society can be measured by the manner in which we look after our vulnerable.  In any case, welfare is given, the money is spent in the country of origin, circulated, GST is collected and returned to treasury. The dollar does not rest for long, it goes around and comes around.  

Those on welfare are unable to claim tax minimisation dollars.  Some may even be better tax payers via GST than some very large profitable corporations?Lovely article Tim.  We need a dose of optimism, a reminder that the world is becoming a far more tolerant place.  And a reminder that we can overcome the challenges we face.  We are generous, we care for this beautiful planet, we are creative, innovative, and hopeful.  

Speaking of challenges, we might employ a few specialised social workers who can help some of our good citizens, often found venting here on The Drum, to manage anger.   The challenge would be to broaden perspectives, self-examine cemented on points of view which create ill will towards others with differing points of view. 

Time to lighten up folks."a very Lefty profile one would conclude. No wonder Lane doesn't like The Australian's position".

Well Craig of Bathurst, you have just made a case for the argument that The Australian has an overt right wing bias. 

When I undertook media studies we looked at all media, including advertising, and how it worked to persuade the target audence. We learned how to deconstruct the messages, e.g. who the media addressed and from what position.  There is nothing biased about that activity. It is actually enlightening and the media itself provided the evidence.   Publications from News Corp provide the evidence for deconstruction of their position.  It is not a secret and I would ask why they should be exempt from critical examination?Terry, love your comment.

But... all journalism comes from a specific position. It is never, never, objective.  It is often flawed, subjective opinion. However, in Australian commercial media at this time, journalists do not have freedom of opinion and expression.It is a BABY! A blank slate.  The baby is 100% potential.  

The baby has no bias, no prejudice, no bigotry, no vote.  No country.  No country but the one where he first took breath.  He has the potential to love this country and not want to leave.
Love of country and hope keeps us here.  Bad policy which shames us all will come and go.  This difficult angry time is folly and will pass into history where it will no doubt be given liberal lashings of whitewash. 

We will reach a time of good will, extended to all Australians, generosity of spirit will be extended to those who want to join us regardless of background.  

We will welcome them even if they want to protect the environment, fly a rainbow coloured flag, and install solar panels!You claim "not one conservatice presenter of a prime time news/opinion program".  

How would you know how they vote?  

Prime time news programs are reporting events which are similarly covered by other news outlets including News Corp . News programs on Channell 7 and 10 are reporting the same news items.  Often Ch7 will expose an aspect of an event which reflects badly on Tony Abbott and some of his policies and ministers which the ABC is now intimidated into excluding from their news programs.  The ABC is being pressured according to a biased perception from the vocal minority.Hello Kay,

Disagree with you..The ABC is held in very high regard..interfere too much with our ABC at your peril.  If we do not have a public broadcaster free from the kind of interference we are now seeing, we will be left with wall to wall neo-con propaganda.  Not good for the Nation.

We need to support and protect an independent and trusted source to report on events, not one that is being subjected to the commercially motivated onslaughts of News Corpse hacks and staffers.

Use your search engine and type in Murdoch and the ABC..there is a long history of hostility.  Murdoch commercial interests seeking to destroy the ABC.
Hello Kay,

You may have misconstrued my comment.  I do not support bias from the ABC.  Nor do I believe there is any independent evidence of bias.  There is a valid argument from some quarters for 'perception of bias'. Perception is not quantifiable.  It comes from our world view and is subjective.

Pointing out that extreme bias exists in Murdoch publications is not an argument for some kind of balance to come from the ABC.What you are saying custard, is based on your perception of events.  You might have wanted to hear Mr Turnbull avoiding the question , and listening to the scripted "message of the day".  That is understandable as you support the message.

A good interviewer will interrupt an interviewee if they are just spinning the party line and not answering the question.  If they are not interrupted then the interviewer is not doing their job.  Sarah Ferguson was the master of interrupting the 'spin' message, and keeping the focus on the issue.  Interview time frames are not there for the airing of party political messages on the independent public broadcaster.  The party political message space is available to the Abbott government and ministers on commercial networks. Ad nauseum.  Why should we have to endure it from the ABC?APM .. we do not have a great deal of difference between the major political parties in Australia. No so called 'left wing' faction of the Labor party, because 'right wing' dominates both parties.  However, we are fortunate to have an ABC devoted to a journalistic charter, and they are adhering to it.  

If the ABC report the latest (shirt fronting!) gaff from Tony Abbott, word for word, image for image, it doesn't constitute  'left wing' reporting.  It is peurile to keep 'shooting the messenger' for reporting what is available on every commercial network.  Nor is reporting or giving opinion going to reform Tony Abbott and change his behaviour..he will continue to provide fodder for amusement or concern.  All news networks report his gaffs..they are actually amusing.  Watch The Project on CH10 sometime and have a good laugh.

Time to lighten up APM.Hello John,

We don't need any more versions of Pravda.  We already have The Australian and The Courier Mail, Alan Jones, Bolt etc for current government propaganda.Hello Fred,

My family, generation after generation is multicultural, but some of us still go pink and burn easily in the skin cancer country.  Only 'failure' to mention is that our Colonial English and Irish and Scottish stock are genetically unsuited to living in this hot hot and geting hotter country.  We are after all, mostly white folks living in Asia.This article states "On another worrying note, suicide remains the leading cause of death for Australians aged between 15 and 44, with deaths by suicide reaching a 10-year peak this year".....a 10 year peak!

There has been previous global research into the peaking rates of suicide under conservative governments. Incidence of depression is also raised under conservative governments.  Mental well-being might be linked to governments when they form policies that demonstrate compassion and an interest in social justice and equality.Hello EM Laidley

Love the idea of a new radicalism.  A radical approach to revenue raising that would see Elite members of the Business Council of Australia actually paying tax.  But that is not going to happen, there are a few sacred cows who donate to the Liberal Party (and the IPA) in the mix.  Generous donations provide BCA members the right to 'ghost write' fiscal policy. 

No Australian government would have the backbone to form policies that get the BCA, or the IPA offside.Not asking them to leave the country, or stop employing people, is to too much to ask that they act like responsible global citizens and just pay taxes on massive profits made in Australia?

And as for Australia becoming a third world country if big business left the country, you are discounting the huge asset Australia has remaining - small business, the real fiscal backbone of the country.  And governments continue to bite the small business feeding hand. The so called 'feeding hand' of big business, just might be overstated.We could begin by removing unaffordable luxuries like PPL, fringe benefits, negative gearing, and closing tax minimisation schemes.  Few 'leaners' in that little basket of middle class welfare.

Time to move on Realist.

There are ways that courageous governments can reform the tax system to reduce debt.  Neither Labor or Liberal parties would have the backbone to progress to tax reform, to remove gold plated PPL schemes, to remove negative gearing, to actually form revenue raising policies, not tax reduction policies.  This government, in thrall to the BCA, and devoted to a mantra of 'no new taxes' is going to increase the deficit for more than one generation.  It is pure folly to imagine that the deficit can be addressed without increasing revenue.
Hello REalist,

It is time to give credit where credit is due.  The IMF in 2013 examined 200 years of governemnt financial records across 55 leading economies.

The IMF identified only 2 periods of Australian fiscal profligacy in recent years, both down to John Howard's terms in 2003, 2005.  The structural problems with the budget began then.  The genesis for budget troubles began with Mr John Howard.  Fault lines widened when John Howard and successive governments did not see the GFC or the end of the resources boom coming.

And let us be clear on the Rudd/Gillard stouch..it was a classic leadership contest, not about fiscal policy.Well, now the IPA are holding Tony's feet to the fire over 18C, hence the polite Berg criticisms here and there.  But 18C will be back 'off the table' no doubt when the opportunity presents.  Perhaps Mr Bolt will write another fallacious article, be attending court procedures, claiming 'freedom of speech' abuse,  and reignite the argument for dumping 18C.The Brandis Blessing, the 'right to be bigoted' created this ridiculous ruling....Bronwyn Bishop should be better than this..when the imagined security 'threat' of veiled women in the public gallery is not supported by evidence this move was as low as this government can go.  And Bronwyn Bishop has not honoured the position of speaker, she has brought it into question.  Peter Slipper did a much better job, even with the burden of that giant target his former Liberal Party bretheren placed on his back.

And re Focus Groups...looks as if the Islamaphobic focus group has hijacked the poll here on the drum.

I doubt that this post will be put in today..the moderator who is on duty on Fridays is a little biased I fear.Hello doc,

Great idea..we had a similar thought..to get a group together, and without risk to offending anyone, turn up to the public gallery en-masse, wearing all kinds of veils. Some of us have reached  the age where veiling the face might be an attractive idea.  Perhaps we could start a 'wear a veil' movement. Solidarity among women.Hello Virgil,

You ask "how can LNP voters be hoodwinked"? 

Well, LNP voters generally are devoted to Uncle Rupe and his News Ltd publications and are devotees of Andrew Bolt.  Last time I checked, Mr Bolt was a devoted warrior in the war against climate science, establishing an entire climate sceptic industry.

And those voters take heart from News Limited's war on the ABC.  They seem to be "Hoodwinked" on more than one front.Yes, whohasthefish,

I think your comment provides a dose of sanity.
We all need to get a grip, look around us, put the money into protecting women and children from domestic abuse.  

Having also had the recent experience of being tailgated by a multi-ton truck at 120km per hour, I would have liked there to be a traffic officer handy.  Terror goes on every day on our high speed higways.  Many have died.Like the right to pay 0% tax, if you can afford to pay the loophole-finding-accountant?  There are many ways to make "Extravagant demands for rights and privileges that can only be sought in good times".Hello ROSIE,

When did Labor create fear? Must have missed it.  Was it the promise of creating jobs, taking action to reduce emissions, progressive policies re tax, education and NDIS, broadband network etc.  Who did they frighten, apart from the fossill fuel industry and Uncle Rupe?  

I seem to remember that the ones that were 'frightened' spent a lot of money and newspaper space getting them out of government.
