This is kind of why we can see our society advancing in our lifetimes, but somehow the really good things that get introduced also get taken away. Because it's not for the good of the nation, it's only about getting into power and staying there. Our politicians are hampered in their ability to do things "for the good of the nation" because once you get to the top you can no longer see the nation. You can only see your domain, your racehorses, your jockeys, and your stables.That Tony Mundine could remember Deaths in Custody and say it was emotional blackmail. Turn away, Doctor Mundine.And Doctor Advertising could look back on The Grim Reaper and feel some pride in his judgement. The Horror.I'm an ordinary person, not famous, not successful, don't have my own Super. Like others have said here, I am not being paid to comment, it's not my job, I'm not getting my wage to sit here all day and do a Facebook on the conversation. I don't agree, I don't want it to be done in my name. I don't like the pressure on the AMA, don't like the pressure on the ABC, don't even know which bank is the Commonwealth any more. Not in my name, Libs.No thanks Olive, I'm just furious and outraged, I've had to put Disney on.I mean seriously Olive, we don't come here to be mocked by the hired help. Public Service! Transfer them all to the NT! It'll be a gold mine of satirical content for The Times of Darwin!Last time I looked Gumpie I was one of "The Australian People". So too, while they are in our custody, are the people on those islands and the people on that ship. In that, you know, people are acting on their behalfs as if they were "one of us". It's all relative, Gumpie. And so are they.Chase Gardener, Gump? You don't have to be a Gossip Girls fan to figure that one.I dunno, that must be what those regional newspapers are telling people, you know, all the News Limited ones. Please, don't feel, it really really annoys us. I guess being world-weary is how one feels when ones employee has shown their leaden feet, showing no leadership just at the moment that leadership was most needed, letting go of the people they promised to protect. I guess we cannot help cynicism, it is just that kind of a world. But I remember the deaths in custody, Doctor Mundine, only because I saw what a strain describing that awful, awful story, putting all the pieces together, put on the family of someone I cared about. It is not good enough. Will you write the story of these people? Somebody wrote it for you.Free association. Wasn't that something we were all being criticized for a year or so ago? It seems it's acceptable again, thank the Lord, thank heavens. Those babies are no doubt feeling a bit guilty about having anything to do with their mothers.I'd like to see one of those reality tv shows, Doctor for A Day, Doctor Advertising and Doctor Minority Report go out to a detention centre and sort out all those malingerers. Those babies should be made to crawl by goodness.It is not good enough, that people speak on the television on our behalf without making eye contact with the camera. Do not avert your eyes when you speak on my behalf. You are speaking for me.And sure, I've got a big head thinking that Doctor Asssociate might be talking to little me, when he quotes Spike Lee. But anyway I've got a big head. Let it go Doctor Asssociate, you princess. Just be talking, there.Well that's what I mean, in my name, we have Wards in our family too, not to mention my great grandfather who was a doorstep foundling. You know, those kinds of things, they matter to us.Really you should hear what the Smiths have to say about it.ONE person gets to take on the system. One or a few people get to burn out trying to get something to change. Because everyone else is waiting for something concrete they can claim as their own. Get off your assses lazy people and take a little walk in Philip Nietscze's shoes.You didn't tell The Beatles they were insane for singing of love and pain and generosity and hope. So please don't tell me that I am just because I am not special to you. I am telling you. Do not do this in my name. Do not brand people as troublemakers and manipulators. Not in my name.Still I don't regard myself as legitimate - whatever that means - any less than they do. You don't need a passport to have a human right. While there are still human rights, I would still like our Government to abide by the laws of them.Honestly we could DO with a few more economic refugees arriving on boats if they've got funds we can get the Taxation Office to impound them, most of our taxes don't even MAKE it to the country.It is so outrageous. While nobody could say for sure that there was a lot of internet surveillance and quasi-official manipulation of people's emotions and rational thoughts, it was just fine for that kind of spook talk "it's all in your head, you're just imagining things". But now we know it's far more prevalent than we thought. So, you people who thought you were being sent mad by someone in your office, someone in your family, you may well have been, study up. I remember watching a video of a woman who described how she thought she was being targetted by people in her office and how she came to realize that she was delusional and thought: no, honey, don't go jumping to conclusions there. Those women are in an absolutely insane situation, and if they weren't feeling defeated and suicidal there would probably be something wrong with them. It outrages me that someone who isn't even qualified to can stand there and say they are bunging it on. And it outrages me that we would be fed such rubbish in this day and age. The Government has people over there whose job it is to SEND them insane! What are you TALKING about?Also, the Government is paying people who go onto this site and say over and over again that we should stop talking about this stuff. What are YOU talking about. You are sending US insane. Please stop this disgraceful use of our taxpayer's money. God only knows there are few enough of them as it is. If we get more poor people into the country, logically, we will have more taxes. Even if they don't work, they still have to eat, and those taxes they get from us buying things are still taxes and a damned sight more taxes than the corporate taxes are bringing in. Why else would they be so keen on consumption tax that they would be willing to re-jig the Federation to get them. It ain't Star Wars you know. It economics.You want to lower people's wages, you want to bring in a poor class who get to be maids for everyone else. What are we making here, India? The Philippines? China? We are not moving into a third world status so that people can feel richer than others are we? Those people people will still be paying a lot of tax, they won't be able to avoid it like Clive Palmer does, like I bet you the accountants of ALL our politicians wangle. This is just crazy stuff. I do not want to go back to being a White Republic. England, Canada, America, Russia, can have it.What I can't understand is why every WOMAN in this COUNTRY has not gone insane just from listening to the Government and their sycophants manipulate and dirty the waters of a decent employment system with their stupid games regarding leave for childbirth, childcare, payments for children. Add to that sexual harassment in the workplace, lower wages, and the kind of absolute conTEMPT for women that this government has exhibited and one can only reach the conclusion that EVERY woman in this country has gone INSANE by not going insane. I cannot BELIEVE how much of a clear, nasty strategy it has been to divide opinion and make people resent others. That's the kind of paternalism we're TALKING about here.Lately I've been seeing some of the worst "journalism" I think I may have experienced in my life. It's like the leftovers, drained of any nutrients, all boiled together into the worst stew, blended down to remove any distinction of ingredients. Just a mess. This is indicative of there being too many cooks in the kitchen, none of whom have the faintest idea of interest in what food actually is. Get out of the business, find a little place with a garden in the country, sit and look at the nature for a while, it's really doing your head in.Now. Have we cleared the air somewhat? There is a problem and it is the Israeli-Palestine one. If we cannot resolve this then we cannot deal with all the other problems that are stemming from system inequality.The Prime Minister's plan cannot work because it relies on some really dumb presumptions, what would you expect. The problem is a complex one, all indications I've seen are that the Israeli-Palestine problem really needs to be tackled seriously now. Politicians aren't really getting their heads around that. America's doing something really dumb over there, as usual. They probably need to get out of there, as do the Israelis. Why not give them a patch of Australia. We could have another "first settler" ceremony like the Americans did when they first settled Pine Gap. We could have fruit punch, some chocolate crackles.I'd like to suggest that Russia give up a part of an edge of their landmass for them. I know they won't like that either. But they have the biggest one. And more of it is becoming viable because of this global warming.It's perfectly obvious isn't it? Any policy that relies on shifting people off and making them totally miserable is a policy that will only work by getting progressively crueller and crueller. As people get more and more immune to calls for compassion. Our leaders say we don't want them, try to push them off onto others. People say; don't be cruel. They feel guilty, feel wrong. This makes them behave more badly. There is really only one solution. We must look beyond the problem. Nobody should have to be a buffer zone, Israel may have been the right solution at the time, under the circumstances it's not any more.Yes I would like to know why Julie Bishop would not make eye contact with the camera when she gave her first statement.And the Ruskies of course have undergone a bit of a face lift once a pon a time they'd have been portrayed a bit like we think of the NSA now and the Labor'd all be in their pockets, all in it together, all sinister and a bit shaky. These days of course they're almost more right than the Democrats, bit hard to tell who's pulling the strings there but I wonder if it's some shifty little media mogul in thick glasses and thinly stranded combed down the front hair.Actually Alfie I think progressive thinkerers are probably more upset about the last two (or three?) hapless Lib leaders. At this rate there'll never be a Lib for women.I suppose that name Abbott was a better brand than Downer, than Turnbull, than Hokey or Hawkey or whatever they were going to turn on him with. Brand. It's important.Then there was that - was it Brendan? Yes, Brendan Nelson. A lovely soft spoken man, it would have been lovely having him up for a press conference. That's really a shame, all the lovely speaking voices they go through them fast don't they? We get stuck with the rougher ones.And without wanting to harp on the past, because of course I dislike harping on the past, I really feel the kind of discussions we have about Prime Minister Abbott are extremely unequal. Labor leaders, they don't do bastard things and then have their supporters say: oh, they're a good man, they're a good woman, they're good people. They rise and fall on their actions. And speaking of which, I mean actions as well as merits, I mean the man as well as what the man does, I haven't seen anything particularly impressive from any of those in the Senate, I'm sorry to say, that I could forgive the actions because the man was so good.I'm sorry Brain but I said nothing about bastard I happen to think that legitimacy is not something that should be afforded only to some.No wait twas I who said bastard thing. I think I was referring to illegitimate acts, there. I think it's fine that some acts should be illegitimate, I just don't think people should be illegitimate. Does that clear things up? Sorry, in a bit of a muddle today, it's the nightingales, they are so noisy this time of year.No Brain things may still be a little foggy there when I said bastard acts rather than bastard people I was not referring to sexual acts. Acts of sexuality are not something we need to necessarily know about where our politicians are concerned, the key here is discretion.Nightingales, Peter. They're a kind of bird, fairly lacking in visual spectacularity, but they do have a quite extraordinary voice, predominantly the men for some reason and particularly in mating season. 

I can imagine the very timbre, the very tone. "He's really quite....genuine, isn't he?" They said to one another. 
Let me be specific here I did not say doing bastard acts I said doing bastard things. But I was speaking the venacular of my grandmother, so to speak; she did not usually use the term bastards but was more comfortable with buggers; specifically little buggers, or you little buggers. By bastard things, or specifically by doing bastard things, I am referring to things that are mean, sometimes targetted mean.Really though, I guess what I mean is being mean but everyone pretending that it isn't mean, that's what's been going on for yonks. I do not believe that I have seen actual sincerity from Tony Abbott since that TV interview where he blink blink blinked though that could have been yet another dig at Bill Shorten and anyway way before that he was simply a facade, an empty shell with a brand stuck on it, spouting words he clearly didn't believe in. To be honest if he went over there and punched Putin in the nose for being obstreperous it might change my opinion. And that matters to me.It is odd though. I noticed that before both of the plane incidents there were national security issues being discussed in the Senate. And yet before the riot that killed Reza Berati, nothing.But I have trouble with conspiracy theories. Given though that the first plan MH370 disappeard on March 8 and the second MH17 was shot down on July 17 and both times there was some oblique or otherwise mention in our parliament I am forced to conclude that there may have been some kind of pre-announcement by some evildoers somewhere on the planet.Also that I believe that our Prime Minister and Foreign Minister may at times not be addressing the Australian People so much as sending a strong yet coded message to these evildoers that come couched in some kind of communication devices that are known clearly only by the Prime Minister and the aforementioned evildoers.It's like Nemo, but we are the children and of course the evildoers are the adults. Which is not unlike Batman the semi-animated television series in that although it seems to be for us really it is not.It was very satisfying to have our evil characters and the ones that were supposed to be good but were actually uncomfortably weird biff it out in front of a camera, we all felt better for it. Bring back Punch and Judy shows I say I say I say.I think it's a boundary thing Amanda. Try always being nice to them and saying what they want to hear, it seems to really be effective.I think looters is too kind a term for this tory boy lets call them thieves with a surprising lack of respect for the dead and pause to reflect as to whether this is because of the violence and intimidation they are currently surrounded by day in day out for many months now.Mind you that's a pretty intermittent thing historically, it's probably quite business as usual.Yes they may have been thinking to give them a quick press and a bit of an airing and pop them back.So now when we fly we can get used for scoring goals, as the ball, that's what it comes down to doesn't it? Perhaps we should vote with our tushes and not fly for a while, then perhaps the governments will stop keeping their high security briefs for each other. I'm not fond of diplomats, I think they're generally pretty lazy, and if the travel industry wants to fail it's going about it the right way.Sorry, that's not diplomats, that's think tank people I was in a bit of a mental shift there.I find it a bit unusual, the disasters are usually somehow mitigated by humans and politicians are usually trying to sort through them predominantly and seem as confused as the rest of us and yet forced to pretend that they have a clue what's going on. It's kind of a cruel sport, I think we should find a way to have it phased out.Yes Clete I completely concur with you as if they needed another excuse surely the budget isn't done with yet get back to work you Left punkys and cuff! cuff!It's true though that Mister Abbott said his daughters had taken that flight a few months back. I suppose it was a Qantas flight-share.That was though before the government debated selling it off to foreign ownership and not selling it off to foreign ownership. Or I suppose it could have been a lousy flight.No I remember I once took a plane and the next day I heard that that very the same plane was three hours later I could not believe it. But for the grace of god go I, I thought to my self. Had I but made a mistake and turned up a day late it would have been that plane I took. What I mean to say is: if the Prime Minister's daughters had been on that plane we'd be all sitting down to a cup of coffee and a chat about their holiday with them today so that's not exactly an appropriate analogy there is it. They'd have actually followed through with their DFAT advisorys.Puff! Puff! Postures Prime Minister Abbott swelling up visibly for the camera like an arnie wax model. And then over there in Rusky Land Putin puts his little fingers all together in a spiral, smiles an evil smile, spins in his chair to the intercom and orders a general to order a Separatist to hold up another stuffed toy to the camera.That's really the level of debate we're having here. You can read about it in Joe Hockey's book. Oh. But it's encrypted.Oh I think that is not a spiral but a spire.And it's like Steve Irwin, if he wasn't always surrendering his sense of himself in favour of a heroistic television character he would be alive today, Tony Abbott shows us the man he thinks should be manning up to a face-off with Putin when what we want when we see him is a country we can be proud of.What we should be doing is encouraging Mister Putin to go over and punch the Americans in the nose so we can clear the air and all go back to having a life, a real life, one unencumbered by this kind of diplomatic nicety where nobody does anything, nobody says anything real, and we all have to be totally manipulated so that we don't notice. The sky is falling. The emperor is naked.And Tony Abbott fluttering his eyelashes at Putin was really no exception there. I suppose they had to hand over quite a bit.And the deal's been sealed and they only got two-thirds of what they asked for. And more distress, that distress is the most painful thing. And now they've got to go back and do it again.If pinch came to shove rob I'm sure there are quite a number willing to self-finance their own ascendancy to the Prime WestMinstership.Shouldn't we be the South Minstership? Why do we have to be West. Can't we be uniquely something? Or would that be too challenging. I cannot believe that we have so held off becoming uniquely something just because we would have upset our Northern and Weastern Overlords. Looks like the only people we can be ourselves with are penguins.You know you might have to do a lot of doorknocking but it might be possible if you got a christian denomination behind you. At least a local councillor, probably not all the way to the prime minstership though.Oh my GOODNESS Tim, you do realize it's now illegal to share?I think if your Facebook friend is not in the Gaza it's probably not fatal.Are they Mister Kerrie? 

We're being warned off Gaza.Then you could suggest sending a drone out to drop humanitarian supplies on top of them.I can't see religion doing much at all to harm people at the moment. It's guns presidents and photoshop.Visas. It's really not the business of the Australian Government to dictate what is legal and what is illegal, what is acceptable and what is not acceptable in another country. Surely that's what visas are for. Also what travel insurance is for. What is most likely to radicalize people is being treated unfairly or unjustly in some way. If the country doesn't want those people to come and fight then it will keep them out. It seems the government is keen to cut out the middle-man - that is, going over there and seeing for themselves - and get these kids resentful by refusing to let them go. If you're going to make them prove something, surely you should make them prove that they DID fight. As many of them are likely showing off.What the airlines can do of course is be booked out, that's one of the things that bookings are for. It's just that they want to change the meaning of passports. That's globalisation.You know, the usual, for this government. Not a right but a privilege.Cause if we don't respect Team Australia by goodness we'll learn to fear it. It'll be like spending your life in an airport departure lounge. Sure you can sit down. But you can't rest.I find it a bit confusing. If the government chooses to retrain all of our data and then something bad happens aren't we just going to sue the government for failing to know it was being planned?Anyway, they probably just want to know what we've been looking at.I really do not think that they have even thought of the possibility that knowing that they know what we have been saying about them they know we will vote for them because we feel a bit caught out and embarrassed.Take Time Warner, for example. If you were Time Warner's shareholders then knowing that Rupert knew what you had been saying would be a competitive advantage, no?I think that before we take a look at terrorism laws we need to be sure of what laws we have. There is no better place to start than with Babby Gammy. How did Babby Gabby, sister of Babby Gammy, travel without a passport, and what are Babby Gabby's rights now that she is in the country. Also, how does this affect Babby Gammy, surely the hospital should have ensured that the babbies left together. If Babby Gabby had already been issued with a passport, what is her status? Can she be forced to leave the country if it is found that she is in contravention of the Immigration laws having received no signature from her birth mother?It's not their fault, it's nobody's fault, the stars have collided to give us a chance to really look at the system and get it right.One of these twins is currently legitimate. One is currently illegitimate. How can that happen to babies. It can happen because the laws proscribe ownership.The slave trade? No, I believe in this case it's babby-as-political-football. A lot of people use children for that kind of thing.Not just anyone can have the same rights. Many of these asylum seekers could not come to this country even if they did have money. It is likely that Babby Gammy would not be able to visit his sister Babby Gabby even if he managed to get the money together. That is the reality of the world. It is not the same opportunity for everyone.Passports also proscribe ownership.We might at this point start to wonder if our politicians are spending rather too much time Snipesing at each other and not enough time working out rather fundamental issues that have been neglected for rather a long time.Then, we might wonder to ourselves if it is not this current crop of Politicians, rather than the actual political system, and consider the possibility that the rich ones, getting a free education, spent rather a lot of time doing themselves a favour and getting known as University roustabouts, running political campaigns for the Big Board, because their usually quite strict and rigorous parents were feeling much more relaxed not to be paying for their education. Such parents, you see, really do care usually about how their money is spent.Rising costs indeed. Take the case of our NBN, from beginning to end. The TELLCO companies refused to do it as a profit-making exercise, forcing the government to try to corral it into a government project. How does one raise costs, by doing nothing, and we can see how the companies have profited and profited again. With a change of government, all the government then had to do to profit was nothing. Mister Turnbull show your mettle here. Get the job done, stop fussing over the surveillance aspects, stop fussing over how to get the bills rushed through, stop trying ot break contracts, just lay the cable to the node and be done with it.The government of course is getting a little paranoid, thinks there must be some "ordinary people" getting above themselves. But we should consider that some of this is flow-on from ICAC, people who have been publicly shamed but not actually de-militarized.It's like Chomsky. You might wonder why America tolerates him, he's got such a potty-mouth. But America doesn't mind being depicted as an all-powerful super-hero which has gone over to the other side, it's still a powerful position. If Chomsky was to say that America was being manipulated by a bunch of extreme-right christians who aren't even American, or even a bunch of extreme-right Americans who we see every day on television smiling at us like some kind of beautific saint, he would probably have to field much harder questions at the end of his video talks because that's what the hosts would organize.Let's face it, American cannot be that all-powerful. One in four of their domestically produced refrigerators ices the freezer and has to be refunded.I reckon I know why the NBN is causing such a headache. It's the royalties. They want a guarantee in the contract that all the illegal downloads are paid for and if we won't, the government will. The government has to squeeze them out of us now. That's why they have to pass these dragonian security laws.But the governments don't oversee such things, we know that because we have virtually no protection from big business. So I think it must be the cable television stations.Can one say that the British government was wrong to criminalize the stealing of bread. Clearly one cannot. Unless, of course, it was found that the British also engineered a food shortage amongst the poor. Bread may at the time have been a symbol of Christianity, in which case the stealing of may also have been perceived as an act of political defiance. Give us this day our daily bread.....Perhaps this downloading of Game of Thrones is an almost genetic response to a distant memory of oppression and inequality. Or perhaps it's all the TV and film references they pack into it. We have after all already paid for those.The government lets them steal our data so they can design little medlies that we half-recognize. They pack them full of references to politics, paid for by political parties having a dig at each other. Then they wonder why we want to see them in real time. They fill them will cues so we will eat and drink what they want us to in the super!markets. They also think we should pay a lot of money for them. Huh. Something odd about that.It's interesting, isn't it? Now that they've figured out how to get us to pay through the nose it seems that they do actually know how to make viewing that we want to see. Quality, here we come.I for one am a little afraid to have an opinion about this, being one of the disrespectful and sneering leftovers. 

Is 2014 resembling 1914? I really hope not, because if it is, then 1914 was full of really mean manipulative and oppressive behaviours that drove the world to war. No doubt there were governments with oppressive social policies. Terribly bad manners far and beyond their actual usefulness. And, of course, far too many meddling middling court officials. We could be doomed you know.Take young Gammy for example. The government seems not to see any urgency in the situation of an Australian National who has been abandoned in a foreign country, or in the situation of a Thai National who has been kidnapped and brought to Australia, whichever this case is. They are happy for it to be forced into the public to be dealt with in awkwardly. Is Gammy ours? Is Gammy theirs? Surely they should be up and on their Steel Rolled Oats In The Sky by now, sorting out what appears to be a very problemmatic flaw in the contractual human-farming industry. But are they.But also we should try to tell him why it had to happen. 

We don't know, Sonny. A lot of people do though.It's probably just social engineering.No look I'm not upset about Amanda Vanstone's comments, she's entitled to write her columns, I'm just a reader, just a device for the dissemination of opinion, it's probably just Italy she's upset about, I'm just letting it you know, go right over my head. Sigh.This is where we all have to become smart online consumers and use our experience of the virtual world to understand the real one. Imagine the players in WWI as a bunch of hacking agents, in groups, trying to win a strategic advantage over each other by looking for weaknesses in the system. Using the people as like chess pieces, moving things round the board to try to angle in on something. What was it that they wanted to achieve from WWI and did they in actuality achieve that. I have to posit that they did in fact get what they wanted. Because they pretty well did it again for WWII. I'm looking here at America, which may or may not have been the silent caller, and lesser players like the others.I just cannot understand how God is supposed to think that it is for the best, clearly all the other gods call it for what it is, just a bunch of gods messing with each other. Personally I think the Bible might have been mis-copied at some point by some prissy old monk with a blunt feather.If the Catholics are upset with Israel again why don't they just say so, it's just annoying to have this military stuff rolled out every time someone gets huffy with someone else. Also a lot of people are dead, we are supposed to feel guilty about that. The Military machine doesn't have to feel guilty about it, it is somehow a human failing, rather than the inevitable consequence of very unpleasant machinery. I suppose these people doing this think that if we don't feel grief and remorse than we have no humanity any more. No, I think we just don't have humanity. We have Hannity. We have Fox. We have The Political Machine. We are now being manipulated in ways that were undreamed of a hundred years ago. We have no freedom of mind. How could we have humanity. We would have to be human for that.To be human the tools have to be in our hands. If we have so extended them that we no longer touch them, we no longer kill people, if we can drone people to death like Obama does, then we are now robots. We are now just part of a machine. A killing machine. All of us.There is no longer humanity. There are humans working within technology. We are not robots. We are simply the organs of robots.This is why, you see, I feel that Minister Bishop and Prime Minister Abbott and yes, Minister Pyne and Minister Hockey and Minister Bernardi and Minister Barnaby and Minister Bishop need to get on that plane and go over to Thailand and get the Baby Guppy and bring him home. And in the plane, spend their time taking turns in holding him. And reflect on a few things. Like Baby Guppy's life so far, and Baby Guppy's life, from now on.A human child is born from IT's mother. With this surrogate child we turn a public page. The child is a contractual error. Not a human child. Until the "little" contractual error is fixed. Either it is human and has basic human rights, like being recognized by the goverment as their mistake, or it is not.The new illegitimacy. Both parents say no, not mine. New form of wetnurse, takes babby home, sells story to tabloids. Huh.Maybe also get "minors" "minorities" and "minions" out of the political policy making, there.Are you the people who are raising prices of education? Who is going to benefit from that?Lets just say for a moment that the universities represent "business interests".  Why would it be in their interests to blow their students out of the water? Is this a sabotaging of the system to move it speedily to online learning?But we've established already that the customers of universities are not students, they are industry and government. Students are more like stock. So what is the benefit to industry and government that the universities drive up prices so much that most students who would ordinarily enrol cannot do so, or will rack up huge debts in doing so.In the same way, it may be able to be said that the Palestinians in this case are not co-participants, but stock. So who would be the actual participants. It is my own theory that it is the Americans. Who are greatly losing face by having sponsored the Israelis.And that armed conflict is in fact beginning to resemble much more greatly a kind of reality television. Also a kind of remote-controlled television competition. This is the problem with giving so much power to huge media conglomerates. We cannot simply blame News Limited for this, we could have been more aware of it when CNN made it's debut on Kuwait, when social media made their debut on social uprisings.The possibility that these wars are being staged for our comfortable discomforted television viewing, that is quite disturbing, Hamas and Israel appear to be the two sides of the North Korea Go-For-Gold Strategy. What percentage of our population is Jewish. What percentage is Palestinian.There is something that I am now quite confused about. Why did the people who put John Howard on the throne push him off. Why didn't they just keep him there for a long time, they did it with Menzies didn't they? And why didn't they just put Tony Abbott straight on. Why did it take them so long to get around to doing that.I stood on the side of the road and waited because police were holding up the traffic, and watched Netanyahoo being driven to a Japanese shrine. Not two months ago. What does he think he is doing, here.That's why I find it difficult not to consider the possibililty that the Tea Party is a more prolific and unpleasant organisation than we in fact realize. Because of hammers.That's also why I'm wondering about the funding of this little military operation. There's more than one way to get a message to the UN."We Will Not Give In To Emotional Blackmail", says Sherriff Abbott, "We Are Open for Business."That's why I'm wondering if the Tea Party is more of a large corporate conglomerate, possibly strongly supported by intelligence organizations which don't have oversight, that has the capability to go into other organisations in quite an innoculous way and do a bit of damage, and then wander off again. But what could that be.I've tried googling it but so far nothing.And it's a pretty constant narrative. We will stand firm, we will deliver, we are doing everything right, everything we can, stuff like that. So what did the university's do that was wrong, and what did welfare do that was wrong.It's really like the kind of education that Kevin Donelly has been espousing in his writings for years and years, I first came upon it in Sunday School, they would make you learn something and at the end you really didn't have any idea as to why it was important, what it meant in the bigger picture of things, it was very dry, it didn't provoke thought, it rather encouraged you to not think at all, because if you thought about it, it didn't make sense, if you thought about why it didn't make sense you would come to the conclusion that it was simply manipulative and quite superficially, smugly manipulative at that. It was the kind of learning that says sure, we are going to teach you about King Arthur now and that is going to count for history, that's all you're gonna get and if you know anything else you'll not be able to make sense of the test, you'll fail and we'll know why. And you may know that King Arthur is pretty ridiculous. But the only way you can show intelligence is to fail, it's a difficult choice to make and one that only the intelligent usually even consider.Now consider Twiggy, commonly known as a stick-thin model who shocked the Melbourne Cup establishment by not wearing a long frock. And wonder to yourself, what does that have to do with totally over-managing people's private lives.It's like when your favorite supermarket closes down and when you say to them, I'm sorry you're closing down they look at you and you can see that they're thinking well you hardly helped. And it's true, you hardly helped. What can you say. There were several supermarkets, you went to the one you felt like going to. You didn't always go to your favorite one. It wasn't your favorite one because of the things it stocked that made it better than the two of the same company that opened on either side of it. It was your favorite because it was a bit shabby and not very supermarket-like at all.Yes, that's how Coles and Woolworths, most of the hospitals, most of the universities are going to look. But the top tier medical facilities, top tier universities. How swish. At least though our government isn't just going to start a false quarrel with them and bomb them out of existence. Like it will to the ABC.Sunday school. It was like volunteer charity work for the private schools. I learned a lot about private schools. Only, mind you, how it felt to be at the bottom of one. Not at the top."Formative years" is roughly around the age that most of the child-rearing population can start doing their jobs. After that, your education is quite radically adjusted. You learn how to be child-rearers. The men, how to adjust to stable employment. The women, how to adjust to stable parenting. Although this is much more fluid of course. You'll find that if a man opts to be the child-rearer their education is very different. Less so for women, who if they remain in the workplace must adapt their role somewhat.I don't actually believe in ghosts, wise, though I would like to. A few times I've wondered if I've seen them, but nothing really verifyable. Same with anything that comes back to haunt you, generally I think actual things don't really do that.Yes my grandpa died on one of those work-for-the-dole things, he was on roads, he came back from fighting in the war in New Guinea and they got him working on roads. It was a long time ago of course, I never met him.Yes, I was think about that. Remember all the talk a little while back, maybe last year, about D-Double trucks? I guess that was also about this DD you speak of. To be honest, I wonder if the reason that Coles, Woolworths, Target, etc, flourish and slap off any competition is that they are tied into the political campaigns.I would first like to say to the relatives of people on the MH17 how sorry I am for their loss. I have experienced a close relative come home to me in a body bag from another country, my sadness is with you. 

I heard people talk about what those people on the plane might have experienced. One time taking a short flight home exhausted I fell asleep and woke to the plane dropping abruptly. The plane was making a landing but I mistakenly thought it was still shortly after we had taken off. But I've just started, I thought, and I shouted No No No! before I managed to get my eyes open. At that point I realized I had been asleep and had just embarrassed myself. Anyway, that may be the amount of consciousness that your families had of their predicament: as far as death is concerned it is unlikely to have been as distressful as, say, a heart attack. But the field in which they fell is definitely a sacred one I feel, for though I don't so much believe in religious gods I do believe in souls, especially souls who have just left the world, being in need of comfort. It might be that they soon enough found their way back to you. I recommend that you do the buddhist thing and make a place for them in your home, because there is scarce comfort in christian rituals of the dead. They don't love you any less for being gone, and they are now not in need of retribution or revenge. Just comfort. I hope that is helpful for you.Personally, I think the christian church has let everyone down for a long time, I don't know why they haven't functioned properly but I wish they would take a good look at themselves and see the mess that they have become. They had an important role to play in society and until they do understand it and return to it why pander to them. Faith is irrespective of religion, one can just have it.I still do remember the overwhelming pain of such a death. At the time, and I was quite young, it was actually a Jewish woman who managed to ease that pain somewhat, and she did that by being unafraid of death, of talking about it, all the ways that different people of the world have of mourning death. I was very impressed by that. The Japanese have a festival of the dead, in the middle of August, when they welcome home the souls of the dead, who dwell with them for a week. And then they depart again, back to wherever they come from. Actually I don't really understand how they manage that and also manage to be reincarnated into another life. There is a lot to understand about such mystical beliefs.Things are getting tough. I'm recommending News 48. Weekends only. That'll keep the pollies on their toes. The rest of the time we can have them in their offices writing secrets.So many secrets Prime Minister Abbott had previous to the Ascendence to the Parliamentary Big Table (Grown UPs). Now? No secrets. Though some of the Minister mysteriously disappear for months at a time until their book is published. Oddly mutable.It's all out in the foreign press, headless Australian dole bludging ex-minors senior citizen home property developers. Apparently someone has already made an entire arts festival of it.It's like the airports, they bring in terrorism laws and then do more and more irritating things that stress out travellers. But it isn't the travellers who are the customers, it isn't even the airlines, they are a nuisance, it is the duty free shops. So we get these real violations of our space and freedom and identities and basically it's in order to lock us up for hours at a time with a bunch of duty free shops. And it isn't just the ones you get to first, Australians are prized customers because in almost all times they go into transit somewhere. 

The government isn't even considering the people who are on welfare, they are just the cargo, they are just the poultry. It is business, it is the welfare industry who going to suck dry the people that the government is holding still, pushing into overcrowded hot dry containers. The government really doesn't care to hide it any more. Welfare is a suck. And you are a desiccated chook.What even is Duty Free. Clearly it's when you don't pay taxes because your corporation is too big, you employ all the fruit pickers at half the advertised rate because the government wants to change the IR laws so turns a blind eye, you make special clubs that nobody can know about, you fly the fruits out of the country and then back in again and then you slap a huge consumption tax on them and take all the nice jams off the shelf. That's what we call an apple store.You've got Public Intellectual Berkley or some such name talking about how it's a really odd characteristic of The Average Australian, that they really like their dead to be treated nicely. And then you've got leaders of the free world who crow as they tip the body of Bin Laden into the sea, hardly sanitary, and unemployed people who aren't EVEN dead being forced to bang the same old resume out over and over again when they could be outside getting a bit of fresh air and having the time and presence of mind to come to the conclusion that actually if they've sent off one resume they're alREADY what ninety percent of companies are not actually looking for.Isn't it a bit late to be expecting sympathy from the rest of the world, America? You've taken the jobs, the taxes and the industries. What more do you want, complete world domination?Is it not the case that by allowing people to speak freely of the rules governing payment of taxes and therefore encouraging discussion of how to get around those aforesaid taxes the government is implicit nee colluding with big corporations in the milking of the economy? People should not be allowed to speak freely of resumes, it only encourages them to apply.That's what a lot of them did at University. Made a name for themselves as rough housers, menacers, and once they graduated they never had to write a resume. That's why they have no respect for people who do.So lets start with the basics. The day you got the certificate, that's when you got your Ph.D., your MA, your BA or BS or MBA. Study overseas? If you didn't get that certificate, you do not have that degree. Fancy titles and fields? They are generally informal. Work? Check it all out, every single entry. Referees? Ask to speak to someone else. Immediately.I've got an idea, why don't we put the mining industry in charge of jobs, they can put together a work-for-the-dole scheme, breaking the stones down and extracting the vitamins and minerals from them. I reckon there'd be quite a goldmine there.Why is the government putting the refugees into what looks like a long train in the middle of nowhere? Isn't that expensive?It's worse than I even thought, the mining industry's been put in charge of refugee policy.Is Bob Geldorf still in Australia? Perhaps he could do something.A Royal Benefit or something. They could get all the local unemployed people on disability from their mining injuries to wave coloured lights and form a spontaneous runway. For all the private jets, it's mighty far to the nearest public airport.Which is why the government really needs to get serious about this unemployment issue before New Zealand too is depleted of resources. All very well to tell them over there that it's business as usual, no doubt the room was only half full at most and half of them were relatives, the poor New Zealanders are having to order most of their groceries online now, the sheep industry is having virtually to look after itself.The scheme was suggested by one of the leading professors in the field, admittedly rather small now, who says that the foreign student intake has been a lifesaver for local industry and training is proceeding at a fast pace normal production should resume in a few months.Of course mis-allocation of task is a symptom of organizational downturn. Having the mining industry fly into the Ukraine and extract every last speck of dust from that crash site having it over here within days if not hours would have made powerful economic sense.Odd, really, that a country so full of mines would be wanting to phase out coins and have only plastic money. I guess when you go to the mining moguls and ask them about how much they're really getting per tonne the credit on their skype accounts run out.I suppose they'll be working for the dole if the government can get them to do that without it contributing to their case for refugeeship. They did after all fill in a questionnaire about whether they intended to work, and I'm hoping they all said yes. And I suppose the families of those people who died in the airplane will be asked to contribute to the task force. That's almost always the way it is. Even in WWII they had to do that, probably even in WWI, the red cross got half their wages for every cigarette, naughty people.I suppose they'll be throwing in a few jet fighters, come to think of it. Get it back on insurance.Ah. Nimbin.There certainly is a big play on the letter Z today, it's quite unusual to see so many z's out there in so many ways.Sure, Nimbin. You've broken a feather there. Nothing that can't be fixed. We need all the feathers we can get in this uncertain political climate.Odds are there is only going to be one average Australian but by goodness I think we should find them. We can get all that surveillance data and put it all in a huge, huge box and put one kitten in there not let him out until he's found it. Then we will have to take out the brain of the average australian and download every last thought from it and keep it in a standalone computer so as it doesn't get affected by telemarketing. Then we will have finally no need for polls. We will have the quintessential Australian and we will know at all times what The Australian thinks. That will save us a lot of money.So many metaphors. Switzerland, for example.Perhaps the Presbyterians could go in there and open up a soup kitchen. They're very organised.I had thought that the Abbott Government would just wait until there were social problems from large-scale twenty-to-thirties unemployment and then start National Service again but with huge numbers of American Soldiers and Sailors for shipping them in and out based in Darwin what would we need them for. Then I thought it might be the Green Army: plant trees on the Dole but apparently they've counted all the trees in Tasmania now and we have more than enough. Then I thought maybe it was to man the fruit canneries and the chocolate factories but if they're cheap enough now Coles and Woolies is probably ordering again. Then I thought well maybe it's roads, working on roads and airports yes why not some new airports but I'm getting the sneaking suspicion that nobody's going nowhere until we agree to something in The Budget and so we might be in for a really long reign of the Abbott Government just to get that passed. Then I thought well Old People's Homes, what about more Old People's Homes but the market appears to be fairly overwhelmed right now. So I've narrowed it down to the burgeoning Au Pair industry and what a shot in the arm it's going to be for equality for Au Pairs. Still, I wish fruit and vegies were a bit cheaper, people on welfare are a bit tired of spending big bucks at the markets for the ones Woocolies Rejects.I suspect that they're two raisins from the same clump.I don't like to see it as unemployment. I see it as giving.It's just that at this moment five percent of us are volunteering to be jobless. And another ten or so percent are volunteering not to let the statistics hear about us.Yeah well, Putin hasn't yet started sanctions on the Ukraine. But you can see that such a step is almost logical to our current military strategists. Perhaps we need a new set, a less computerized set.Sanctions are about starving people. Or depriving them of warmth and power.Perhaps they're planning to assert their legal rights to invade another country if their nationals are in there and go in and issue HECs payback writs to those wicked head-hunter trophy-brandishing welfare-recipient papparazzi-chasing so-called-australians who are giving them trouble.Yes well sophisticated writing tends to shoot a little high wry.Take myself for example I can only pick up a nuance if it's like commercial television 1873-83 or a countdown interview, that's my state school education.No wait they didn't have commercial television in 1873 I must be thinking of silent movies.That's what Sunday School used to be for, this kind of explanation.It is though a little bit like a horse race for the royal families and self-made Mayors. And we get to be the horses.I'm very fond of the Commonwealth Games, the volleyball there rocks.I suppose to some it does seem a little Countdown.I think it's not enough. Doing "something", like they're really trying to help. Better that they should stand back and make it clear that they really don't do anything.Isn't it time we took another look at the banking sector? I think it's time we took another look at the banking sector, they're barking mad over there.Doesn't it kind of go against the principles of good government that a vulnerable sector of the community is having their savings ripped off by a government-designed program?I'm sorry, but I feel this is all jumping the gun a little. I would like to suggest mandatory drug testing and morning breathalyzers.On the other hand if they just start out the morning with a magic circle, that might make happy timeout.I think there might also be a bit of batallion going on there.And it is likely that the people around them would have known very well how dangerous things were getting if they had been allowed to notice it. It is quite incredible what people can not notice when the situation is illegitimate. You can imagine, once people start turning a blind eye to an affair, then they must continue to turn a blind eye to the breakup, once things become threatening and the whole gameplay is revealed, if there is no acknowledgement of that either than the environment becomes dangerously fertile for unethical behaviours of many kinds. But what the issue is here is possibly more that when one or both parties are married, extraneous relationships are illicit and illegitimate. Thus, there is no protection for such people in such relationships, however prevalent. A huge number of people's behaviour has become unprotected and in the society, unsupervised, in a way that marriage, being legitimate, escapes. In marriage there is a kind of "right to property" and in such defacto relationships there is invisibility. So I think Prime Minister Gillard was right, marriage needs an overhaul.Hello frangipani. I think you may have hit the point, there.Of course there are a lot of people who really like that kind of thing. Being able to dabble in the illicit, when you're happily married. It makes it that much more exciting, right?A lot of people think if we equalize relationships marriage won't be as much fun any more, all that denial, all that sexual tension. I don't know though, I think it might just make the workplace a little fairer.Married people are very resourceful after all.I'm sure the system will still find a way to exclude a lot of people therefore increasing the competitiveness and allow others to get a foothold while they fight it out.If that many people were killed by secret financial advisers, we'd be back to doing our own super.Imagine, for example, if there were only women in the AFL. And only men in the NRL. And the soccer was allowed to have both. How many women would there be in the soccer? That's right, only the girls who do sports massages and pass out bits of orange.But yes, frangipani, in a way you're correct. It includes a marriage but it's clearly about an affair and that's their business. They chose to have it, it's their business. Despite the fact that having an affair meant that the leadup to the really dangerous stuff was overlooked by a lot of people who should have noticed these things. Because it was illicit. It was illicit because it lies outside of civic and religious relationship agreements, as does everything at the moment aside from heterosexual marriage. And yet, married women are still subject to huge amounts of violent assault. And we cannot point the finger at alcohol this time, it's not included in the accounts. So what is it. Something wrong with our men? Or something wrong with our systems.Those eleven people were forced to intervene because an office wasn't doing it's job, of maintaining a safe working environment. I would argue that it couldn't because of the taboos surrounding non-defacto or married relationships.Of course, if the relationship is secret for some reason or another then that is going to be a little difficult. Anyway, regardless of whether it is a workplace issue, I suppose it's all "domestic violence". Right?She can hardly go to her boss and say "this guy I really wasn't seeing, there was really nothing going on, is now threatening me". The whole office either has to admit that they knew it was going on in which case they'll feel like idiots, or pretend that it wasn't half obvious and yet they chose to do nothing. In which case they'll feel really unvirtuous. Which would you choose, I just don't know myself. And actually I don't care, if I had an affair everyone would know about it, there is no safety in secrecy, why should I keep my boss's infidelity a secret. Just cause it's with me is no good reason to enable a lousy system.And actually we could argue that for a workplace issue to become Domestic Violence, it may need to have some secrecy issues. That force it out of the workplace into the home. Someone's home, anyway.And sure, I wasn't the really hot office girly, to be snapped up for the ironing or on dry cleaning duty, I can't speak about my encounters with office politics masquerading as a steamy affair. I was the, you know, one in rollers by the window. With a view of the carpark. It seems to me that expediency drives a lot of office romances. Expediency to do the right thing, expediency to rise in the ranks, expediency to fit all one's desires into a workplace environment. Married people still have sex, life goes on, the workplace secretaries drift off and are replaced by younger ones. The wives, at the gym getting their figures back. Half the sexually-active protected by secrecy, half a victim to it.But hey. If as you say it isn't like that at all, then why do you accept the Ad Men selling it to you. Dreams that don't live up to their plastic promises are the worst kind of dreams.And I would argue that the same goes for a lot of gay people in our society. Exactly how was she supposed to put in an official complaint about his behaviour?Originally banks were a particular kind of business, one that entrusted with your money used it to make a profit and hopefully at the end returned it to you with a tiny increase. In return you could keep it safe while you tried to increase it with your own efforts and if you needed to borrow money you could turn to the borrowing side of the bank and become a customer rather than a volunteer. 

Still though there were two kinds of customer. One was there at their own risk. And one was treated favourably.I liked it when he was a role model for fashion designers everywhere, had his own jewelry line and there were thorpedoes to drink out of the vending machine. That was what we all aspired to. I managed to become the voice of the popcorn vending machine that went to Florida Disneyland but what I really wanted to do was be the voice that said "For your Thorpedo, press eight and insert one dollar".It's all just a lark really, domestic affairs. They must be onto something bigger, perhaps helping Rupert help the Tea Party help the Republicans to ridicule the Democrats and drive them out of office while they've got Obama Lame Duck involved in tilting his windmills at the Middle East. No doubt the Tea Party or whatever that really is, probably a consortium of corporations funding grass-roots agitation and malcontent, not unlike what our government is currently doing to us, masquerading as a political movement but really a kind of conservative religion-like advertising campaign, and if they win in the US they'll come back over here and help out again with the next election. So Abbott is holding out I reckon. Just larkin'.This one's got Country/Nationals written all over it.Some things after all are designed to fail. Your digital cameras, for example, the Paid Parental Leave, the Carbon Tax. And the PUP.What even does it mean these days, designed to fail. Facebook is designed to fail, Twitter, Blogs, online newspaper. All designed to fail. Eventually, when their use is gone and their guts sucked out to make a new one. Myspace, too.Take Ian Thorpe, our new leader of honesty. A new beginning of what, is the Liberal Party trying to get the votes of Labor supporters by making reforms that Labor's laid the groundwork for, but only Liberal governments can actually persuade the people to affect? But first Prime Minister Abbott thinks that we should accept his Division fours, his re-building of the old societal hierarchies. There always have to be people less well off than you and less regarded or respected if you're a Liberal or an Elite, of course, and Labor is no different in this respect.I suppose if the PUPs are in it to make a stir, be one term Senators retire with comfortable benefits that's okay isn't it? It's not like they'd be the first. But I suggest that their constituents demand a little more reading from them.It is after all the very least we can expect from our Elites. That they can read and not just parade on a catwalk.I think it is very interesting to look at the latest exposure of a public scandal; the Volkers case, as well as the Rolf Harris case, in considering what is happening here. 

In these cases the people who made the claims were discredited in court, using ridicule, mockery, and irrelevant questioning. Of course these people were women, young women, it is normal for the courts to consider such people as unable to understand that they are being treated with contempt. But that was only in the courts, I think we would find that they were widely publicised outside the courts as well. Look, was the message, this is what we can do to you, and we will. And therein lies a great deal of the reason why institutional abuse continued for so long, and so openly. 

I believe Clive's got some reason to be putting himself on the line here. And he just watched his team's hazing in "Senator School"; the mocking, the ridicule, and yes, the irrelevant questioning. So did I. It is not irrelevant to question Clive's business and law dealings. But it looks a lot like the game play I've been watching over in the other court. Have a little respect for a change, Establishment. Play by the rules that you force us to play by.People think it's the usual culprits putting stuff in the papers. The sports interests, the gambling interests, the pharmaceutical interests, the tax avoiders, the companies who live off their connections to the governments. But it is just as likely these days to be another bunch of gamers. Those who make money off economic uncertainties. Will this engineering project go ahead, will that housing project go ahead, will this airport go ahead, will that power infrastructure go ahead. That's a big market.Also the inner city entertainment industries, and the alcohol industry, the black market drugs industries, and the soft prostitution market. These are all people who live under the radar of our political field. And yet they're pretty powerful. And vested.How do we know if the Australian Government had the co-operation of the Shri Lankan Government with this from the start. We don't, and that makes it a very difficult situation for us to judge.The real irony of course is that many of the investment funds have their money in these homes. And quite a nice little money-earner it is too!People profiting off their actual own mothers and fathers. Their superannuation investments help build the retirement villages, their profits come through the feels from the sales of the old peoples' homes. Those profits going back into making over more of them.Do the old peoples' houses sell, compared to the usual price, consistently lower than the houses of younger people? That would be a surprise. More profits for the superannuation fund! With quite a percentage for the middle men and women.Just finishing off the milking of the middle class that was begun with hedge funds. Because that is likely to have been the factor that created a rise in personal autonomy in the middle classes. Take away their money, or at least tie it up in slightly dirty ways, and we'll be able to get a handle on them, all the better for easy sale.Nah, I'm still not sold on the conspiracy angle. Deeply opportunistic, yes. But intelligent? No.All very well to complain about how the advertising industry has advised Facebook. The real thing is more likely to be the testing and training of you by your car. Computer controlled, with GPS. Who's driving who?Then of course there's "Operational Matters". What's THAT all about Prime Minister Abbott?Of course a few years back Barry Humphries was almost our Cultural Ambassadress for retirement homes. He was touring them, he had his mother in one, Les Patterson in another. Now of course he's in the Adelaide Festival and the Archibald Prize so things must have had an upturn. Barry Humphries has always been our own Monty Python, our own Rolling Stone. I think Barry could mobilize the aged to do their own protest faster than you could say On The Buses, if you asked him.Life is unpredictable. Make sure you have peace of mind. These days 110 minutes includes a lifetime of commercials. Free!I always wondered if HR Pufnstuf was really a kind of Gilligan's Island for kids. Now I'm wondering if it was really a kind of Batman for kids. Which shows are really for the elderly these days? I suppose they're the ones that have advertising for funerals in them. And which shows are for kids?I thought it was Puffin. Like - the bird, or the books. Since then I've always liked puffins. But Dame Edna and her inflatable floaties? No fanks.A few business interests, one in olive oil, one in rare minerals. Indulgent.I suppose one day Japan did have to grow up and extricate itself from it's military alliance with the US.The way things are going at the moment we'd suspect anyone from any side who was feeling positive about the situation of benefitting financially, so it's to be expected.If Clive Palmer is making the Tea Party of Australia we should hear about it shouldn't we? Maybe this is how they got a foothold in America. I somehow think that they're not actually American, though.ASIC, the press, there are undoubtedly another three groups who have some strong opinions about this, no doubt it is the think tanks who constitute one, the government in all it's for-against unity that constitutes another. But who is the fifth. The tale of the five blind men and the elephant tells us that those who use their other senses notice very different things about the elephant. That's why the disabled were respected, rather than being reviled as this government wishes. But if the blind men are already told what to expect on the road their useful observations will be limited.The closed doors of the publishing industry ensured that our ideas were allowed to flourish. Our newspapers were considered to be unimportant on the world stage so they were allowed to think. The rest of the world looked to us to tell them what thought actually was.It is just one of these bonds that we need to break. And then, like before, we will see more clearly.Yup. That's really going to help people to open up and talk about the problem.So you're hardly giving Rolf Harris's family a chance to heal there. And isn't that important too? That it starts from the family and that family also needs to resolve it? Wrap the picture in some paper, tape it up and pop it in the bin.I am wondering how long corporations have been paying newspaper companies to get their stories in, and also who started that. I'm also wondering why the government is getting so threatening: 'Forgo a pay rise to save your mates' seems a great deal too aggressive for a budget message. But I'm also wondering about government and corporate espionage. If surveillance is getting so pervasive, don't we have to worry about the kinds of information these espies are bringing with them when they join the firm?It is very harsh to say, but we are talking of regulators. Youths are losing their unemployment benefits, they will now be regulated and not paid if they take a holiday, already they cannot move from one place to another if that second place "doesn't have jobs". So they can't go to Byron Bay, or to the Gold Coast, it's no wonder they think about going overseas. And the government now wants to take the passports of the ones who go off to fight somewhere. But can the government verify that they are not encouraging them to think it might be cool? We don't want them to be simply trying to get them out of the country so they can't come back.They took the women out of the political game because they're part of the New Paradigm. They didn't want them interfering. Also most of those who were not assimilated. No going forward now.It's a generational battle. Going back to empty politics. Only the old guys can do it.If you had concentrated your argument on whether it was right to pull a talk from a festival of dangerous ideas that would have been good. As it is you spoke over the man.Until this unsightly episode Murdoch had always stayed very close to his reporters. This marked a distancing, in order to avoid any future litigation. It's interesting to note that the Bolt lawsuits came after, as did the Chaser case.You're right Peter the Lawyer. It is ignorance of the law. The law is designed to avoid just these kinds of problems.I'm not so sure about that Alison. That's an odd thing that got thrown out there the other day, it seems like a red herring to me. I think we're going in the direction of something much, much worse.These days a profit or a deficit is largely what a company wants it to be. A loss is not a loss if the assets of the company have been siphoned off to a new company.Is Our Australian running at a profit, or a loss. How could we ever tell, politics and war talk and surveillance and corruption, they're all mixed in there together. I suppose it probably was like this before World War I, before World War II, we just weren't so much party to the talk because it didn't suit the times for us to be. Now we are.The people in power will have the people not in power take one hand and slap their own face with it, take the other hand and slap the one next to them. That will make it easier to reign in a time when the right to rule is under question.As this ICAC thing goes along taking down politicians in NSW people are looking federal. Why did Qantas suddenly come out with a $2.8bn loss, have people stopped flying? It makes sense to look at why the budget is being said to be in such a mess, as well as why Qantas is in such a mess. If after the problems of Malaysian air, Qantas folds, which airlines will be servicing Australia? Emirates is quite reasonably costed now but will it be if there is no competition? Jetstar is now not complaining, but will it keep running if Qantas folds?Qantas says it hasn't been affected by the Malaysian Airlines thing. I wonder about that though. Surely it's costs had to rise when it stopped flying over the Ukraine?This would mean that it was actually not possible to predict what would happen. But that those bold enough to do so, could set a trend in opinion.The other point of course is that we assume it's the Lib Nats, when in actual fact it could be the Nat Libs. We assume it's Labor when in actual fact it could be another group of people all together, ditto the Greens and the Palmers. We are watching our commercial world grow shells around itself to reinvent the companies as money-less and without legal responsibility. There is no reason not to scrutinize the political system. It is not decaying for political reasons. It is decaying for fiscal reasons.I think it is over. But it has had its casualties, and they may be difficult to mend. Take language, for example. Murdoch's business team deliberately "dumbed down" the language, and simplified the concepts into very pre-language impulses. People liked that because at the time it was a bit anti-establishment to take the conversation out of their hands. The problem was that it was a business strategy, not ever intended to give power to the people. They did keep a layer of "high-brow" but that was really more because it was a great luxury aspiration and they could use it to make money. I say use it to make money because really the money was in television and music and advertising, particularly advertising the products that they had some investment in. But language has been decimated, and the carriers of language - which were originally books that they could tamper with in a more limited way - have become technology that feeds off cheap and endless reproduction and copying and "innovating". It's going to take us a long time to recover from this onslaught. But I think we'll manage it.Unfortunately now we've got the kids - James, James, Jeana, Joffrey, whatever - who've been born with a silver elocution device in their mouths, shame about the teeth but that's what we've come to expect, these over-achieving parents make their racehorses estates and then the horse's've just gotta run.I mean of course the newspapers are not making a profit that would be the right hand biting it's nails.And why isn't the government factoring that into their education planning, I've heard nothing about that from them, nothing about that from Mister Educational Expert, you'd think this would be the first thing to look at. Why is half of a state functionally illiterate, that is a serious failing.Honestly if anyone is going to make President Putin understand the implacability and resistance of the Australian People it will be the Queenslanders, who afflicted themselves with years and years - and years -  of Joh Bjelke-Peterson because they objected on principal to the Southerners forcing them to do Daylight Saving.Everyone knows in Queensland that the curtains fade faster in the west but the Southerners knew nothing about Domestic Science they had abandoned it years before with their licencious new education pograms.They don't just fade Terry. They fray, terribly, they become so dry and drained of energy that they just let rip at the slightest attempt to shuffle them off the windows.That is you see what it was a veiled reference too. The ripping up of the curtains. Childbirth, and the illegitimate reign of The Deep South.Then of course putting the clocks forward or backward would not help at all, Victoria would still be ahead.All those priests in those days could think about were the odds of the return of christ being born into a catholic home. More homes, Sisters. More schools. We'll get one of our own. That was the Protestants of course.Many of them did actually meet their targets of zero emissions.Zero emissions was also the target of every Catholic School at the time whether one of the more desirable or low income.This was to ensure ongoing Government Assistance.Everyone who wants the Coalition should do that next time Joan. And Clive should put his votes back where his fronters are right now. I'm going to call up a radio station and say just that.Whatever happens at the front, the special APEC VIP Russetted and Re-Creationed Room has instructions to leave the sides and back long.I suppose that must be a bit like the instructions that conservative religious groups gave our Joh when they supported him in his purge of evil young people happiness in the eighties. Cheers, Queensland.I'm just an ordinary person, I always was. But having an uncle involved in breaking the wall of Queensland's corruption, and also by co-incidence having a friend who was the son of one of the Senators, I suspect I may have had a bit of a view. Of Brisbane in the eighties. That's why I think ordinary people should get through to those phone-in quizzes.I don't think anything went wrong Dand. We just drifted apart, that's all.Yes this is why the Attorney General and the Governor General should be non-aligned to a political party and should swear to uphold the laws of the country and to not work against them.So, Dave. The entire westminster system is riddled with this problem eh?Years and years of scraping away at their own democratic equality philosophies. Do you suppose any of them are having this Isis problem? We should ask them.No they didn't. The silent majority doesn't speak. That's why they are the silent majority. Then were they actually the majority, I seem to recall they weren't much of a majority. Then were they not-commenting on federal politics or local politics when they voted through their silent fingers' telepathies with their brain. Also, as pointed out, where they just following some implicit instruction on the voting sheet.I think you're saying "charity bins" there, Angry.Socialize cost, privatize profit. 

If the affluents worked out how to game the Free Education system, then what else did they exploit? I'm thinking about that National Road System, the one that Whitlam's Boilermaker was working on. Which towns profited, which towns fell into neglect.Is the design for that national network centred around the actual shortest routes, or the profit of certain towns, the precedence of certain towns over other towns, certain business interests? And should we be taking another look at our Internet? It might be possible to make it simpler and cheaper Mister Turnbull if you cut out the big business interest interventions.This is going nowhere. How about we get back to the Government. Whitlam put a boilermaker in charge of transport. Was that a good strategy or a bad one.What was the real advantage of keeping more than half the country isolated and reliant?Oh okay I get it. Murdoch is crowing that other people should pay their taxes because these new security laws ensure that he gets money for all the illegal downloads. Now we've got that tricky private communication issue out of the way.Now let me get this right. If I should say on this forum that the budget is not very good, is it, that the governments vision doesn't seem really nice, that things are looking a bit tip-top up there, and some codger in the prime ministers office or anywhere in government for that matter should decide that it is not in the interest of the state for me to say that and that indeed it is a state secret that the budget is not very good, then they can send their 16 year old official state hackers in here to the drum to change what I say so that it sounds like I think the budget is indeed great and the government is indeed not trying to coerce certain members of  the Australian People to agree with neo-conservative values or go away.What did they do, get the CEOs of Qantas Ansett and Virgin to advise them? Sounds like an airline strategy if ever I heard one. Oh SECURITY! That means we get to stand in lines for two hours instead of one and if we get pissed off about it they get to call Security. Being overweight is now a sin that you must pay for, and airline food is not going to help you get through the unbearable scrutiny of your fellow man nor are the advertisments-and-properganders-masquerading-as-films-these-days on the back of the seat that is now in your face so you don't have to squint. Yes that's why they put them there, so you wouldn't complain about how close that seat is.Illegal downloads my foot. So where are our entrapment provisions, where are the anti-trespass laws.What I had never understood properly was the reality of life for people in a small town, which of course used to be called a village but not really in Australia because if there wasn't a town there wasn't actually anything. And of course in Australia things went backward from about the time of the Federation, a few well-connected people would just make a huge land-grab and the people who lived on that big piece of land did not have a village, they were the workers and would be moved on. 

But in places where there are villages, yes kids go to high school but they are much less likely to consider that they have the chance to go to university. So they don't really put much effort into the study or they get discouraged from doing so by adults fearful of their disappointment. They quit school as soon as they can, or they graduate and they get the job they can get, generally in the big city. Because they've started young they've got less chance of advancing, though interestingly this is not the case for the public service which is why it used to be a good place for kids to go, it offered them the security they would need to be able to go back to their learning - whether it was tertiary or courses or following their own interests. 

But people who take longer to advance in society also seem to be more involved in the upbringing of their children, and spending more time making enough money. They don't tend to go back to their villages as often, and they don't really have the time to think about the problems of those villages. And anyway those villages are what they have left, and it makes them feel a bit guilty to think about that. So the question of why they left, which is really a question of the unequal distribution of wealth and resources, is largely unanswered. 

Instead, resources and people and ideas gather in the centres and are used to advance the centre. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about Central Australia here, that's clearly not the case, I'm talking about urban centres. What happens is that the faster-advancing people set the agenda because they can, they have the luxury of more security. They don't have experience of small towns, and generally they don't have experience of intemperate climates either, because urban centres are more often located in the less extreme climates of the country and of the ones in the less temperate regions, they are often specificially servicing an industry, like coal or tourism or plundering of some kind or another. 

Anyway cut a long story short, what this means is that the ideas, the problem-solving, the potential innovations that are small-town oriented are lost. Who cares really what happens to those places, they're far away. Nobody seems to sit down aside an ocean in the middle of nowhere, or a bit of empty empty land in the middle of nowhere, and think. If they do, they seem to think: Let's keep this like this, I like it like this. And that is a fair enough thought in some ways. It's just that in others, it isn't.  The old people say no, they won't be home for Christmas, nobody goes home for Christmas and anyway the kids that are there are all inside on their phones probably playing games as we speak so as to avoid having to contribute. Because kids who've been taught all their lives that they are the centre of focus really don't feel the need to contribute. Which brings me to small families. Clearly Murdoch is no good example here, he has a large family and it seems few if any of them contribute. Can we blame Gough for that too, for bringing in no-fault divorce and not using it himself? What a selfish man, what a thoughtless man. No doubt he didn't even use welfare or excuses.Because we can see how just as the system for free education for all was so quickly taken over by the affluent so that it could not function in the way it was designed to, so too was the no-fault divorce absorbed into the legal system in order to make taxes pay for those wives and children that abandoned on that Great March to Fame.Sorry! Due to a typing error that "that" which should have read "not to mention the husbands and children" may have upset a few people! I certainly did not mean for that to happen!Sorry to but in here Benny but who in the world has cake and doesn't eat it, isn't that a kind of anti-capitalism stance? This phrase was a marketing ploy by the bakers and confectioners, you can tell by the fat content.One might as well say that to have one's cake renders the eating of that cake an unnecessary proposition. One might as well say, that when one speaks of cake one thinks of tax.Very much disagree with you AGB that the trigger for radicalism is always a crisis of identity. There need not necessarily be a trigger either. A small incremental and slow change can lead to radicalism without there ever having been a choice made or any awareness that the state is radical. Is there a "radical" and "not-radical line? Or is there rather a point from which it becomes increasingly difficult to return.Atomou! They've backed you into the corner with that one by golly.I think it is important AGB so I will try again. You talk about a trigger as if that is starting point, it is not. The trigger is the more obvious event and what is not obvious is the long and dreary and wearying lead-up to that event. I suppose you could call it some kind of time of experiencing degradation. Which is why I believe The Americans and Abbott, not to mention everyone who has set themselves on this path, are misguided. But I am a muddle head.When you lose another handful of the Q&amp;A audience through your and lack of sensitivity to what is happening around you please do not worry these are small numbers and you are right, you are right.The statistics did not change they said from when the universities had fees and when they did not, and the privileged were still privileged. Well I do not believe that. If the privileged did not get an advantage from being able to pay for it they would have made their own university anyway I am still waiting to hear what kind of doodlebrain they got to do the PhD research on that one and can we never mind.But that is very interesting. How is it that a huge number of the population were suddenly able to afford university and yet the statistics did not change. My guess is that they changed the scholarships.In which case the privileged in fact became more privileged. But would that have been a payoff or would that be University Economics. Weirdly, a free university education led eventually to the universities becoming more of a processing mill for visas and a little overseas experience for a lot of rich kids from overseas. Which leaves the really talented kids from overseas, of which there appear to be many. So I suppose the scholarships were used to get kids from overseas here, and to send specific kids overseas from here. A kind of foreign policy boon. Odd to always be talking about such things as university education without talking about those things. The huge number of private colleges that sprung up, Bond, the Catholic University, all the training, the training, oh the training courses.Admittedly not a long time as an observer but never have I seen a group make such a song and dance to try to distract people from what was going on. Is this another move from cassette to CD?University Education morphed almost immediately into yet another Government financial fiddle, pulling the unemployed out of the dole queues and into training courses. So I suppose there was really only a brief moment of privilege for some, and many of those who were privileged by it are now smearing the Whitlam legacy because he did better than Menzies in all the years that Menzies had. But I have seen myself one instance in which this kind of pantomiming was performed. At that time I suspected some grave mismanagement.But it wasn't just we who benefitted from Whitlam. Murdoch benefitted greatly and it seems churlish of him to have not been a little more generous about that.I think you'll realize, if you take some time to think about it, that this generation of young people will only be skillful enough with their thumbs and one or two fingers to fight wars, and even that for fairly limited times in fairly limited, and that the military is having to evolve to continue to be powerful in society.&lt;who forever removed us from a cloistered, claustrophobic and conformist era for which some conservatives still pine.&gt;

huh. not too sure about that. Not the pine bit. The forever. Still, he can't be gone forever, he's likely to pop up in the face of some youngster or another now that the conservatives are so obviously and celebratorially pining. That's how Mother Time works.Anyway some of those political commentators prefer to blame politics for decline, rather than blaming politics, the takeover of the media's mind by commerce, the politicizing of the media sports and entertainment owners and the growing packagivization of celebrity as a package with which to influence buying preferences for the rise and rise of politics.Yes I agree. In the past 30 years or so we've put in place regulations that make it possible to ask for some accountability from our Government. These regulations make it possible for us to have some understanding of what kinds of things are going on behind the scenes, and actually act on them. These are the ones the current Government is attempting to dismantle. I believe that the reasoning behind these moves by the Government is currently "let's see what we can get away with". They think it is bold, radical. Certainly it is entrepreneurial. In fact, it's so entrepreneurial it's positively Facebook.But we do have regulations, and we are also essentially consumers in a consumer society. The Government is hoping to get enough "Likes" to make it retrospectively approved. That is not in the spirit of our electoral system.You are right Geoffrey. But that young dude was wearing a safety vest. Either he's learned to duel or he hasn't.If you ask me, it's not duelling he's been training in, it's duets. I think his parents' money has not been well spent here and if we've learned nothing it's that credit cards are now unstoppable. This is concerning for many reasons.I don't mean to be severe about this but children need to be taught about money rigorously and this case is a good example of that. Parents, young children are not good with money more often than you think. Be rigorous. Be disciplined. Pull it up the first time you see it lagging.Why, these adorable little munchkins once stole a lot of money from me because "their friends always had money to buy things". I remember the police said it had nothing to do with them. The Town Hall said it had nothing to do with them. The local stores said they really couldn't comment. The schools said it wasn't their kids. The local community groups said oh, they were a bit busy to take on new students in their physical education classes. The parents kicked them out. Why is it always the grandparents who have to intervene. Tiresome.Yeah, well. Why would he go to London first.There. That's not insignificant. Now is it.It takes a village to raise a child.I hardly think a few young men with guns or knives are going to bring down the rule of the country. A large-scale takeover is more likely to do that. People are killed every day in acts of violence, many of them women, many of them men, many of them children. Very rarely does it cause our politicians to start barricading the doors of Parliament. Thank god for Security, eh? Thank god for our Police. After you "degrade" a group of people you can let them handle it. Beloved Politicians, if this should happen in our Parliament, I hope to see thee in thou best Rugby tackle. Let's show them Canadians what we're made of.There is no cause to be upset about the rugby reference there Jim. I mean thee no 'arm.We do notice you know, when people respond.That's exactly why the Government should stop talking to IS and start talking to US.I don' t mean disrespect volt but the same goes for warmly embrace you.So this threat is cause to split the world into new regions. Like the DVDs.Honestly if our Government is going into Behavioural Scientifics with this curriculum they should have some rigorous stretching programs in the community or it will end in tears.I would like to see a little less Quality Archival from the Canadian Public Relations arm of the Government. It's really not gritty enough.What we do know is that the Government is very opposed to any sensible discussion of Climate Change, probably because it is the Brand TM of the Labor Party. But if some large-scale takeover of our civil society should occur again it is likely to involve the freezing of our computers and information networks. Now, if the Government should start talking of Wage Freezes or Prize Freezes or Deflation or even Inflation it is likely to be a sign that they are stressed and we should be looking for any signs of stress, as they may indeed indicate such a takeover.But then the Government "didn't know" this kid was in London. 

This is the game they're playing with our Journalists.Well that is a bit of a change from the sixties isn't it.And why? Because people got bored with helping foreigners, gave them money to help themselves, completely overlooked the point that religion is never 'armless but always has some kind of "belief" in their future. And so we became, again, again! - a religious society.This great "education reform" did not happen overnight, it is being pushed by school principals which means that it is already implemented in part. So if the kids start playing up, believe me, it's because they are really bored, and irritated, and the more open-eyed kids are running for the 'ills, as they say.So if that Bill passed, then we can be pretty sure that the Business Community did not mind wasting huge amounts of the taxpayer dollar which is not theirs and never came from them on farting in the face of The Australian People, adjusting their trousers and then having the gall to say it must have been someone else.People of Australia, the Government is forcing the Moderators to leave all the best bits out.We should all sew maple leafs to our back packs in solidarity.A whole nation that wondered why Gough wasn't fighting back in with his usual panache, why was he yielding to this authourity from that foreign land, she never had much interest in us up to then, what the hell was going on? But that wasn't what made people not get behind him. In truth, the newspapers and television so confused them that they couldn't form an opinion about it, it was the first time in Australia's history that there was a chance for a real collective voice and it was silenced by a bunch of Olympic-sized waders.You can still see traces of that fear even today. If you noticed the picture of Barry Humphries in yesterday's Guardian he was displaying the Evil Eye pendant which he appears to have had made into a fetching seal.We cannot discount the possibility that ISIS is simply a conglomerate of Venture companies looking for Rare Earth but that young man on the video has done a lot of training watching that Simon on British Television as has Russell Brand of course mesmerising those impressionable young Syrian lads. You can see there the power of television. That's how it worked you see, in 1975. They were mesmerized by the television, seeing themselves for the first time from overseas, and they had already encountered that when they watched the telly in 1969 and saw themselves from space, this was like a kind of macro, zooming in to them, and so they sat down and watched instead of going out and participating.I agree with that. It's really an indightment of our medical system that that young man should have such a dental display. I ask you, why didn't Whitlam care about our teeth. Why does nobody care about our teeth.Also I believe it's not rap fuelling this uprising. It's techno.Sneaky techno. And we've seen it before. Look at the eighties.Such primitivism was common in Sixties and seventies.It's not Abbotts Government that worries me, it's Murdoch's press. As children became less able to convince their mothers to buy the garbage food in the TV programs, the "Free" press diversified into dog food. Nowadays of course it's funerals. Because they've never found the kind of audience that they could influence so strongly as the first, colour television one, they totally try to own that one.There is always,  you see, this assumption that "the people" are childish, pliable. In itself just an ignorant assumption made by people with more money than sense, but it is generally a good idea to let them go on saying that because when they stop, it is because they have discovered something that contradicts their self-satisfaction and it is then that they will start trumpeting about, you know, the truckulance of the people and education this and legal that.And didn't we all want to be Prime Minister once we figured how easy it was to tip one over, uhuh.We cannot discount the possibility that this Professor was speaking in coded language but actually referring to his own deeply conflicted inner reality. This surely is no reason to doubt his agenda skills.The agenda seems mostly to be there. Which makes me wonder why it would be thrown out there like this. It's considerably - for one cannot say fairly - ludicrous and stupid. I say we just let it sit there and see if it's got legs, after all Halloween is coming and it could have its own web.There is an old kids-and-homework trick where a kid will mess up the task that he is given, deliberately vacuuming up the cat, so as to have his mother pronounce him hopeless and no longer let him do the vacuuming, it seems here that by being deliberately idio-syncratic Prime Minister Abbott has released himself from the task of bearding former-Prime-Minister-now-President-Putin in his official visit to Australia. I cannot really understand why we cannot ask one of the intrepid American-owned-and-controlled drones to do it for him as that seems to be what they are for, to inflict injury that nobody has to be responsible for. If they could get one to settle perhaps it would reveal itself as a really quite human creature, with human feelings and a strong faith in humanity. But we will have to find a man-drone not a lady-drone. As has become clear to me from watching recent television programs, women are unsuited to the job, being flighty and self-absorbed.Let me run that through our simulator for you there Barrie. Yes, I think we can do something. We'll need a model of course and some extra funding, I think barriers, some of those white ones on wheels. Oh and some yellow tape no, no red tape throw a few more resources at it. Okay I think we're ready to go, we are ready to go, just press that button over there and the answer will come out on a bit of paper. Yes, our intelligence says that we should re-label left as right and right as left and we are going to do that with stickers, right stickers on every left and left stickers for every right and another sticker for the centre that says please move to the left and keep the centre clear.YAY! Mark Latham! Mark Latham's in da house!See? This is what they're all squabbling about. It's like a bunch of old people having a reunion like of their old sporting club days or something and as pack their bags for it they start remembering who it was who disappeared off down near Gatsby's ivy.Yes I believe it is easier to consider this in terms of dissent rather than unpatriotism. I couldn't help but to notice several references to radio commentator Alan Jones, particularly the issue of his comments that women were "destroying the joint". This referred to Julia Gillard I believe.  If you recall, the response to that was that numerous women started a movement called "Destroy the Joint". At the time, a T-shirt was also released into Target, that created some consternation amongst mothers, and this too was claimed to be some kind of awkward oversight. Interestingly, these supermarkets and variety stores do quite good business, especially when they are placed near Centrelink or Job Search centres, and appear to have quite rigorous systems for maintaining and introducing stock, and so these incidents, both of which were controversial and explained away as a mistake made by some employee, did stand out in the flow of news. It occurs to me to wonder if the "beach" incidents some years ago could also have been in a minor way of course fuelled by merchandise. 

Commercial radio relies heavily on the support of their commercial sponsors and Alan Jones and Woolworths and Target are no exception here. It surely cannot be helped if such organisations want to get involved in political discourse, and of course if something has been proven to be a cost-effective way and even profitable way to "start a conversation", then it stands to reason that they would repeat the exercise. 

The use of the internet to stimulate our nervous systems in some way in order to influence social behaviour amongst humans has long been studied and recognized, particularly amongst cyberneticists, social engineers, the artificially intelligent and advertisers and marketers and public relations specialists. As McLuhan and Fiore said: "Nobody has ever studied what degree of innovation is required to shatter the self-image of a man or a society. In our time, at least, the amount of innovation far exceeds all the impacts of innovation of all the past cultures of the world. We are more frantic to recover and put together the pieces of the shattered image than any past society whatever."

But why are we feeling so frantic about this, and why has it become necessary for US Foreign Policy to assist in the development of a new state against which to fight, to define ourselves, a new Axis of Evil. My guess here is because it is effective, possibly even cost-effective when computer-modelled against other possible strategies. But really, this is just poor reasoning. There are better ways, but those ways involve some change, and although change may be profitable to business enterprises such as the radio station at which Alan Jones works, or Woolworths, or Target, they also fear it. What if people should stop listening, what if people should stop buying. And then the government that benefits from this assistanNo I am sad now I can't remember what was on the end of that one. 

the government that benefits from this assistance is also afraid to say no thanks, there is a better, more cohesive way to do this. And so the top too is governed by fear and it is from somewhere else that power comes. Not from the leadership and not from the constituency. But from somewhere else.I think we make a mistake though if we consider that this power if fuelled by fear. Fear is not a fuel.So I guess the argument really has to be how much dissent is healthy? Is our society one that cannot tolerate dissent? It seems to me that the American elite think so. It really makes one want to not dissent, just to diss them, but that of course is childish thinking.Can a curriculum be deep and shallow at the same time? It's been some time since we heard more on that debate.This happened before. People stopped reading the news because it was too manipulated, instead they read the classifieds. Then they took the classifieds out. They could make a profit from that.You know what? I think there are too many sauces. And too much drizzling. Otherwise, I think it's a fine country, even a great country.I beg to differ Orlon. Somebody once told me that if I didn't like it I should leave it. This ran counter to my early childhood learning in which I was trained to leave nothing. These are both so-called common sense ideas. And yet they are not concurrent. So which is correct and which is more correct than the other. It is these ambiguities that leave me confounded and sceptical.Your reason to enter the ring on this one doesn't have anything to do with The Australian expose on education does it? I suppose Politics is what other people do, the Political Science department most likely.Perhaps a board position or something with a monopoly.Why are people suddenly squabbling over who's got control of the coffers? Is there some windfall coming in?It's like food allergies. Is there such a thing as a Manufacturing and Production allergy? Where it's a so-called allergy but actually it's more about something unsuitable being grown or put into the food. But because it's an allergy and it's an allergy to a particular food it's called a food allergy.I can't understand why they keep going on about Chomsky. It's brand, brand. I remember I had this cat one day when we were going for a little drive in the country he ran into a bamboo forest and I couldn't find him. I kept calling, walking round the edges of the forest, it was pretty small. Suddenly I hear this coughing and it's a fox, and just metres away is my cat. That was a really close call. After that we went where there were other cats.I put it to you that the university that affordances Chomsky is likely to be more than a stone's throw away from penury and quick smart about it no doubt.I suppose they have to get permission to pick it up Vincent. They're moving the managers to New Zealand as a cost-cutting measure.I suppose it just could be Public Service that they're reading your emails text messages and listening in to your phone calls, they did say they were doing that.A similar thing happened some years back in Queensland. Some employees, I think they were university professors, assessing the work of a student made an assessment that was unpopular within the administration, I believe they may have felt that the students work, which was shown widely as professional media of course, was in some way ridiculing the disabled. I believe their assessments themselves were dismissed and they protested. Surprisingly the professors were forced from their positions for these protests. The public service may be in a difficult situation here, in an environment where protest is taken not as cause to consider, but as dissent.Yes that is what I thought about the Affleck discussion, why are they having such a pointed and laboured discussion like this, what are they trying to say. The military manouvres, the budget, and back. By all means we should continue to drag Shorten out of this armlock that the Abbott Government has got him in but why is he in it? Has he done something wrong or something that ASIO has pointed out to the other side, has someone impersonated someone like SIRI for example to gain access to his actual thoughts, or is this a bargaining position. It's very mysterious. I can't help but wonder if that Stephen Colbert routine is actually a spoof of Bill Mayer, not the Fox guy at all.Now this Shrimpton thing is interesting. Sure, the first outfit was about sex, and the second a kind of punishment for the Ladies who were expecting something sensational that the ladies could actually get pleasure from. But it's more than that. Wasn't it also a bit of a slap for the Ladies of Britain? And that bit-over-here-bit-over-there-bit-on-the-side continued all the years after to be a kind of wedge but also a kind of lure, quickly eluding capture.Australia, for the "old country", was set up to represent something wild sometimes, something ultra-conservative sometimes, something kind of essential sometimes, something rotten to the core sometimes. How we got represented we really didn't have any control over. I would argue that it's been the same most of our lives. The same goes really for Shorten and the Labors, who are being represented through the lens of the current government. We should remember that while governments change, the media essentially doesn't, and it's held most strongly by the long-term affluent who generally have a stake in the political outcomes of the conservative governments. One cannot really say that they themselves are conservative, as they behave in a way that pays heed to no societal values. They do what gets them money, and changing governments gets them money.When in actuality what has probably happened is that in households where the male is feeding the family, women have likely become thinner.This is because for the today's media change is profit.Except in Sydney, the last bastion of the non-profit supportable.But what is Liberal in today's frenzied economic environment. A lot of what passes for Liberal - Adam Smith, Capitalism and Regionalism, Economic Burgeoning, the Goldilocks Effect, the Tippling Point, these have been adopted by wildly different players, some of them not particularly devout and not particularly supportive of the Party's Christian Libertarian ideals. The climate has changed.They take all these fancy words and terms, just stick them together, somehow they sound like they mean something but they don't. That's the state of many of our political endeavours these days.Jean Shrimpton though. If she'd been named Genie Hutchinson or something the Australian Advertising Community would never have picked her up.And this is why I strongly suspect that they are collaborating. What would be the bigger threat than a stable carbon tax, a stable resources tax and a stable healthcare system, stable affordable education and stable refugee policy, I believe it might be same-sex marriage.Now we have seen from the comfort of our armchairs how in the sixties and the seventies it was women who were used to sway opinion about societal values. And how the Great Capitalism not willing to stop there also sold them a lot of margarine and other quite unpleasant goods including Orlon.At this point it may be timely to look back at Jean Shrimpton, who wore the first mini dress to the Melbourne Cup in Nineteen Sixty-Five, and consider who stood to benefit from that kind of exposure.I wasn't really sold on that Ben Affleck public event I'm sorry, "Thank God You're Here" is a particularly notable catchphrase, the ABC should do more satire like that.If Tony Abbott was talking Submarines back then then this war "effort" should come as no surprise.Little wonder they aren't like us, we aren't be kind at all.Hey since when have our D'fence foces had such granmatical turn of phrase? I thought they were supposed to be a bit good at writing.Actually I think we should be looking at the pre-Reagan era, as Clooney is now being tooted for Ambassador of America.Ever since the Mining Companies managed to become poor to avoid the Mining Tax I've feel quite sceptical about these big economic protestations, and the Budget is no exception.People can go a bit nutty when they get a bit of power, start thinking that their employees or even the Australian People are like their racehorses start trying to make them get on the track and race each other, it can be pretty stressful to have a nutty boss in charge of things generally they settle down a bit after everyone refuses the hay and having their shoes nailed on.I remember one boss, I took a slightly important person to meet with him, he was standing gesturing around with his hands, I made all this, he said with the grandiosity of some really recently rich guy who's just bought himself an Estate and the creases haven't yet been steamed out. Wow, I thought, I really must see if we can get some help for this one, he's gone a bit nutty. And he had gone a bit nutty it seems because after I kind of let the right people know he was quietly assisted into a kind of temporary semi-retired state but he's quite chipper again now and probably these days who knows going for the full ranch.You know when they've been on every committee and made the kinds of changes that make it next to impossible for other people to get enough control of the system to get power, and then they're kind of at the top and they know nobody can get up there because they've kind of kicked the ladder away from the walls if you can see what I mean there and then on top of that there's been this kind of psychological wound inflicted because they've so sabotaged their own team and then while that team has been in the middle of helping them up the ladder they've kicked it away and so that's like a kind of psychological trauma and because of that the nutty one is really really on top. And then they get a bit mistrustful of course because they've been essentially immoral and they get a bit neurotic, or paranoid, find it hard to trust and anyway who would they trust they've done over the rest of the team. So they become very authoritative, it's not really a natural masculine trait or stance, it's more of a default or fault position. That's when we get really put upon, it's just annoying, comes out of nowhere, one minute it's kind of normal and the next this Authority Figure thing is supposed to be normal and we think wait a minute, that's just weird, and instead of thinking to verify whether they've gone a bit nutty we start mistrusting our own understanding of systems. That's hard.Why are we now prevented from discussing the essential flaws of Christian Democracy, why is Patriarchy off the menu here, tell me why, it seems unreasonable to blanket-ban all healthy discussion about the lack of clear direction for our future.Rob if I might contribute? AE "they" is always someone who is not in the room, "They" is generally a group of "theys" and although we were for many many years told despite the grammatical instruction of our teachers "they" was inappropriate and a sign of mental illness, we learned through Wikipedia that "they" and "They" indeed did exist and not just in New Zealand and now it's perfectly acceptable to say "they" again, it is back on the table and now when you say "they" "We" know exactly what you mean.Anyway. I think Rob means Economists.In that way he was a bit like the Mayor, the small-town Mayor, who thought nobody noticed when he fell off the bar stool. I suppose when he became Mayor all the really influential people invited him to have expensive lunches with him and showed him their baubles and he forgot to be cautious of them, he seemed to start to believe that ordinary people were a kind of stock on the shelf and that the "real" "People" were these influential people. And I think they thought much the same about him, he was on the shelf now, but there would be a new product soon enough, sooner if he didn't do what they wanted. Generally speaking rich people only give something away when they want something back.
