I can't be sure but I suspect that Julie Bishop probably deserves more credit than Tony Abbott. The word subtle doesn't appear in Tony Abbott's dictionary. I'd wager it was Bishop's efforts behind the scenes that got the UN resolution through. I'd also wager that it has been Bishop's efforts behind the scenes that have kept Indonesia from pursuing more aggressive tactics against Australia over our stance with people smugglers.
The one point missed is that increasing penalties for people who go to fight overseas will have no impact upon their beliefs or their desire to go and fight. If you're willing to give your life for a cause, then the threat of a jail sentence will hardly be a deterrent. 

With some exceptions (e.g. those who are born without empathy or conscience), crime is a socially derived problem which requires a social solution. It has been shown over and over again that increased jail sentences do not act as a deterrent. That said, politicians follow the paradigm that the length of a jail sentence should reflect the public's disgust in the crime. What they don't mention is that jails are archaic places where rape and violence are common place. Anyone who believes that an individual will emerge from jail a reformed character is seriously deluded. Statistics suggest that 60% will reoffend within a short period of time. Thus really all jail does is increase the length of time between reoffending and potentially make the next offense even worse than the last.

I think by the time a person has decided to travel to Iraq or Syria to fight with which ever side they have sworn allegiance, it is too late. Such people consider what they do to be a moral cause and will run the risk of being thrown in jail in order to defend that cause. Furthermore, if we do throw such people in jail, do you really think they will come out as reformed citizens? I'd wager they'll spend their 10 years in jail brooding over what they perceive as an injustice and then, upon release, seek vengeance upon those who prevented them from fighting.

In essence, the laws are futile. In my view, let people go overseas and fight if they wish however make it clear that their Australian citizenship will be cancelled and they will never be allowed to return.
It makes you wonder if the change to the requirement for burden of proof is actually valid. Such principles go a long way back in legal history and are steeped in case law. At a guess, the first conviction using this new standard will be quickly challenged in the high court on the basis that it goes against the golden thread principle. I'd also guess that the high court would rule against the government in any such challenge.What I don't understand is why they didn't simply take back some of the Howard/Costello tax cuts in the budget? Such a move would provide the structural change required to increase revenue without generating anywhere near the political fall out that the current budget has. Furthermore, since many of the tax cuts were aimed at the wealthy, your average Joe wouldn't be so badly affected.I've had an idea: 

Produce and publish a graphic that shows the divergence of political policy from accepted opinion. Take for example Joe Hockey's debt crisis. Survey a large group of economists and ask them to rate, on a scale of 1 to 10, how bad the government debt problem is. Then ask Joe Hockey how bad he thinks it is on the same scale. You could then graph the result perhaps giving the option to see the distribution of opinion amongst economists (i.e. are they all of the same view or was their a wide divergence). You could also show public opinion on the same issue.

If this were repeated on a series of economic and social policies, you'd get an illustration of how far the government is diverging from both common professional opinion and public opinion. 

Generate the same data periodically and you'd have a good illustration of how well the political parties are gaining traction with their arguments (or spin). i.e. Does public opinion converge with political policy over time?

With one graph, you'd instantly be able to see how out of touch our politicians are. If both the Labor and Liberal parties were surveyed, voters would also be able to compare the parties and use this as a means of determining which party best represents the views of the population.

If such a graph became a popular resource, it would provide a means of reigning in extreme political policies. That is, governments would modify their rhetoric to better align themselves with public/professional opinion. 
I agree with this article. I do find the Coalitions position rather odd politically. On the one hand they want people to vote for them but their policies essentially label anyone who doesn't have a job as being a dole bludger. They obviously don't want or expect the vote of these people.

John Howard, initially at least, tried to keep his so called Howard Battlers on side because he knew that this was the demographic that voted him into office. It was only when he started going too far to the right with Workchoices that he lost both is Howard Battlers and his seat.

The Coalition seems to only want the support of people with their mindset. They don't seem to realise that this group of people alone will not be sufficient to win a second term.
I think the BCA, along with the Chamber of Commerce, are semi-autonomous offshoots of the Liberal Party. I'd guess that most are card carrying Liberals and either directly or indirectly help to fill the party coffers. In return, the Liberal Party agree to implement the policies that the BCA ask for. I'm unsure where the line is between this and corruption. I mean, what's the difference between paying a Minister for services rendered (which is corruption) or paying a political party for the same services in the form of donations? 

That said, I think Australia and particularly the government should look at fostering entrepreneurship - especially amongst small startups. They should also look at ensuring that startups don't have to go to America or Europe in order to get finance. The number of companies that have started life in Australia but have since had to go overseas to get funding is mind boggling. 

Sure, this will mean risking tax payer dollars in providing a funding source of startups. My argument is that there are lots of privately run Venture Capitialists in the US who make a business out of doing this. I think the government should do the same but purely for Australian startups. Get some of the Venture Captialists over from the US to advise on how to go about this.

I guess this approach could be tried but its inevitable that people will want to go and fight for what they consider to be a worthy cause. I'm also certain that the propaganda machines for the fighters in Syria and Iraq put forward a very convincing case for the age group they're targeting. It probably ticks all the boxes offering a chance to be a hero, fight against oppression, protect Islam, be part of a brotherhood of warriors etc... In response the government's message will seem pretty tame and could easily be countered by the Syrian fighters as anti-Islamic. 

The best the government could do would be to cancel the passport and citizenship of people who are found to be fighting overseas. At least this will stop them from coming home to carry on the war in Australia.Dr Abdullah Abdullah fought alongside Massoud against both the Soviets and the Taliban. Maybe he will have learn't something of Massoud's style of leadership. It'll take a very strong personality at the helm though to get a functional government in place. 
Most of the problems I have in life I can ussually trace back to something that I did or didn't do. I think Joe Hockey's situation is the same. For him, it comes down to his attitude and his narrow ideological mindset. Maybe its the effect of being in politics but couldn't he see that smoking cigars and doing a dance in front of the cameras on the night he's going to hand down a tough budget were bad moves. Furthermore, where were his advisors when he made the remark about poor people not being affected as much by the fuel excise increase. Surely his advisors would have supplied him with a bunch of material he can safely use during interviews that would defend the budget whilst keeping his foot clear of his mouth.

I can understand new politicans getting into trouble doing media interviews (i.e. Ricky Muir) but Joe Hockey is highly experienced in this area and should not be making these sorts of mistakes. What we are seeing here is Joe's personality.In the 1820's Tsar Alexander(I) actively helped to prop up several monarchies around Europe that were looking shaky. This in turn made him worry about his own position at home. His response was to introduce laws that created a virtual police state. A Tsar who had been educated in the liberal ideas of the enlightenment and who had even tried to implement some in sudden bursts of enthusiasm (which waned after a period) had made a 180 degree turn and now supported totalitarian authority in order to secure the position of the House of Romanov.

Its amazing what fear does to people. 

I think the best we can do now is to try to help out the refugees who've been displaced due to this monumental stuff up. Any attempt to intervene using the military will only create more problems. The middle east need to sort things out for themselves which, in all probability, will take decades and several hundred thousand more lives. I'd wager Israel may be on shaky ground too. They have no friends in the area and alot of sworn enemies who may decide its time to settle some old scores.And then accuse your detractors of being unpatriotic.My problem is that, on this issue (and many others), government ministers and MPs in general seem to have forgotten what their purpose is. They are not there to represent the wishes of government departments. They are there to represent the wishes of the people. Every member of parliament should be standing up and demanding in chorus evidence that these laws are required. They should be saying "If you (i.e. the Attorney General's Department) want us to vote to remove privacy rights from our constituents, then you need to provide good justification for doing so". They should also be asking if there are better ways to fight crime than slowly withering away our rights. They should be constantly seeking evidence that the measures already in place are effective. For example, does CCTV really reduce crime? If not, why do we have it? If its only purpose is to make law enforcements job easier, then can this invasion of the public's privacy be justified? 

In essence, the parliament should be on our side and fighting for us. That is what we voted them in for isn't it? 

As far as I can tell, the government is definitely fighting for someone, but it isn't us. 
It would be fasincating to know how much corruption takes place behind the veil of national security. We got a glimpse of it with the East Timor spying scandal which the government raced to coverup. If you look at the conditions in which these departments work, you'd have to conclude that the potential for engaging in corporate espionage is huge. 

Aside from the Inspector General's office, the only person to overlook these departments is the Attorney General. It is well known that there is a very blurred line between government and big business. What is to stop the Attorney General from using information sourced by these security agencies to aid a business in winning a contract or gaining an advantage over a competitor? It happened with Downer and Woodside Petroleum. I'd be willing to bet that it's probably a common occurence. How many of these high paying jobs that Ministers land upon leaving parliament are infact just a reward for favourable services rendered?

I wish we had a federal ICAC!
From a political perspective, I think Nitschke went too far with Mr Brayley and shot himself fairly and squarely in the foot. Euthanasia for those who are terminally ill carries significant support in the community. Proposing publicly that suicide is a rational option for the solution of other problems in life was never going to have support. He should have stuck to the battle that he could win and moved with the status quo with other cases (i.e. recommend that Brayley seek help).I think Jacqui was just saying in public what a subset of women think and probably discuss in private. I had a good laugh when I read about it. That said, holding the post that she currently holds, she probably shouldn't have said it in public. I suspect any male politician would receive as much scorn for telling a female radio presenter: "you've got a nice rack".A better question would be to ask why are we in a situation where we have banks that are so big that if they fail they'll bring down the entire economy? The reason: Successive politicians have allowed take over after take over of the smaller banks until we are left with four giants that carry enormous political clout in Canberra. The reason for this: Politicians more often than not favour the interests of the few.

I'm not a big fan of mergers and take overs. If a company wants to grow, then it should look at more innovative ways of gaining market share. The larger a company is, the more moribund it becomes. Diversity is as important in industry as it is in nature. Big ideas rarely come from giants (there are some exceptions); they come from little people who have the imagination to come up them and the courage to pursue them. Many will fail but a few will succeed. These are the people that Australia needs and these are the people the government should be investing in and keeping in Australia. 
It would be more interesting to ask what the government gets in return? With specific industries being favoured over others, it's almost certain that either individual ministers or the major political parties are getting something in return for these favourable legislative changes. Keep an eye out for the high paying advisory positions that certain government ministers will land when they leave parliament. Its little wonder that neither side of politics don't want a federal ICAC. 
I'd be extremely surprised if any government would have the guts to move against negative gearing. The volume of protests from some of the most powerful lobby groups would be deafening and the potential for a scare campaign against such a policy would be enormous. 

I think the best option would be to remove it very gradually over a period of 10 or 20 years. To remove it in one hit would almost certainly cause a property bust leaving allot of people and banks in serious trouble.Why don't we take note of George Washington's salutory advice to his country regarding the potential for political parties to corrupt the process of government. I think this is at the heart of many of our problems.I wish commentators on both side of the political spectrum would start talking about reforming the political system. To my mind, that would be the singe greatest reform this country could have at present.I never realised that Australia had a problem with intelligence officials leaking information. Anyway, as the author points out, increased jail sentences for these offences have little or no impact. 

I'm wondering how long it will take the government to realise that tough laws do not stop terrorists (or indeed criminals). Like leaking intelligence officials, terrorists do what they do for what they consider as being a great cause. If you are willing to sacrifice your life for a cause, then the prospect of 25 years jail will do little to deter.

The most the government can do is give security agencies greater powers in the hope that they will catch these people before they enact their plans. Luckily for us, most of these people aren't very good at concealing their activities. In truth though, if Australia bred its own version of Anders Brevik, there is little we could do to stop him.
I think Bill Shorten's job at present is simple. Say little and let Clive Palmer do the leg work of making the government unpopular. The only time when Shorten needs to appear before the media is if the government has kicked an own goal. 

That said, I can't see him becoming PM. Abbott's got a fairly decent majority in the lower house which pretty much guarantees him two terms and opposition leaders who take the job directly after a defeat rarely ever win an election. My money would be on Tanya Plibersek as the next Labor PM.
Australia is heading towards renewable energy supplies even with Tony Abbott. As we speak, power consumption from the grid is declining thanks to the up take of PV and the building of wind farms. South Australia sources something like 30% of its energy needs from renewables. As the electricity companies put up their prices to cover the decrease in sales, it will only help to make renewables more cost effective. I'd wager that over the next 10 years, you'll see people starting to go off grid all together. 

At some stage, the coal industry are going to have to realise that their time is nearly over. If they have any sense, they'll start using some of their profits to invest in the technologies that will be needed tomorrow.Abbott's tactic up until recently has been to get his face in the media making hugely exagerated claims in order to win support for his policies. It seems that Clive Palmer is now using this same tactic against Abbott for his own political purposes. I wonder how Abbott will respond?I took some time the other day to watch one of Adolf Hitler's speeches. His strategy (at least in this speech) was not to talk about specific policies but simply to talk about his philosophy. As far as tactics go, it was actually quite clever. The philosophy was spoken off in broad brush terms but with conviction and with an appeal to people's nationalistic tendencies. I am certain that people walked away from that speech with a positive feeling about where the country was going.

I wonder if the same approach would work today? 

PS: I'm talking about Hitler's approach to giving speeches. I'm not advocating his policies. 
You assume that the government is operating in the national interest. They aren't. The government's interests are in helping a select few groups (banks, mining etc...) to reap bigger profits. I still find it hard to believe how blatant their bias is towards these groups.My own observation is that the current government is very friendly with Australian institutions that pay large tax bills. i.e. The banks, mining companies etc... Such institutions seem to carry allot of influence with the government and the government will go out of their way to "help" them. I think its a little like a casino giving high rollers the red carpet treatment. As to what is in it for the government, I'm not sure. Maybe these same institutions make considerable donations to party coffers. 

As to the charities, my only thought is that the Liberal Party has some charities set up as a means of funneling money into party coffers. The NSW ICAC showed that the state liberal party was happy to engage in corruption in order to obtain donations. It would be quite reasonable to assume that the federal branch of the party would be equally likely to do the same thing. Its no doubt the same reason that they don't want to setup a federal ICAC. Once such an entity started digging, I expect all sorts of dirty laundry might start being aired.What has been interesting in all of this is the government's response. They are doing their very best to avoid any form of enquiry. Their current excuse is that they already have an enquiry into the financial sector and will wait to see what the outcome of this enquiry is before taking action. If we engage Captain Subtext this translates to: "Hopefully this scandal will blow over by the time the enquiry completes its work and we won't have to do anything that might impact our friends at the CBA". Of course the current enquiry is being headed by the former CEO of the CBA so you can be guaranteed that the results will be favourable to the banking sector. In my opinion, this is a form of corruption though I'm not sure if a court would agree with me.I wonder how things would be if more economic levers were taken out of the hands of politicians and placed in the hands of people who have the training and experience to use them? We all look to the Reserve Bank however the fact is that the Reserve Bank has only one tool and its pretty blunt. 

How would it be if an apolitical board of economists controlled the levers on taxation, levies etc...? Like the Reserve Bank, the board would issue periodic statements providing reasons for doing what it did and would be answerable to the parliament. It would be up to the parliament to decide how and where it should be spend the money. The parliament would submit its funding request to the board who's job it would be to find the money. The board could also issue advice to the government on when it is necessary to reduce/increase spending.

The result: The economic leavers would be controlled by rational individuals who are operating according to a charter rather than ignorant individuals who are operating according to the agenda's of lobby groups. We could have taxation reform without the political dogfight and scare campaigns that would invariably water down any meaningful changes.
I'd wager that the modus operandi you described here is much the same throughout all of government. There is a very blurred line between big business and government. In most cases, governments operate to benefit big business. Our tax system is geared specifically for that purpose. It wouldn't surprise me if big business even drafted legislation for the government. 

It brings up an interesting point though: What degree of separation should governments have from business? Politicians are required to make public their financial interests however this does not stop them from giving favourable consideration to certain companies in their policies. Do these special relationships constitute corruption even though there is no financial gain for the politicians? Perhaps we need a watchdog looking over our politicans with the power to demand answers regarding the thought processes in making a decision? 

I'm trying to work out whether Clive Palmer is simply a buffoon or whether he's an astute player wearing a buffoon's costume. One thing he is for certain and that is narcissistic. Given his countless troubled business ventures, I'm beginning to think that he's not overly astute. It wouldn't surprise me if we saw him filing for bankruptcy in a few years time. 

It'll be interesting to see how Abbott gets on negotiating with him. I'm pretty certain that Abbott's bullish tactics won't work on Clive Palmer. I'd doubt Palmer is the sort of person to be intimidated by others and he'd never back away from an argument. 
From what I've seen, the west has made a significant contribution towards supporting terrorism. Installing an incompetent government in Iraq has allowed the likes of ISIS and Al Quaeda to spread far further than they'd ever dare have dreamed. Prior to 9/11 such groups mainly inhabited north Africa, Afghanistan and Pakistan - all places with weak governments that enable them to get a foothold. Thanks to George W. Bush and his cohorts, Iraq is now a failed state playing host to a group of extremists that even Al Quaeda disown.

We can help the US out in the middle east however it won't make much difference. At best it will inhibit the progress of ISIS. Until Iraq gets a strong government, extremism will continue to reign and we'll continually have to return to the middle east to put out spot fires. 
Talk about legality is all well and good however there is no consistent means by which such law can be enforced. The UN Security Council only passes resolutions when the they don't hurt the interests of the 5 permanent members. Even when a resolution is passed, it may not be implemented because the impacted country has a powerful friend (e.g. Israel and the US). 

What it comes down to is that the UN needs to employ a separation of powers between the body politic (the UN) and the instrument that enforces the law (presumably the ICC). No leader, past or present, should be immune from arrest if they break international law.

Only when such a system is implemented will talk of legality become relevant.

I'm pleased to see people writing about the dysfunctional nature of the current political system. This is at the centre the country's problems. It would be even better if suggestions were made as to how this can be fixed. As I alluded to in a post yesterday, a major part of the problem is the people that our current system attracts. A dysfunctional parliament will attract dysfunctional people. Whilst we have politicians who's purpose in life is to win power and support their vested interests, we cannot possibly expect any rational fact based arguments. 

Of course the media could do something to change this. Rather than reporting the rubbish that emanates from the mouths of our honourable representatives, they could start reporting an evenly balanced critique detailing the pro's and con's of each sides policies. They could only air interviews with politicians who actually answer questions. For example, invite Joe Hockey to do a pre-recorded interview regarding his budget. If he doesn't give intelligent fact based arguments to the questions presented, don't air the interview. Better still, say "We interviewed Joe Hockey about his budget but he didn't answer our questions so we'll move onto the next story".  Furthermore, don't air any bad mouthing or derogatory comments made by either side about their opponents.

The principle here is that our honourable representatives will change according the environment inwhich they find themselves. The media play an important role in defining that environment and, consequently, the media could also play an important role in changing it.

This assumes however that the media wish to participate in what would be a truly patriotic cause. They may take the view that there is more money to be made in being part of the downfall of our country. 

I'm not convinced that our present political masters are worried about leadership. Their principal concern is how to get into government and, once there, stay in government. The desire for power has now become so overwhelming that lying and deceit are considered standard tools of the trade. One has to wonder why the desire for power is so great. What do they get out of it that makes blatant dishonesty a justifiable act? Is it just the ego trip from being in government?

A while back I read Dr Robert Hare's book on Psycopathy and I think our politicians would tick some of the boxes. Examples include:
- Superficial charm
- Grandiose sense of self worth
- Pathological lying
- Cunning/Manipulative behaviour
- Lack of remorse or guilt (unless it serves a selfish purpose)
- Emotionally shallow
- Failure to accept responsibility for own actions (unless it serves a selfish purpose)

I have no idea what they're like on a personal level but their public behaviour most certainly ticks some of the boxes. Furthermore, the way inwhich our parliament and the political parties operate would be ideally suited to such people. People tend to be attracted to jobs that best fit their personality profile so it would make sense for a politician to have at least some of these attributes. Such people would have a far greater chance of rising up through the ranks.

PS: I'm not saying they're all like this. I'm certain that there are a proportion who genuinely care and want to make a positive difference. But I'd wager that the one's most likely to succeed have some if not all of these attributes.I think religion throughout the centuries has been used as a highly effective vehicle to obtain power and carry a believing population with you. Most religious documents are open to considerable interpretation and it is very easy to build an argument that supports your goals by selecting a choice set of passages. Our honourable political masters use similar tactics with their arguments. They cherry pick facts that support their policies and repeat them to ad nauseum until people believe what they are saying.

In truth, such people have completely missed the point. Religion was never supposed to be about the attainment of personal power or wealth. In the context of religion, such goals are a complete anathema. At the heart of religion is the introspective search within the self for our very essence. It doesn't take very long to figure out that the attainment of power and wealth is a transient desire which can never be fulfilled because, as with the proverbial cookie jar, we always come back wanting more.

That would be an interesting scenario: both Fairfax and News Ltd announcing that they were going to shut down their news sections because they weren't making money. I wonder if the government would step in to fund either company? After all, the government (esp the liberals) have a considerable stake in ensuring that New Ltd keeps going.

It wouldn't surprise me if this scenario played out in the next couple of years. Lets face it, it doesn't make good business sense to continue to run an unprofitable organisation.I think the Jon Pertwee/Tom Baker years were definitive. Tom Baker especially made the Doctor wholly unique but above that the scripts were original and contained new ideas. They got in new writers where ever possible so you didn't get the continual rehash of old ideas. Furthermore, they had the massive talent of Robert Holmes to fall back upon if the writers didn't come through. 

Result: We had episodes such as 'The Pirate Planet'. Sure the special effects were clunky but if that's all you see then you're missing the point. It was full of original ideas (courtesy of Douglas Adams who at that stage was only 26) and contained big characters. Bruce Purchase easily gave Tom Baker a run for his money as the big blustering captain.

If they want to keep the Doctor going, they need to start taking risks. Have Peter Moffatt as a script editor, sure, but go back to farming out the script writing to young up coming writers and concentrate on the characters and story rather than the special effects. Maybe return to having the story told over 4 half hour episode so that there is time to develop characters and ideas. 

And once the west has defeated IS, there will be a power vacumn which will then be filled by another group. I wonder if its about time the UN set up a division dedicated to assisting in nation building? Until one or more strong functioning governments can be established in the region, we will continue to see the likes of IS and Al Quaeda continuing to dominate.I don't think the Palmer phenomena will last very long. I'd be surprised if he or any of his party got re-elected. On the other hand he has forged a new path that others may follow. I can't recall any other businessman ever bank rolling his own political party to get into parliament. 

I wonder if we'll see business groups looking to do the same thing at some stage in the future? With widespread dissatisfaction with both major political parties, it would be quite feasible for a group of large businesses to get together and finance several candidates to run for the senate as "independents" who do the political bidding for their commerical masters. If the correct people were chosen and a professional, well thought out campaign run, you'd have a good chance of getting a couple of people in. Once in, there's a reasonable chance you'd have the balance of power and consequently your bargaining power would be immense - far greater than any lobby group.The modern form of bribery is to offer lucrative jobs at some point in the future. Take for example Arthur Sinodinos. One wonders what he did whilst he was John Howard's right hand man to get a $200K salary with AWH and only put in a few hours work. Of course there's no proof that this was repayment for past favors (that's the big advantage of this form of bribery) but few can deny, it smells very fishy.I've never been able to figure out why the response to any failure is to sack the leader. It happened in my last company and morale hit the floor. The leader in question was widely respected among the team and with the customer (apparently the customer was gobsmacked when they heard). The failings that occurred were not his fault but still he got the boot anyway. Did it solve any problems? No!Good idea. Divorce economic policy from politics. Let taxation policy be formulated by a Taxation Commision with a specific charter (in the same way as the RBA has its own charter). The commission can then vary the taxation levels to meet the governments current and future spending requirements.

"I've met Gail only once, but when I did she struck me as such a quiet well mannered person. Nervous and shy actually."

Fascinating. I once read that many CEOs are actually introverts who've moved out of their comfort zone. 

I have no doubt that she is a hard worker. I expect CEOs at that level frequently put in 100 hours/week. 
Character is destiny.Governments around Australia seem to be gradually moving towards the view that the state (aka. the body politic, their wealthy benefactors and the bureaucracy) reigns supreme in importance with everything and everyone else being dispensable. This article highlights yet another example. In this case the terms of a treaty to which Australia is a signatory have been ignored in favour of the political views of the state. Our right to privacy is readily traded away in favour of ever more efficient means of law enforcement. The law enforcement authorities are supplied with whatever powers they request almost on demand with the courts being bypassed more and more in order to prevent legal interference with their activities. 

Its a worrying trend.
While the government cracks down on terrorists and the media and parliament hold government to account, who is protecting Australians from data abuse by the folk they're really worried about?

Nobody. The corporates donate large quantities of money to the political parties to ensure we don't get proper protection.From an outside observers perspective, yes. If you were the one being sucked into the black hole, then you wouldn't notice the slow down. You wouldn't even have time to put on a clean set of underwear.They should do a short film of Mr Tompkins in Wonderland. For those who haven't heard of it, it provides a view of what the world would be like if the speed of light was 6 miles/hour. With today's special effects, I think it would be wonderful. 

Speaking as someone with more than a passing interest in Russian history, you could argue that Russia has had the same foreign policy objectives for centuries. They want all Salvic nations should fall under Russia's control. The current Russian administration seems to have the same desires. 

As to whether Putin is willing to risk another war to acheive these gains is another question. Historically, Russia has never come out of wars very well. They rely upon having large numbers of troops to throw at an enemy who's weapons are considerably more advanced then their own. I'm unsure if the Russian military of today still falls into the same category though I'd be surprised if they'd be a match for Germany's military at least from a technological perspective.As I said, I wasn't sure about where they stand militarily though you seem to think they've made huge progress. You may be right. 

I do have a knowledge of Russian culture - I've read widely on the topic. The Russian government are more than happy to take heavy losses in the battlefield however the Russian people quite often aren't. Such military losses have often been the catalyst for change. 
Examples: 
a) The Crimean War was the catlyst for the reforms of Tsar Alexander II. 
b) The Russo-Japanese war was the catalyst for the October Manifesto of 1905 and the establishment of a quasi parliament. 
c) WWI caused saw the ultimate fall of the Romanov dynasty and the rise of the communism.

Unfortunately the Russian government have never been overly representative of their people. During Tsarist times, they were heavily influenced by the small minority of nobles who held most of the wealth. Today the Russian government's wealth comes principally from gas.

The Russian people don't enjoy hardship, they tolerate it  though they have their limits.Rent seeking sounds like a politically correct term for bribery. What ever you call it, it is corruption and both sides of politics are up to their eyeballs in it.Haha, me too :-)

I've been seeing a personal trainer twice a week for over a year now. In the first 2 months I lost 4 pounds. Since then, I've put on 10 pounds and am currently the heaviest I've ever been in my life (I don't take supplements either). According to the BMI scale, I'm bordering on being overweight in spite of the fact that I'm quite slim. 
'How about an investigation into ex politicians ending up on company boards or being hired as "lobbyists".'

That would be delicious!!! It would be hard to prove a link though because the jobs probably only come from a word of mouth agreement or potentially just an implied understanding (i.e. neither side say anything but both know what the deal will be). 

Corporate donations to political parties is another area that could be investigated. Let's face it, its a form of bribery. They do it to get special favours. The trouble is, the political parties benefit from this corruption and so are not willing to stamp it out.
I'm not a fan of our current government however, from my own observations, Julie Bishop would appear to be the most competent minister in the cabinet. She seem's (from an outsiders perspective at least) quite skilled at making peace with foreign governments after we've ruffled their feathers over one policy or another. In all probability, she is probably just as good in other areas that we don't see. 

As to her stance on feminism, I think the answer lies somewhere inbetween the progressive left and the individualistic right. To destroy the glass ceiling requires a cultural change at the top and this won't occur through individual efforts. It requires the voices of many singing in unison. 

I think her comments on this front are intended more as an attack on Julia Gillard - a pointless exercise given that Gillard is no longer in parliament. 
I'd be very surprised if the government went against the banks; their lobbying power in Canberra is immense.

This article does highlight an interesting fact: the bank's investment portfolio is concentrated mostly in one area: the Australian property market.

I wonder if this has been a deliberate strategy by the banks (which I'd doubt) or whether it is a consequence of Australia not having any significant manufacturing sector meaning the bank's principle customers are property buyers (the most likely reason)? I also wonder if the banks realise the risk they are carrying and so put pressure on the government to maintain high property prices and therefore protect their investments? 

I'm pretty sure that the current state of play is maintained through the combined lobbying power of the big four banks to maintain the status quo. It illustrates yet another reason this country needs political reform. 

There needs to be a separation (quite a big one) between government and business. Part of the government's role is to set up the conditions in which business can operate however the the government should never become dependent upon business. They are at present as business forms a principle source of political donations. This must end. 
I'd be very surprised if the government went against the banks; their lobbying power in Canberra is immense.

This article does highlight an interesting fact: the bank's investment portfolio is concentrated mostly in one area: the Australian property market.

I wonder if this has been a deliberate strategy by the banks (which I'd doubt) or whether it is a consequence of Australia not having any significant manufacturing sector meaning the bank's principle customers are property buyers (the most likely reason)? I also wonder if the banks realise the risk they are carrying and so put pressure on the government to maintain high property prices and therefore protect their investments? 

I'm pretty sure that the current state of play is maintained through the combined lobbying power of the big four banks to maintain the status quo. It illustrates yet another reason this country needs political reform. 

There needs to be a separation (quite a big one) between government and business. Part of the government's role is to set up the conditions in which business can operate however the the government should never become dependent upon business. They are at present as business forms a principle source of political donations. This must end. 
From a political perspective, Lambie has found a good tack: supporting Australian troops by refusing to back the proposed pay rises. Going down this path, she can beat Tony Abbott over the head with the same Australian Flag that he's been using to deprive us of our rights. 

If she pursued one or two other causes that looked after the battlers in the same manner, she could easily afford to be kicked out of the PUP and still be re-elected when the time comes. The so called battlers are a significant group that are being ignored by this government and they represent an opportunity that could effectively exploited. 

She'd do well though to brush up on her media skills. She needs to decide on a position and stick with it.  
I wonder if John Key would consider crossing the ditch and becoming PM here? Judging by what he says, he's got his head screwed on the right way. I'd vote for him."...perhaps some investigative journalism is needed to get names on who actually formulates government policy and decides political appointments, for both parties."

I think it depends upon which sector is involved. 

Apparently the minding industry effectively rewrote Labors Super Profits tax. Martin Ferguson has no doubt been given a job in the mining sector as a thank you for letting them help with drafting the laws. 

The banks were no doubt instrumental in getting the laws regarding financial advisers changed. 

Australia is becoming a Banana Republic. 
Another option is that Brandis wasn't deliberately deceiving us. He simply doesn't know the law because he didn't write it and, as was pointed out in other articles on The Drum, the laws are extremely complex.

It would be rather more interesting to find out who did write it and what or who it was written for. As someone astutely pointed out in another post, there was a suspiciously short time between the need for these new laws being identified and the laws actually being presented for public comment. Given the large size of the legislation, this implies that the law had been written sometime in advance and the government were simply using ISIS as an excuse to enact it.

Personally speaking, I think the government got caught with their pants down around their ankles with the East Timor issue and they are looking to make sure it never happens again. The terrorism aspect is most likely secondary. If they had their time over again, the bugging of the East Timor Cabinet Rooms would have been an SIO and the ASIS officer who gave the information to East Timor's legal team would have been bundled off to jail.

One wonders whether the author of this article only just discovered the word algorithm in the dictionary and was itching to use it more often. Speaking as a Software Engineer with some 16 years experience at creating "algorithms", I find it rather amusing. 

I think at some stage there is going to be a backlash against the so called big data and more generally against technology. Europe has gone someway towards protecting its citizens against its dangers however the tendency is to slowly take away our rights to privacy by monitoring everything we do in the name of efficient law enforcement - make the authorities jobs easier is the catch phrase everytime they want to erode our rights. The new data retention laws are an example of this. 

We need to ask ourselves what we want and the government should provide that. This is what democracy is about - the people!!! What level of privacy are we willing to give up to protect ourselves? What level of privacy are we willing to give up to allow businesses to try and sell us stuff? These decisions should be made in the interests of the people - not in the interests of the government or big business.

Of course, before we can do this, we need to reform our political system and turn it into something that actually represents us.

I'd like to place a bet at this stage that a significant proportion of the funds that are handed out will be given to industries that are closely aligned with the Liberal Party. The coal fired electricty producers will almost certainly be given plenty of money. The mining industry will also get a fair bit. Maybe the banks will get some money to buy some solar panels.

Of course, the effect of providing $2.55 billion for carbon emission reductions will be almost zero. When it comes to making the changes required to reduce carbon, $2.55 billion is petty cash. The strategies already in place will most likely acheive the existing targets. This is really just the LNP trying to look as if they are doing something about climate change.Russell Brand is completely right. Being a well known figure, he should use his fame and influence to drive a campaign of civil disobedience calling for reform.What we really need are representatives in Canberra who represent our views to the political parties. Here's a thought:

Australia needs to elect a small group of people whose job it is to gauge the national opinion and lobby Canberra on behalf of the people. We could crowd source funding for these people so that they can donate the large quantities of money to the two political parties  required to purchase the influence and thereby get get the legislation we want passed. If each tax payer donated say $100/year, we could easily outgun the big corporations in our donations to the political slush funds the parties maintain. Being the largest donors, we'd therefore also carry the greatest influence.

Its sort of representative democracy by proxy. 
Unions, banks, mining companies etc... Canberra is awash with people all jostling for influence and the level of influence they have is proportional to the size of their wallets. The people need their own lobbyists in Canberra.Vote 1: Bill of RightsMaybe the film industry has been making large donations to one of the Liberal party's hidden slush funds (the ones that a Federal ICAC would have found) and this is what they get in return. Perhaps the terrorism line is just a cover story.

If the ISP's started making larger donations, they'd probably be able to get the bill overturned.

I wonder what laws you could get enacted for $5,000,000? 
The interesting thing is that, in most instances, people at the top rarely have any idea what troubles are occurring further down the chain. This seems to be the case both in government and in business. Maybe its a consequence of the hierarchy beneath the upper echelon insulating them from the turbulence. I wonder if there are any management paradigms which counter this effect with some sort of negative feedback loop feeding directly from the bottom all the way back up to the top. 
At the end of the day what's required is enterprise and a willingness to take risks. This is what creates jobs and this is what the government should be looking to promote.

In my view the government should setup a Venture Capitalist style business with an initial pool of tax payers money. People with ideas should be able to present their case for funding. If successful, they will receive both the funding and continuing advice on business decisions (i.e. tip the balance in their favor). If or when the business starts to turn a profit, the government, as a major investor, will take a percentage of that profit. Alternatively, there could also be an option to buy out the government's stake.

A percentage of the startups will fail but others will go on to become medium size or perhaps even big business and employ people. If done properly, this could be both a significant money maker for the government and will create employment. 

There are Venture Capitalist style companies in the US that make money from this sort of operation. Why not have one here in Australia?

This is what Team Australia should be about!!!
This is something that our so called representatives never bother to ask. Do we want free education (as Whitlam introduced) or full fee paying education (as the current government would like us to have) or something in between?

I think it is in our individual interests and the interests of the nation to pay a little more in tax and provide cheap high quality education to all. 

Imagine if our local members did what they are supposed to do and actually represented their electorate rather than following their party like a herd sheep.

It comes back to what I've said in previous posts: Crime is a social problem that requires a social solution.

I wonder what Abdullah Elmir will do if IS are defeated and he's still alive at the end of it? If he returns to Australia, he'll be bundled off to jail for a very long time - there is probably already an Interpol notice out at all airports requesting his arrest and deportation. If the Iraqi/Syrian government get hold off him, he may well be executed or left to rot in one of their jail cells. No shortage of bold choices really.Anyone care to speculate what the real reason might have been for these bills?Another possible motive would be to simplify the taxation system which would have to be a good thing. Increase the GST and force the states to take away a whole lot of inefficient taxes such as stamp duty. There is little doubt that Mr Hockey's cuts to hosptial and school funding in the budget were aimed at forcing the state's hand on the matter of the GST.

Eitherway, I can't see the current government moving to compensate those on lower incomes for the increase though. As far as Abbott and Hockey are concerned, people on pensions and lower incomes are bludgers who should work harder to get more money and if they are negatively affected by government policy, then that's their fault.
The author is quite right. The causes of terrorism in particular and crime in general are complex. Creating more laws and giving the authorities more power will do nothing to stop people from going astray. This has been shown repeatedly throughout history. Unfortunately, history is a subject that doesn't get much of an airing when creating policy. 

I think the current laws are more about the politics of terrorism and less about solving the problem. The government needs to be seen to be doing something and making tough laws is something they can do. 

The real problem exists half a world away in Iraq and Syria. The west should be putting its efforts into creating a stable inclusive government in Iraq and turning Iraq back into a prosperous nation. We should be pumping billions of dollars of aid into Iraq to pay the Iraqi people to rebuild infrastructure and get the economy going again. Provide jobs for the Iraqi population and fund the rebuilding of a country that we destroyed.

Solve the social problems in Iraq (and Syria) and terrorism will evaporate off its own accord.
I agree that there are a very small minority of extremists in Australia but, once again, we need to ask what is it that made them turn to extremism and try to eliminate the cause. Increasing penalties will have little or no impact. Such people will have no qualms about breaking the law in order to make their point and will be willing to die if that is what it takes. If someone has that mentality, they won't bat an eyelid at a 10 year jail term.

As to Iraq, the situation is extremely complex. Speaking with my idealist hat on, I'd argue that the nation should either be broken up into separate countries or turned into a loose federation of states with revenue from oil divided among the states in accordance with some formula. Either way, the end result should be heavily influenced by what the people in different areas want. The government should shape itself according to the people's needs because happy people don't take up terrorism. Alienated and repressed people are the ones most likely to resort to terrorism. 

PS: This is something that needs to be realized all around the world. Government is about people; not power. A government is there to serve the people. If it doesn't fulfill that function, then it is failing in its duties. 
A pre-requisite for compassion is that you are able to see things from more than one view point. I'm sure Mr Abbott has many admirable qualities however this isn't one of them.There is little doubt the politicians are peddling fear. Our chances of being killed in a terrorist attack are extremely small. We have more chance of being struck down with some of the rarest forms of cancer. From the perspective of probability, the entire response has been massively over the top.

The difference is, terrorism is in the political domain where as cancer isn't. It is something politicians can grand stand on. All politicians love publicity and terrorism provides an excellent platform from which they can get free publicity without the risk of attack from their opponents. 

Our security agencies had already been given extensive powers after 9/11 to deal with this issue. No argument was ever presented as to why they required more. The truth is that the government can only go so far in terms of preventing a terrorist attack after which the point of diminishing returns is reached. Both they and we (the public) need to recognise this. Even the highest security will have a very poor chance of stopping a lone wolf.
This article says nothing new. It should be addressing the big question of how to change the current system. As I've said many times before, what this country needs more than anything is political reform. All other issues amount to nothing in comparison to the damage our current political system is doing.

That's simple: reduce the power and influence of the political parties over MPs. MPs should be (and most likely are by law) allowed to vote anyway they want without fear of retribution from the party, faction or any other MPs. If the party can no longer force MPs to vote along party lines, then there will be no point in big business making donations to the parties as the parties won't have to power to return any favours.

With the freedom to vote any way they please, the executive (i.e. the ministers) will need to convince MPs of the merit of their bills. They won't be able to rely upon factional deals to get bills passed.

Parliamentary sessions will be about arguing the merits of a bill and getting a consensus from other MPs on what is the best way forward.In truth, when it comes to emails, there can be no reasonable expectation of privacy because emails and email trails are so easily and frequently forwarded with almost no thought. If an expectation of privacy is placed on emails then you get into the complicated domain of requesting permissions from the author to forward an email to someone else. If there is an email trail, this can quickly become absurd. From how many people involved in the trail do you require permission in order to forward the email on again? If permission is only required from the immediate sender, then this would potentially provide no protection for people like Spurr. If permission is required from all senders in the trail, then our Inboxes could become jammed with requests for permission and the entire email system would become unworkable.

Alternatively you could say that permission to forward an email is only required if the contents of the email (including any trail) may reasonably be expected to cause offence or inflict injury. In this case, the person who forwarded the email onto Chris Graham could be considered at fault because that person almost certainly did so with malicous intent. On the other hand most leaks that are done by email also have the effect of knowingly causing embarrassment so you need to distinguish between malcious forwarding and forwarding that is in the public interest. The person who sent this email to Chris Graham could easily argue that it was in the public interest. 

Perhaps if Spurr had flagged the email as Private, then he could make the argument because the person who forwarded the email would have been breaking an explicit request for privacy. Beyond this, I don't think he or anyone has a right privacy with respect to emails. 

What would make more sense would be to understand what causes people to commit this type of abuse in the first place and resolve the cause. Placing these people in jail and then on sex offender registers is a political band-aid to what is fundamentally a psychological problem.

PS: Am I the only one who finds the concept of justice rather odd? It is, at its most basic level, retaliation by the state for a crime committed against one or more people. There is considerable cost involved in dispensing justice which is covered by the people however the state is insistent that it is the only one who can do this job. If one of us were to dispense our own justice upon a burglar caught in our home, we'd be charged with assault. Given that jails have no impact upon crime and arguably make it worse, there is a good argument for letting people dispense their own justice under the supervision of the state.

How would it be if, for example, the victim(s) of a sex offender were allowed to confront the offender and vent their anger with the offender being forced to take whatever the victim doled out. The victim could continue over multiple sessions to vent their anger until all their anger is gone. Unless the offender is completely lacking in empathy (which is a separate problem again), this would almost certainly be more confronting and possibly more terrifying than any jail sentence. Further still, it would likely be of considerable benefit to the victim. 
There is no doubt that Whitlam was a game changer for Australia whether you like what he did or not. 

What Australia needs to decide is: do they prefer a Whitlam style Australia (which would probably look something like Norway) or an Abbott style Australia (which is pretty much like the US) or something in between? Neither version is necessarily wrong. It really comes down to who you want to pay the money to: the government or a private company.

It's something the politicians need to ask us. They need to present a choice. What level of government service do you want and how do you want to pay for it? It is not up to them to dictate their ideology to us. They should ask us what we want and then build our country along those lines. 

Its called representative democracy.
But most importantly, he recognised that government is about people.
I don't think China is ready to fall apart yet. The Chinese government's future is dependent upon how well they handle the economic turndown and massive debt problem/property bubble they are facing. If the chinese people start seeing all their wealth falling away combined with mass unemployment, then the Chinese government will need to start looking for the panic button. It probably constitutes their worst nightmare: 100 million people taking to the streets protesting for change. It could also be extremely bloody.
One has to wonder who has the most power in the Prime Minister's Office: Peta Credlin or Tony Abbott? Given the controls that Peta has placed over Minister's media appearances, appointment of staffers etc..., I suspect that she's actually running the show and Abbott is merely her puppett.
One has to wonder who has the most power in the Prime Minister's Office: Peta Credlin or Tony Abbott? Given the controls that Peta has placed over Minister's media appearances, appointment of staffers etc..., I suspect that she's actually running the show and Abbott is merely her puppett.
Mr Abbott and the LNP are backing the coal industry because the coal industry are backing them - and given how generous the LNP have been towards the coal industry, they must be receiving substantial benefits in return. 

The truth, as Mungo correctly pointed out, is that coal has very poor future prospects. The momenutum of the shift towards renewables is increasing around the world and will continue to do so no matter how much Mr Abbott wishes it wouldn't. The coal industry should be looking to use their profits to invest in the renewables market. This is where the future lies. 
Not so much robbed as quietly screwed. The concentration of large quantities of wealth in the hands of a minority means that a minority have a disproportinately large influence over the government as has been demonstrated repeatedly in Australia and elsewhere. This allows them to manipulate the government to create policies and make decisions that are beneficial to their interests. The government therefore ceases to act in the best interests of the voters even though it was the sweaty masses that placed them in power.Even if Murray were to recommend that banks hold a greater cash buffer, I can guarantee that the recommendation won't be carried out by the government. The combined lobbying power of Australia's major banks is immense and any government (Labor or Liberal) wouldn't have the courage to standup against them. The result of such a move would make the Rudd government's stoush with the mining companies over the super profits tax look like a schoolyard brawl. 

Our banks will be safe for as long as the property market holds up and the government will do everything within its power to ensure the property market never collapses (e.g. restricting supply of new land).

The author is absolutely right however both major parties are in lockstep on this issue which means the laws will be passed with no real scrutiny. This is parliamentary democracy in action!!!

I'm wondering if they'll stand up when challenged in the High Court (as they inevitably will be). 

The author is correct, political reform is required. The question is, how do we bring it about? The parties will not relinquish power of their own accord. 

As I've said before, I think we need to challenge, in court, the power of the party to dictate how an MP votes. Argue that the party is dishonestly influencing public officials (MPs) in the course of their duties (representing their constituents) by pressuring them to vote one way or another upon threat of discipline. Unless they party has a legal instrument through which this discipline can be enforced (which they don't), such threats constitute coersion and are therefore dishonest.

If a party can no longer force their MPs to vote along party lines, then the party will loose a significant amount of its power. Without this power, there will be no point in wealthy corporations or individuals making large donations in return for favours as such favours will no longer be able to be guaranteed. Essentially the entire political landscape would change.I don't mind people joining parties however the party should not be able to dictate how people vote or discipline MPs who don't vote according to the party line. If an MP from either house disagrees with their party's policy, they should be free to vote against that policy in the house without fear of retribution. If this occurred, we'd most likely see a moderation of government policy back towards the center.I think the odds are that Jesus did exist however I also think that there would have been alot of myth built up around him both in his lifetime and after his death. At least some of this myth would have made it into the Bible. 

Also I think the Bible's representation of the teachings of Jesus have been distorted by those who were responsible for compiling the bible and further since by the church. 

I've long held the view that Buddha and Jesus were essentially talking about the same thing only from different backgrounds. If you read the teachings of Jesus from a Buddhist perspective, they take on quite a different flavour. If I'm right, I'd imagine that Jesus' take home message would have been based very heavily around the purity of the self. The experience attained by purifying the self, he would have ascribed to being possessed off the holy spirit. Concepts of faith and belief would never have come into it. 

I wonder if some of the people in DFAT are developing nervous twitches? I'm certain at least some degree of anxiety must be felt everytime Mr Abbott opens his mouth.
I imagine Mr Putin would have been advised about Abbott's severe case of foot in mouth disease and has probably dismissed Abbott as an idiot. Apart from that he wouldn't really care what Abbott said about him. Australia wouldn't even feature on his radar. 

His chief concern at the moment is his game of chicken with the rest of the world (esp Europe and the US) over the Ukraine.  

The government's principle concern here was that the ANU are ditching shares in companies that the government (aka LNP) are backing. I suspect at least one of the companies in question make substantial donations to either the LNP or one of its satellite organisations that help fund LNP activities. Had they been selling off shares in a clean energy company, the government wouldn't have said anything or perhaps would have praised the move. 

Eitherway, I'm certain the ANU will be able to find an equally attractive company that meets its ethical investment requirements.
I've always found the dharma in Buddhism to be of the greatest fascination. Its unique amongst religions in that its approach is based upon logic - well as presented by Guatama Buddha anyway. It is, in essence, an exploration of the self in a bid to relinquish all aspects of the self which are not permanent and all preconceptions. Ultimately, this leads to the relinquishment of the ego altogether as our own psychological self image is found to be artificial. 

Of particular interest is the effect this journey has on its practitioners. Modern science is showing that people who practice meditation and mindfulness are more likely to have greater compassion for others and they are less likely to suffer from the mental health issues we so frequently hear about today.

Jesus spoke frequently about loving thy neighbour and forgiving those who wrong you however most Christians would agree that such instructions are easier to say than they are to put into practice. Further still, they put our inability to follow them down to the sinfulness of man; something for which they say we must all repent. 

Perhaps this is incorrect. Perhaps our inability to follow his teachings is more about our psychology which in turn is something that can be altered. Perhaps churches and mosques should be encouraging their parishioners to practice meditation and mindfulness as a means by which to follow the teachings of their respective scriptures? 

You are right but such terminology won't make sense to many who aren't familar with Buddhism. The entire first paragraph was substantially over simplified however I hope it points broadly in the right direction.
When the RBA do finally start lifting rates, they are going to have to give lots of forewarning otherwise they could trigger a housing market and share market crash.

I don't think terrorism is the issue here. The government probably use the security agencies for commerical purposes (Woodside Petroleum was most likely the tip of the iceberg). The terrorist threat was simply a plausible excuse to present to the voters. 

If the people arrested several weeks back were really as dangerous as they made out, why were the media invited along to the AFP raid? These terrorism operations are supposed to be highly secretive. Then of course, all but one of those arrested were released. I wonder if the AFP were told to mount this operation as a political exercise in generating fear? Is this the reason why the media were invited along? 

Also, why is it that both major parties are always in lock step when it comes to these issues? Why is it left to the minor parties and independents to ask the questions? Is it simply because its too dangerous politically not to back them or do both sides have something to gain from this legislation going through?

Call me paranoid if you like but I smell a rat.
Amanda Vanstone in her article said that 2% of tax payers pay 25% of all income tax and that we should be thanking them for doing so.

What she doesn't mention is that after a while the compounding nature of money, when invested in shares or even a humble investment account, means that its growth starts to follow an ever steepening curve. The vast majority will never attain sufficient quantities of money to see that happening however the 2% who do will see their total wealth increase considerably with very little effort.

The question therefore needs to be asked: Do the 2% of people who have reached this favourable position really deserve vast increases in wealth that the mathematical nature of compounding interest bestows upon them? Sure up to a point the level of effort expended most likely justifies the money they earn however beyond that point the money earnt vastly exceeds the value of their labors. If we all saw such massive increases in our wealth, inflation would shoot through the roof. 

Further still, most of the money they earn does not translate into economic activity that will benefit others. They will spend a small percentage of their income (which to many would seem like an extravagant amount) on maintaining their lifestyle but will most likely invest the rest in areas that will see the money continue to grow but will not generate the economic activity that sees increased growth in the economy (e.g. buying shares/investment properties). 

Amanda Vanstone vastly overestimates the positive impact that these 2% have. 
Abbott's policy here is almost certainly about ideology. Neo-conservative ideology promotes small government, low taxes and market delivery of as many services as possible. The theory being that the free market will drive efficiencies through competition. In Abbott's ideal world, all hospital's would be privately run and you'd have a cashier at the exit where each person payed for the service they received: "Chemo-therapy, that will be $1000 dollars per treatment sir. How would you like to pay; EFTPOS or Bank Cheque?".

Welcome to the United States of Australia.
The author is quite right. There are many ways to view the world and our youth should be exposed to a broad spread - not just science. 

I remember reading a book by Buzz Aldrin (the second man to walk on the moon and the first man to pee on the moon - he was having a pee as he stepped off the lunar lander). He commented that he wished that he'd had a poet up there too as he felt that his description simply didn't do the experience justice. That said, I think even a poet would have a hard job describing such an experience. 

Unfortunately our political overlords can't see outside the narrow apertures of their ideological glasses.I think the asylum seeker issue has become an article of ideological faith for the LNP. They have now adopted asylum seeker policy as something that is fundamental to their beliefs and whose acheivement justifies the method of implementation - no matter what impact they have on people.

Isn't it interesting how fanaticism narrows the mind.

I wonder if a fanatic who commits attrocities (e.g. a member of ISIS) is less likely to suffer from PTSD than their more open minded counterparts who wittness the atrocities and suffer the consequences later on?

IMHO: I think Shorten was put in the top job because the ALP expected to be in Opposition for at least 2 terms. The first Opposition Leader after a big loss is nearly always a sacrifical lamb.

The issue that Labor have is that the LNP aren't looking crash hot at present which means that Shorten has a better than expected chance of making it to the Lodge in 2 years time. That said, 2 years is a long time in politics and the LNP's luck may swing in their favor (particularly if the economy picks up). I'm finding that rather hard to see right now. The budget measures Hockey introduced are contractionary and the Government's cash cow - the mining industry - has dried up due to the slow down in China. Further still, Australia isn't particularly well endowed with industries that sell value added goods overseas (e.g. manufacturing). We prefer to ship raw materials overseas for other people to add value to. What's worse, Mr Abbott is busy making cuts in areas that would ensure Australia's future (e.g. education) in order to fix a budget emergency that doesn't exist.

Given the extremely low standard of debate (if that is the correct word for it) that we see in parliament, I think sexism from either side won't take the standard any lower than what it is. You'd be better off writing about sexism in the workplace where there are laws through which the issue can be dealt with. 

PS: I wonder if the Parliament has mechanisms for dealing with harassment? Whilst inside the house, members are protected by parliamentary privilege but presumably outside such  privileges don't apply. Do you think the DPP would have been willing to prosecute Tony Abbott for harassing Julia Gillard?

I think Australia's festering mistrust of our political masters has a while yet to linger. If history is anything to go by, populations will tolerate this sort of thing for quite sometime before taking action. 

It would be fascinating to conduct a psychological profile of our political masters to see how they differ from the norm. There seems to be a common trait among many leaders throughout history that blinds them to the tide of public opinion.I didn't think the latest employment figures issue had anything to do with cuts. It was down to how well the trend in this year's unemployment figures fitted the trend from previous years with a comparison of the trends being used to seasonally adjust the numbers. For reasons we don't understand, this year the unemployment numbers bucked previous trends meaning the seasonal adjustment process could no longer be applied. To my mind, this comes under the category of S**t Happens. 

Mr Hockey's media comments on the issue were simply political hot air.

On a separate note, I've often wondered how accurate the Yes Minister portrayl of senior departmental officials was. It would be quite reasonable to expect such officials to view Ministers with consierable contempt. As Sir Humphrey said, most Ministers have no experience or qualifications in their portfolios where as senior departmental officials have 20+ years experience. 

In the army, when a Second Lieutenant (fresh out of officer training) is placed in charge of a platoon, the ones who do the best are those that listen to their platoon seargent. The ones that fail are those with big heads who think they know everything. You can imagine the same principle applying to newly appointed ministers and most ministers falling under the latter category.
By the above definition, Anonymous and any other hacktivists out there are now terrorists as they disrupt electronic systems and they do so to advance a cause and with the intention of intimidating. Therefore if you express support for Anonymous, you will be guilty of an offence.

Wikileaks are also walking a very fine line too. The government could argue that their publication of classified documentation has endangered the lives of Australian soliders overseas and it would be up to Wikileaks to prove that it hasn't - a virtually impossible task. Wikileaks also are promoting a cause and the creation of embarassment through publication could be seen as intimidation.

That said, the government will also be breaking their own laws with their support of the Kurds through the current air strikes against ISIS. The Kurds no doubt count among their numbers members of the PKK -a recognised terrorist group. 

IMHO: Most of these laws seem to be about the government trying to look as if they are doing something about terrorism. As I've said before, making new laws such as this is largely futile. If someone is willing to give up their life for a cause, the threat of jail will hardly be a deterrent. Further more, all the laws and increased powers will do nothing to stop the lone wolf. 

Its a pity we have to give up so much to achieve so little.
I somehow doubt that Bill Shorten is the man to do this job. He's too deeply entrenched in the unions and no doubt carries alot of baggage. Further still, I don't think he has the strength of character or presence required. 

Shorten's only real chance on this issue is to hope that the Royal Commission makes major findings against many of the top union leaders who control the pre-selections. Such a finding would put them in a vulnerable position allowing Shorten and Faulkner to steam roll changes through the National Executive. He could then go and thank Mr Abbott for setting up the Royal Commission and, in the process, saving the Labor Party. As a token of his gratitude, he could give Mr Abbott life long membership of the Labor Party.

Its a funny old world. 
If a scholarly news service was setup in Australia which provided independent intelligent analysis with no bias, I wonder how popular it would be?

In reality, I think media reform needs to go hand in hand with the political reform that this country so badly needs. Newspapers should be required (by law if necessary) to include a section which provides unbiased reporting of the news - no hype. Democracies work best when the voters have knowledge about the issues upon which the parliament deliberates and the media forms a key medium through which this knowledge is imparted.
Its a pity that Mr Abbott and Mr Hockey didn't apply the same perspective to the $13 billion interest we pay each year on the debt. In the context of $400 billion in revenue, $13 billion (less than 4% of revenue) is not the emergency that they make it out to be and it most certainly doesn't call for the austerity measures they've implemented. Rewinding some of Mr Costello's tax cuts in the upper tax brackets would have gone a fair way towards solving the revenue problem.

I think that the budget emergency was actually a cover story so they could implement their conservative ideology without having to announce it as a policy.
Most of Costello's tax cuts were aimed at people in the higher tax brackets, depriving these people of what equates to a very small percentage of their income won't have any significant impact upon the economy.

The budget cuts that Hockey introduced affect a large number of people mostly in the lower to middle income brackets. Making what may seem like small cuts to these peoples incomes will have a significant affect on their spending as invariably these people have little slack in their budgets. This will have a significant impact on the economy.

I agree however that proper tax reform would go a significant way towards fixing the revenue problem into the future. This however will be almost impossible due to our dysfunctional political system.This all sounds very nice however the Counter-Terrorism Legislation Amendment Bill will make no difference. By the time someone's made the decision to go and fight, it'll be too late. They will have already been radicalized and, were they not heading off overseas, they'd probably be planning terrorist attacks here. Let's face it, anyone who's willing to face a high probability of death fighting with ISIS will not be worried about a possible jail term. The only people it will deter are ordinary citizens and anyone who decides to incorporate Syria or Iraq into their next O/S holiday itinerary are probably best eliminated from the gene pool anyway. I wonder if the people at the Darwin Awards have a category for this sort of thing?

Personally speaking, I say we should let them go but on the agreement that they will never be allowed to return. That is, they relinquish their Australian Citizenship. This plan is a win win situation. They get to go and fight/die for their cause and we rid ourselves of a potential terrorist.
I'd be surprised if a war tax was introduced. The Liberals are ideologically opposed to taxes and our current government is very much driven by right-wing ideology. My guess is there will be more cuts to social welfare spending and the public service - these are areas that are close to Mr Hockey's heart. I wouldn't be surprised if their Direct Action policy on climate change got slashed too. When framing the budget, Mr Hockey pitched for far greater cuts than what were finally accepted by cabinet. He'll most likely go back to his original proposals and pick further cuts that the cabinet rejected last time but are likely to accept this time.Without ground troops, the efforts will inhibit ISIS at best. Even if ISIS are beaten back, without a political solution for the Iraq/Syria issue, it will only be a matter of time before another extremist group follow in their footsteps. 

The US, the most powerful military in the world, spent billions trying to defeat the Taliban and they are still alive and well. They also spent billions in Vietnam in the 60's and 70's and failed their too. Israel have gone to great lengths to kill any potential terrorists in the Gaza strip and still haven't succeeded after 40+years. Do you think there is a pattern here? 

The current War on Terror should be renamed to the War for Terror. Since it began, the number of terrorists groups have multiplied and the areas in which they operate have expanded greatly.

The solution to the terrorist problem can only be found in the political domain. What the government is doing at present is a futile exercise which has been shown repeatedly not to work.
I wonder if our honourable representatives realise that by airing their ignorant views in public, they are helping to create the conditions for a terrorist attack. ISIS are busy promoting the idea that the west are anti-Islam. Right now all sides and levels of government should be doing their level best to disprove this. They should be having regular meetings with Muslim leaders, building bridges, promoting acceptance within the community, educating the community as to what Islam is all about etc... Instead what are they doing? Coming out with statements which only serve to prove the very point that ISIS are making and alienate the very people they should be trying to get on side.

Sure, everybody is entitled to an opinion and is entitled to air that opinion but when you're in a position of responsibility as they are, you need to be measured in what you say - especially on issues such as this.

We are being governed by fools.
I'm sure you're right but when it comes to propaganda, the truth is merely an optional extra.The author has pointed to something I've long suspected and voiced in previous posts: both the ALP and LNP, when either side are in government, use the security agencies for the commerical gain of certain companies - presumably the ones that make the biggest donations to each political party.

There can only be two possible reasons for the ALP being in lock-step with the LNP:
a) It is politically too dangerous to oppose such moves because if something did happen the opposition would leave themselves wide open to attack. 
b) Both sides equally benefit from the large donations and are eager to provide further scope for this "assistance" to the right companies.

Given the results from NSW ICAC, it wouldn't surprise me in the least if the federal political parties were as as their state counterparts - possible more so. Another peice of circumstantial evidence that points to this is the unwillingness of either the ALP or LNP to set up a federal level ICAC. Both are terrified of what a federal ICAC would reveal so both argue that it isn't necessary.
I'd wager that some aren't. I think the government will have a tough time in the High Court when it comes to defending their proposed reversal of the burden of proof for certain crimes.

Of course history shows that such measures have no real effect on terrorism. The government will catch some would be terrorists however the lone wolves will remain undetected until its too late. 

The fact that politicians polling indicates that their schoolyard behaviour wins votes does not excuse them from behaving that way. The ends do not justify the means. Their behaviour is embarrassing, destructive, unscrupulous and reprehensible. 

Above everything else, this country needs political reform.
The solution cannot be found in convincing them one way or another. We have the politicians we have because the political parties attract that type of person. They are irredeemable. 

The solution centers around reducing the influence of the political parties over the voting rights of their parliamentary members. The principle is that an MP should be allowed to vote which ever way they please without fear of retribution. 

In theory such a mechanism already exists in as much as it is illegal to dishonestly influence a public official in the course of their duties (see Section 135.4(7) of the Criminal Code). Unless a political party has a legal mechanism by which it can force their MPs to vote along party lines (which they don't), then to coerce MPs with the threat of loss of preselection or loss of promotion opportunities amounts to blackmail which is dishonest.

This law should be tested in this context in court. Challenge a law passed by the parliament on the basis that government MPs were illegally coerced into voting against their wishes. See if a judge is off the same opinion. If it worked, the Party Whip could find himself in jail for up to 10 years.

George Washington warned against letting political parties become too powerful in his farewell speech as president. His words were truly prophetic. 
I think Glenn Steven's position is bordering upon hopeless. His only effective tool is interest rates and he can't use it. The other tools (regulation, taxation etc...) are controlled by the government. The government however won't do anything because they are too busy looking after their sectional interests and engaging in political bunfights.

This country badly needs political reform!!!

PS: Moving on negative gearing would be entirely possible without any dramatic effect if it were done slowly over a period of say 10-15 years. Gradually reduce the percentage of interest people can claim on their taxes over that time. Start very slowly and increase it more rapidly over the period. This way there won't be a sudden fire sale of properties and the consequent plummetting of house prices.This article assumes that the Coalition cares what Australians think on this matter. They don't. They answer to the wishes of certain industry groups - most noticably the mining industry - for whom action on climate change will be detrimental.

That said, if public opinion really is as the article says and it persists in this direction, both sides of government will eventually move to catch up. With the political momentum on climate change growing rapidly around the world, I suspect that Tony Abbott and his colleagues will need to be placed on the endangered species register.Out of curiosity, who enforces International Law? As far as I can tell, its enforcement is largely arbitary and is really dependent upon politics.
