If a government cannot get most of its budget through then it has no choice but to go to a double dissolution. The Coalition is only hanging on because of Abbott's ego not his ability as PM. Get rid of them and their useless leader and the country can start to function again."What exactly did you think he was going to do?."

Fair go EVAN, I don't think even Tony Abbott himself can answer that one.Abbott and the Coalition have to go now for the good of the country. Abbott's ego is not worth the destruction it is causing."I can't thing of a single thing that they have done wrong."

Let me see - repealed the carbon price to allow the polluters to win; co-payments for medical treatment so the needy don't clutter up the medical system; upset the Chinese by appeasing the Japanese; handed back asylum seekers to the people they are trying to away from; attacked CSIRO funding because the scientists keep pointing out where Abbott's Direct Action policy is nonsense; trying to push education costs up to the point where only the privileged can afford it; trying to remove any restraints on banks about offering shonky advice; pared back pensions. A common element in most of that is that the LNP corporate supporters are getting their money's worth while the country and its citizens are hung out to dry.  

Then there are the admitted travel allowance rorts including Abbott's much vaunted pollie pedals; the attempt to renege on Gonski; the No Action Direct Action policy which will see the tax payer funding the polluters to poison the air - I could go on but you see what I mean. All of which is topped off by Abbott's inability to negotiate his way through a revolving door. Abbott spent his time in Opposition trying to wreck the place and now he's in power he's doing it - I wonder who he is working for. This kindergarten government has to go so that we poor citizens can have the country back.

I might add that if the IPA is saying they ought to go then there is obviously serious doubts even amongst the rusted on LNP supporters."...Mr Abbott is not going anywhere... " 

Never a truer word EVAN, the 19th century is just fine for Tony and he's staying there thank you. Unfortunately the rest of us have to live in the 21st century without any definable evidence that we have a government." ...Labor supporters have trouble recognising competent government... "

Well EVAN even a Labor supporter like myself is correct in saying that there sure as hell ain't one in Canberra right now. A DD will fix that.Labor didn't create a mess - it was Abbott and his corporate supporters yelling lies from the sidelines because poor little Tony couldn't negotiate to form government in 2010. The LNP cheer squad should have woken up then that Abbott was a disaster but did they - of course not. So three years on because of their lack of intelligence the country is inflicted with this disaster of a PM."And another 2 years to go at the least.Go get em Tony."

Well he's already done for the LNP ;-)EVAN with Abbott's current performance Mr Shorten doesn't have to say a word because Tony's doing the full foot in mouth.The problem is that Abbott is still talking and behaving like he did in opposition. We have a sagging economy not because of anything that Labor did but because of Abbott's constant talking it down with lies about the effect of the carbon price and every time he stuffs up now, which is becoming regularly, it isn't helping at all. The Coalition needs either to replace him with some one competent or go for a new election pronto or we are really stuffed. The budget emergency was a lie and so transparent a one that even conservative senators can see through it. The treasurer is making himself invisible to protect any ambitions he might have and our Foreign Minister has seriously upset our biggest customer for iron and coal. The world is difficult enough at the moment without Abbott's incompetence.Yes EVAN but could you explain why Abbott seems to think he is still Opposition Leader and has reneged on about every policy he took to the election.Let me see - well there was no cuts to pensions and no cuts to education for starters. And there was, I admit not a cut, but his travel allowance rorting over the pollie pedals. At the time he claimed that it was a charitable effort by himself and like-minded pollies.

Then of course we have his promises about honest government and no lies which his efforts to appease the banks has, well how shall I put it, put the lie to that. We were expecting his Direct Action policy on climate change but as it involves no action then that is a lie. And his avowed 100% refusal to do deals with minor parties, well his deals with Palmer have put the lie to that. Oh and I forgot his general ineptitude - but we all knew that, well those of us who bothered to examine his past record, so I dunno where that puts you."Perhaps we could take him there in a tumbrel?"

Good idea, after all it worked with empty-headed born to rule individuals in the past.Well rescinding the carbon price is not a good idea for the planet so as a policy statement it shows the complete ignorance of those who proposed it, while stopping the boats may not be true because the government has clamped a silence order on any mention of them. In other words a loss for the environment and a loss for the truth. But that's our Tony - still playing at being Opposition Leader.Well EVAN now that by some ridiculous fluke Tony is PM then he has to start behaving like a PM for all the country not just his mining and polluting mates. Shorten really doesn't have to do anything as Little Tony keeps digging that hole he is in except quietly hand him a longer handled shovel." ... a few minor changes to social welfare (sorry the entitlements you all feel entitled to)... "

Umm... so you are not a pensioner I presume.Historically before the events of the 20th century Russia has always had similar policies (Poland, Finland, the Baltic States, the expansion to the south- east etc.) Perhaps the simplest solution might be to invite Russia into NATO rather than keeping NATO as primarily an anti-Russian security organization. 

Putin is however a man of Stalin like qualities in his leanings towards nationalism of the fascist kind. In real terms, even though both were tyrants the world was well rid of, Stalin is by the body count in his own country worse than Hitler. Putin has Stalin like objectives bit is currently restrained by the constitution of his post-soviet country - how long he takes to wipe those democratic reforms away is the pressing problem. 

Perhaps some friendly overtures from the West (NATO) might either prevent that or see him go. Bit the action of these murderers in the so-called Donetsk nation must be punished and the perpetrators bought to trial immediately. For that we need Putin's cooperation and that is where the vicious circle keeps revolving endlessly."Given that Russia poses the greatest military threat to Europe right now, that would seem unwise."

Some times there are better ways of resolving difficulties than the threat of armed conflict. Russia is primarily a European nation rather than some rogue eastern state. Have you considered that Russia may feel as threatened by NATO as NATO feels threatened by Russia - it is just a continuation of the Cold War mind set which really should be dead and buried. 

After all the expansionist repressive Soviet regime has gone and no one (including most Russians) want that back. Couple that with the fact that the former members of the USSR are nations now desperate for economic ties with the West as well as independence from Russian neo-imperialist leanings. You can defuse that by bringing Russia in out of the cold.I doubt it - we tend to purify these people with names like separatists but the reality is they are nothing more than local criminals using a bit of political unrest to make a killing both in the physical and financial sense. The Russians, given their past problems with similar groups, should be condemning them rather than offering support to this vermin.The leader of Donetsk People's Republic has claimed responsibility. Just another Fascist as are all the "separatists". If he has claimed responsibility then let him be tried in the The Hague - I am willing to bet like all our modern Fascists he'll run like the coward he is.In what way is Putin of the left - he's a NeoFascist pure and simple, always has been. The murder of the passenger and crew of this airliner is far too serious a thing to dismiss it with some flippant political remark about left and right.Totally agree Dove - they are all cut from the same cloth. Just murderers and psychopaths trying to get our attention.There were no risks until these murderous criminals (not "freedom fighters") fired the missile. A pox on them and whoever backs these sub-humans.Gosh now there's a conspiracy theory and a half. America may not be perfect, but please don't forget that these so-called "separatists" are nothing more than criminal gangs with links into the Russian crime syndicates. Of course they shot down the airliner - that's what these murderers do.The problem for us all is that the Malaysian Airlines incident may do for Abbott what 911 did for George W Bush. That is not a good thing considering that while both leader's responses grasped the feeling of their respective nations at the time, the end results of their revived political fortunes was harmful to the overall well-being of their countries. While I am loathe to use those examples considering the human tragedy involved they, unfortunately, show us that political fortunes are mercurial and sometimes not for the best. I have no doubt that Mr Abbott can with the proper advice and control respond in a measured way that transcends political differences but I do have reservations about the fact that such control is necessary. So far given the local responses to the budget, the orchestrated opposition by the right against efforts to ameliorate climate problems etc. I hold out little hope concerning Abbot's tenure.Abbott has only done what we would expect any PM to do who is backed by a large team of advisers and speechwriters. No doubt Shorten's response would have been the same. 

We forget that the main advisers for PMs in these events are career bureaucrats not party hacks. The key point is that the event was appalling in its casual brutality - there are no excuses for the deliberate targeting of a civil airliner from a neutral country overflying a region where two groups are fighting. Australia's response, along with the Dutch, Malaysians and any other country who lost its citizens in this act of murder, is precisely as we would expect whatever the politics of the party in power. Let's not turn this into some cheap attempt to score party political points.Why should I or anyone else surrender their privacy because some politician or public servant wants more power? There is no reason why they should have additional powers - they have more than sufficient already and as far as attacking my privacy is concerned they can take themselves and their repressive proposals and shove them up their collective arses. 

You can always tell when politicians and public servants have too little to do - they start make work exercises, most of which make life more miserable for the people they are supposedly serving. If they are worried about what will happen if people currently fighting jihads in the ME return to Australia they have the laws in place to deal with them - remember David Hicks.One is wise never to surrender liberty. We tend to forget that the liberties we do have were not given to us free of charge, all of them required fighting for so having won those fights it is just plain self-destructive to give them up. We have a sufficiently strong body of law to deal with people who would threaten our society without the need to grant the police or government any more power. The real problem lies in the reluctance of the authorities to use the powers they already have - not in there being a lack of power.APM I am beginning to suspect that your concerns about Islam are bordering on the unhealthy. Could you try and specify which part of Islam are opposed to your way of life and in what way you have behaved to upset them, other than using any pretext to attack them."You probably think it is racist to notice these things."

No I just think that you are confusing a minority with the majority. I know a fair few ostensible Christians who hold the same views as you are claiming for Muslims - I might add that I find all views like that narrow minded and repugnant as well. Does that make me a racist, no just makes me someone who places no value on any sort of religious ethic which excludes the worth of a person as a person.I find it strangely revealing that Andrew Bolt's supporters will sneak their poison into a discussion that seems to be about stereotyping one particular religion. But then I suppose that Muslims and Aboriginals are fair game to some regardless of whether or the actions of an individual represent those of the whole group. Could I suggest that those who are going to stereotype at the very least present evidence that their stereotype is indeed reflective of the whole. And yes I agree that it would be fair to say that like all nationalities and religions there are a few rotten apples but broad brush techniques just serve no purpose unless you attempting to hide the cracks in the facade.Zing I cannot see what depriving us of our freedoms will do to stop the terrorists - because by your argument we have already lost.Jess an excellent suggestion but the government won't do it because that would deprive them of a chance to further erode our liberty."In other words we have the emergence of anti-racism efforts being subverted by some minorities to enable cultures of racism and other socially deleterious outcomes by making it virtually illegal to hold some groups to account. That is one of the problems of 18c."

If a person or a group of persons breaks any law there exist adequate legal means to bring them to account in this country. The only person who is whining about the government back flipping on 18c is the person who tried to use the race card to attack some people who had not broken any law or for that matter done him any harm. 

I suggest that if you feel oppressed by multiculturalism you might start broadening your circle of acquaintances and get out more, or if that is repugnant move to Nth Korea where there is but one culture - there is not much entertainment and there are periodic famines I grant but it is proudly mono cultural.In the light of the recent events in Gaza just as in previous attacks by Israel there is bound to be a rise in anti-Semitic attacks and rhetoric. Certainly the media reports of the destruction of homes, schools and hospitals as well as the seemingly endless deaths of non-combatants offer compelling reasons for the small minority of people who are actively anti-Semitic. Unfortunately as we know from the survival, despite all the evidence to the contrary, of neo-Nazis committed to antisemitism and denial of the death camps there is a solid core of very irrational, psychologically damaged and deluded people of whom we will never be rid.  

However the awful truth is that images of children and mothers being killed is not good propaganda for the people doing the killing whatever side of the conflict they are on. In fundamental terms the independent state of Israel was a terrible mistake which was made for all the right reasons at the time but in the long term has bought long-lasting misery to both sides of the endless carnage. While it gave the Jews the security of a homeland the endless tit-for-tat violence has fueled, as we have seen for decades, ammunition to those people who are anti Jewish rather than anti-Israel. If it is any consolation and I admit it is pretty poor consolation, these same people, if Jews didn't exist, would probably just as vociferously hate some other religion or race. As for your friend they have my sympathy but sadly I can offer no adequate answer.It must be remembered that there is nothing altruistic in Abbott's backflip over section 18c - all that happened was that he discovered that by persisting with it he was going to lose any hope of reelection faster than he already is. 

He has "discovered" a new threat to our nation the so-called "returning terrorists" so he'll be able to beat that can for a while with another mantra Team Australia. What he is not telling us is that our existing laws are sufficient to deal with any threat these people may be and we don't need any more legislation added to our already repressive anti-terrorism laws.

Abbott gave up on imitating John Howard he's now discovered a new role model George W Bush. Now we find that Turnbull wasn't told about Abbott's data gathering plans - he first read it in the media. What a shambles this government is becoming.And that is the problem about claims that we have a right to be bigots isn't it.Team Australia - if chauvinism becomes an Olympic sport we are certain to win gold.A good point Phil - many people tend to forget that what is happening in Iraq and other parts of the ME is actually a religious civil war. Non-Islamic citizens are being caught up in the cross-fire rather than being the prime targets. It's rather like our wars in Europe when Catholics and Protestants were destroying each other in the name of Christian mercy."If you are not a suspected terrorist ..."

And therein lies the fallacy in your argument. Suspected doesn't mean proven, it just means that someone thinks you are.Brandis rorted his travel allowance - what else needs to be said about Andrew Bolt's mate.Has it occurred to you that most of us have the strange idea that we should be allowed to have some privacy. That doesn't mean we're criminals, deviates or terrorists just that we are ordinary human beings who would like to live our lives in peace and free of self-authoritated thought police. We live in a world where public servants have forgotten that they are our servants - it isn't the other way around and should never be. In other words they work for me, I don't work for them and if I want them to leave me alone I expect that they will do so or be fired."Team Australia" - Abbott is improving his act, this vacuous mantra only has two words.Group Think, Team Australia - what's the difference FG.Subconscious Desire, Criticize Labor Supporters - what's the difference FG?

Just keeping you alert and not alarmed.You forget Ben that under our new right wing Team Australia regime the chances of actually standing up for freedom of expression are becoming slimmer every day. Accessing phone records, internet, Brandis' now scotched attempt to allow racial vilification just so long as it is done by right wing opinion writers all point in one very sorry direction. You may be happy to support the War on Terror Mk2 by surrendering your rights to the real terrorists but I am not.Biased Luke - in what is anyone biased if they point out the inherent silliness of two word slogans like Team Australia. Does our silly PM actually think that a slogan like that means something other than expressing his sub-conscious yearnings to be George W Bush.Isn't Bolt a hell of a whiner when he gets caught out. Poor dear, can dish it out but can't take it.In what way Mick - I can't recall a single instance of Andrew Bolt enriching our society - he has however maintained a steady source of income for himself and his employers by deliberately denigrating innocent Australians.APM unlike you I have worked and lived in Muslim countries. Frankly I didn't see too much difference between them and us in regard to most human behaviour. Granted there are some repressive Islamic regimes but I suggest you go to the Bible Belt states in the US where you will be exposed to the same repression except from an extreme Christian viewpoint. Religions of any sort are by their nature intolerant of other religions.Predictable? hardly. There are serious ethical and legal questions surrounding the concept of phone tapping for that is all this data retention scheme is under another name. As we saw when Kevin Andrews persecuted doctor Haneef when he was Immigration Minister in the Howard government there is no chance for any individual to overcome that sort of government sponsored terrorism. Now we have some of the same government back in power and we see the same old act tough instead of act legally policies being trotted out. Abbott's government is in deep trouble and so just like Howard did, we see another clumsy attempt to appeal to xenophobic fears. 

Still xenophobia always picks up votes - Abbott knows this so expect him to get a bit of a poll boost after this display of appealing to our worst instincts. The current criminal law has more than sufficient provisions to stop terrorism - we don't need more, especially ones that are targeted purely getting idiots to vote for him.APM like all proponents of the concept that there are selected groups we must feel outrage against you rely on generalizations. Perhaps you might care to offer some actual hard data to support your claims. Until you do your claims lack credibility.Data retention is just illegal phone tapping under a new name."The polarization of British society into mutually antagonistic factions has forced even the most dyed-in-the-wool pluralists to concede that multiculturalism has proved a dismal and destructive failure."

Evidence?

British society has I would argue, just like any society has always been divided into mutually antagonistic factions. Only the ways in which this expressed are changing.Perhaps the government could actually contribute something to the problem of so-called "dole bludgers" by actually creating an economy that creates jobs. So far we have seen under Abbott's awful reign as PM massive job losses which means that job seekers are not only forced to live on a starvation allowance but have little chance of actually getting a job. Work for the dole should be a program funded at award rates and treating the work schemes as chances to create real jobs rather than make work. Bugger complaints about socialism - we need to get people earning real money they can then spend in the community thus creating more jobs. I wonder when the right will ever wake up to that.Well what's the point of being a Liberal voter if you can't kick the down and out. It's a dirty job but at least it's keeping the Liberal voters out of the dole queue.Well Grumpi they get unreal wages. ;-)They're obviously running out of rations in the good ship Liberal Asylum Seeker. Captain Tony is beginning to sound like he's panicking - Pyne got told to stay off the bridge, Hockey jumped ship a while back, Brandis has been thrown overboard, next it will be Abetz. Dear me." ...but this is just making stuff up."

Unlike Tony who's been making it up ever since he got into politics. You can only go so far on slogans before the wheels come off.Actually Rusty the ones who still vote Liberal are the ones who think that nice Mr Menzies is still PM.It was always going to be a failed government when from the outset it included people like Pyne who appears never to have had a real job, Tony Abbott who clocked up approximately 2 years in real jobs in between living off the public trough and being a student, Joe Hockey who married well, plus as Mr Berg points out the remnants of the Howard B team. Then we have the clear bias towards allowing the miners a free go at our collectively owned resources, the PPL which offers people who have sufficient a little more, the co-payment system which suggests that we as a nation all use every opportunity we have to visit a doctor and other small matters like travel allowance rorts, transparent attempts to break every promise made during the election campaign etc. etc. etc. Don't bother with a cabinet reshuffle just have another election - that'll solve it. And while the Libs are back in Opposition they can sort out their need for another less distasteful leader.And I left out George Brandis creator of the Protect Andrew Bolt  Law - he's workshy as well. 

The problem for the Coalition is that they simply have too many frontbenchers who don't understand what work actually is. Spending time in Opposition saying no to everything wasn't work however much their rich supporters applauded them for it. If Mr Berg from the very conservative IPA is saying that the conservative Abbott Government hasn't managed to convince anyone that their policies are worthwhile then from any self-respecting conservative's viewpoint things really are bad. Simplest solution is to toss the lot of them by having an immediate election.Andie if it takes a real class war to get rid of this inept government of third rate bludgers and rorters then bring it on."Leaners" or the flying buttresses adorning a medieval ruin? ;-)Actually Tony has confirmed all my worst expectations ;-)"The Australian public  ...  always intended to dump Abbott."

Yes I suspect that it is true that many people voted for the Coalition in the hope that Abbott would be replaced by Turnbull. Certainly during their opposition Turnbull was always more popular than Abbott and I really can't explain his elevation to the PM's job in any other way than people hoped he'd be quickly dumped. I suspect he will be rather soon as the budget debacle is exposing all his leadership weaknesses.Bishop was always only a sop to the WA interests in the party. Turnbull would have some broad support but stands no chance as he is too far from the right faction that now dominates the Libs. Hockey went on holiday when the real lifting over the budget had to be done so he has demonstrated his leadership ability and his recent biography tends to show that he sees the whole party as lacking unity and loyalty. Pyne is no go simply because he has even less public trust than Abbott. So in view of the fact that Abbott has failed miserably and there are no other leadership contenders in the party it is time for them to resign and go to an election. That way they'll have some time in Opposition to sort themselves out.Yes Alfie, And he gave Clive everything he wanted and still hasn't got his Direct Action policy off the drawing board.Actually Amnesia although I supported Albanese I find that Shorten has done a very good job of allowing Abbott the room to unravel so publicly. All the venom and lies that Abbott attacked PM Gillard with are now coming back to bite him on the arse. Evidence indeed of what goes around comes around - and I might add I have seen very few politicians in my life who have deserved it as much as Abbott. I cannot recall a worse PM in the post-war era and that includes such non-events as Billy McMahon.He won't do it voluntarily - Credlin will get the word from her husband and Tony will be tapped on the shoulder. Joe will be rushed into the job and then it will get really bad.Same with me and I have never forgiven them.It is amazing isn't it - PM Gillard bought in a price on carbon which was designed to segue into an ETS which is a commercial incentive and one that the Libs are by their principles bound to support - yet Abbott's only response was Lies!!! and an Opposition period shouting various three word mantras all of which were lies as we have seen. Sufficient Australians were silly enough to vote for the Libs and now as we watch the unraveling of their third rate rabble of a government they are still telling more lies. Hockey's budget was constructed around a lie, Pyne's tight lipped "support" for education reforms was only achieved by Abbott having to over rule his attempt to ditch Gonski. Abetz has come up with an exercise in cruelty aimed at the unemployed because he is lying to himself about job availability - not to mention the lies about pollie pedals that were funded by the public not by the politicians, travel allowance rorts and Morrison's lies about 150 asylum seekers. Every where you look at this government's policies another lying three word mantra is exposed. Reset isn't going to work, only recall is.Once again the born rich telling everyone else how to manage their lives. Forrest should simply remember he is only a product of family circumstances, not a product of his own intellect.The fact that they would even solicit comments from Forrest is an indication of just where their concerns lie - and they aren't where the concerns of average Australians lie. The Coalition is truly in the pocket of business.Excellent and perceptive comments Punch - you have expressed what ordinary and working people like myself feel when we see the sell out to business interests and the inherited wealth establishment perpetrated by Abbott and the scum that support him. He was a serial rorter of his travel expenses - all those pollie pedals were paid for by the taxpayer and I wonder about the cost of the much lauded volunteer life saving and fire fighting efforts. He and his corrupt cronies have to go.As a person who is past the retirement age and still works I would feel absolutely denigrated to be told by a no-nothing person who inherited his wealth like Forrest that I would need mandatory income management if I had to resort to the dole or the pension. Just who the hell does he think he is.Yeah, mostly tea and sugar programs." ...its intention is first and foremost to discipline and punish jobseekers while avoiding dealing with the circumstances that cause unemployment in the first place."

Never a truer word spoken - the philosophy of the born to rule privileged Coalition members does not recognize that there is such a thing as someone who becomes unemployed. To them if a person is unemployed they are deliberately doing it so they can live on the dole. But then to be honest what would you expect from a government that includes people like Abbott, Pyne and Hockey who seem never to have had real jobs.

This government must go before it destroys Australia.Excellent idea, after all it is the job of government to manage the economy and the core of the economy is jobs, so let our Coalition MPs come up with the jobs. It's about time that someone like Abbott or Pyne actually did get real jobs themselves.Outsourcing policy making might sound good but in reality it won't remove the political aspects that are present in the current democratic process. All organizations whatever their area of expertise are comprised of individuals each of whom has their own political view. In the end it would come down to the same trade offs and majority vote determination that are present in the current system.I was actually agreeing with you and reinforcing the argument."Above all, give up the barracking. It does you no credit."

And exactly what do you call this repetitious statement FG when you apply it to every post in which you support the Coalition. The article is about slick tabloid politics which relies on mantras and slogans - could you tell us the difference between those and your slogan.Well apparently our credit rating remains at the top of the table and the budget has not got through the Senate because some of its measures are counter productive to say the least. I would blame the government for both the lies about budget problems and the reluctance of elected representatives of the people to impose unnecessary burdens on those least able to afford them, while scrapping taxes and imposts that were actually raising money. And what about the added spending of Abbott's PPL scheme - great move that, scrap taxes on the miners while handing the well paid bonuses in the form of PPL schemes. As for that mantra Operation Bring Them Home, that is something out of some cheap B grade Hollywood movie - perhaps Tony can only think in short sentences, but that doesn't mean the rest of us are that senseless.Barracking again FG - dear me you really do show yourself up don't you.Grumpy, Little Tony was doing well until he tried to be Big Grown up Tony and gave himself a Field Marshall's baton. That's when he got out of the shallow end of the pool where he was safe.If dole recipients are going to work then they must be paid award wages. To not do so is slavery by another name.Oh yes the green army - Tony was hoping you wouldn't mention that ;-)Operation Umm... Umm... Umm...APM it is a proven fact that the greatest use to which  Murdoch press papers are put to is for tradies to sit on while they are eating their lunch. A quick read at morning smoko to catch up on the footy then come lunch the paper keeps their overalls clean. Informed opinion is a complete stranger in that environment.It's a motherhood issue - anyone who disagreed with his response would be accused of hating children and fluffy kittens, just the sort of thing the right thrive on. Pity they don't care much for the other things Australia needs.As ever Tony had his flouro vest on before he thought about where he was going. This government has demonstrated a complete reluctance to take informed advice on any matter so it is time for it to resign.Must disagree I'm afraid. The Russian separatists are simply criminal elements taking advantage of a political dispute. In fact no different to those other mass-murderers the provisional IRA. To conflate the activities of these dregs with any claims that they are "freedom fighters" is to say that Carl Williams was just a suburban boy trying to support a family.From the start I have been incredulous at Julie Bishop trying to negotiate the right of Australians to carry arms onto the MH27 site. Surely she was advised against such an approach to both the Ukraine Govt and the Separatist rebels both of whom would inevitably refuse to allow armed foreigners to enter disputed territory. Just what chance would an armed Aussie policemen or soldier have if he or began remove their revolvers from their holsters?.iThe anecdotal claim about job snobs is an indication I'd say.Ironically if we had true socialism we would have no jobless except those unfit to work through physical circumstances.And then there's travel allowance rorting.Have Abetz, Abbott or Pyne ever had real jobs? Can one even imagine someone like Abetz, or Abbott or Pyne or any LNP minister sitting down and doing 40 applications a month for jobs ranging from ditch digging - to minor clerical work or shelf-stacking in a supermarket. Of course not they'd know immediately they didn't even have the skills for those jobs. But anyway all of them are already on government funded make work schemes now and have managed to rort the system so that they get much much more than the dole.Gee gbe tens of thousands of kids who have decided they don't need to work - is this the new-born to 1 year old group, or has your fevered imagination found another group.Love the term "job snobs" - seems to be the meme of the moment gbe. Got any evidence to give it some basis in reality.What is it with the members of the party of privilege the Liberal Party that they have to punish people just for having the sheer misfortune of being unemployed. 40 jobs a month? I suppose they've factored in the cost of mail, telephone, travel etc. and are going to increase the dole to compensate? what no .... well of course not,  according to the Libs the unemployed deserve to starve, that'll teach them to not be privileged. 

The irony is that the pollies who push these ridiculous schemes have by and large never held productive jobs in their lives for any length of time. I suppose they are going to reimburse all the employers who are bombarded with requests for work for the time involved in replying to these unfortunates - well why not, they are prepared to pay the polluters.Perhaps gd you might consider that many unemployed have had jobs and paid taxes. In those taxes there is a component which pays for social services, so I presume that you have failed to understand that many recipients of unemployment benefits have already paid for them.And you are entrepreneurial how? I presume the law firm that employs you pays you a salary for your conveyancing clerk work. Far cry from being an entrepreneur.To be fair the loss of MH17 is the only time Tony has had a chance to pretend that he is a leader and not just a weather vane just blowing in the wind. Of course he is milking it for all he's worth - but calling our role Operation Bring them Home is just a step too far. It sounds like something George W Bush might have said.Like every other issue that Abbott turned into a three word mantra there was no budget emergency - just another election slogan which anyone with half a brain saw through ages ago. This mob of clowns really have to go soon before they stuff up even more than they have now.I've been thinking for some time that it took Howard nearly 11 years to sink to the level of unpopularity that Abbott has sunk to in less than 11 months. Perhaps now that his government is dysfunctional to the point of absurdity he needs to have

1. a complete reshuffle of his front bench and lose people like himself, Pyne, Hockey, Abetz, Brandis, and Andrews whose political ideas are lost in the mists of antiquity, or

2. resign and give the PM's job to someone else less politically thick, or

3. Simply go to an election and let us get rid of the whole under performing swill. The last being my preferred option.AJS - Patrick and Trent said it for me. I mean what sort of Treasurer goes on a holiday when his budget has to be sold to a hostile Senate.The problem OUB is that the Senate minority parties have picked up on the fact that Abbott's stream of broken promises are not popular and they, like any other pollie, don't want to lose their jobs. Abbott I am afraid has demonstrated what many people have thought for many years which is that he is not a stellar performer at anything - all front and no back.But Zing - those protesting "minorities" you are so scornful of are the same people who elected this Senate. Perhaps you should enroll in Politics 101 and see how it works.JohnnoH that was because old Joe decided to take a holiday when the budget needed selling in the Senate. Hell hath no fury like an Abbott embarrassed."Taxes are lower - check
Get rid of the carbon tax - check
Introduce no new taxes - check
Stop the boats - check
Maintain LNP promised funding for health and schools - check
Not cuts the aged pension prior to the next election - check"

Not quite correct AHLD, that this situation exists is down to the Senate opposition to most of the broken promises that Abbott's shambolic lot tried to force down our throats because they claimed a mandate to break promises. I'd say that it's about time Abbott tossed in the towel." ...he specifically said he would not win the election and then use the `dire state` of the economy as an excuse for breaking promises."

Aaaahhh yes but that was before Abbott found another lie to be dressed up as a mantra - Budget Emergency. Never in Australian politics have so many lies and half-truths been said by one man. Still I didn't ever fall for his lies so don't blame me. We people who distrusted Abbott from the start have been shown to be remarkably prescient."Unhappy birthday Chris Pyne". Attacking the man just makes the critics look grubby."

Not if the man bought the attack on himself by his deliberate lies and actions. What a country we live in if a non-event like Pyne can get into the Cabinet.The simplest solution is to allow the conservatives a vote but make it only worth one third of a vote from sensible people - that way they get to vote but thankfully don't get to inflict their silly ideas on the public. I call it win win for Australia.Gee TC - the conservatives have always been trying to get rid of Medicare. I suspect it's to stop the lower classes from surviving long enough to be able to vote.Labor have always been the nation builders - all the great social and infrastructure investments and policies have been made by Labor governments since the Snowy Mountains scheme and Whitlam's great advances in social spending. All the Liberals have ever done is tear them down if they are allowed. The LNP are a party of nation destroyers."Abbot was prepared to do anything, say anything to get into power"

Precisely and now he's finding that talk is cheap.Not all Joe's fault all though he should have seen it coming. He went along with Abbott's slogans and lies, especially the budget emergency porky, then discovered that Abbott was doing a bit of pay back for when Tony was challenging Turnbull. Now Abbott gets to flee the country as PM on "vital" business overseas while Joe has to defend the indefensible. That'll teach him for being in the LNP for starters and for supporting a complete waste of space like Abbott. So on balance he's more guilty of political suicide than political misanthropy.AHLD your argument might be helped if the wealthiest didn't have the luxury of tax havens and the climate wasn't undergoing AGW. Other than that what exactly do you have against a modicum of equality. Not asking for anything that would force you to take off the old school tie or actually learn a bit of science but just a hint. Otherwise all I can say is that you haven't debunked anything that I can see.Why save the co-payment - the simple truth is that our right wing born to rule crowd have always hated Medicare or any form of social security safety net. The simplest solution is just to toss this tosser LNP government.The real question is can the government survive the budget crisis of its own making. Oh the irony.

And why shouldn't healthcare be a community funded thing - after all we the people are a community.And AHLD why shouldn't our taxes pay for good health care - I'd have thought that was a real community need as distinct from LNP pollies getting dubious travel expenses repaid.So Rusty you are a doctor with access to all patient records across Australia are you - like to share the data that allows you to make that claim with all of us.That is an excellent point about the cash handling facilities - I am willing to bet our LNP rulers didn't even consider that.Just another manifestation of Taliban ignorance - we would do ourselves a big favour if all intolerant religions were expunged, especially that in the Judeo/Christian/Islamic tradition. Comes of that school kid mentality of my God can beat your God.Very interesting and informative article. There was no real desire in the US for any armed intervention in Syria - except from the hawk elements in the Republicans and they were in the minority. Plus what could the US achieve in what was essentially a civil war with very nasty religious overtones. The current conflicts in both Iraq and Syria are essentially religious ones and if intervention in a civil war is bad enough then getting involved in one that is driven by rival strands of superstition is a disaster. 

ISIL should be stopped quickly and brutally, that is a given, because they are simply religious thugs killing in the name of whatever brand of inhumanity they worship - but once that is accomplished encourage the region involved to work out it's own political demarcations and if any religious group wants in on the act, treat them the way we should treat ISIL.

If the US becomes more involved it should be via drone and surgical airstrikes on anything moving that looks armed in the ISIL controlled areas. The US has the appropriate technology for that and should use it immediately - ISIL and its bloody supporters are not worth the blood of any US or western combatant.I agree that arbitrary borders are the curse of the colonial world and things that just keep on creating more problems. Of course Iraq is a fiction created out of the ruins of the Ottoman Empire  but the world does not need yet another group of religious fundamentalist nut jobs making everyone's lives impossible. Solution is to bomb this lot back into oblivion and try for a political solution - perhaps even reinstate the Ottoman Empire. Just joking, but the truth was that the Turks did keep a lid on the sand pile effectively for several centuries as did the man we got rid of Saddam Hussein. So get rid of the religious nut jobs first then while the locals have been frightened senseless try for new national identities built around the natural cultural divides. Perhaps even leave it fluid like the desert sands.Nothing to do with oil Ann - I tolerate all religions so long as the adherents keep it to themselves, the moment they start trying to convert others by whatever means they have stepped over the line. There is enough plain dumbness in the world without us allowing superstition to garner converts. IS are doing it by force so the only cure is massive and final punishment.And your thoughts on Team Australia?The LNP just plain doesn't understand how to govern full stop.Abbott has quite clearly demonstrated that even if you win government chanting mantras these are of little use when it comes to the complexities of actually creating working policies. In many instances he didn't actually lie - he just convinced gullible people that he knew more than he actually did. Perhaps his election is as much the fault of those who were silly enough to believe him as any attempt by him to convince people he knew what he was doing - he certainly didn't convince me. So did he lie or was he just the victim of a horrible misunderstanding ;-)Creeping totalitarianism or creeping Boltism? You forget BtL that Andrew Bolt had the chance for free speech but he stuffed it with poor research which made what he wrote a lie - and a harmful lie at that.Well even Voltaire would I suspect draw the line at telling lies to injure people's reputations. Which BtL is essentially what Bolt did.BtL - I don't think Voltaire was defending downright lies.APM - you can't tell me why you disagree with me. Sounds like an attempt to weasel out to me. Bolt lied about the ancestry of the people who took him to court and the reason he did so was to appeal to people like yourself who seem to have a hang up about certain races and people and who they identify with. I'd say in your case he succeeded quite well and that is why he lost the court case.APM methinks you doth protest too much - you can defend anyone you like, and attack anyone you like providing you get your facts straight. Bold didn't, that's why he lost.APM I can't see any sign you are being censored - you just expressed your view and the ABC let it be posted. As I said I think you protest too much. The nature of Bolt's "facts" was that they weren't true, get over it. Bolt is a paid employee of Murdoch - remember the phone hacking in the UK by Murdoch employees, so he isn't martyr material I assure you." ...and to act in bad faith."

That's how Abbott won office."Creation Science" is neither science or a moral system - it's just the usual bible belt con job to keep suit wearing televangelists raking in millions from the seriously deluded.Religion of any sort has bought so much harm in its wake that perhaps it should be taught under the subject of Toxic Waste.

Keep it out of schoolrooms and if it must be taught then only at the highest postgraduate levels under Comparative Doctrines on Murder. At least that way future criminologists might benefit from the trail of mayhem that all religions have created."It is a struggle between climate change believers and deniers."

Precisely - so far all we see from the flat earthers is that ridiculous lie of no warming in the last 17 years. The real evidence which shows a steady sustained warming and its concurrent effects gathered and published by many many thousands of real scientists is denigrated as some "conspiracy" while the lies of the fossil fuel shills is lauded as some real alternate view which deserves discussion (akin to those of the now thoroughly discredited anti-vaccination promoters). Yet this would not have happened if the media had not treated the real problems of AGW as a political exercise where the denialist lies are given equal time with real science and hard won data. Instead if they had simply treated the denialists lies and delusions for what they were, Australia would have moved on some years ago and started putting positive actions to combat the problem in place and we would not now be in the position where we and the future are hostage to the lies of the polluters.Yeah it's a big conspiracy - just as according to the bible belt  evolution is a test from God to confirm our believe in the bible. I just wonder at the lack of conscience of people like yourself who continue to promote this 17 year lie.AJC please spare us the mock complaints about "conflation" of beliefs. The whole polluter funded denialist campaign has been supported and funded by the same conservative groups who champion "creation" science supposedly in the name of "science". If you fell for their campaign it is not my fault for pointing that out.AJC what you do not appear to comprehend that we do not need to refute your claims about the 17 years of non-warming etc. because once the source of that misinformation is identified and it has been conclusively done then all of your claims can be consigned to the general category of misinformation supported by the polluters. 

That is what non-scientists like yourself fail to appreciate - you may win over scientifically illiterate politicians like those in the Coalition but to people like myself your views simply are an irritant standing in the way of the action that needs to be taken. I remember years ago getting into an argument with a creationist (something only a young less seasoned scientist would do) however a friend of mine gave me some simple advise which was - there is no need to argue because no matter what the creationist says, evolution continues to exist so why bother. That is now how I view those people who continue to argue against AGW - because despite their claims AGW continues. Fortunately more intelligent governments than our own in bigger countries than our own are aware of that.EVAN something you never seem to grasp but I will try it one more time. The normal long term cycles have been taken into account in studies of AGW. Do you really think that scientists, unlike the amateurs would neglect to do that. These cycles have been known for much longer than the problem of AGW was recognised. And still the same old claims about little ice ages etc. are trotted out - it shows just how amateurish the understanding is amongst the deniers. This is what comes of the media treating the discussion which seeks remedies as a political one where everyone has equal say. If the scientific discussion had been left to the scientists who would tell the politicians what they had to do rather than let every amateur offer their dubious understanding we would now not be in this mess which has been imposed on us by the Coalition and its supporters in the polluting industries."They got it wrong, Malcolm."

Of yes of course - just like scientists studying evolution got it wrong and the "creation scientists" got it right. Yeah why it's all so simple isn't it.Aaahhh AJC but still it warms - so don't try and weasel out of the corner you have backed yourself into.Precisely.You're are right Olive and we are being deliberately deceived for short term profit. I note that amongst our regular contributors who support such myths as no warming in the last 17 years, or that carbon is good for us, or CO2 is not a green house gas, or we are just in a climate cycle that there is not a single scientist among them. And yet it is these amateurs who seem to dictate policy in the Coalition. Now from a purely scientific viewpoint I would say that is clear evidence as to from where their comments are being directed. I think astroturfing is the term for this behaviour.Gosh AJC - still pushing the "popular" science model. Popular in this sense meaning the ill-informed led by the ignorant. Tell us all did Alan Jones tell you to post that?Well Tom1 it's clear to see that they have a few high vocal supporters here.In everything that requires government action Australia has always been about 18 months to 2 years behind the rest of the world. I think that we as a people are still unable to comprehend that the tyranny of distance doesn't exist anymore. Too few people with too much access to minerals and coal for export. We still lose our best scientists to overseas jobs because we can't accept that educated people have more to offer than tradies for the long term future of this country. Sad really, and thoroughly proven by the plethora of people who cannot accept AGW simply because Alan Jones told them that it doesn't exist.Sounds a bit like Bush calling Howard the man of steel then forgetting to mention him in his memoirs.So Realist you admit it is warming.Nothing more than the result of mob rule goaded on by the cheer leaders for the polluters.So Realist you've written a research paper for the IPCC explaining the faults have you.Tony is apparently going to plant a tree sometime in the next few months, I've heard. ;-)One day one of the people who claim that AGW is fiction is going to lay their scientific qualifications out for us to see - I'm not holding my breath.Bought at great cost by the creators of global warming - the coal producers.I suppose now we'll get a flood of this "data" just so the AGW deniers can assuage their consciences. You've got your appalling victory for the polluters and the environmental destroyers now crawl back into your little niche and accept the pay check.Perhaps today's moderator will let this through.

Today was a victory for people who don't understand the physics of AGW and a victory for the polluters. Abbott has much to be proud of - he has assigned science and research to the dustbin and replaced them with rule by polluters and quick profit shysters.What Abbott did yesterday was bought and paid for by the polluters. They'll get their money's worth but we'll be the ones who bear the cost.So (whatever your name is) you now admit that AGW is occurring yet you can't quite bring yourself to do something about it. Sort of intellectually ambivalent I'd say.Rod we Australians don't create industries - we're just a quarry. No value adding for us.Ardy just restating the fact that you don't have the ability to read the data doesn't make your faulty understanding correct.IT - what, telling people to reboot and see what happens, pity you can't do that with the climate.The data's clean, it's the hands that oppose action that aren't.Cherna was that the same Pyne who perfected the triple backflip when his plans to scrap Gonski were rebutted by the PM. Best be careful who in our government you quote Cherna, some are less reliable (but certainly more morally agile) than others.Not really Cherna - a couple of years time will see people more than eager to cap carbon emissions. This will come about as younger Australians either reach voting age or begin to replace the ill-educated older demographic that seems to be the main opponent of doing anything. That current older group will go by natural attrition. Also we will see increasing pressure form larger countries like the US, Britain and China to fall into line, this will be economic and we will have no choice. And of course there will be the slowly increasing rate of extreme weather events which we are now seeing - only the intellectually blind will be unable to see those or write them off as part of natural cycles. People like yourself tend to ignore that those cycles were always taken into account in developing the science that supports AGW.Once again another attempt by the Coalition to reverse Labor's legislation simply because of Abbott's ongoing sulk over 2010. The man couldn't give a damn about Australia - his only motives are revenge because Gillard was a better PM than he could ever hope to be. For the good of the country he has to go.If AJC you had the sense to read what he said you would see that it is the increase of green house gases including CO2 from industrial sources in the last 200 years or so that is creating the problem. The natural emissions are a constant which the science has already taken into consideration. I find it very strange that the anti-AGW crowd simply cannot understand that, or perhaps that they refuse to.AJC wake up to yourself - I didn't get it wrong. But you and your ilk are playing into the hands of the polluters with your cherry-picked data. Or are one of their employees. Still I suppose if the pay is good you'll do anything like spreading the AGW denial lies.Quite correct - Australia is now ruled by the Flat Earth Society, which is good for business because the lower our education standards fall the better the chances for Foreign Investors to swindle us in the deals they make. Another great Abbott Destroy Australia policy bought to you by the LNP - the first Australian government to have an Anti-Environment Minister. Everyone knows that AGW isn't real because Alan Jones and Andrew Bolt said so and that's all we need to know.Nothing bigoted about that response 5m2m, in fact it sums up your "scientific" approach quite well. BTW you're really Graeme Bird aren't you.5mPm just keep saying it doesn't make it true. Please do some legitimate scientific research instead of spreading untruths.5m2m - you rather seem to be losing control with that post. My respectful suggestion is that you do some real scientific research yourself instead of just being a mouthpiece for the polluters.He's just a subsidiary weather vane in a government led by a weather vane.Gee Custard that was so profound it lost me. Speaking of dealing themselves out of a solution did you notice how old No Deals Tony Abbott has dealt himself out in a deal with Clive Palmer.Yes Helvi - it is a worry that Europe, Britain, China, India and the US all accept AGW yet we have a government and some rather deluded followers who can't. Still I suppose that once we Australians have gone the way of the dinosaurs the world will breathe a sigh of relief. We aren't really adding to the intellectual gene pool are we.Actually John some of those minor Chinese provinces you refer to have greater populations and energy consumption that all of Australia. Do you ever check anything you write? As for the no temperature rise over the last 17 years how about producing the evidence - I'm sure climate scientists and researchers would be entranced to see it.Gee 5m2m - now you've added inflated figures to your cherry-picking, how about coming clean and telling us who you are working for.I agree Lilly - the first reform would be to make sure that conservative governments of the Abbott sort have no powers to legislate in any area that effects Australia's environment or future. That way at least part of the damage they cause would be avoided. Just give them the job of making sure the trains run on time.Dear me Ravensclaw you are right - how could we even think of losing the sort of investment that the polluters would bring and the damage they cause. What could we have been thinking.Well Harry wherever they come from is irrelevent. The relevancy is that they reduce reliance on polluting power sources which are contributing to green house gas emissions and the accompanying AGW. I know you prefer money over the environment but I suspect that even you would admit to being aware of that.Well as usual any mention of the scientifically proven phenomenon of AGW brings out the usual cast of respondents (probably about two people with different names) trying to flood the discussion with spurious or cherry-picked "data" to claim that AGW isn't happening and that the Abbott government is the friend of Australia and indeed all of humanity. I wonder if our tax dollars are paying for this lot.The syntax is the giveaway and the same lies repeated. Still when one is dealing with people with so little understanding for science I understand they would not be expected to know that they are so obvious.Abbott tried to wreck the parliament and proper government when he was Opposition Leader and he is now effectively accomplishing that task as Prime Minister. If Palmer can make his hopefully short stint as PM as difficult as possible then he has my thanks.Maybe he wants to roll Abbott. Palmer doesn't like him or trust him which actually puts Clive in agreement with the majority of Australians. We all forget that Tony Abbott has never held a real job - he has always been at the public, family or education trough all his life. As a political philosopher all he offers is a highly idiosyncratic version of what he thinks Margaret Thatcher was offering and as a person his performance both in Opposition and as PM is dedicated purely to tearing down every thing that generations of Australians have worked to achieve simply because he can, not because he has anything of substance to offer as an alternative. 

Abbott's predecessors in the Liberal leadership are disowning him and the current Liberal parliamentarians are developing serious doubts about him. Why else has Joe Hockey been MIA (holiday? pull the other one). Abbott has broken every election campaign promise he made and his Stop the Boats promise is now revealed as simply one of hand back asylum seekers to those they are escaping. He has achieved nothing as a person and offers nothing as PM. The sooner he is gone the better for Australia.If Mr Palmer makes the remainder of Abbott's political career a misery then he will have my thanks and vote. I would even go so far as to suggest that he would, if he accomplishes that happy task, have the well-deserved thanks of all Australia.Maybe Palmer wants to roll Abbott. Palmer doesn't like him or trust him which actually puts him in agreement with the majority of Australians. We all forget that Tony Abbott has never held a real job - he has always been at the public, family or education trough all his life. As a political philosopher all he offers is a highly idiosyncratic version of what he thinks Margaret Thatcher was offering and as a person his performance both in Opposition and as PM is dedicated purely to tearing down every thing that generations of Australians have worked to achieve simply because he can, not because he has anything of substance to offer as an alternative. 

Abbott's predecessors in the Liberal leadership are disowning him and the current Liberal parliamentarians are developing serious doubts about him. Why else has Joe Hockey been MIA (holiday? pull the other one). Abbott has broken every election campaign promise he made and his Stop the Boats promise is now revealed as simply one of hand back asylum seekers to those they are escaping. He has achieved nothing as a person and offers nothing as PM. The sooner he is gone the better for Australia.The old saying about thieves falling out applies.Maybe he wants to roll Abbott. Palmer doesn't like him or trust him which actually puts Clive in agreement with the majority of Australians. As a political philosopher all he offers is a highly idiosyncratic version of what he thinks Margaret Thatcher was offering and as a person his performance both in Opposition and as PM is dedicated purely to tearing down every thing that generations of Australians have worked to achieve simply because he can, not because he has anything of substance to offer as an alternative. Abbott himself has never held a real job. 

Abbott's predecessors in the Liberal leadership are disowning him and the current Liberal parliamentarians are developing serious doubts about him. Why else has Joe Hockey been MIA (holiday? pull the other one). Abbott has broken every election campaign promise he made and his Stop the Boats promise is now revealed as simply one of hand back asylum seekers to those they are escaping. He has achieved nothing as a person and offers nothing as PM. The sooner he is gone the better for Australia.Sad? in what way? We have seen that all of Abbott's claims about a budget emergency are lies and that Labor went into the last election admitting that the budget would need to be tight. Abbott went in promising no cuts in education, to social services etc. and what have we seen? he is as usual reneging on every promise. So it won't be sad to see Labor back in because only then will we be rid of the most incompetent government in our modern history.Because thinking voters never thought anyone would be silly enough to vote for an Abbott led Coalition - and that was the mistake. Now we are seeing just how destructive and incompetent he is.The carbon price must remain until Abbott summons the honesty to admit that his environmental understanding is a joke and installs an ETS. I'm betting he won't because honesty is a step too far for him.Brian the only cost to you came from the power companies' dubious claims that they were passing the cost of the carbon price along to the consumer. In fact they used Abbott's anti-science rhetoric to manufacture the belief that they needed to and, guess what, the LNP supporters all fell for it. Now they will collude with Abbott in failing to reduce their prices on some excuse like their shareholders' dividends. Abbott and the power companies swindled Australia and they will get off scot free and if the LNP has its way so will Abbott. All of that because there are people in Australia silly enough to accept that people like Alan Jones and Andrew Bolt are climate scientists. For the good of the country and in the name of justice Abbott and his Coalition Government have to go.PUP had no choice because Abbott was prepared to let the power producers off the hook if he could get away with it.Abbott is discovering that what goes around comes around. Unfortunately that is too late for Australia.I think old Joe has worked out that both the budget and Abbott are doomed to a death of a thousand cuts and he's keeping well clear for his own sake.The cause of the power companies' price rises was Tony Abbott - his refusal to accept AGW, his do anything to gain power during Opposition and his toadying to big business encouraged them to jack up prices knowing full well that by doing so they were colluding in his lies but would reap the reward when he was PM. Now they have. They won't cut prices because he will accept any excuse they make for refusing to. QANTAS, Coles and others claim they didn't even pass the price rise on - I see more pigs flying by the window. So if the power companies refuse what is Abbott going to do, why nothing as usual.   

That $500 saving he is claiming was just a figure plucked out of thin, if polluted air, by the worst PM in our recent history. The matter of AGW is far to important to be swept up in the tattered election promises of the Coalition. Abbott pushed an opportunistic anti-science cause simply to whip up hysteria and gain power. He lacks any moral compass or any perceivable realization that as a PM the country's needs come first - not his own little desire to be PM. For the good of the country it is time for him and the Coalition to go.It's a funny thing gbe but when Julia Gillard was PM there was a hung parliament and yet she was able to negotiate legislation through the parliament - something that Tony Abbott who has a majority doesn't appear to be able to. Why is that? incompetence? arrogance? or just the fact that he shouldn't be PM and if they are wise the Coalition should dump him if they want to save themselves.Quite correct Chris. Tony Abbott says the age of entitlement is over for the needy but rejoice people of Australia a new Age of Entitlement for the corporations and the rich is dawning. Tony Abbott the human wrecking ball directed his energies to forcing power prices up by attacking any steps to counter AGW until he had so deceived Australia that he became PM. Now his No Action Direct Action policy will pay the polluters whom we can be certain will sit back and do nothing while the gravy train flows in their direction.Mostly those Australians who don't understand science and were silly enough to fall for Tony's lies. Doesn't say much for the intelligence of some Australians does it.And you believe a company whose sole responsibility is to shareholders while yours, as a customer, is to fall for the guff they feed you.Well Sir P you can blame our Mr Abbott for that. Palmer is just making sure that Tony keeps his word for once.Hate to tell you this John but do you really believe Abbott who deceived everyone with his carbon price scare (Whyalla wipe out etc). wouldn't cave in at the first challenge from his mates in the power companies. He couldn't legislate his way out of a brown paper bag. Transition to a priced ETS now or retain the carbon price.FG there was no mess just the usual screaming from the anti-AGW crowd which Abbott took as a campaign strategy just to get to be PM and now look at the mess he is creating.Well put WHTF, the so-called carbon tax price increases were a scam to skim money from customers which should be repaid by lower prices.It would have been better for Australia if Abbott hadn't failed his seminary course. That way he'd be frothing around in some backwater parish instead of inflicting his appalling inter-personal skills on Australia.Abbott's lies about the carbon price encouraged power companies and suppliers to raise their prices without proper cause - therefore it is time they came clean and repaid what they took by generally lowering prices back to the pre-carbon price period. As well I expect Abbott to bite the bullet and offer an apology for being the instigator of fraudulent carbon price cost increases. He created the issue so let him bear the blame because his behaviour was utterly irresponsible.Newman is as big a fraud and scare monger as Abbott, and it looks like the voters are a wake up to him also. What is it with the LNP that they have absolutely no hesitation in thrusting second rate power company and mining company toadies upon us. It is clear that the LNP has no moral compass.And John who runs these tribunals and who provides the advice they take - you, I, scientists? no ... guess again.Once again FG you show that you do not understand that Abbott's anti-carbon price campaign was bought and paid for by the miners and power companies who are only accountable to their shareholders and not to the environment or to most Australians. And it was due to transition into an ETS as Labor said it would. But now with anti-science Tony in charge who knows."I fully agree that if the carbon tax is removed, that any price premiums should go with it, but how do you do that? It could be easier to leave the tax as-is."

Indeed and it would continue to serve the purpose it was designed for until we transition to an ETS. Abbott's substitute policy won't achieve anything except make Luddites happy.Sorry John but I am not wrong - the power companies used Abbott's fact free scare campaign as a convenient excuse to jack up prices. They were able to because Abbott and his cronies had managed to convince Australians without any science background that AGW was a myth. It was a cynical ploy by Abbott to win votes - now he will have to sort out the accounting problems which he created by having the most scientifically illiterate government in Australian history.We have the resources to be leaders in renewable energy yet the power companies and the miners have us in a stranglehold. And as a result we have elected one of the most backward looking governments in Australian history. All of that because there people who won't recognize the fact they know nothing about our current environmental problems and so happily fall in line with Abbott's ignorant mantras and appeasement of the polluters.Who cares FG just so long as the savings are passed on pronto and Abbott's lies about the carbon tax are exposed. You also forget to mention that most of the price rises claimed were simply price gouging and intended to give shareholders a windfall - that lot didn't give a stuff about their customers because they had Abbott as their shill. Abbott was responsible for the faux outrage so let him bare the burden.The best state is a meritocracy but there also needs to be provision for those in need.The only problem for our economy is that we have a Coalition Government led by absolutely the worst PM in our modern history. A PM who can't negotiate, who is finding that all his mantras uttered while in opposition were lies and won't do the decent thing which is resign the leadership after he calls a double dissolution so that we, the people, can get rid of him and his amateur government. Confected budget emergencies uttered while wearing a flouro shirt are not the signs of healthy financial management. For the good of the country Mr Abbott go now.What the Yank said was "Of all the idiots from either side we are now in a situation where Palmer looks like the best option." so please use the full quote, and I agree with him.Palmer did the right thing - he has forced Abbott into either forcing the power companies to pass on the savings or the tax will not be rescinded. Abbott would not have done that and I note we are still getting this $11million a day lying mantra from his mouthpieces Abetz and Hunt when the truth is that the power companies used the tax to up prices and their own profits. Lies from Abbott and lies from the power companies have to be countered with tough action and Palmer did it - good on him.Oh dear FG - you use the word principle, and you an LNP supporter. The same LNP who encouraged, while in opposition the power companies to jack up their prices. Tony Abbott's bungling must have disappointed their hopes today."That alone should give you cause for skepticism."

For me that only occurs when Tony Abbott opens his mouth FG.

Gosh what a surprise Palmer is forcing the power companies to lower prices and by doing so admit that it wasn't the carbon tax that put up prices but the fact that they used Abbott's mantras as a smoke screen to hide their own profit chase. You wouldn't have fallen for the power companies' claims would you have FG? 

You noticed Abetz and Hunt repeating the $11 million dollars a day lie didn't you, desperate times really sometimes bring out the worst in people. Abbott started the war - not Labor so let him come to grips with the defeat."Then again, the opposite of skeptical is gullible!"

You hit the nail right on the head FG - that's exactly how I feel about those people who believe that the carbon tax needs repealing because of the fake claims by Abbott of what it costs consumers. His claims were used as a convenient excuse by the power utilities just to jack up their prices and thereby their profits. It is about time they repaid the money.FG I really am quite sure that I have demonstrated my scepticism whenever I have set you straight about some of your claims for AGW.Quite right Rhonda, Abbott lied about the carbon tax effects on the economy and he is finding that his worst nightmares are happening because Palmer is forcing the power companies to actually support Abbott's lies by refunding their price rises - such irony. The truth is that the carbon tax which is an important means of curbing AGW was not causing the price rises - it was the power companies hiding behind Abbott's lies while he was in opposition. Bring on a double dissolution so we can be rid of the power companies' dupe Abbott.Sorry FG and no offense intended but I'll take the word of scientists not someone who is an LNP supporter. They at least have principles to think of.If a DD means the end of Abbott then bring it on. He is the dupe of the miners and the power companies who have been exposed by Palmer's move to force the reduction of prices. Without that they would just have laughed and kept pushing prices up.Palmer did the right thing - he has forced Abbott into either forcing the power companies to pass on the savings or the tax will not be rescinded. Abbott would not have done that and I note we are still getting this $11million a day lying mantra from his mouthpieces Abetz and Hunt when the truth is that the power companies deceitfully used the tax to claim why their prices went up and increase their  own profits. Lies from Abbott and lies from the power companies have to be countered with tough action and Palmer did it - good on him. 

The irony is that the power companies will have to slug their shareholders for the money they wrongfully extracted from their customers as being the cost of the carbon tax. So another of Abbott's mantras  took a terminal hit today thanks to Palmer. Next we'll see Direct Action die because the budget can't sustain it and Abbott will have to go to an ETS. Abbott's chickens are coming home to roost.FG - you will have to come up with some facts sometime so why not start now. I am truly sorry for you that you don't understand peer review, or that Tony Abbott bought the support of the power companies by his "toxic tax" mantra which alas had no basis in truth but nevertheless whatever Mr Palmer is doing, what he did today was expose the lies that Abbott has been telling us for the last 5 years. A 250% penalty will give them pause for thought and perhaps teach them not to hitch their profit making to the tails of a career politician who has spent his entire life at the public trough. The power utility companies are public necessities - not the playground of profit seeking shareholders.Abbott has spent his life at the public teat - Palmer has used his life to make lots of money by his own efforts. Poor Tony is out of his depth because a rich man is holding him to account and exposing his lack of real life experience. Abbott may emerge a better man but I doubt it and I suspect the knives are being sharpened at LNP HQ.And FG your claims about AGW have long been disproved and consigned to that dustbin of history along with smoking is good for you, and a little radiation never hurt anyone. Our PM has found his mantras are all failing so perhaps you like he should have a rethink.Umm ... FG how can AGW be both undeniable and insignificant when in fact it isn't insignificant. But at least you have understood 50% of the science.Olive you are right - so much of the Abbott/Hockey budget is dead in the water that they need the carbon tax just to stay afloat.Well Pat I'd rather have Clive any day than Abbott's time wasting when he was opposition leader.Yeah Abbott seems to have forgotten, Sandakan, Changi, the Burma Railroad, Banka Island, the Bataan Death March, Nanking etc. etc. etc. And in the process managed to have gotten the Chines off side big time. Way to go Big Mouth Abbott. A word to the wise Tony - put brain into gear before opening mouth.Jack I suspect that Abbott's demise will be at the hands of the LNP and a lot sooner.Silly I agree but they were made by someone who ostensibly is the Australian PM. A person whose grasp of history is tenuous to say the least.Australians have a track record for rejecting asylum seekers whether coming through the approved methods or through the method adopted by a small minority (boats). We had for many years the White Australia Policy which was aimed not just at asylum seekers but anyone who was a little browner or looked slightly different to our ideal of white Anglo-Saxon people. Then when things were getting very nasty in Europe prior to WW2 when fascism was on the rise we happily deported people back to Europe to face persecution because we didn't want to offend the fascist powers and the methods used were extreme. One such being the deliberately officially abused language test. We shuddered when we saw our first mass immigration of legal southern Europeans (the vast majority of whom became valued Australians), we frothed at the mouth when we saw Vietnamese and Cambodians arriving after our ridiculous efforts to support neo-colonialism in Indochina. Those people have become valued Australians also. 

Now we are frothing again because we are getting more of these "brown" people seeking asylum. Now I disapprove of people smugglers and abhor the cold-blooded trafficking on leaky boats and the trade must be stopped. But I do draw the line at interceptions in international waters and the return of people, deemed illegal by high seas kangaroo courts, to possible abuse and torture. There is international law to be observed regardless of whether some of us accept that. If we don't do that we are no better than murderous regimes like that currently operating under ISIS or the Taliban. Some times I really despair at the depths of intolerance we Australians happily accept as a national trait.Dear Terry

Being old enough to have lived through the post-war migrant surge I am well aware of the reaction to migrants and asylum seekers in this country - unfortunately many of those attitudes still prevail. It is not a thing to be proud of or dismissed with facile comments that claim that our current policies are morally superior. As I said I don't support the people smugglers, but I do draw the line at high seas kangaroo courts.As a person whose job requires him at times to deal with politicians and career public servants I have a great deal of agreement with John Howard's condemnation of people "whose only life experience has been politics". I throw senior public servants into this mix because so often I find it frustrating when negotiating with politicians and senior public servants that they really do not have any experience either of the areas in which they legislate or provide advise.

It is closed world where ignorance and assumption feeds on ignorance and assumption. To that end I welcome the idea of these senators coming from real life not from the administrative hot house environment that currently supplies politicians on both sides and their advisers the senior public servants. Now I grant the new senators may be people with whom I will disagree but more importantly I hope that the dead hand of our entrenched administrators does not reach out and ensnare them as it always seems to do to the detriment of all Australians outside of the political and governmental circus.My preference is that we have good and harmonious relations with both Japan and China. There is no good to be served in Australia becoming involved in timeless disputes between these two important trading partners and the economic truth is that China is the dominant power and one of our big customers. China tends to put business ahead of all things in their international relations and in this uncertain world this is no bad thing."Who should we back if China unilaterally lays claim to the disputed territories in the region?."

So far there is no sign of this, and certainly far less interest in extra territorial adventures than either ourselves, the US or in history Japan and Indonesia. As to who we back - how about a little informed neutrality.Well EVAN.

"With our present and past alliances that might be a bit hard."

In which case I suggest it would be unwise for us to do anything precipitate and maintain a centre course.China is now only nominally communist if its private industry and burgeoning economy is any indication. It's a big country with a history that transcends our rather modern definitions.Well Steve as Tibet was excised by England from China in the 19th century, Taiwan appears to be happy to deal with China and the Burmese seem more under threat from themselves than outsiders I can't see the problem. China is a big wealthy and growing power and in her modern incarnation is no more a bogey man than she was at the time of the Opium Wars or the short-lived and mercifully gone Kuomintang period. If it was communism that has bought back her independence and pride from a period when she was nothing but a cash cow for the western powers then I see no harm in that, and I see no point in a small power like ourselves getting into disputes just to encourage Japan. Rather I would like, as I said to treat with both countries equally, and stay clear of involvements that can only do us harm.Eloquently well summed up - my feelings precisely.Very true about the rancour but who can blame us for being rancourous when we have a government determined to push us back to a conservative utopian 19th century view and attitudes.Peter I suspect that you are just a little upset than in a rapidly expanding right controlled media there is still a chance for the majority of Australians to express their disgust at the way PM Abbott has either broken every promise he can, or has made no denial of his pro-mining anti-environment, and, one can add after the Sri Lankan episode, his anti-refugee policies. You forget all the times that right-wing commentators have appeared and still appear on the Drum. And if there is rancour expressed by the commentators and the public alike because of his empty rhetoric and his lies then it is he that has encouraged it - not the commentators."groupthinkers" the new term of criticism for anyone who might agree with another.Well Singularity I do agree with you, but it sure has dragged out all the LNP supporters who equate every sign of social justice with Stalinism ;-)Well that's one thing Don't Believe the Media that shows an error in what you posted - Abbott used the media to say he wouldn't do any deals with minor parties. But it's a negligible quibble, I like you never believed anything he said. Starting from "the science is crap".Actually it was the stuff ups of LNP supporting cattle producers that stopped the live beef trade for a couple of weeks.Harry, so you're saying that Howard was the problem all along - gee anything to get the other problem Abbott off the hook.@algernon - indeed bring on a DD. Palmer should be using his power bloc for the good of the country not propping up Abbott who has gone back on every promise he made  from day one. I reckon if he did then we would see quite a few more PUP members in both houses.My view is the same OUB - without that strange preference swap idea most of them would not have got into the Senate. However we might just hold judgement for a week or two, I suggest, as every parliamentarian was once a neophyte. But I am only giving them a very short time to show they have the ability to be in the Senate. After all they are volunteers - no one forced them.Abbott will have problems - that is obvious, however as these new Senators seem to be of a conservative bent then I don't expect there'll be too much trouble for him to massage them into shape with promises of the pork barrel kind.I noticed that while he was in opposition our current PM was one of the greatest hand wringers and talkers down of the economy. Remember the mantras?EVAN I suppose you are happy that he turns asylum seekers over to the people they are trying to escape - you don't accept climate change, you won't do anything to help the environment and now you don't feel even a frisson of doubt about the humanity of handing over asylum seekers. You are as misanthropic as your beloved Abbott.EVAN when you really think about it all of Tony's mantras were nothing but the most miserable examples of how to seek government by exposing the worst traits in Australians. What do the mantras add up to? Xenophobia, destruction of the environment and bashing the needy. Well I guess you're proud to be like that but I'm not."Do bankers have a vested interest in winding back the consumer protection laws instituted by the previous government?"

I would think the answer is overwhelmingly obvious - yes.Bogans are a creation of our nationalistic fervour - we should blame ourselves rather than them. However speaking of myself we are all a little bit bogan in some respect. Racism and racist rants are not solely the behaviour of bogans - the asylum seeker debate shows that.John Coochey I really hope that you will never be in the position where you will need to seek asylum - because if you were then perhaps you might have some grasp of what to be truly desperate is like.Custard you appear in your reply to have missed the many articles published by the ABC that have addressed this issue over the last few years. Because of that I cannot take your claims seriously.And FG don't let flippant and rather superficial replies reveal that your public understanding of what people are saying is faulty.Well as the government refuses to release any information how do we know that the policy is working."No illegal boat arrivals?."

I note that as you post that as a question then you are in the dark as the rest of us.So do I and I am appalled to think that he is a public voice for Australia."Or perhaps our Government could simply tell us what it is doing."

Perhaps, but that might suggest it knew, or cares, what it is doing.NeoLiberal, NeoCon, Tory, trickle down economics, reject all attempts to combat AGW, pretend the banks have our best interest at heart, defend bigots, demonise the needy and asylum seekers etc. the list goes on but to put it simply it's all the same political ideology and it's all LNP.Andrew it is a disturbing thought that despite his quite clear failure to stick to all his promises bar axing the carbon tax that he might well be reelected. This says that on balance the bare majority of Australians are not interested in whether a politician keeps his promises or not. Are we so far gone that nihilism has come to dominate our national life. Myself I still hope that he will be a one term PM and perhaps that people will finally understand his limited view of the world and ourselves. We are, I believe, a better nation than he represents."In two years time, when the economy is going well again, uneployment is down and wages are back up to Howard levels ..." 

Oh yes and was that a pig with wings that just went by?I agree with your arguments on the energy matter. But also we need to look at the opportunities that Central Australia offers for vast solar arrays that would provide basically clean and pretty much pollutant neutral energy. Another step that an Australian government could take would simply to fund solar panels for all dwellings geared to the estimated energy usage of the occupants. Expensive, but not excessively so at the beginning, but in the long term more than paying for themselves as coal and oil supplies dwindle. People often ignore the simple fact that we need some form of energy source to maintain our society at its nominal productive and livable standards and that profits earned by energy companies are in fact an add-on rather than a core expenditure.Perhaps as a change from union bashing the PM might like to launch a Royal Commission into the banks. However I doubt he will - the banks are bigger and nastier than the unions and Abbott is not noted for his courage in dealing with the world of big business.Well certainly both groups if guilty of malfeasance would think so, however justice for the innocent victims does demand that these things be examined despite that running against the libertarian grain of do what thou wilt.It also strikes me as strange that while the rusted on LNP supporters are so quick to attack Labor supporters because of union affiliations yet they can't see that the lobby crowd that support the LNP are ten times worse. As you say - junk food marketers, evangelical religious groups in public schools, the banks, coal miners and other bare faced polluters, anti-clean energy groups - any group or lobby with a clear anti-social message is welcome in the LNP. I wonder if they recognize how quickly their votes are corrupted by this crowd.Correct Ann - and the reason is that banks are big supporters of the LNP. Which is odd because when the GFC occurred it was a Labor government that bailed them out while the LNP refused to even admit that the GFC was happening and now seem to have expunged it from their memories. Sort of Stalinist rewriting of history." ...denied the windback of FOFA would allow people like bank tellers to receive bonuses or any other form of additional remuneration from selling financial services to customers"

Well to quote Mandy Rice-Davies, "He would say that, wouldn't he" ;-)A few months back I needed a draft for an amount in US dollars to pay an account. Usually this is handled in a straightforward manner by the inquiries counter. On this occasion I was ushered into the manager's office and had my bank balance examined, my credit history discussed and some suggestions about what I might do with my money made. The poor manager seemed nonplussed that I kept saying that all I was there for was a bank draft and I didn't need anything else. Which bank?Gail the CBA has set up its own independent in house advisory department for people such as yourself. You need have no fear that they will give you the best independent advice available ........One thing I notice about this discussion is that the usual group of LNP supporters has gone missing - preferring to vent their spleen against asylum seekers and doing anything about AGW.Unfortunately Helvi no government has ever lost votes by composing slogans for bogans. However political parties always strike trouble when they over-estimate the cognitive ability of the voters. So in the end expedient politics wins out over rational politics every time.The truth about "on-water matters" is that it is a convenient way to sink the truth. This government has tried to forget that we now live in a world where the communications media available to all of us makes a much needed mockery of so-called security restrictions. Perhaps they might try telling the truth occasionally.So do I - it demonstrates the steam and froth at the heart of the denialists' arguments.That's want I don't understand about Abbott's complete rejection of carbon pricing or an ETS. These are effective means of limiting AGW by providing real incentives to change processes that result in high atmospheric pollution and are also designed to encourage profitable entrepreneurial investments in the processes but Abbott, the avowed friend of business, is opposed to them. Is it that he really is a a Luddite or has he backed himself into a corner and is afraid to admit his error.17 years record cold? Where'd you get that from ;-)"Whats that you say a climate scientist that supports AGW wouldn't be seen dead in the same room as climate scientists that questions the science."

Evan once again the over simplistic statement to make a point. With respect I would suggest that throughout the scientific community wherever AGW is discussed there would be scientists quite happy to debate and discuss the evidence. And there would be agreement and disagreement but that is science and and that is how data and the models and theories that arise from it are tested. Unlike those who deny AGW because they imagine a variation in the rate is a pause."I doubt that there are many climate scientists today that don't agree that man is having some effect on the climate the question ..." 

Evan that is the point isn't it. So what is exactly wrong with government or well financed private initiatives to replace green house gas emitting energy sources with those that don't. Isn't the state of the Earth more important than stubbornly Luddite attitudes."Looking at the people of the Earth today I would say by and large NO."

So EVAN the lives of people effected by the changes AGW is bringing are less important than the lives of those who profit from the fossil fuel industry which is causing the problem. What is so wrong with spending the producers' profits to develop energy sources that don't cause AGW.Evan what is the reason for your abhorrence of the scientists - that comment about grants is just plain offensive, not to mention untrue.He didn't say that Harry what he said was that if CO2 is present but being invisible it cannot be seen. That's the meaning of invisibility and what it is that makes such gases impossible to see ;-)The irony is that an article in yesterday's Age showed that since Tony began his anti-carbon price anti-AGW campaign Australians have invested more in non-fossil fuel energy sources than if he had just sat down, read the science and not demonstrated his lack of grasp of the situation. Perhaps his negativity managed to have a positive effect after all and ignorance is bliss ;-)Oh Lordy - you failed to provide the evidence by which you claim I am wrong.OL it will not have that massive effect if the energy companies use a larger slice of their already massive profits for research and development of cleaner sources. In fact one of the biggest, BP, claims it is searching for green alternatives (unfortunately the Gulf of Mexico oil spill exposed that claim for what its worth). The fact that energy companies don't is a clear argument for tighter control over what to them is a money printing exercise so that all of us, not just institutional investors and bankers, can survive on a habitable planet. I cannot, for the life of me, see why people are so resistant to the idea of looking after the only spot in the universe we can live on for the foreseeable future.Well Harry given the acknowledged silting problems that usually render the dams for hydro schemes increasingly less efficient over time then hydro is not a particularly effective renewable energy source at all. 

And "a look at the graphs from the article's quoted CEDEX reference shows that the trend of decreases in emissions started in 2009 well before the imposition of a carbon tax" probably refers to the Abbott, or similar AGW denier effect, noted in the Age article yesterday that showed that all the anti-AGW trumpeting by the supporters of polluting industries seems to have had the effect of making consumers and power providers more conscious of the problem rather than making them ignore it. Which is good because, whether or not people are still doubtful, at least they are more conscious of their effect on the climate. Ironic isn't it - perhaps the anti-AGW crowd ought to shut up because they are achieving the opposite to what they hope.Dredging dams, especially if those dams also provide water for other uses tends to lower water quality. Not to mention all those waterborne particles of sand being channeled through the generating turbines."Science fiction" well no Harry but I am glad that you understand that there is a need to remove the particles and the work involved. You might also check up on the effects that silting has on storage capacity as well. You tend to dismiss any environmental concern as alarmist - why is that.Crap? Harry I am afraid that expletives are not advancing my acceptance of your rather clear lack of understanding of the central issue which is simply that there is nothing wrong with replacing fossil fuel energy sources with cleaner alternatives.Eric I strongly suggest you might consider that I don't. In fact with my background I was introduced to the effects of climate change on human populations many years ago as part of my job.Yep that is the case - just the good old politics of payback at work - no concern for the future, no concern for the environment or the planet, just good old school yard bully tactics. Still his own No Action Direct Action policy is languishing in support at about the same level as the Flat Earth Society's apologies for the polluters.Arf, which is a sensible policy and one that should be implemented ASAP.Well Harry 3 years might seem small but it is still 100% more than the anti-AGW crowd are offering.You haven't offered any data Harry and it is rather a gross over-simplification to suggest that taking action against the reality of AGW is restructuring our civilization. It is simply advocating a far-sighted and proactive campaign to reduce our energy reliance on fossil fuels which are saturating the atmosphere with green house gases far far faster than it took for the plants that sequestered those green house gases, and that are now the coal we burn, to do so. 

Now if you have some alternative to clean air and to protecting the planet and the future of our species by forcing these polluting industries to stop and divest their capital into clean energy sources then by all means state it. I assure our civilization which comprises many things other than just throwing coal into a furnace won't be restructured at all, just the sources of its power.Well EVAN there's a break through - an AGW denier finally agrees that the climate is changing. What next? some tentative acceptance that burning increasing levels of fossil fuels might just be having an effect or is that just a leap too far at the moment. It takes far far less time too burn coal than it took for the plants that form it to have extracted all that carbon from the atmosphere. A couple of minutes as opposed to half a century to many centuries.EVAN you have a strange power to oversimplify things that is truly amazing. No AGW scientists has ever denied that there is a background cyclical effect at work on the the atmosphere - these processes have been recognised ever since we began studying the natural sciences. The concern is that the rapid growth of man made industrial processes over the last two centuries, which rely on the rapid consumption of fossil fuels is tilting the balance of green house gases which were naturally present towards the point where they are causing AGW rather than just being a part of the over-riding cyclical processes. That has opened up the worrying prospect that we are moving into an environment which probably will not be conducive to our own species' survival let alone all the others we share the planet with. If nations are encouraged to seek the technological means by which polluting energy sources are replaced by clean ones to redress that imbalance, or at least slow its onset, is that a bad thing.EVAN I fail to see your point - is it ignorance is bliss. Smoking is clearly a dangerous habit, billions of people smoke so is it any the less dangerous because of that?No insult there OUB and you will note that I did draw attention to the time it takes a plant to sequester carbon as opposed to the time it takes to release that carbon again. So I suppose if you are aware of our usage rates for coal then you may perhaps be aware that we are putting the carbon back into the atmosphere at a much much greater rate than it took to extract it. Now that suggests that we are throwing the normal climatic balance of natural processes way out of balance and hence creating AGW. Also our farming practices which involve clear felling forested areas have reduced the amount of natural long term biological carbon sequestration while creating processes in which any carbon sequestered in the crops that replace them is passed back into the atmosphere very smartly. I can't see that that is of any advantage to us, or the planet, in the long run although its short term benefit is enticing. But the reality is that it is a victory of appearance over substance."Sydney has been pretty cold recently. I think it is probably the carbon tax working its magic."

Unless I'm mistaken BtL it is also winter in Sydney as well, unless of course Sydney has magically managed to change its climate to year long summer.Well it is winter and despite that recent cold burst we have just finished one of the mildest autumns and early winters on record. Also you will note that rainfall during the period has been below average. Couple that with the increasing trend as predicted in the AGW model to hotter summers then the climate is changing.Harry things have changed a lot in the past couple of centuries. Weather observations are taken from all sorts of different locations and by all sorts of different means.You make a good point about Rudd. I admit to being a Labor supporter most of the time but unfortunately Rudd was a person who tended towards the hysterical at times. It was strange that in 2007 both major parties went into the election with an ETS promise. The game changer was that the Liberals suddenly changed tack as Minchin and his followers fell into step with the coal producers. 

Minchin is now thankfully gone and left only one legacy which is Abbott who is on track to be our least popular or effective PM which says little for Minchin's political sense or his ability to understand the complexities of AGW. Rudd micro-managed himself into well deserved extinction but by destroying PM Gillard left us with the legacy of Abbott as PM. The political and environmental consequences left by Rudd are awful."If you do believe in AGW then the bigger question is "Why don't we do something to solve the problem""

Well the problem is that AGW exists but the opponents of action against it have by a silly and dishonest scare campaign, which was openly orchestrated and paid for by the polluters, managed to gain sufficient power to stop any action. Not because they consider no action to be best but because of their ignorance as to where the "scientific literature" they cite originates. 

It is a poor thing when people with no real scientific background are gulled into becoming the willing tools of the polluters. But as it is their democratic "right" to be tools then the rest of us who do understand the science, and what needs to be done, just have to pretend that it is a good thing that democracies are designed so that sheer silliness is a legitimate part of the response rather than just ill-informed politics at its worst. Our PM is just such a willing tool - but his excuse is that he needs the support of the coal industry to remain in power.Well CR

"What we are getting instead is a climate change industry that focuses on reducing our standard of living and tax that makes us less wealthy and less competitive. People can contrive all the arguments they want but in the end we are losing our heavy industry and if it costs more to make something here and less somewhere else, well that industry is gone."

is all fine and business like but if the planet is stuffed what then?Many millions of years ago during the Carboniferous period the Earth's atmosphere had a greater oxygen content which had the effect of causing an explosion in the size and number of insect species. Now 70cm long scorpions might be your preferred pet but personally I'll give them a miss thanks. Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide may well be life supporting gases but only if they stay within rather narrow concentrations.Phil no one has ever denied that there are natural cycles at work in the Earth's climate. However it is only in the last two centuries or so that the rapid consumption of fuels in which green house gases were sequestered over millions of years has released those back into the atmosphere at rates far far faster than they were taken out in the first place. That is the phenomenon that is causing AGW by tilting the natural content which was a part of those regular and recognised cycles out of balance. Isn't it wise to simply recognize that and encourage the use of more atmospheric friendly energy sources.Graeme you are right - Abbott and his merry band of coal industry supporting sycophants were able to whip up a scare campaign based on rising power prices. They did not come clean and admit that it was the now privatized utilities that put up prices to appease their new shareholders. 

The public which until then had enjoyed publicly owned utilities which only costed for maintenance and staff costs, suddenly found that they had to pay more so that the  shareholders (mostly bank and insurance companies) who are basically parasites in the utility companies' costing structure would receive their dividends. The carbon price had zero effect on that purely business decision. Privatizing utility companies which provide 100% essential services is idiocy in any advanced society.Science has always been peer reviewed - that's how it works.Hello FG - now don't over reach yourself. Why were Newton's ideas about motion etc. accepted? Well because over time other scientists were able to test them. But further testing now shows that some aspects are not quite correct - which where chaps like Einstein come in. Pure peer review at work. The same applies to Ptolemy who as we have found got a lot of his maps wrong and now we don't use them. Peer review at its finest.Dear me FG that is just silly confected cynicism - I had expected better from you as you claim to have a scientific background.Ms Coulter is renowned for having lost the plot years ago. Doesn't like evolution, doesn't like gays, doesn't like soccer etc., in fact she is prepared to dislike anything so long as a payment is attached to recompense her for her dislike. She is an icon to all who have bees in their bonnets.Yes Harry - keep it up, someone somewhere will probably be silly enough to believe you.Well Charles just like all of the climate Luddites you will find in future that belated panics about the effects of AGW might well have been saved by measures taken now. But of course as you clearly have no understanding of, or care for the planet we live on, I suppose you will welcome the problems with a demand for government relief. And if it's a LNP government you won't get any - so be careful what you wish for.Indeed yes Abbott has been looking for an excuse to break that promise. Still Palmer is the sort of wild card that our dishonest PM may find hard to deal with. I rather hope that Clive continues to disturb the remainder of Abbott's tenure.Which would be the best result for Australia.Yep the right couldn't give a stuff about anything like the environment because to them it is of no consequence unless you can dig it up and export it. Abbott has proved that quite adequately.Precisely, and really just like everything else that Abbott claims. If there is a problem with our democracy we need look no further than the fact that we actually elected the LNP government - that alone suggests that the author of this article may have a point.The Greens have a problem with kicking own goals that unfortunately rebound to the detriment of this country. The ETS blocking led to the Abbott ascension which has been a disaster for this country. The Greens are a political party not some collection of high minded saints and like any political party they make idiotic mistakes.EVAN you've been reading the LNP Handy Hints to Confused Supporters Guide again haven't you. The truth is that there isn't a financial or budget crisis just a short term drop in mineral exports which has now begun to go away so do try and keep up." ...do what is right for the country for once."

Well if you are serious about that then you should be advocating that Abbott should be removed by whatever means allowed. This country is going backwards under his reactionary government.Well Jack you appear to be unaware of the one child policy adopted by China that helped slow that rise. But over-population in developing countries is still a massive threat to our ability to sustain ourselves. So the Club of Rome may not have been able to predict China's policy but it did get the rest right.Dear me APM really grasping at straws there with that string of incoherent abuse directed at anyone who disagrees with your Tory world view. Still don't worry about it old chap the world will go on getting warmer due to AGW and then we will go the way of the dinosaur and then there will be no one to worry about this left of which you are so scared. You must tell us why you are so scared of action to help the environment - all your income in coal shares is it? - oh I grieve for you.No Tossle, they died because of climatic changes brought on by a large meteor strike which because of massive cloud cover caused their world to suddenly get catastrophically cooler.

We humans, or at least those of us who are not dinosaurs like the AGW deniers, live in that post dinosaur world because in the cooler conditions mammals were able to go on while large dinosaurs who like warm to hot humid conditions were unable to. Now although we humans don't like winter, a world of higher temperatures all year round doesn't bode well for our climatic survival niche given that the resulting summers will soon produce temperatures that we cannot adjust to. So I suggest that before we embrace the climatic effects of carbon based fuel burning we consider our own chances of survival rather than those of coal magnates. None of whom, I might add, give a toss about humanity.Dear me APM there's that old subjective self-interest again. We do understand your feelings but it's your lack of science we find hard to accept.Well Tom as we know both the LNP and the Labor Party took an ETS to the 2007 election. The result as we know was that the LNP started worrying about their shares in coal miners and Abbott (with Minchin pulling the strings) seized the leadership from Turnbull and reneged on the deal struck between the two parties. Abbott was from the start showing the public his capacity for deceit and that he was not to be trusted. He is a class act in that respect at least, as his "budget" demonstrates, but in nothing else so I am afraid so for the good of the country he must go.FG, nice to see you have arrived. Yes Rudd squibbed it and yes he deserved to lose the job because of his political cowardice. 

However FG one little thing you are wrong about is that the temperature has not ceased to rise, the fact is that the rise continues at the rate predicted by AGW research. So, in a nut shell, AGW is happening and whatever skewed and cherry picked data you might perchance read saying it isn't is wrong despite it disagreeing with your preconceived ideas. Still I suppose with the cuts to the CSIRO scientific activity in Australia public understanding of the science behind AGW will take another blow thanks to Tony Abbott. You must be happy about that.Yep I do but in today's Abbottian 19th century world I'm rather afraid the detail would be lost on you. Tell me how's the research to reestablish that the world is flat going? 

Anyway you flat earthers had your little victory in the parliament yesterday. You must be over the moon with excitement except .... wait a minute you couldn't be could you because according to the "scientists" who support your views it's really made of green cheese which is why NASA faked the landings.It appears to be a libertarian think tank - so this article is no surprise. However given the alliances between libertarianism and business one would expect it to be pushing for an ETS given the opportunities the scheme offers.Sack it is very hard to condemn anyone who finds fault with Tony Abbott's government given that government's absolute lack of honesty in everything it does. Invented budget emergencies, travel allowance rorts, drastic job losses in heavy industry, attacks on the needy etc. All things it promised not to do during the 2013 election campaign. And now it is desperately trying to find ways from escaping the agreement with Palmer - witness Senator Abetz's speech in the Senate today. This government really is a collection of morally bankrupt clowns.Sorry APM that isn't correct, the term "carpetbagger" was coined to describe opportunistic people seeking to buy up at reduced prices Southern assets after the American Civil War. If your use of it is taken at face value then you are accurately describing the Abbott government's attitude to Australian resources and our climate.As I recall Damage, and my recollection is correct, the parliamentary chaos in the Gillard administration was caused by none other than the actions of Tony Abbott with his constant interruptions with points of order and always doomed censuring motions. In fact every question time was disrupted by his infantile antics. Now he has continued that infantile behaviour, including bare-faced deceit, as PM. He has to go and go soon if parliament is to become relevant again.The only thing stopping Abbott from manning up to a DD is the prospect that he will lose. All the chickens (lies) are coming home to roost.Hunt has been promoting Abbott's No Action climate policy instead of the ETS he is on record as wanting. Perhaps he has realized that Palmer's actions will open up the chance of Abbott being rolled and he is simply jockeying for position ahead of that event. If Hunt had any principles he would have gone to the back bench rather than support Abbott's policy, and the same can be said for Turnbull. Both were prepared to take the extra ministerial pay rather than stand up for policies they had advocated. Still the good thing is that the No Action policy of Abbott's is dead and an ETS will happen - sooner rather than later I expect.I agree that governments generally have to negotiate their way through the Senate and that a DD might unleash the same old claims, however in regard to the electoral claims of the Abbott government those claims have all been shown to be lies. The only hope for any form of sensible and honest government under the LNP is for Abbott and his right wing cronies to either go to the back bench or, even better, resign their seats and leave the parliament. There is no place in Australian government for people like them if we are to have sensible and forward thinking administrations. I feel, unfortunately, the only way to achieve that is for a double dissolution. But if it sees the end of Abbott then that is a good thing.Once again BtL you demonstrate a poor grasp of things. The Australian public voted for an ETS way back in 2007 - when both the LNP and Labor went to the election with it. Abbott seized the leadership of the LNP by reneging on the Rudd/Turnbull deal because he is anti-science and can't accept the reality of AGW. He sulked his way through four years of Opposition making the Parliament a bear garden and denying climate change, and now he is PM the ETS has come right back again. But then I don't expect a self-proclaimed lawyer to be anything other than a self-proclaimed expert on anything. As for that idiotic Direct Action policy of Abbott's (AKA let's pay the polluters to pollute policy) it always was Abbott's attempt to convince people that he accepted the need to stop AGW without actually accepting that need.It will be better for this country if the PUP sides with Labor and the Greens and makes it impossible for Abbott to inflict his anti-science, pro-mining and generally regressive policies on Australia. That way he will be forced to a double dissolution and be booted out. Australia is grinding to a halt under Abbott's negative attitudes and antediluvian social understanding. The current LNP is just a mouth piece for people who haven't discovered that this is not the 19th century.No inconsistency - Abbott was elected on lies which masked his regressive policies:

Brandis lauding the right to bigotry so that Abbott's cheer leader could say what he wanted.

No new taxes - well need I explain?

Collapse of the car industry and with it most heavy engineering.

Supporting the coal industry at the price of the environment.

His Direct Action policy is no lie I admit - it's just a laughable excuse to fund polluters with public money.

Stop the Boats - how do we know he has, he's imposed a news blackout.

His Pollie Pedals (ostensibly a charitable exercise) exposed as tax-payer funded.

Travel allowance rorts galore.

Pensions for the elderly cut back.

I could go on but we see reported every day, even by the LNP cheer squads, yet another Abbott deception or deceit. 

He has to go very soon or the country is stuffed.

And now Palmer votes to repeal the Carbon Price (which Labor promised to do) and demands an ETS (which Labor promised to do). Abbott is unraveling publicly and he deserves it.Sorry Rikistyx but people trying to find excuses for Abbott are like people trying to find Lassiter's reef - just plain doomed to failure. It is time for his inept parody of a government to go.EVAN you are really behind the times aren't you. Palmer just delivered what Rudd promised in the 2013 election. The carbon price would be scrapped and then we'd move to an ETS. Abbott is opposed to an ETS because of his anti-environment and anti-science stance. He now cannot deliver his quite useless Direct Action policy (a system of paying rewards to the best polluters) which all you Liberal luvvies were wetting yourself over. 

On top of the other non- climate related measures he has promised and can't deliver because the PUP has joined with the Opposition in the Senate to block them Abbott really has only two choices - either he adopts the sensible policies of the Opposition and therefore scraps that ridiculous budget that he built around the lie of a budget emergency or he goes to a double dissolution. Knowing Abbott who won't just sit there and give the country what it wants by admitting his own mistakes he will go to a double dissolution and lose comprehensively and then we will thankfully be rid of him.Yep, and he not only has no experience of  earning a living away from the public purse trough but has managed through sheer stupidity to upset a self-made billionaire who holds the balance of power in the Senate. Way to go Tony - what next, self-crucifixion.Well Honest Johnny you have to understand that FG like all the LNP far right cheer squad can't actually come to grips with the truth. It is far easier for them to spout some 19th century Tory propaganda than understand what is really happening. Eventually,  perhaps in one or two centuries, they will understand but by then it will be too late. We people who do follow these things are aware that Howard's buying of the middle class vote cost this country a fortune but unfortunately FG and a rather small number of like-minded people fail to grasp this. I suspect it's because they still haven't got over 2007. Perhaps they keep little John Howard dolls under glass covers and light candles to them.You're not really keeping up are you FG - Palmer has just delivered a knockout punch to Abbott's inane budget built on deceit and his even sillier climate policy. True I shouldn't hate Abbott but then I must admit I have no pity for him. His performance over the past four years has earned this comeuppance. And I like the Pavlov reference, coming from a rusted on Liberal like yourself it has more than a hint of irony.Well Rodf the rubber has hit the road and Palmer has shown where he stands - I suspect that the anti-Abbott faction in the LNP is watching with glee.The present Government's claims to there being a budget emergency would have their acceptance by voters improved if Abbott wasn't a slave to his opposition mantras. All he appears to have done as PM is attempt to get rid of two taxes (the MRRT and the Carbon Price) which he opposed simply because they were steps towards some sign of environmental awareness in Australia (Abbott being profoundly anti-science and pro-mining), and replaced them with fuel excise hikes, slashing spending in science and education and other distasteful and unfair cuts which affect the needy. 

He would have demonstrated far more awareness of budget problems if he had kept the carbon price and ETS while strengthening the MRRT to earn more revenue. All he has done is confirm Peter Costello's assessment of him, as well it would seem that of a growing majority of Australians. One hopes that Mr Bandt's campaign is successful because for the sake of Australia Abbott needs to go.If the matter of national security was more pressing i.e. involved an imminent invasion of Australia then I would accept that the situation in the ME took precedence over the budget. It doesn't therefore all I can see is that Abbott is trying to use the ME situation to hide the deliberate deceptions that have created the problems the Coalition's budget is experiencing. Abbott spent four years as Opposition Leader rabbiting on about honest government and he has failed his own standards from the moment his government was elected. Abbott's career appears to built on nothing more than his endless capacity for reneging on his own and his party's promises." ...we have a credible LNP pathway to return to surplus... "

And that is? Perhaps you refer to those in need doing the lifting while those who are well off getting a break in which they can relax in a leaning position.Ummm... Shorten is Opposition Leader - it is Abbott who is PM so most I suggest would expect that any budget work is the PM's responsibility. Government's are elected to govern - not behave as if they are still in opposition.Correct Yank - it is abundantly clear that our LNP has been hijacked by the Australian chapter of the Tea Party. Abbott is now blundering from impasse to impasse unable to admit that he should either resign as PM and give the job to someone capable of negotiation, or simply go to a double dissolution so that we the people can give the Coalition government the flick. I think the latter is the best alternative.Oh I don't know - he was pretty careful to also point out the problems that the Rudd/Gillard governments had. However the central point is as he states that we all know that Abbott was able to use that problem to his own advantage yet when he achieved power found that he had set a dangerous precedent that he was unable to overcome. That is, of course, pure irony and I might add an affliction that Abbott brought on himself. Abbott is PM and therefore it is his job to save his government not the Opposition's - something that he, like yourself, appear unable to grasp.Poor old ABC - clearly Green's article represents the view of the majority of Australians as the current polls show yet somehow you perceive it as being biased in favour of a vocal minority.Graham what exactly is the LNP government doing that would lead to a pro LNP article? Going on their current performance that article would be a fiction.Fiscal mess? - the only mess I see is that our government, elected to govern for all of us, doesn't have the necessary ability to get its budget through. Perhaps that suggests that the current government isn't the great money manager it claims to be - or perhaps the budget isn't worth the effort.The Coalition's budget is just a natural outgrowth of their reliance on baseless mantras whilst in Opposition. Let's face it if they had suddenly reverted to telling the truth when they achieved government it would have made all those mantras look even more vacuous than they did at the time. As a result this budget problem that they have have - not the country, is purely of their own making. The irony is that while they deliberately lied in Opposition they were forced by the need to convince the electorate of their own credibility to continue with the lies once in power. I believe the term is hoisted on their own petard. 

They would do this country and themselves a great service if they'd just quietly resign and go away. Perhaps several decades in Opposition might give them a chance to rebuild the LNP with new and less deceitful people.Still clinging desperately to Tony Abbott's mantras I see FG - don't worry as every new day dawns more facts emerge to show that they were as baseless as Joe Hockey's current popularity within and without the Liberal Party. You really haven't worked out that this budget emergency was just an election claim that went horribly wrong for Abbott and his B team government have you. Looks like the adults were just toddlers playing dress ups.Iran would be another, and they did offer to work with the US against the IS insurgents. That offer was dismissed.The real problem for the government is that their much vaunted budget emergency doesn't actually exists. Thus it is impossible to reach agreement on passing measures that serve no useful purpose. The Coalition's aim in creating this non-emergency i.e. lie) was to quickly get rid of any of the Labor government's legislation while it was in power so why should Labor cooperate.Labor had already acknowledged the problem of falling revenue prior to the last election and were planning budgetary steps to answer this in the first budget they would produce if they had been reelected. Abbott simply continued with his negative lying mantras after election to produce a budget which addresses the inflated version he has created - a version which needless to say is a deliberate lie. This is the person who as Opposition Leader used every opportunity to distort events and lie to the public. Why would Labor or any other political party believe a word he says or cooperate with him in putting his false claims into practice. Time for him and the LNP to resign."He looks to have stopped the drownings."

Perhaps he ought to extend that skill to the Coalition government.The sheer blatant disregard for any semblance of ethical behaviour is astounding - a serial rort of major proportions. I suspect that there will thankfully be a few more heads to role. The question now is just how far this reaches up in the Liberal Party - by any standards every one seems to have benefited from this corruption.Oh a federal equivalent of ICAC would be wonderful - fat chance though. :-(From the evidence it sounds like the simplest way out would be to just turn NSW Parliament into a jail and lock the MPs in. ;-)Aaahh Michael - ABC ignoring Labor corruption? care to provide some historical evidence of that or are you just upset that your Liberal Party has been sprung. Were you actually hoping that the ICAC investigation would stop at Obeid.I think you owe the ABC an apology, you clearly haven't read the main news item - both sides cop a blast."It just goes to show that the Liberals in NSW appear to be liars, dishonest and corrupt."

You just woke up to that?  ;-)Small change!!! Gee AWH and Artie Sinodinos were going to make a fortune. ;-)One feels that Arthur Sinodinos' Senate career may well be brief.ICAC is one of those wonderful things that managed to elude politicians' natural reluctance to allow any sort of independent anti-corruption watch dog. How it ever got created was a miracle, but it is the gift that keeps on giving. I wish we had a similar organization in Victoria - here we only have investigatory bodies that parliament or the police have managed to nobble."It isn't illegal to be a property developer in NSW."

Of course it isn't but would you own up to being one in polite society.The problem for us and anyone else trying to make sense of the senseless is that referring to Islam as a single force leads us into a strategic disaster. Islam is no more united than Christianity was in the post-reformation period. Modern Islam has Sunnis, Shias and a host of spin off sects all of whom have the same antipathy for each other as did and still do Catholics, Protestants and their various spin off sects. The IS is just a very nasty murderous Sunni spin off who are pursuing political ends using their Sunni adherence to rally their followers. 

As a nasty and murderous political group it is in ours and that of those who want a stable ME (or something resembling it) to strike immediately before this group can establish itself properly - the best means are clinical airstrikes in support of local opposition groups like the Kurds and the various Shia adherents. Most assuredly we do not want IS supporters allowed to return to Australia in the same way we would not want Australians wanted for murder to return to escape legal retribution in other countries. For once I am going out on a limb here and giving tentative support to an Abbott initiative because unlike most of them he may well be talking sense.Interesting take but it ignores the simple solution which is just keep killing these IS lunatics every time one pops its head out of its rat hole. Just declare open season with no chance of negotiation - eventually they'll get tired of being targets. To add to the chances of wiping them out place very large bounties on every dead one. These, I prefer not to use the term people as they aren't, things are just vermin.Well we know where Abbott's campaign of hateful propaganda led when he was opposition leader - the disaster of him as PM.I don't own one either, but I am fortunate to live in an area with excellent access to public transport and within easy walking distance of shops and a shopping centre. All of which is coupled with very high property values and access to parks, schools etc. But I can understand the need for a car if one was forced to live in one of our ever expanding outer suburbs where public transport, or even basic amenities are the last things on the government's or developer's minds.Well it's certainly more correct than the misuse of the word liberal.Well to be correct Terence radical can apply both to the right and to the left - I recall that Reagan was cited by many as being a radical as was Thatcher. It just means that they keep the same philosophy but apply it in new ways. Abbott's interpretation seems to be running away at every opportunity from the problems his government's got - or else praying that Team Australia will come to his rescue.Harry only in Australia are Tories known as liberals - it was a deliberate ploy adopted by Menzies when he helped form the party. Everywhere else liberal is term for politicians of the non-conservative side. Just do a bit of research.Umm... giveitarest our Liberals are not actually liberal, in its actual meaning, at all. If we are looking for a party with a true liberal tradition it would ether be Labor or the Greens. The Liberal Party is really Tory in all its political philosophy.Aw gee that's unkind - Abbott's only job skill is chanting slogans and now you've taken that away. ;-)Yeah but the three word mantra industry did have a sudden surge in employment for a short while. Not surprisingly it is now in a slump as the two word mantra industry responds to Team Australia demand.Ummm... Peter could you explain exactly where Abbott's Team Australia have actually shown any economic expertise apart from creating the fake budget emergency which if they don't do anything too rash, like anything, will evaporate and they'll be able to claim the credit even though they didn't do anything. I admit it's a great tactic, invent a non-problem then solve it by doing nothing. A real zero sum action.Gosh FG you nearly had me convinced there for a moment until you mentioned PM Gillard who, unlike your Dear Leader, could actually negotiate successful outcomes. Nice try try but no cigar. Anyway don't worry too much I believe he's off overseas soon so that will be less embarrassing for you. Apparently the work experience stint as PM hasn't worked out too well and the LNP are trying him out as a roving aircraft passenger.A DD would suit perfectly.Now FG would you like to explain Team Australia. I believe you LNP supporters are told, to chant it each night while waiting to go to sleep. Is it a meditation mantra or just plain soporific?No I didn't - the subject is the supposed better Liberal economic management, now all I can see that Abbott has done management wise is come up with another slogan - Team Australia. Now as you are such a well known LNP supporter you need to explain the relevance of Team Australia in economic terms, or in any terms really. All I could think of was that it was a mantra for chanting created to aid sleep. Over to you.Abbott's trying to get in all the foreign travel he can before his party and the public dump him. I wonder if he's claimed his pollie pedal travel expenses yet."All of this is being portrayed as work experience..."

For a moment there I thought you were referring to Abbott's performance as pretend PM.Quite correct - you've only to look at the way Howard squandered the tax base to provide middle class welfare.Well I'd like to say that the headline of the article has a spelling mistake. It should be ad hockeyery not ad hockery and that Team Tax is not a good political slogan however much you chant it." ...skewer Abbott on climate change."

And why not? Why shouldn't Abbott be skewered for his complete disregard for anything other than advancing the claims of the coal miners who are producing the greatest source of greenhouse gas emissions on the planet. Abbott shouldn't even be PM because he clearly does not have the country's future in mind with his support for them.Actually TOJ the ABC is quite balanced - just because it isn't a publicly owned clone of the Murdoch media or the Bolt Report and presents all the right wing silliness 24/7 actually means it does a balanced job. And if you cast your mind back to the variety of right wing commentators present when Labor was in government you would admit to this. I suspect your problem is that as one of the dwindling number of people who think our current PM is anything other than inadequate you are angry not at the ABC but at yourself for taking his side. I have some advice for you - try and find some other Liberal politician to support for the PM's job because Abbott is a clunker.The one with China has been in negotiation since 2007 - not exactly a sudden achievement of Abbott.Frankly Zany I think an F is too high a mark - it actually implies that young Tony Abbott turned up for the exam. I would simply mark him down as not attending.Gerard there is no point in explaining that to FG - he has a closed mind when it comes to things like AGW and alternate energy sources. Coal will always be king to FG.Gosh FG - since when is telling the truth abusive.Well how about encouraging Australian design and manufacture of the infrastructure needed to harvest renewable energy sources. But then the coal miners would only whinge and complain and the Coalition as usual would be forced to claim yet again that AGW isn't happening and Hunt could be made Minister for Environmental Destruction. 

I realise that Abbott's supporters don't accept AGW at all although given the evidence I have no idea why unless it is that they have shares in the coal mining industry. But even if they don't I cannot see why they seem to reject any energy source other than the messiest and dirtiest of the lot which is coal. Even the the most dedicated denier of AGW must admit that solar, wind, geothermal etc. are cleaner and provide boundless opportunities for local job creation in manufacturing, building and installation while coal mining provides very few jobs that enhance our local industrial growth.Well what else did we think Abbott would achieve at the G20. He had a nice little sooky moment as he moaned to his new bestest friends that the naughty bullying Australian Senate was blocking his budget measures. He couldn't keep climate change off the agenda or out of the news because his big new bestest friends all thought that it is an issue given the scientific evidence and they all knew that science has never been little Tony's bestest subject in kinder. And he didn't shirt front that nasty bully Vlad Putin although giving him a koala to hold might have been a worse punishment. His biggest friend Barry stole the show by actually doing real leader type things while Tony was allowed to set up the tables and place the napkins for the nice little meal that followed - still that was something but Tony shouldn't have sooked should he. After all when you're a big tough member of the G20 gang you hang tough. Seriously though I don't see this as a highlight on our PM's resume. Australia didn't get much from this talk fest but then do we ever.I gather FG that you must be one of the people who thought that our PM did well at the G20 - and I'm not outraged, I'm vindicated.One world government under the UN? - now we know where you are getting your political views from FG, Yankee survivalists.Why would he stare down Obama - that implies that Abbott's do-nothing pollution enhancing outlook is the way of the future.Abbott would lift his game if he gave the captaincy of Team Australia to someone else. He'd then be able to settle into his best role which is 12th man.In English? WS even the core Liberals are beginning to look embarrassed by him.The real irony is that both Abbott and Putin are aggressive bullying politicians. Putin has more raw power given the rather parlous state of the Russian democracy but Abbott's budget showed the glimmerings of his desire to behave in a similar fashion. It's a good thing that our Senate has managed to tone down a lot of the aggressive attacks on the less well off it contained from from becoming law. I wonder if Hockey's almost complete disappearance from public view is contrived by him to distance himself from Abbott or just plain ineptitude."Would anyone vote them back in??"

Well if the polls are to be believed a majority of Australians would. The Abbott government got into power by using simple slogans and parliamentary tantrums. These disguised the fact that it didn't have any policies which will resonate into the future or indeed any policies that even cast half a glance at the future. We are now, with Abbott's embrace of coal, officially an economic one-trick pony. And that trick has been played to death in all the music halls of failed economies world-wide. 

The Coalition is turning us into the East Germany of the Pacific and appears to be on track to have us emulate the economic disasters of African nations who are the willing slaves of international miners. If the world's two biggest economies can see that climate change is the issue of the 21st century one seriously wonders what is the real cause of why our PM is so economically and ideologically blinkered.You mean to say that we must stop telling the truth about Abbott's rather appalling record as PM. That sounds a little like what happens in North Korea don't you think.Well WS you got one thing right in your reply - the last three words on the third line. ;-)HLD you forgot to mention that our presence at the UN is due to Labor's efforts and that an Abbott Free Trade Agreement consists of us exporting our minerals to another country that turns them into products which they sell back to us at enormous profits. But at least there are minimal import duties to be paid in the country importing our minerals. Wow that is really great for us ;-)In overall terms Ardy the tragedy in the Ukraine was handled well at the time - it is now and never was an excuse for the Coalition to try and make political capital. And you cannot deny that our PM did claim that he was going to shirt front Putin - and many people would be justified in asking just what was the PM thinking when he said that. Mr Abbott seems only to be able to think in slogans which indicates he lacks the depth to be able to grasp complex issues.Ardy you appear not to have read what I posted - a pity that because if you had you might have made a more pertinent reply.Quite true Reallist and if you add to that a mineral export industry that is subsidized by the government in the form of refusing to tax super profits, very half-hearted royalty charges, the delusion of a government that actually thinks coal is both beneficial and can be made into a clean fuel and an absolute willingness to export any manufacturing jobs that could be created locally we are an economic one trick pony. Under the Coalition and its silly leader we are becoming the East Germany of the SW Pacific but the unfortunate thing is that we will have no rich neighbour to save us when the crunch comes. Even if they don't get rid of Abbott. the Coalition does need to replace him with a forward looking leader - not one who appears to think that Australia stopped developing in the 1950s.If this be treason then it is in our country's best interests. 

The welfare of the country is more important than Tony's political career. For the good of Australia he should resign.Good points cleargreen but we know that the first two will never happen as that's where the money for the Liberal Party comes from.As distinct from the white elephant that is the Victorian Liberal Party how?Umm aGuy - there are a couple of former Liberal staffers who are regular columnists here plus the IPA. I wonder if your rush to defend the indefensible PM has led you to forget that.As I recall Barrie was pretty scathing about both of them at times. Seems to me the Abbott supporters are finding the embarrassment of seeing what a poor PM he really is has become too much for them. Now they are demanding that all criticism be shut down.The real problem damian is that Abbott should never be let off the cuff ;-)So SPUD I can take it as read that all you want from the media is the usual Murdoch lies and half-truths and the only comments to be allowed are ones saying that coal is the new revolutionary energy source of the future and that we should have discovered it earlier.The Russians are entitled as any other nation to have warships in international waters. Are you suggesting that they are sailing near us so as to threaten outcomes at the G20? - otherwise FG I can't see any point to your post. Or isn't there any point as usual.I can't remember anywhere where the ABC was screaming "the Russians are coming!!", but I am informed that some of the commercial media had themselves in a froth over it. But then I have always preferred the ABC to the commercial media - no advertisers to placate by appealing to purchasing units. And that said I still don't see the point of your original post.Well at least Labor actually did things for the country and its future - all Abbott wants to do is turn us into an open cut coal mine while he reverses every forward thinking policy that Labor put in place. I wonder when our conservatives are going to wake up to the fact that Abbott couldn't give a stuff about Australia's future or do they already know and approve of that.Yep another example of Abbott being left out in the cold with yesterday's news. He really has to start putting some effort into learning his job or he will go - sooner than later.Wonderful piece of science."We need to spend all of of our scientific resources &amp; dollars on learning how to look after this God Damn Given Planet we live on."

While I sympathise with your sentiments I am afraid to say that while there are still people like our Environment Minister and our PM who seem to actually believe that there is such a thing as clean coal then part of our science budget seems doomed to be spent on trying, vainly I fear, to reeducate them. Until that project is achieved than we really ought to keep spending money looking for an alternate place to live after these coal supporters have destroyed the only place we have.As usual Custard is a day late and a dollar short.

The two most pragmatic nations and economies on Earth have given official notice that they accept what the climate scientists have been telling them while Custard prefers that Australia accepts what Andrew Bolt and Alan Jones tell us. Good one Custard - it really exposes your level of understanding of AGW. The Republicans will probably act as you say if they get the chance but then they can't decide whether they are loopy, the Tea Part or just plain anti the environment, just like our Abbott government in fact.Tell me Sue why are you apparently so happy that China is polluting the atmosphere and the planet. It sounds like you really do have a wish to destroy the environment if it helps the coal lobby.Yep we are on the path to become the East Germany of the south west Pacific.Well one answer as to why no one told Tony is that who would actually think that you could have a serious conversation with someone who states he's going to shirt front Vladimir Putin. Little Tony really doesn't have much in the way of nous going for him.I see the usual gang of coal supporters and climate change denialists are scrabbling to claim that this agreement has no significance and that PM Abbott's do-nothing policy is the way to go. The thinner the ice the faster they skate.I tend to agree withe author's arguments. The simplest way out, as I see it, is to de-politicize the enquiry process and create an all-purpose anti-corruption body that can investigate any alleged corruption by any organization or business upon the the complaint being made. Clearly right now we do have police forces who can do that but they rarely become involved because corruption inquiries are the hand maidens of the political powers. 

Get rid of the political input and open it right up so that banks, or government authorities and boards can't hide behind the political necessities of the day while unions whose actual main sin is to represent the workers expiate that sin by becoming victims of conservative government/corporate collusion.Can't see it doing what you claim FG - I assume you are probably astute enough to understand that inquiries are the play things of which ever party is in power and whatever interests they represent. Currently we have a very conservative administration eager to hide corporate malfeasance under a smokescreen created by attacking union corruption. 

Of course the union corruption is wrong however any government of whatever persuasion which claims to be governing for all would investigate all corruption. That is what the author is saying - and you would also I assume be astute enough to admit that this present government profoundly anti-union and pro-business so the Yank is mostly right in what he says.Royal Commissions are set up by governments to give them the result they want - it's called the terms of reference and these are the instrument by which the political objectives of the government are achieved. Of course an RC set up by a government as conservative and as right wing as Abbott's will find union corruption. However if the terms of reference were extended to examine private industry's use of campaign funds to corrupt conservative governments then it would be both more effective and objective wouldn't it. A win for honesty all round.Oh I don't know TB - the unions don't have the money supply locked up which is what the banks have. Money is the lubricant that keeps the machinery of society functioning, not trade unions.Under a FTA with China, to what extent will Chinese workers be allowed to enter, and take jobs that could be done by unemployed Australians, and at what pay rates ?. Will Australian unions be denied access to these sites?. Will Australian manufacturers be denied access to supplying materials for infrastructure projects financed by the Chinese ?.These and many other questions effecting how an FTA will effect Australian trade with China including agriculture, manufacturing, education and commerce, remain to be seen. Will the agreement be less advantageous than the Chinese NZ - FTA ?.One big reason for my queries are that  the negotiations are being carried out in almost complete secrecy. I certainly hope that my concerns will prove to be groundless.Frankly I can't think of any other response to either Howard or Abbott than the reception they received. Not a single lasting legacy between the two of them.HLD I suspect that Barrie was addressing the issue of Abbott's unfortunate capacity to reduce any complex matter to a slogan so that it makes a good headline. I suggest that given the complexity of the situation in the ME that is not the best way to address the threat that ISIL represents. He also pointed out that the Kiwis managed to both keep and raise the GST but offered proper compensation in a reform of the personal tax regime - something our lot are notoriously incapable of doing.Gerard it is always the situation whenever we elect Coalition governments. Labor has a long proud tradition of forward looking reforms while our conservatives have no such tradition. Instead their only action whenever they gain power is to immediately tear down the forward looking reforms simply because these were put in place by Labor. It is the way it has always been and no doubt it is the way it will continue. The conservatives only policy is their vindictive refusal to recognise that times change and if we don't change with them we are lost. I cannot think of one single policy introduced by a conservative government in the last half century that has stood the test of time by addressing our future needs.As I said Craig I cannot think of one single policy introduced by a conservative government in the last half century that has stood the test of time by addressing our future needs. And the Coalition's constant harping about non-threatening debt levels is just an excuse to hide the fact that they are bereft of any policies beneficial to the country's future. That is the great problem with our two party system - the only alternative to forward thinking policies for the good of the country is a mob who reward polluters and think getting involved in foreign wars is the way of the future.APM you are living proof of why it is impossible to have an intelligent conversation with conservatives. They deny climate change, perpetuate racial and religious stereotypes and cling to long discredited social and scientific theories. The only way for this country to advance itself as an intellectually sound nation is for all of us to abandon all conservative political and social theory. Until we do we will continue to have governments like our present conservative coalition whose only aim is to turn us all back to the 19th century.APM I suggest that you read up on an organization called the Ahnenerbe. It's methods, doctrine and general aims show a great similarity to your point of view. They also felt that they were enlightened and were particularly big on the veracity of stereotyping.Very true and also true is that the police whether at state or federal level will happily oppose any civil liberties if that opposition makes it appear as if they are doing their job. Our police are no supporters of civil liberties and never have been. Unlike advanced democracies elsewhere we the public have no say over who is appointed to top police jobs and because of that the police see their role as supporting their more conservative political masters. 

I do not trust the statements made by senior police in our media. Our crime issues are not of sufficient severity to warrant the number of police we have. The police know that hence the continual public profile. A sensible drug policy would see three quarters of that problem evaporate."It's all very well for Brandis &amp; Co. to say that this is only in the interests of law enforcement &amp; crime fighting ..."

Indeed and it has always been the excuse offered by any regime seeking to limit the rights of citizens - sometimes our politicians forget that they work for us and it is not we who work for them. Our democracy is far too important to be left to the whim of politicians.Absolutely agree - there are too many politically motivated police policies creeping into our legal systems when for the last century the police have already had sufficient powers in common law to properly fight real crime. I blame the law and order campaigns which governments always run when they don't have any other policies or plans worth a crumpet. Referendums would at the least allow a proper community debate concerning proposals which generally seek to strip liberties rather than grant them.Our problem is that we still believe that giving extra powers to police is a means of improving the justice system. However all you get from giving the police extra powers is more arrests which doesn't necessarily translate into an improvement to the more important criminal justice system. That is because the police are essentially a military organization in which the foot soldiers are there only to follow orders - orders which come from senior police with their own political axes to grind. 

We need to go the other way and make sure that the police don't get extra powers but instead whittle away those politically motivated powers they have gained recently (e.g. criminal bike gang panics etc.) and get back to more basic regulatory powers as well as root out the militaristic mind set that dominates the police. They are not there to follow orders - they are there to serve the public who pays for them.Well Napthine seems to show a reluctance to have Abbott any where near campaigning in Victoria - which is a plus for all of us Victorians.

Unfortunately the Liberals will get the flick, which is ironic coming from a Labor voter but it is my firm contention that the best state governments are those that do nothing except look after schools and roads. I prefer them to do nothing else because whether they are Liberal or Labor everything they touch turns out to be a waste of money. Our currently paralyzed parliament is a boon for all of us.

So I prefer the Libs locally because they have done absolutely nothing in the last four years which is the best course for any state government. Never empower anachronisms.The Green vote is sitting around 13% all across Australia - but then so was the Democrats' vote when they were the darlings of Liberals who want to show they have social awareness but can't bring themselves to vote Labor. In Victoria it generally translates into a concentration of votes in the inner city electorates but never enough to upset the balance between the two main parties. The Greens are for voters who would destroy one half of the world to save the other half.Whatever it is it will for their benefit alone.Well the shareholders' profits always come ahead of the customers' interests - funny that. Of course the power bills were not going to come down - how do I know that, Tony said they would come down and he has lied about everything so far.A very true comment about the Greens - their petty behaviour over the ETS gave us the mess we have now. But this Direct Action policy is in reality a No Action policy. Polluters are simply going to see it as an approval of their polluting with the chance for a little windfall government paid profit thrown in.

Minister Hunt has ditched any responsibilities to the Environment his job entails preferring to do anything for PM Abbott that will allow him to keep his job and the increased pay. He is a fraud as Environment Minister. The ETS was and remains the most logical move for any government operating with a market economy and we should have gone to it as was planned. The Coalition government's willful rejection of the continuing emergence of new data confirming AGW falls so far short of any rational behaviour that the only conclusion one can draw is that they are truly in the pockets of the miners."It has been part of the Coalition policy since Howard ..."

It has? 

Abbott's scaremongering pro-polluting actions in opposition cemented in place the Coalition's utter rejection of doing anything about AGW including introduction of an ETS and instead providing Australia as a free range polluter's paradise - all with an added government subsidy to help them along. 

I really do wonder when people are going to stop supporting environmental destruction in Australia in the name of helping rich miners who wouldn't piss on them if they were on fire. We must be the dumbest developed nation in the world. So who cares if coal mining goes tits up - the sooner it does the sooner we are forced to put serious investment into renewables.Mining is so mechanized these days that the actual job losses would be small and most of the miners could easily be relocated into the basic construction associated with setting up the infrastructure for renewables. Claim what you like about the job benefits of mining but the truth is that mining employs very few people as a percentage of our work force. 

I understand that you support the fact that Clive and his coal mining mates have bought the Coalition and have used that purchase as the means to do nothing about AGW - but don't you think occasionally that you really have made the wrong choice. Most people who understand the problem of AGW would shed coal mining from our economy as fast as the new renewable industries can be set up - however that isn't going to happen because the Federal Coalition and the Liberal state premiers are ditching renewable energy industry as fast as the miners ask them and paper over their stupidity with this idiotic spendthrift thing called Direct Action. Why do you think Abbott is pushing Direct Action - because it diverts our money into the pockets of the miners and polluters who bankroll the Liberals.Spoken like a true shareholder Greig - all those shares are bugger all protection against the disruptive effects of AGW on our society and its environment. One day the people who support coal mining are going to wake up that it is an 18th century energy technology which is doing far more damage than it ought. It is the major contributor to AGW and as such, if we are going to protect ourselves, has to go. 

Every supporter of this obscenely dirty fuel says that renewable energy is too expensive - guess what, they said that about setting up coal powered furnaces back in the 18th century. And do you know why they complained - because the government was forced to regulate tree felling because they were concerned that excessive tree felling for fuel not only was destroying the environment but was also destroying the raw material to make warships. The same old circle just keeps turning doesn't it.

Australia is ideally placed to harvest wind, solar and thermal but do we do it? Why no of course not, because the coal miners scream about lost profits rather than showing that they have some decency left and simply stop their polluting and use their massive profits to fund the new technology. Why is discussing any serious problem with an advocate of coal like talking to someone who is afraid that they will lose some negligible possession like money when they would rather have that than care for the only place we all to live.

In 100 years time the same people will be complaining that moving to cold fusion is too expensive and that solar must stay. For people so concerned about making money for bugger all effort the mining crowd is pretty cowardly about venture capital."... unlike doctors lawyers and accountants, scientists have no code of ethics they have to follow."

Ummm.... PtL would you run that by us again - you mentioned lawyers in same sentence as " ...code of ethics they have to follow." Gosh when did that happen - lawyers/ethics? Mostly mutual strangers I would have thought. At the very least scientists must produce results that can be tested for veracity by others. Lawyers just argue over punctuation."It would be a surprise if the allocation of funds was not tied pretty closely to a reduction in energy use or reduction in emissions (for those who actually do the emitting)."

With Abbott and Hunt helped by Palmer doing the checking I'm sure they'll find a way to surprise us and keep funneling our money to the polluters FG. Do you really think that the current Coalition government has anything other than the interests of the miners at heart? They are playing a game called The Australia is Open for Business and they don't care what the business is just so long as their rich mates make a profit.After many years of dealing with politicians lobbying on behalf of the interest I represent I have found that they will promise anything to get rid of you, deliver on nothing and do exactly what their senior public servant tells them to do. If ISIL came to Australia they would earn immense support by simply sending squads of suicide bombers to our state and federal parliaments and blowing the whole sorry and useless lot up. It'd be worth spending part of Friday at a mosque I reckon. 

These days the only job our parliamentarians do is the job they do on us. ;-)That was my question as well ;-)Indeed Judy that's what Abbott is desperate for - he had one try with Warburton's efforts and everyone fell about laughing, now he's hoping he might be second time lucky. Greg Hunt has demonstrated that he'll say anything to keep his ministerial position even though he was one of the firm supporters of action about AGW so he cannot be trusted to give any honest advice - the process is a sham and Abbott knows it but is too afraid to back down and abandon the scientifically demonstrated useless Direct Action plan he cooked up.Well as the vast majority of the electorate have little or no professional scientific training then I'm afraid that what they think about the matter is an irrelevance. Accordingly the government should institute an ETS and simply and finally admit that its own policy (Direct Action) is a useless idea promoted by Abbott because he is playing up to the people who are scientifically illiterate and Palmer and his coal mining supporters. In other words a government should act for the best not for just for votes. Fat chance of that I know but we are going to have to do something about AGW and it would be easier to start now than when it becomes absolutely necessary.So I can assume then that you fall into the part of the public that has no scientific training. It is about self-interest I admit but the self-interest of all of us not just those who have scientific training - after all that is what scientists are trained for, to do science for all the citizens not to abandon their training because politicians like Mr Abbott see electoral advantage in not accepting the truth.I'm afraid I'm going to have to cite the whole Earth FG - as that is what the evidence indicates. As usual your question is just a throw away line that adds nothing." ...no one has been able to show an even remotely definitive scientific link between any observed climate change event and greenhouse gas emissions."

Perhaps for someone like yourself de Brere who has "claimed" time and again that they can't see the connection but for the rest of us who can, your demands for definitive proof seem to show a trolling refusal to acknowledge the evidence and thereby become a deliberate irritant rather than any healthy scientific scepticism. It is your democratic right I suppose but you do realise that it is irresponsible behaviour like yours that encourages our PM to drag the rest of us into your manufactured denial - the future of our species is more important than trolling or his political future.I think Senator Leyonhjelm summed him and the other teenage drama queens up accurately. They're just vapid ineducable idiots whose sole motivation is superstition.Bozo the Clown sums him up properly - it also applies to that other loser who appears to have got himself killed. I have little sympathy for these losers and claims that they are disadvantaged in our society. I left school and started work at 16 in a far from interesting or intellectually stimulating job - later I reconstructed myself and my life and found something better. It wasn't joining a bunch of murderers whose sole stimulus appears to be superstition. We are well rid of them - in fact I suggest we pay for anyone who feels the same as them to depart on the proviso their citizenship is revoked and they can't come back.Actually they come across as teenage drama queens - stamping their feet and demanding respect when they have done nothing to earn it. Anyone can wave an assault rifle around and chant slogans - the first real combat against professional soldiers will shut them up PDQ.The truth is that the silly little idiot has probably been passed around all the older fighters and now has a very sore arse. What an idiot - I suspect that even his comrades in arms realise that most of these teenage idiots will running screaming for their mothers the moment they face any real fighting.No one can seriously claim that the average 17 year old from the background these losers come from has any brains. That fool who got himself killed attacking two armed police is a prime example. Of course their "friends" if they are as dumb as him are going to say he's cool but then what else would these morons say. It's not as if they have the brains to be even capable of ditch digging. Give them all a one way ticket to ISIL country, council their citizenship and leave 'em there. A few weeks of being bombed will soon reduce them to gibbering wrecks or worse.In my entire life (nearly 70 years) I have never witnessed any rich business person come down on the side of the freedoms offered by a democratic society. The reason? They are more interested in currying favour with the government of the day than any of the rights or privileges of their employees. Besides the scion of a company that happily tapped private telephone calls really can't get up and defend private freedom can he.Of course the pollies are milking this fear of terrorism for as much as they can. If a pollie was to stand up and actually put the number of "terrorist" instances that have happened in Australia against the number of deaths suffered by home handymen working around the house for perspective then no one would even dare look at a lawn mower. This Muslim "terrorist threat" we are currently basking in is just plain hysteria used by the government to hide the fact that it really is just going backwards. There is nothing that has happened locally that couldn't be handled by the normal powers the state has had for years. The terror alert is just a political and media beat up - I wonder how current Australians would handle WW2 if we were transported back to that time - probably we'd all run and hide.Coalition governments have a history in Australia of never being in power when innovative or important decisions must be made - in fact they always launch scare campaigns against them then after those lies work they come to government and reap the rewards. It is actually a win win situation for the Liberals - all the gains and none of the pains. The situation is the same with this terrorism hysteria - people will actually fall for it because their prejudices have been played to by the media and it is demonstrably correct that the easily led read the Murdoch media and vote LNP.

Yes there have been a couple of minor instances, very minor if compared with what is happening in the ME and as the media is helping the government whip up war hysteria the government is assured that they have the requisite support to make any sensible assessment of the risk nugatory. I really do wish Australians would take a deep breath and grow up. Competing headlines is not the way to adequately inform the public.Well FG the fact that a man so devoid of work experience, common sense and the ability to speak in public without threatening violence leads the party selected by the Australian public to govern frightens the daylights out of me. It shows the level of community support his cheer squads in the media and mining industries are able to achieve. But I suppose lies are best supported by more lies rather than being exposed by the truth. Unfortunately his terrorist beat ups will garner the same supporters so there is little chance for common sense to prevail. Abbott really needed something to take our minds of his dismal performance and those idiots in ISIL gave it to him - that alone is the reason I support action against them."Quote: The speed with which large segments of the population take offence at anything they can get their hands on suggests that they're doing it more for their own personal pleasure than any public-minded impulse."

Indeed FG and for once I find myself agreeing with you - but then getting mortally offended is probably the only real contact with the world some poor souls have. I think we should not be too critical of these rather truncated lives or we too will be in Professor Spurr's shoes. One of the greatest questions regarding the human experience is - is it better to be attacked because one is misunderstood, or better to be attacked if one is correctly understood. ;-)Yes Yank - but we miss the point that Mr Abbott and his close associates are the masters of self-satire. Either they do this to deflect us from their real intent or in fact they are unwittingly practicing self-abuse ;-)Until demonstrated otherwise I am inclined to accept Professor Spurr's version of the intent which is not to say I approve of racism. If he is honestly saying that it was part of a private game in which the intent was satirical rather than deliberately nasty then I'll accept that because satire is a wonderful thing and must be protected at all costs. If it wasn't then he ought to be condemned.  

One of the funniest jokes I ever heard comes from a time when racists comments were accepted without demur - if told today it would generate only loftily raised holier-than-thou eyebrows rather than the uproarious laughter it deserves because it is, despite the original teller's intent, really a satire on racists rather than their target. I won't relate it here though for the sake of peace and quiet and a dislike of sanctimonious eyebrow raising.Of course there is always the Four Yorkshire men sketch for sheer comic genius that takes us to the truly absurd.True but the internet discussion forums had to invent the emoticon to prevent unwanted flame wars. Perhaps it would be easier to accept that the Professor's explanation is correct.Yes but Bolt was as we learnt from the court case indulging in self-satire - only he didn't realise it until it was too late.Actually it was 20 year olds - my number came up in 1967. Next stop Vietnam and God knows what. Fortunately I failed the medical and have never considered voting for the Liberals or any conservative party ever since. If you want real bastardry in a government vote Liberal.I wonder why it is that when faced with a choice between what can be done and what is done the conservatives always fight against progress and social justice. Whitlam had vision and a sense of history and seized the time he had to achieve things and sweep away the stultifying culture of the Menzies era - conservative PMs like Howard and now Abbott just want have little foreign wars and act as if they are Menzies.

As usual their legacy will be eminently forgettable (what do we remember of Howard except stodge and Abbott unbelievably has done even less) and so Australia will once again have to find leaders with vision of what we can be which is not just a quarry with cheap labour. The simple fact that we have elected a government led by someone like Abbott shows how far we have fallen from the spirit of those halcyon days.Well let's see -

GST - just an added tax when what was required was a complete reform of taxation laws to cut out massive tax avoidance by the multi-nationals plus forcing the mineral companies into paying a just percentage of the real value of what they export. All the GST did was hit the average Australian with added domestic costs.

Gun buy back - yeah big deal, looked good with Howard in his bullet proof vest but did you know that there are more legally owned and securely stored firearms now in the hands of law-abiding Australian shooters and gun owners than before the buy back. Martin Bryant was a loonie but never claim that every gun owner, sporting shooter, target shooter etc. is evil just because of the actions of one disturbed young man. The vast majority are represented by the helpful friendly next door neighbour.

Howard's legacy is empty of any substance - he was just someone who momentarily swam to the top of the Liberal Party fish tank of stodge and subservience  made a splash and will be lost to history and popular memory.There is no better tribute OUB than pointing out the vacuous behaviour of those pissants who would destroy Whitlam's vision. It is amazing that Whitlam and Abbott both went to the same university - Whitlam emerged with the education and drive that allowed him push forward a vision of what we could and should be while Abbott emerged with the ability to make a public announcement that he would shirt front Vladimir Putin. Now seriously can there be any real dispute that we have sunk very very low under the conservatives.And yet we still retain the benefits he gave all Australians despite the efforts of conservative pissants like Howard and Abbott to ignore the people and instead suck up to the miners and tax-avoiding corporations. When a country needs vision and the drive to get things done always vote Labor - if you want to make sure there is no change for the better and the rich keep their wealth vote for the Liberals. What is our current PM's great vision for the future? After much searching and research I found it - he thinks science is rubbish and shirt fronting Vladimir Putin is a recognised form of international diplomacy. As for Howard, seriously his only achievement was to make walking backwards the national sport. The real pity for Australia is that we need visionaries like Whitlam yet we are dumb enough to fall for the pipe dreams of the Howards and Abbotts.Vale Gough - like all great visionary politicians of which Australia has had precious few your reforms and deeds will live on regardless of the efforts of the conservatives to keep trying to tear them down. You will be remembered with gratitude when pissants like Howard and Abbott are long forgotten.Well for a working class lad like myself who started work at 16 then 15 years later was able, thanks to Gough's education reforms, to get into uni and go on to postgraduate qualifications and a career with far more interest and opportunities than I ever would have had if he hadn't become PM, he was the best and will remain so. Silly penny-pinching mean-spirited lawyers complain about their taxes and give us underachievers like Howard and Abbott. Whitlam had vision - all the conservatives ever have is selfishness.You forget Ben that I had been paying taxes for the 15 years before I went to uni - I suspect that you are one of those people who just went from high school to uni and didn't actually have to leave high school early to get a real job. You probably can't grasp the concept that the best education has to be easily accessible for all if Australia is to be something other than a quarry. 

Gough had a vision for Australia, something that conservatives have been fighting ever since because the shareholders get worried by visions of what a nation can be when they'd much rather it was just a cash cow or a quarry. And if Rex Connor had been able to carry out his grand plan think of the wealth that would now be flowing into the public purse and not into overseas investors' bank accounts. But conservatives don't have visions of what can be, just nightmares that they might lose their middle manager's role in the world economy.Yes, well put. We are in danger of giving our security services far too much power. A sensible government does not accede to their requests for extra powers if a body of law already exists which is sufficient for the purpose - and this case it does.Once gain APM you are pushing your narrow wheel base barrow and it is inappropriate to what the article is discussing.In my experience a great deal of the working time of government is spent wasting time trying to find issues that they can spend that time on. Australia already has a huge body of law in which there are plenty of legal avenues for the application of the draconian penalties already in existence covering an enormous range of both serious crimes and quite innocent misdemeanors.  As a nation we are overstocked with laws, regulations and by-laws. 

In regard to the quite minor occurrence of genuine terrorist type crime in Australia we already have the post-911 regulations which were quite sufficient to arrest and detain for a lengthy period Dr Haneef, and what a cock-up that was. Now we are trying to create a new body of regulation that will repeat that sorry process - all of this over a plastic sword and one mentally disturbed teenager. I would be happier if before these new laws were introduced that all our intelligence officials underwent mandatory tests of their cognitive abilities and that all the "I am just following orders" type of police and other officials were weeded out and put back on traffic duties.ANU are to be applauded as they have shown the government that despite Abbott's and his backers in the mining industry attempts to claim that coal is clean and AGW is not happening, the real centres of scientific research and understanding regard AGW as a major problem - just as do most of the governments in the developed world. It is about time that solving the problem AGW was taken out of the hands of this scientifically illiterate government and handed on to the people and institutions who will do something about it. The environment is too important to all of us to be left in the hands of the coal lobby and its paid servants the Abbott government.Well the people who voted for this government are not the ones who would do anything to resist AGW - so I must be talking about the sensible minority who weren't convinced by Abbott's empty rhetoric.All this Islamophobia has me in such a state of high anxiety I don't whether I am Arthur, Martha or Hassan. Why only this morning I met a young lady of ME appearance wearing a head scarf - I gallantly allowed her to take first place in the queue at the shop. She had a lovely smile - that's what probably scared me the most because over the last few weeks I have been conditioned to believe that if I had not been polite then I would have been Jihad fodder. But seriously folks I do think that some of us have become a trifle hysterical about Islam and Muslims. Perhaps we should all just calm down and read a good book or like me be given the benefit of a lovely smile."...its a set of beliefs and ideals that anyone, who chooses to ignore science and reason..."

Well, so Muslims are also AGW deniers - gosh that adds a whole new category to their perfidious behaviour, but then there are some of our Christian people who believe in virgin birth and in the afterlife. I didn't realise that being a humble white Australian of English, Welsh, Scots and Irish descent was such a demanding occupation. My poor brain is all coswobblulated. I think I need a good lie down to try and sort out just what is expected of me. ;-)"For you to have the type of religious beliefs that Muslims have, you clearly have to ignore significant parts of scientific theory in relation to the universe and evolutionary biology."

Umm.... don't like to be picky but there are large number of Christian sects who don't accept evolution, believe the world was created in 4004 BC and that everything that is written in the Old Testament is absolute fact. There are also a number who don't accept women priests, believe in virgin birth and that there is an afterlife. Now why are they right and any Muslim with similar ideas wrong? It's all part of the historical events that see Christianity evolve from Judaism and Islam to evolve from a mixture of both. That's the history of this - perhaps if we hadn't allowed Emperor Constantine to Christianize the Roman Empire we wouldn't be in this mess. But who am I to quibble - that smile was charming. ;-)The problem with the right in our politics is that while they trumpet the virtues of liberalism as an ideal they are neither liberal nor virtuous enough to admit that they aren't liberal. 

Advocating a terrorist act is a very wide and ill-defined concept. Will this be taken to include banning the defence of those accused of such acts. Does it imply that all that is required is for the government to unilaterally decide what is terrorism and what is honest protest. If a government is honest in its reasons to protect society from violence then its first duty is to ensure that the government itself is not guilty of terrorist attacks on the legal rights of its citizens.

There are shades of Tienanmen Square in this.I have found that the reporting of the RC on unions has been consistent and even-handed. Certainly workers need unions because individuals don't have the collective power to advance their case against big companies, but workers are let down badly by corrupt union officials and it is in the workers' best interests that this enquiry is held. But to be even-handed we also need ongoing inquiries into some of the large corporations and their tax avoidance which is worse for this country in the long run than a few corrupt union officials.Gough Whitlam dragged Australia kicking and screaming into the 20th century, Tony Abbott is dragging it kicking and screaming back to the 19th century.Once again APM another fact free post. It is quite clear that you have never had any exposure to Islamic countries outside of what you read in our media. I've worked with Muslims both in the ME and here and my experience was that they have much the same priorities in life as we do - their religious extremists are no different to our fundamentalist Christian sects in their closed social attitudes and intolerance of others. Perhaps you should read more widely on the range of religious sects we include in the western society you keep applauding as a model of tolerance and advancement.Sorry APM but you are just making unsupported visceral statements rather than offering facts that can be verified. If you are so inflamed by opinions other than your own why do you continually monitor them - is it some form of masochism?There has been a massive anti-Muslim push in our more sensationalist media (aka the Murdoch press) for a great many years now. However the reporting of the recent anti-terrorist "raids" by both Murdoch and Fairfax was clearly little more than rejigged government press releases and on the spot reports by a clearly pre-briefed press. Our anti-Muslim feelings have been continually fueled since the need for public support for a war in the ME arose when the US and its allies decided that Saddam had to go. 911 added fuel to an already blazing fire and we are now seeing how out of control that propaganda has become. 

We forget that our government is only able to send troops to places like Iraq and Afghanistan because we the people who vote them in let them. While IS is verminous and should be eradicated that doesn't excuse our similarly fueled but less violent local hysteria directed at Muslims of any sect or political opinion. 

Now that plastic "sword" has been exposed I wonder at the intelligence of our local police who would seize such a thing, perhaps we need better trained police combined with a less easily led popular media, especially opinion deciders like Jones and others. The overall lack of any real intellectual ability shown by those who mount and support these raids convinces me that we are in the hands of fools.Eight? are you sure - given the number of your posts I see you really must have posted far more that didn't make the cut. By my reckoning you far out number most people in the number of posts accepted.Well I notice that they occasionally shut down down sections, however that is usually when one of the posters has suffered self-inflicted embarrassment. So perhaps that could be considered a kindness.To which Malcolm do you refer - me I'd allow every post because that's the way the people who would demand censorship of the ABC would be exposed.I like the spelling mistake - we already have "realty" newspapers they're your local free press mainly sponsored by real estate agents.My view is that the news was included to fill up the space left by the advertisers.Well said Toc - it is our common mongrel ancestry that unites us all, not our religious affiliations.The revolution will only come when people drop their racial and religious prejudices and start seeing all of humanity's common heritage. Remember that genes aren't left or right, or Christian or Muslim - they're just genes."Pig ignorance demands equal time with scientific evidence."

Well said and if some of the anti-Muslim rhetoric is indicative of deeply considered and factually checked opinions then blind intolerance also holds sway. "It's a sad sad world we live in Master Jack".Sorry Spud but it hasn't plateaued as last year's data shows us. Legitimate scientific research is the only data we should accept pertaining to AGW which the ABC and other responsible media print - the "data" published by scientists refuting AGW is just the musings of the paid staff at a couple of right wing think tanks controlled by the polluters. The proof of that is in your claim about the 15 year plateau. Besides by my reckoning the deniers were claiming it was a 17 year plateau two years ago so by rights you should be claiming 19 years not 15. Basic arithmetic is of use in scientific matters. ;-)Probably explains why 2013 was the warmest year in recent times.And how do you explain 2013? Warmest year in recent times unfortunately - but that's just those enemies of science the BoM telling more lies isn't it. 

One thing you could explain is why would the BoM be telling porkies - it isn't as if being a scientist is a ticket to riches especially in this modern age when science is decried because it just doesn't provide the data that will give the do nothing brigade comfort. Thing is that while deep ocean temperature appear to be stable the upper ocean temperatures are rising. Complex business global warming isn't it."Opponents of Australian involvement against IS have only queried our lack of participation against Ebola in order to seek some high moral ground."

Not necessarily, many like myself were honestly unaware that we lacked the capacity to provide assistance. That said I can concur that aid in the form of money would be appropriate.An inherent problem is that if there is a foreign regime whose actions are inimical to Australia's interests and who has an insurgency seeking to overthrow it, then any Australian who volunteers to aid that insurgency with the intention of advancing our national interests becomes a criminal. I suspect the new powers will be applied selectively if such people return to Australia. 

At present whether we are at increased risk of terrorist attack or not has yet to be demonstrated - so far the actions of our local authorities has been consistent with a low risk. Frankly I have no problem with Australians seeking to involve themselves in foreign wars outside of official sanction but whether they can be allowed back into Australia afterwards must be subject to the nature of their actions in support of the foreign cause they supported. 

Many people returned to the former Yugoslavia during its collapse to fight then came back to Australia afterwards - have those people demonstrated that their foreign activities have been the cause of harm to Australia upon their return. If so then deportation seems logical with mandatory surrender of their Australian citizenship. But if these people are suffering from PTSD then which nation picks up the medical bills, and can that be used as a defence against deportation - it's a difficult area and needs to be free of knee jerk reactions. And then there is the case of David Hicks whose treatment in the US and Australia is absolutely in line with what O'Brien is arguing though whether he was ever a risk as such to anyone else but himself is a moot point.Why bag up a plastic sword? - well in Victoria there is an amendment to the Control of Weapons Act which exempts those plastic knives you get in take-away food places from control under the Control of Weapons Act. Never forget that our laws are drafted by public servants, all of whom decided that being in the public service was less risky than chancing their not very developed skills in the real world.This little foreign jaunt is all down to the current government - the government claimed with hands on its collective heart that we have a "budget emergency". So far that "emergency" hasn't been demonstrated except by our Treasurer raising our debt limits. So if there is an "emergency" we must find an immediate way to fund our contribution to the war against the IS so a special tax levy is not out of the question. The big problem however is how will Tony "No Big New Taxes" Abbott sell his war and his chance at martial glory to us - personally I doubt he'll try but the money needs to come from somewhere and that somewhere is us the taxpayers. Of course we need to fund the war with a tax rise - otherwise the Coalition's "budget emergency" might turn out to be less of a political stunt and more of a reality.Yes Marcus you are right. Ebola is a far greater threat than IS but I can't see Abbott Caesar seeing any chances for martial glory in that fight so we will divert money to other more immediate chances to earn him a laurel wreath - after all AGW has been officially declared not a problem in Australia because we like Canada rely on mineral exports. Funny the effect martial glory and the mining lobby/oil interests have on our chaps in Canberra."Of course The IS, threatens the world, and has told us so."

The bigger threat is that to our sanity - are we completely insane to actually think after GW1 and GW2 another involvement will result in victory at last, or are Halliburton in a bit of a fix again and trying to placate their shareholders.Excellent suggestion Patrick - however I suggest we cut right to the chase and have the Emergency Emergency. That way all bases are covered ;-)Marg the Budget Emergency was put in place to allow the government to have an emergency if no other emergencies arose. Now we have the Terrorist Emergency which has duly morphed into the IS Emergency (AKA GW3). 

Remember GW1 and GW2 - they were supposed to be over by Christmas or the next weekend barring a suspension of play caused by the weather. We also were odds on to win those but events overtook us and we were forced by local conditions to suspend play. This "emergency" is in fact no more than a long delayed resumption of play with a new captain and pretty much a completely new team (AKA Team Australia).

We're in for a long 21st Century.Basically because they want the glory but lack the guts.Well Joe if they're in jail how can they have a job? And if their crime has caused the revocation of their right to vote then who they vote for is nugatory."The Left have no genuine interest in history..."

APM I am afraid that is a data free observation. Could you state a clear case to support that assertion with evidence. If you do then you will open up for discussion what appears to be a serious issue if true.Sorry APM but the only people who are questioning AGW at the moment on these forums are people with no qualifications in science that equip them to give a reasoned criticism. As for being dominated by the left they publish your comments all the time, and your views are clearly not of the left or of the centre. Therefore what exactly is your criticism of the ABC - that they don't publish things you agree with 100%? 

Gosh they publish things I don't agree with at times but I criticise the article not the ABC for publishing it. I suppose you are probably the first person to claim that the IPA is a leftist think tank."There is a social engineering agenda afoot and that deserves debate rather than abusing and excluding concerned citizens."

If there is social engineering afoot as you claim in matters to do with demonstrated AGW then the ABC will no doubt allow you to demonstrate this claim with data. Have you considered writing an article for them to publish and open up for discussion. We all would be interested to see the data you present and why you are concerned. That is how science works - not by innuendo but by data."The ABC is famous for taking everyone's side except Australias."

In what way APM - what the ABC presents to us is a view of the world free from the shackles imposed by corporate sponsors who only wish to advance their products to markets that buy their products. Do the commercial media outlets offered reasoned bi-partisan views of events and ideas, in the main yes but there is always a qualifier imposed by major sponsors and that's what makes many people distrust them. 

In what way are Australia's interests being undermined by the ABC - if objective and honest reporting of the complexities of international geopolitical matters raises questions about Australia's involvement then that is for the best. Can you honestly say that biased self-interest is the best way to arrive at an understanding, I can't and I doubt any thinking person would. My wish is that if we are to commit young Australians to involvement in wars outside our shores then I hope that what we are doing is not going to make a mockery of their sacrifice, so in what way is that attacking Australia's interests? Better that we question than blindly accept the views of people who stand to gain from harming us.While I most assuredly do not approve of women being forced by men or their religion into the type of extreme body coverage represented by the burqa I can say that if it is the woman's choice then who am I to say no. The truth of the matter is that it is all a bit of a right wing beat up - the actual number of women wearing a full burqa in Australia would be infinitesimally small and would attract so much attention that any terrorist activity allegedly intended would be immediately exposed. I wish people like Bernardi and Lambie would find genuine issues to become involved in.Actually we need Liberals who are indeed liberals and not just Australia's Tory Party.Well let's see. 

Do we know the boats have been stopped, well no because they are now classified as an operational secret by the government. So no one, outside of the select few with access to state secrets, can say. 

The carbon price was due to segue into an ETS by this time anyway so axing it was a bit of a fib. In any case it now appears that only us and another mineral export dependent country Canada have decided that we shouldn't do anything about AGW - so what does that say about the intelligence of those who oppose a price on carbon. I say it says that their opinions are governed by the market price for coal.

As for the return to surplus - no one has adequately explained in economic terms why a surplus is such a desirable thing. Certainly the vast majority of households in Australia do not run to surpluses in their domestic spending and are, in fact, encouraged by the commercial sector not to do so. So if a surplus is such a good idea why do all of the business sector oppose it. 

Any more claims?"The idea of a ministry for Homelands security was a fantasy all of Barrie's own making."

You forget Bishop's sudden moves to counter Morrison's aspirations. But the truth is that Morrison will be like Reith in the Howard government, do Abbott's dirty work then get the flick. It also seems that the Ban the Burqa Push led by Credlin and Bernardi with loud cheering from the peanut gallery represented by Lambie looks like coming unstuck - Abbott seems to be desperately trying to undo the divisiveness created by Hockey's budget and Pyne's clear preference for the private school boy view of life. 

Turnbull has surrendered his liberal attitudes to advance the Liberal Party and keep Abbott in power. But someone had to take one for Team Australia - Abbott really has had an appalling year as PM. One wonders why the Coalition still keep him there, perhaps it's because Credlin and Loughnane can't decide on a replacement.Can't help but agree - Australia is becoming just like Germany in the 1930s. Politics driven by manufactured fears. In Victorian we had around 25 people killed in the drug war that went on between 1995 and 2010 (15 years) while in the "terrorist" war between 2001 and now (13 years) we have had exactly 1 person killed and that was a mentally disturbed teenager who attacked two armed police with a knife. This decision shows that the lunatics have taken over the asylum.Good one Michael - now how are you going to change our constitution where it allows religious freedom. Hate is very easy isn't it but you people come unstuck every time because you forget the constitution which for all our benefit was drafted by people a little brighter than you.A rather difficult idea to accept, however one that has its precedent in Abbott's continuing failure to get over the fact that he couldn't negotiate government in 2010 so he decided to launch a series of purely spiteful inquiries into the Labor Government. 

Perhaps Palmer and the LNP should also get over their differences but then that's what we all get for ever electing LNP candidates of any sort to the Parliament. There is no denying that Campbell Newman's government is on track to make Bjelke-Petersen's look like a model of probity. The real problem is can a federal enquiry expose the pure corruption at its heart.I fail to see why anyone should believe Turnbull - he is a senior minister in the Abbott Government. Which means that he like his leader cannot be trusted. Abbott promised no cuts - what do we see cuts, I rest my case.Well put V - I have long been amazed by the endless capacity of the those who support the polluters to invent new reasons why AGW isn't happening. It seems that the excuse du jour is that while AGW doesn't exist it is this natural cycle excuse they offer - yet this conveniently forgets or deliberately ignores the massive release of CO2 back into the atmosphere by the exponential growth of coal fired industrial activity in the last 200 years. 

The other one that gives me a good chuckle is the claim that temperatures have peaked for the last 17 years, not only is this incorrect but it betrays their mathematical stupidity because the claim was first advanced over two years ago so every one who trots it out now has shown that their scientific understanding is so poor that they are incapable of adding 2 to 17 and making it 19 years. These people are either not bright or are in the pay of the polluters. I tend to go with the first option.Well Gregory as you don't seem to be able to admit to the missing 2 years I can't take you seriously.Virgil you are asking that question about the behaviour of people who support Tony Abbott. Just join the dots.That's past tense Amber - Carter is dead. And he was wrong, sorry about that.Finding a reputable climate scientist who is a sceptic concerning AGW is like trying to find a reputable scientist who supports creation science. You might find one in a mid-West US bible college but no where else I suspect."There is a list of over 30,000 scientists (over 9000 PhD's) who disagree with the CAGW alarmist hypothesis."

That old furphy - that list list was debunked years ago probably because names like Mickey Mouse popped up on it. It's a bit like the 2 years that the deniers fail to add on to that 17 year stabilization myth - don't post misinformation and expect people to believe it.BBH as the claim about 17 years was first advanced over two years ago you might at least show some arithmetical nous and make it 19 years - won't make it true of course but at least it will show that you can add up.You forget Alfie than even our PM admits that AGW is occurring - he just can't make up his mind that the way to combat that is the right solution which is tax the polluters. Now are you going to tell us that PM Abbott is wrong about AGW.Today's repeat of the shock and awe tactics of the last fortnight which has resulted in the arrest of one person is a headline grabber. But the real question is what is being concealed - no secret intelligence driven operation advertises its activities in such a way. Therefore what real terrorist operations, if any, is the government hiding under the very restrictive arrest powers it has now or, is this really just a transparent attempt by the government for some political brownie points.

Those questions are at the core of my concerns about this apparent heightened interest in terrorism by the government. Instead of reassuring me they have made me more wary of their intentions towards us the citizens of Australia and more sceptical about legality of any new legislation.
