It's hard to see where Abbott can go without a compliant Senate, especially given his explicit promise of August 2013 that "There will not be deals done with independents and minor parties under any political movement that I lead." 

The choices are to either call a double-dissolution, ride out the chaos that may engulf the government's legislative program, or break yet another promise.

Breaking yet another promise will probably come with the least cost politically. But then Abbott becomes the very thing he accused the previous PM of being: "A fake. An absolute fake, from start to finish."big joe, Saddam killed Kurds with WMD, but the WMD were no longer in existence by 2003. 

They expired, they were dismantled due to UN inspections, they fell into disrepair, they became unaffordable and unfeasible due to sanctions.  

Hence, Colin Powell's speech in Cairo in February 2001: "He [Saddam Hussein] has not developed any significant capability with respect to weapons of mass destruction. He is unable to project conventional power against his neighbours." 

The problem Iraq had was that, while it needed to persuade the West that it no longer had WMD, it also needed to persuade Iran that it still held a deterrent. 

Western strategists would surely have known the reason for the  bluff.It's a shame you feel the need to divide this into a "left" v "right" issue, Tropicalcat. 

But since you mentioned Ronald Reagan, why not go back in time to 1988 when the US shot down an Iranian airliner and killed 290 people including 66 children under that particular commander in chief? 

I seem to remember it was George H W Bush who sought to defend that attrocity at the UN by blaming Iran and justifying the crime as a 'wartime incident' in which the crew of the Vincennes had 'acted appropriately'. 

I'm not sure whether you read the coverage of that earlier disaster in The Australian, but you certainly wouldn't have read the kind of headlines - "True to form: Reagan is lying again", "Washington must pay a price for this outrage" - that we saw yesterday.frangi, we need to remember that the crisis escalated dramatically when armed protesters seized government buildings demanding a change of government. 

The initial takeover was bordering on unconstitutional even if it did receive support from the US and EU.Thanks frangi, but there's a difference between a mass protest and armed protesters seizing government buildings, no? 

There's also a question over whether or not the takeover was constitutional or not. 

"Rough democracy", maybe. But the problem is, when power is taken by force and the overthrow lacks legitimacy (in that it is seen to be unconstitutional), then it's like for like. The deposed side is then able to justify re-taking power by force. 

Now, I'm certainly no apologist for Russia, but we've surely got to take into account both sides of the story. And there's a lot of history there,a tangible tribal divide that goes all the way back to WWII and the bloody battle between the communists and fascists.GRF, over 800 drowned at sea on Howard's watch, and thousands have been drowing trying to get to to Southern Europe. 

That's a risk they're prepared to take as, presumably, it beats the alternative. 

Let's be honests. If it's people drowning at sea you want to stop, there's only tow ways to do it. 

1. Prevent them leaving source countries
2. Provide them safe passage at the earliest point. 

If you can't do 1. and will not do 2. then spare us the crocodile tears.john1, there's no evidence that Howard introduced the Pacific Solution because he was concerned about people drowning at sea. All the rhetoric at the time was designed for political advantage, to wedge Labor, and to play the 'invasion' fear card for political purposes. 

As I pointed out, stopping deaths at sea in our neighbourhood does absolutely nothing to address the problem beyond handballing it to some other region. It is a political fix, not a solution.SVJ, I think you'll find the Malaysia Solution was proposed as the result of a process that began after the terrible loss of life off Christmas Island. 

That's fact, not straw.john, you made the point that Howard introduced the Pacific Solution to stop people drowning at sea so, besides that being simply your opinion, it was obviously an opinion that was relevant to you. 

As far as Howard's rhetoric on asylum seekers being a political advantage, the Coalition have admitted as such by their actions (continued demonisation and dog-whistling), and by the fact that a key Liberal Party strategist told US diplomats in 2009 that the issue of asylum seekers was "fantastic" for the Coalition and "the more boats that come the better".

As for what the problem is - if it is simply about stopping asylum seekers arriving by boat in Australia, then that problem is being resolved. 

However, that in itself makes dishonest the claim that the problem being addressed is that people are drowning at sea (they are still drowning, just somewhere else). 

It also raises a different problem as to how we can continue both the draconian policies of turning back asylum seekers with our continued signatory of the UN Refugee Convention. 

And it raises a moral quandry in which we have to ask ourselves if the ends justify the means.Zing, if we'd implemented something like the Malaysian Solution, all of your questions would be irrelevant.Fair enough, Zing, but if we'd implemented the proposals of the Houston panel, all the issues you highlighted would now be irrelevant. 

The people swap component would have taken what Abbott likes to call the "sugar off the table", so: 

1. The numbers of arrivals would be down
2. We choose how many to take because we take them from a holding country. 
3. Those who arrive are sent to a holding country until processed and assessed. 

That is my concrete answer. I don't like it, but it's better than what we've got. And it's also one way to extract the poison from the debate until such time we can actually revisit the issue again in a reasonable and adult manner.No JC, the drownings haven't stopped because stopping the boats arriving in Australia does not stop people seeking refuge elsewhere. 

For example, there are hardly any Syrians now risking their lives crossing the Timor Sea, but there are many more now risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean. 

Displacement of a problem is not a problem solved, it's simply a political fix.Not at all, mortan. I'm saying simply that, if stopping the boats does not also stop people leaving source countries, those people still have to arrive somewhere. 

People fleeing Syria, for example, are still fleeing Syria even though they are no longer coming to Australia. Essentially, they are risking death at sea in the Mediterranean (or elsewhere)rather than the Timor Sea. 

They are dying on somebody else's front pages rather than ours.mortan, if "trying to change things at home" was at all feasible, there would not be a 1951 UN Refugee Convention. 

If Australia feels so strongly about abandoning its obligations under this convention, then it should unsign the convention and save both the integrity of the convention and our credibility as an international player.mike, the UN defines torture as "Any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based on discrimination of any kind, when such pain or suffering is inflicted by or at the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or other person acting in an official capacity."

It's a strong word, but I honestly don't belive it's use in relation to what is happening in our detention centres is unwarranted.mike, the definition states "whether physical or mental," so I stand by my use of the word even though I accept some forms of torture would be far worse than others. 

As for your "they would be grateful for being in detention", I wouldn't say "grateful" exactly, but given the Coalition has offered some of them money to go home, some of them obviously believe being detained is a lesser evil. 

And mike, given I have never been detained in circumstances similar to those now being held in Manus, I honestly cannot answer whether it would be preferable to be dashed to death on rocks, drown slowly in the Mediterranean, or suffer the ongoing torture of indefinite detention.mike, yes they are coming from some of the same source countries - especially Syria and Iraq. 

For instance, the number of Syrians arriving in Southern Europe by boat has increased while the number of Syrians arriving by boat in Australia has decreased.mike, on June 19, it was reported that Turkey was housing over 1 million refugees from Syria. On 5th June, an Italian Navy vessel rescued 443 Syrian asylum seekers. In April this year, Reuters reported an estimated 6000 people from Eritrea and Syria were rescued in just one week by the Italian navy. In March this year, an EU report into migration via the Mediterranean showed 'the majority of migrants are refugees fleeing from Syria.'

They are not arriving here, mike, they are arriving there. The boats haven't stopped, they've simply been pushed elsewhere.Er Rusty, I think you'll find Mark Scott was a friend of John Howard and has publicly admitted to 'strong religious beliefs' and 'Liberal political sympathies.' (Hence his appointment by Howard). 

His appointement was widely championed at the time by a number of IPA fellows, Murdoch writers and Coalition stalwarts. 

The fact these same culture warriors now view Scott as a rabid leftie says more about they have embraced the far-right than how Mark Scott has embraced the far-left.Sorry Coogera, but keeping hundreds of children imprisoned in conditions that turn them slowly insane is not humane.Coogera, we are forcing them into detention centres because they would not be in those detention centres were it not for our forcing them in there. 

The fact is, as far as I can tell, the Abbott government has even offered them money to go home. Which would seem to suggest that, for whatever reason, home is less preferable than the detention centres. 

Perhaps we should congratulate ourselves for torturing people in ways that are preferable to the ways they have previously been tortured?mike, the UN defines torture as "Any act by which severe pain or suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted on a person for such purposes as obtaining from him or a third person information or a confession, punishing him for an act he or a third person has committed or is suspected of having committed, or intimidating or coercing him or a third person, or for any reason based on discrimination of any kind, when such pain or suffering is inflicted by or at the instigation of or with the consent or acquiescence of a public official or other person acting in an official capacity."

It's a strong word, but I honestly don't belive it's use in relation to what is happening in our detention centres is unwarranted.Thanks mike, but you have shown your colours with your "holding people in detention while their dubious claims are assessed."

I have no doubt that some of the claims are dubious. But I have no doubt that some of the claims are genuine. 

If the cost of sorting the dubious from the genuine is the price we pay for our humanity, my belief is that it is a price worth paying.Yes mike, I would prefer to give them the benefit of the doubt. That is our obligation under the 1951 UN Refugee Convention. If we don't want to give them the benefit of the doubt, then we need to unsign the convention and at least keep our integrity and protect the integrity of the convention. 

And yes, it was Labor which started mandatory detention, but who started it doesn't matter unless scoring points for political parties is your only purpose here. 

And as for your "established channels" mike, I may be wrong, but I suspect you would know that that is not always an option.Thanks Coogera, but you don't seem to have read my initial response to you, which retrospectively answered the questions you now raise.mortan, the Malaysia Solution was one step on the way to a potentially bipartisan refugee policy.

However, the Coalition opposed it because they did not want the boats to stop at the time.

As a Liberal Party strategist told US diplomats in November 2009: the issue of asylum seekers was "fantastic" for the Coalition and "the more boats that come the better."Yes mortain, in failed in the courts, but the Coalition (and the Greens) opposed the legislation that would have allowed it to pass.mick, probably the same reason so many Jews didn't stay behind in Germany to fix that country up in the 1930s. 

Let's hope we're never in a position to have to make that choice, eh?mike J, Germany is not the place it is now solely because some Jews chose to stay in that country as Hitler was trying to exterminate them. 

To even suggest so is a nonsense.Peter, you missed out the proposed Malaysian Solution which (although not perfect) did address the perceived problem of "queue jumpers", while also addressing the rhetorical problem of Australia's having "sugar on the table" for economic migrants. 

But, of course, the Coalition opposed that sensible middle-ground because it took away the political advantage that demonising asylum seekers affords them. 

Joe Hockey even shed tears in Parliament over the thought of unaccompanied minors being sent to Malaysia. 

"Is this what we want as a nation? To be responsible for sending children to an environment where we have no responsibility, no control, no oversight?" he asked. 

No so concerned now, is he? With the Coalition looking to send people to Cambodia, with the Coalition keeping hundreds of children in conditions that are turning them slowly insane?John, I'm guessing you picked up the smear from the Murdoch press, who seem particularly keen to wash the Coalition's dirty laundry.Yes mike, it takes a truly independent media to not report something that has no basis in fact, just because that unfounded story serves the government of the day.mike, you seem to be suggesting that the 'free' media should report whatever allgations are made to them, regardless on the credibility of the source? Regardless of any ability to corroborate the allegations made by that source.  

"Human rights advocates never shed tears for ordinary Australians"? 

APM, how do you keep coming up with this completely unfounded tosh?Sorry FG, I Googled "Human rights advocates shedding tears for ordinary Australians" and no joy. APM must therefore be correct, eh?Sue, given Scott Morrison's spending over $8 million a year on close to 100 spin doctors, I guess they have to look busy even on a slow news day.FG, why would they pay you if you do the work for free?al, by Coalition accounts Labor didn't control our borders for 6 years yet "tens of millions of people" did not "pour in our direction."

So, either Labor were controlling our borders, or you are wrong about the tens of millions.Yes Amanda, "the left" are very strange, indeed. Not like us, eh?"Asylum seekers are put on a pedestal and privileged in ways that no Australian could hope to get away with"?

Sorry, APM, but you forgot Cornelia Rau, a permanent Austrlian resident who the Howard government treated in the same privileged way Australian governments tend to treat asylum seekers. 

She was, you may remember, detained unlawfully for close to a year, including 5 months of solitary confinement for the crime of being 'bipolar'.

It does show what a selfless lot we are though, eh? I mean, why aren't more of us jumping on leaky boats from Inonesia and Sri Lanka to try and get a piece of the luxury afforded those lucky asylum seekers on Manus?The irony, of course, is that had it not been for Labor working assiduously for a seat at the UN Security Council (an endeavour widely ridiculed and dismissed by the Coalition and its supporters), Abbott's response to the downing of the airliner would have been nothing more than empty-gesture tubthumping. 

Perhaps we could bring a small piece of bipartisanship into this issue by saying that Abbott has done well within the framework gifted to him by the previous government?Matt, they also, overwhelmingly, would prefer Shorten or Turnbull as PM, and overwhelmingly believe the budget sucks.I seem to remember a similar phenomena when Rudd made the apology to the stolen generation, Estebab.So, it appears the front page headline in The Australian on Friday ("Labor's plain packaging fails as cigarette sales rise"), having been based on industry figures, is incorrect or misleading? 

Fancy that. 

Who would've thought that Rupert's flagship would have taken uncorroborated data from a select source to damn Labor AND lobby on behalf of the non-smoking Rupert's beloved tobacco industry?"Just who are the audience that Big Tobacco think they are addressing with their fudged up figures?"

Well, the corporate libertarians are republishing those figures as if they're signed, sealed and delivered, Mike. 

My feeling is that there is a quite subtle, but alarming eugenicist tendency creeping into right-wing politics at the moment - typified by the Murdoch press, the IPA, and the leadership of the Coalition. 

The followers of Ayn Rand are essentially arguing for the sovereignty of "survival of the fittest." What better method than smoking and addiction to 'cleanse' the gene pool of the untermensch?Todd, you've raised plenty of issues, so excuse the brevity. 

Your claim that there is no health benefits to raising tax on tobacco is supposition which flies in the face of the evidence that smoking rates are decreasing as the cost of smoking increases (there may, of course, be other factors at play, but it is absurd to discount price signals). 

Yes, I agree that people should be left alone to do exactly what they want to do wherever possible. The problem comes, though, when the freedom of one person impinges on the freedom of others. People should be free to smoke, but others should also be free to take their kids to the cinema without having having to inhale the cigarette smoke of others while they're there. 

Hence a particular prohibition attempts to ensure the maximum freedom, not just an individual freedom. 

That's why we've got traffic regulations, speed limits and red-lights, to ensure we can all drive in relative safety without having our freedom curtailed by maniacs. 

Of course, your neighbour should be free to "inject Motor Oil into his eyeballs". But, if he's the sole parent to 4 kids, and he's just about to drive them to the zoo, then he's got a duty of responsibility, no? 

No, crime wouldn't disappear overnight if there were no prohibition, we just wouldn't call it crime; we'd call it murder, rape, theft, etc. (I agree with you, though, that some things should be legalised which currently aren't - notably drugs).

As for smokers being "freely consenting customers" I can only guess that you've never been addicted?Albo, I don't know how having an addiction can be deemed a "choice of lifestyle."

There aren't many smokers who be smoking today if it was simply a matter of unencumbered choice. 

Of course, we could say that continuing an addiction is a choice. But, when the alternative to continuing an addiction can be so physically and psychologically fraught (not to say downright dangerous) then I don't think we can honestly call it "choice" anymore.Why should the Muslim Community speak up, George? The guys who verbally abused the Jewish kids on the bus were Anglos. Surely the Anglo community should speak up, no? 

The article is about the demonisation of an entire people. The Jewish people did not all kill children in Gaza. The Muslim people are not all terrorists. The Anglo-community do not all attack Jewish kids. 

Take a look between the tribal lines.Yes Apologist, some Muslims hate Jews, some Jews hate Muslims, some Anglos hate Jews and some Anglos hate Muslims. 

It's very easy to revert to tribalism, but there is only one road on which tribalism can travel, and it inevitably leads to all out war or all out genocide.A valuable piece, Glen, and you need to let your friend know that, for what it's worth, there are people he doesn't know who would walk beside him and link hands in unity.APM, the difference is in existing power relations. 

Imagine you're in Germany in 1940 and somebody calls you a "dirty Jew". Now, imagine same time, same place, somebody calls you a "dirty German". 

Same insult, but different context, no? 

It really isn't that far-fetched to imagine that the "dirty Jew" might be sent to their death, while the "dirty German" might be joined by a handful of brownshirt to beat up the offender. 

Hatred against minorities can be considered more dangerous than hatred against majorities because majorities have a natural advantage. They're better able to protect themselves.Well yes, APM. Some people will take advantage of acts of charity, but that doesn't necessarily mean that all acts of charity are wrong or have an overall negative outcome.In some respects, I agree with you, Good Grief. And I think what you say is consistent with the application of the law. 

But I also think the law should recognise that ten people choosing to pick a fight against one person is different to one person choosing to pick a fight against ten people.Todd, no there's nothing wrong with your logic, but putting yourself in the shoes of those involves changes things .  

And here context is important because, for the 1940s Jew the ongoing genocide loads the insult with a real, existential threat, whereas for the 1940s German, the insult is simply an insult.

Likewise for the insulter. The words used are the same, but we would surely forgive the Jew more easily than we would the German.NS, all Jews should not be defined by the actions of some Jews any more than all Muslims should be defined by the actions of some Muslims.Dave, I don't think the author said that criticising Israel was anti-semitic ("I am not suggesting, for one moment, that all criticism of Israel or protests related to Israel's actions equates to antisemitism"). 

But the rise in attacks on Jewish targets here and in Europe suggests that some people are using the actions of one country to indiscriminately attack Jews.APM, when you say you've been "victimised", do you mean simply that somebody disagreed with you on something?Orion, the trouble with your "goodies and baddies" tale is that the baddies often think they're the goodies. 

The STASI didn't sit there eavesdropping on East Germans and thinking of themselves as the "baddies". They probabably started off thinking they were protecting their people from fascism, and failed to recognise the bracket creep.Terry, if Bolt wanted to simply "expose those availing themselves to racially based benefits" he could do so perfectly easily and legally provided he didn't use "significant distortions of fact" to do so.It shouldn't really be too hard to verify facts to make a point accurately, APM. That Bolt failed to do so is testament to his style of writing, which utilises rumour, innuendo, crude generalisations and dumb association to demonise his chosen targets. 

Much like yours, really.Sorry Terry, but from Eatock v Bolt [2011] FCA 1103 (28 September 2011):

"The deficiencies to which I have referred to so far, are material and constitute a significant distortion of the facts upon which a central part of the offensive imputations were based." 

Had the distortion of facts been irrelevant, Bolt would have been protected by the free-speech provision in 18d:

Or, as Bromberg put it, "On the basis of those deficiencies, I am satisfied that the offensive imputation was not a fair comment and that s 18D(c)(ii) is not available to exempt the offensive conduct from being rendered unlawful."zakmann, we also need to remember the more recent phone-hacking case in the UK, from which we learnt that sensitive information was gathered by journalists (both legally and illegally) for the purpose of 'encouragine' targeted individuals to do the bidding of editors. 

The danger of industrial-scale snooping, of course, is that it may easily be used for the purposes of extortion and blackmail.gbe, the problem is that when you have government working in tandem with media organisations, the government is tempted to leak confidential information in order to heavy certain critics and whistleblowers. 

It wasn't so long ago, for instance, that the Howard governement leaked top secret information to News Corp in an attempt to shut Andrew Wilkie up about exaggerated WMD claims. Wilkie had the character to ride out the attacks, but perhaps others with more to loose were persuaded to keep their mouths shut.Of course, the art of propaganda lies not in persuading people what to think, but what to think of. It is not so much the changing of minds but the chanelling of minds. 

What better cover for a year of Coalition failures (the unpopular budget, the broken promises, the secrecy, the division) than to divert the focus away from ongoing government failures, contradictions and incompetence, to a vague external threat posed by an unnamed, unquantified "other." 

We are being asked to gather compliantly around Captain Abbott for Team Australia and simply trust. But those we are being asked to trust blindly look remarkably like those we trusted to take us to war to disarm a country of non-existent weapons not so long ago.Terry, as far as I'm aware, privacy has never been used for the purpose of mass murder, whereas guns have. 

The Port Arthur massacre occured because Martin Bryant was in posession of firearms, not because he was in posession of privacy. 

You see the difference? 

Well, I think that's what we're here discussing, Terry. 

You implied that "Mr Green and his supporters" were somehow inconsistent in supporting the reduction of rights for gun-owners, but not a reduction of a right to privacy. 

Firstly, I'm not sure who "Mr Green and his supporters" are exactly, or even if they did display the inconsistency of principle you accused them of displaying. 

But secondly, it is a nonsense to suggest that supporting one right should necessarily mean you support every right.

So, I believe (not without reason) that losing the right to privacy would inevitably result in an exponential increase in extortion and blackmail. However, I also believe (not without reason) that if everybody had the right to bear arms in Australia, there would be far more murders in Australia. 

I don't trust a government with the power to know everything about its citizens, and I wouldn't trust the citizens of Australia to be armed. 

I don't think that's inconsistent.Terry, of course there are safeguards on commercial use of personal information. The safeguards aren't always watertight, but companies have a legal obligation to protect your personal information.

And yes, I do have concerns about some commercial companies holding this information. If Google turned rogue, for instance, there would be millions of people they could blackmail with their own search histories.  

As for your second point, I didn't say we should take "away guns from everyone", but that I do not support the right of everybody to bear arms.  

I've witnessed acts of violence including a driver taking a baseball bat to somebody he just ran over. I have no doubt that, had the driver a gun in the van rather than a baseball bat, the man he attacked would be dead now. 

People lose control, Terry. And it's better they lose control without a gun at hand. 

As for the claim that there is less multiple homicides in the US than similar places with tighter gun control, I am yet to be convinced.Victa, it's probably worth you having a look at the Leveson Inquiry into phone hacking in the UK, where it seems editors gathered information on their chosen targets in order to get something in return. 

For instance, one newspaper procured the sensitive and potentially damaging medical records of a well-known football manager. The football manager was alerted to the fact and then began cooperating with the newspaper, feeding it stories, etc.

Essentially, what you had was low-level (and perfectly legal) blackmail and extortion.

We saw similar things here not so long ago with the Howard government leaking top secret information to a favoured news outlet in order to attack Andrew Wilkie and act as a deterrent to other whistleblowers.mike, although it's ridiculously simple to say "the left do this" and "the right do that", it doesn't actually mean anything outside of the bipolar bubble inhabited by the tribals on both sides. 

Both left and ride erode some freedoms and both left and right champion other freedoms. Sometimes left and right agree (Antony Loewenstein agrees with Andrew Bolt on 18c, for instance).

The world is a complex place and, as a species, we can be pretty adept at handling complexity. So we can surely have a conversation without collectivising and demonising those we might disagree with?No Lexx, decreasing government isn't just about making small the bits you don't like about government. 

If a government operates a massive security state, it's a big government, regardless of the welfare bill.SoS, the rule of the born-to-rule is:

When we want to do what we want, we support Small Government. 
When we want others to stop doing what they want, we support Big Government. 

It's purely self-interest. There are no principles involved."The main perpetrators of harm are readily identifiable"? Well yes, APM, they're men. Osama bin Laden, Hitler, Stalin. Around 80% of violent offenders are men. Most terrorists are men. Over 85% of serial killers are men. The 9/11 bombers? IRA bombers? Boko Harem? All men. 

If you honestly want to profile an entire people and damn them by way of association, it's pretty clear who you should be looking at.It's simply politics, Greg. The Coalition are on the nose with the electorate so they've manufactured a security crisis.  

If people are scared, they tend to look to Big Government authoritarians to keep them safe. 

As Abbott said, "Everything that government can reasonably do is being done to ensure our community is safe."

The Coalition are the solution to a Coalition-made problem.Yes Harry, because before the advent of multuculturalism, the Brits were fighting 200 wars with the French, then 2 world wars with the Germans and an ongoing civil war with the Irish. 

What a delightfully peaceful island Britain was before the gates of monoculturalism were trampled by the unwashed hordes . . . or at least it was in the brochures.Obviously, the "budget emergency" is not so bad that we cannot afford to ramp up the security state anytime a politician wants us to feel grateful for being kept safe from all the terrible things the politician warns us about.Bev, killing the human shield is a choice, as is killing the hostage to get the hostage taker, as is killing children to destroy a tunnel.

Regardless of who started it, and which side is more evil than the other, the evidence is that the situation as it stands is not working. Israel's occupation isn't working; Hamas firing rockets isn't working; Israel bombing Gaza isn't working. 

Both sides have gone crazy and are simply inflaming the situation. Both sides are destroying each other. Death and destruction is the status quo.

Both sides are guilty.Zing, analogies are never adequate for situations this complex, with this much history. 

You could have added that it was the police who stole the man's house in the first place, so would hardly be trusted to deliver a reasonable outcome. You could have added that the police seem to have gone rogue and regularly kill ten times as many people as the rogue gunman. 

Tellingly, you ask "how does it benefit anyone"? Well how does what is happening now benefit anyone?Not a good analogy, Zing. In WWII, both Britain and Germany's armaments and related industries were located in highly populated areas. Hence the many civilians who got killed in bombing raids. 

Were Britain and Germany using the citizens of Coventry, London's east end, Portsmouth, Dresden and Berlin as "human shields"?mortan, if Abbott is doing as fantastically as you say he is, it makes you wonder why he wouldn't call a double-dissolution to bypass what you call the "dysfunctional Senate"? 

And given Abbott insisted on the 16th August 2011 that "there should be no new tax collection without an election," it also makes you wonder why Abbott is afraid of meeting his own benchmarks?"He just blames Labor for being the obstruction"? 

Well, of course, mortan, this "no excuses" government has sought to blame everybody but itself for every misfortune it has blundered into. 

If it's not Labor's fault, it's Palmer's fault, or the Greens, or the fault of the media. Why? When Pyne did the double-backflip on Gonski, Abbott even blamed voters for knowing a broken promise when they saw one. 

And yes, I've no doubt the Murdoch press will continue to trash the notion of the "fourth estate" by continuing to act as the government's communication arm.The trouble is, Chris, the Coalition already reset itself after it gained power, becoming a completely different government to the government it promised voters it would be. 

It reset the button on Gonski; on no new taxes; on no cuts to education, health, the ABC, etc; on more transparency; on being a more honest government; on breaking promises, etc, etc. 

The 180 degree reset the Coalition did on itself has already shred it credibility, and I don't see how pushing another reset would restore that credibility."Every action to try and restore the budget is now met with moral outrage by the opposition and media"?

Go back just a few short years, JohnM. When Labor tried to raise revenue by bringing in a mining tax, the Opposition and vested interests made sure it couldn't happen. When Labor tried to cut spending by means testing health insurance rebates, they were attacked by the Coalition and Murdoch press for waging "class war". When Labor tried to cut middle-class welfare by trimming the baby bonus, an outraged Hockey accused them of bringing in something akin to China's one-child policy. 

I think the saying is "what goes around comes around"?Tory Boy, Australia has had progressive taxation for at least the last 100 years. Consequently, we live in one of the best, most prosperous, most peaceful countries in the world. 

Why would you want to destroy all of that?Lexx, in attempting to justify the fact that his budget hit lower income families more than high income families, Hockey pointed to the fact that we have a progressive tax system (in that the rich pay more in tax than the poor). 

This was his justification for trying to make the tax system less progressive. 

As for your claim that some imagined Labor/Greens government spent money "like it's going out of style", that's a nonsense. On average, Labor spent no more as a % of GDP than the Howard government. The problem under Labor (besides the GFC) was that revenue fell. And it fell partly because Howard handballed economy busting tax-cuts to them in 2007 and Labor were stupid enough to pick them up and run with them.slothskin, please provide one example of a nation that has succeeded and prospered without progressive taxation. 

If you want to do away with it (as it seems Hockey does), then you're taking a massive punt with virtually no precedents.  

I find it hard to fathom why so much of the conservative movement which, often to its credit, traditionally sought to move forward cautiously, and without embracing untried and untested systems just for the sake of it, now seems to be virtually the epicentre of economic radicalism in the western world.slothskin, your rhetoric (and Hockey's) suggest you are opposed to progressive taxation ("I see your point, the high income should continue to subsidise everyone's else's lifestyle").

If high-earners didn't subsidise the low-earners then there wouldn't be a progressive tax system. 

The reason there is a progressive tax system is that it works. And it works because we live in a community, a society that has traditionally attempted to lift, if not all boats, then as many as possible. 

Surely it's better to all float together than sink together?Well RobP, obviously then, the new conservatism intends to re-structure society not on proven precedents, or tried and tested formulas, but on wild hypothesis and unproven theories. 

But that's not conservatism, is it? It's out and out radicalism.RP, what "financial rot" there is is a legacy of both sides of politics. Howard wasted countless $billions on middle-class welfare to maintain the Coalition's hold on government, and squandered the proceeds of the mining boom by imagining it would last forever. 

You may also remember in 2007, that he passed Labor an economy-wrecking package of tax cuts (which Labor stupidly ran with) which ensured the steady decline of revenue compared to spending for many years to come. 

Blaming one side or the other isn't going to fix anything, it's just going to entrench divisions and encourage policy making along tribal lines.How curious, Itfc1, that the side of politics which claims to champion the soveriegnty of the individual above all, are seemingly unable to ever argue a point, or engage in simple exchange of ideas without collectivising their perceived opponents. 

All criticism of their precious party must be either the work of "socialists" or the dreaded "left". 

Surely, if you believe in the sovereignty of individuals, you really shouldn't have so much trouble engaging in a conversation with individuals? Or is it that the paucity of your arguments are such that they would only ever prevail against an imagined, collectivised other?custard, I know nothing Tony Abbott says can be believed, but it is worth pointing out that, in doorstop interview in Adelaide on the 26th April 2013, he said this:

"The Coalition's paid parental leave scheme is a signature policy. It is going to be one of the great watershed changes that we see in our country under a Coalition government and, yes, it will happen in a first term."ajay, the smart politician will factor in that things will change and make promises carefully and accordingly. 

Perhaps we don't have smart politicians here in Australia. 

Howard excused his broken promise by dividing them into core and non-core. Gillard was unable to explain her broken promise. And Abbott simply denies that he broke any promises even though the evidence that he did is there for all to see. 

Obfuscation, inability, denial: That is the sum of our more recent politicians.custard, the gap between the number of job seekers and the number of jobs available suggests that simply applying for more jobs is a waste of time. It's not just Dunlop, it's common sense. Even the Business Council of Australia say it's a waste of time that will simply burden businesses and add to costs.OUB, Abetz's rhetoric implies that Australia could have an unemployment rate of 0% if only the unemployed applied for more jobs and tried harder. 

But If pushed, even Abetz would have to admit that an unemployment rate below around 4% would tip the economy into free-fall as a stronger labour market fed into higher wages, increased business costs, and pushed up inflation, etc. 

Unless the Coalition want to oversee a chaotic boom/bust economy then they ideally want unemployment to stay above 4%. 

So, why punish people whose purpose (whether intended or not) is to keep the national economy on a steady keel?WS, nobody would dispute that there is imbalance in the budget - a post-GFC trend in which revenue is falling while spending is steady as a % of GDP. 

However, a budget out of balance isn't the same as a budget emergency. And neither is the government forfeiting revenue (repealing the carbon tax, the mining tax or privatising profit-making public entities, etc) while raising spending (on cutting emissions, defence, spin doctors, a PPL, etc) consistent with the "budget emergency" rhetoric.APM, there is no systemic bias at the ABC. People keep repeating that there is, but provide no evidence (beyond the anomaly and anecdote), and no compelling argument to support that assertion. 

You could say the moon is made of cheese, but unless you offer some proof, nobody except under-5s and tribal Tories are likely to believe you.APM, with all respect, I don't think you understand what "systemic bias" is. 

For instance, ABC news provides more coverage of natural disasters in the US than South America = pro-US bias. ABC Kids provides programs for a younger audience = youth bias. ABC sport gives more prominence to AFL than Gallic football = Australian bias. ABC news regularly features market updates = pro-capitalism bias. ABC 1 shows more British-made drama than Spanish drama = UK bias. The ABC gave the men's World Cup more coverage than the women's world cup = male bias. The Drum features the IPA more than any other think-tank = right-wing bias. 

So, there is institutional biases in particular areas of the public broadcaster, but this does not amount to systemic bias.paulri, I seem to rmemember that one of the main criticisms of Rudd was that he was too verbose. 

While all parties are guilty of simplifying the things they're desperate to change, Abbott has set a new benchmark for dumbing down the debate by way of endlessly repeating his three-word slogans. 

Even as PM, he appears unable to express the government's agenda beyond repeating pre-election rhetoric.gbe, you've no evidence to show that there are "tens of thousands of kids who have decided they don't need to work."

Like the LNP, you base your opinion on assumption and anecdote rather than empirical evidence.gbe, how do you know they are "unemployed youth" and not students on a break? Or wealthy kids wiling away the time before the inheritance comes in? Or kids with with flexible work-hours hanging around in their down time?HD, while it might sound more than anecdotal to you, 6 selected quotes is actually anecdotal.Greg, the problem is you're approaching this as a member of the 'reality-based community.'

From The Age of Enlightenment up until the turn of the century, this would have been considered a positive, in that solutions emerge from a 'judicious study of discernible reality.'

But, as Karl Rove told The New York Times in late 2004, "That's not the way the world really works anymore."

Rove and the Republicans, and now Abbott's Coalition, see themselves as 'history?s actors' - "When we act, we create our own reality."

We all know that more jobs aren?t created by people sending more job applications. Discernible reality tells us as much. 

But the nonsense does create the space in which policy can be inserted. It creates the sense that the anecdotal is the norm, that the anomaly proves the rule. 

Demanding people send out 40 applications implies the unemployed aren?t doing enough to get a job. The implication serves the demonisation, which then opens up the policy space for a ready-made solution. Reining in welfare becomes a publicly approved punishment which achieves the policy goal of artificially squeezing the labour market and so lowering wages (it does, in a very roundabout way, what WorkChoices sought to do).Splod1/John, according to the Parliamentary Library the number of people arriving by boat who are found to be genuine refugees is typically between 70 and 97 per cent. In 2012/13, the figure was 88%.

(See 'Asylum trends, Australia, 2012-13 - Annual Publication)Paula, there is another kind of leader you failed to mention: those leaders who force themselves into power by sheer populism and negativity and then cling to power by being out and out buffoons. 

An accurate term for this kind of leader would be 'The Silver Spoon Gump.' And I'd include Ronald Reagan, George W. Bush and Tony Abbott on the list with, at a stretch.

Devoutly conservative and Christian, these rich, white men pretend to be exactly what they are not: outsiders and underdogs. They carry with them a carefully designed bumbling persona, which allows them to get away with things less bumbling leaders would never be able to - think Reagan's forgetfulness; Bush's overall ineptness; and Abbott's broken promises.. 

Do we see them as so clown-like that we cannot believe they could possibly do any harm? Or is it that we feel sorry on account of their ongoing public humiliation and don't want to add to it by voting them out of office? 

How fortunate for them that voters are not so cold and calculating as they are.andie, Murdoch didn't back Rudd in 2007. He allowed his editors a rare autonomy. So, The Australian, Courier Mail and Telegraph backed Rudd, whereas the Advertiser and Herald Sun backed Howard. 

It should also be noted that the backing of Murdoch's flagship for Rudd came late and reluctantly. As Rodney Tiffen wrote on the 30th November 2007, "Throughout the campaign the front page of the Australian looked as if it had been dictated by Liberal Party headquarters, except that the Liberals would probably have been a bit more subtle."And unfortunately, Rusty, the Coalition are busy dismantling the  opportunities those not born into wealth currently have to "move up the food chain."James, Green quoted the headline, not the quote which the headline misrepresented. So, Green didn't misquote, even if The Australian did. 

The pertinent question is, why did The Australian misquote Leahy? 

It's hardly surprising to see The Australian demonising Muslims, as it has form in that area. But we also know that, as a propaganda arm of a Coalition government which has so far failed to sell itself to voters, it will inevitably play the one trump card that never fails the Coalition: the fear card.clete, Peter Costello has also indicated he thinks Hockey is out of touch with reality. 

I guess it shows how far the Coalition loyalists have moved from from the centre when even Peter Costello is considered one of "the left".It's great though, isn't it, gbe, that Lambie has the character to break-out of the straitjacket imposed upon her by those who would expect her to be no more, no less, than just a mother and a wife?EP, I wouldn't take this one article on The Drum to represent the entire body of feminist thought on the subject . . . unless of course you want to. 

But, why would you want to?But john1, male politician do not get asked about their relationships and sex lives as Lambie was.Seems like the marvellously outspoken Lambie might have ruffled the feathers of the Coalition's PC brigade, here.PtL, I think the previous Labor government did virtually bail out the banks during the GFC. They guaranteed deposits and also injected liquidity into the economy by directly giving everyone $900 (which many used to reduce their credit card debts). Essentially, these measures (along with the measures taken by governments throughout the world) reduced the exposure of banks to the very real potential of panicked withdrawals by depositors, while keeping nervous foreign lenders at bay.  

I certainly don't remember anybody screaming blue-murder when that happened. Although, I do remember being surprised that those of a more neo-liberal bent (Murdoch, the BCA, etc) weren't screaming blue-murder that governments were ruining the purity of the markets by bailing out banks and injecting liquidity to kick-start the financial markets.gbe, I think it was the carbon tax that got blamed for wiping Whyalla off the map.The same is true for many other areas, Jerry. 

The Murdoch press, for instance, have been telling readers to be wary and sceptical of the science for many years. Yet they also sought to convince readers that there was "incontrovertible evidence" that Iraq was bristling with WMD. And today, the selective sceptics @ The Australian are feeding readers headlines such as "True to form: Putin is lying again" and "Moscow must pay a price for this outrage"."Government don't really create jobs"? 

That's funny, PtL, I heard Joe Hockey say that, too. In an interview with Leigh Sales (4th March 2009), he said "government doesn't create jobs."

But then, on Q&amp;A (19th May 2014), he said "We have taken some of the money that was day-to-day expenditure in the budget over the next two to three years, put it into $50 billion of infrastructure, which leverages up to $125 billion, to create the new jobs."

There's something for everyone in Australia's first truly post-modern government.The curious thing though, BF, is that since WWII Coalition governments have been in power for roughly twice the number of years Labor governments have (close to 44 years to 22), and yet you think Australia is "socialist"?

Why is it you think Australian voters have got it wrong for close to 70 years, and that you know better than them?

And, are you able to provide examples of other countries you think are preferable (ie, less 'socialist') to Australia?BF, you missed the bit in the article about the "panicked replacement invite the three big miners into the tent to rewrite the legislation, ensuring they'd pay virtually nothing for the first three years."

So, the mining tax was due to pay out just as the Coalition are set to repeal it. 

The question is, if the "budget emergency" is so dire as to force the Coalition to break almost all of their pre-election promises to voters (no new taxes, no cuts, etc), why isn't it so dire as to force the Coalition to break their promises to the miners?hidi, the FOFA legislation was introduced by Labor.You're right, hidi! There's absolutely no connection whatsoever between financial advice and banking. What on earth was I thinking? 

And, more to the point, what on earth were the banks thinking as they were lobbying the Coalition to repeal FOFA legislation that apparently had nothing to do with them?And custard, I see Tony's Big Government Coalition are forcing chaplains on schools; throwing a blanket of secrecy over whatever it decides is an "operational matter"; recommending journalists be imprisoned for whistleblowing; and massively increasing budget spending on spin doctors and the defence industry so that insecure 'libertarians' will feel safe in their beds at night.gbe, in case you missed it, the recent budget proposed a new income tax on high income earners, a new GP tax, plus the re-indexation on fuel excise (essentially a tax rise). 

All this despite Tony Abbott promising voters at a press conference in Sydney on the 11th August 2013 that "The only party that will raise taxes after the election is the Labor Party."gbe, the GP tax is a new tax in case you missed it. 

As was the 1.5% tax on business to paper over Abbott's "woman problem". 

The fuel excise rise, and the added tax on high income earners could, of course, be seen not as new taxes, but tax increases. 

However, Abbott did promise that "The only party that will raise taxes after the election is the Labor Party.I suspect Palmer will provide the cover for the Coalition to ditch their Direct Action Policies and also provide the excuse for the Coalition to break it's 5% emission reduction target.Realist, here's the quote from Abbott:

"There will not be deals done with independents and minor parties under any political movement that I lead" (The Age, 5th August 2013).

The meaning seems quite clear and to me, and the quote certainly didn't come with any qualifications or exceptions.Sorry Eric, but there were no exceptions, nor qualifications to what Abbott said. The meaning is quite explicit. 

It is curious, though, that after three years of "axe the tax", "stop the boats" and "great big lie" that people are pleading for Abbott's statements to be sweetened and saturated with 'context'.JC, that's a bit like asking how much smaller the hole in the ozone layer got when Brazil began reducing its CFC emissions. 

And then, when it couldn't be shown that the damage had been reduced by a discernible amount by one country alone, there wasn't therefore, any point in any country reducing its CFC emissions. 

Why not apply this logic to everything? Murder rate not decreasing? Then let's save money by cutting back on police and prisons. 

US sulphur emission trading scheme not cutting acid rain in Canada? Time to ditch it. 

People still being killed in workplace accidents? Obviously time to get rid of the H&amp;S regime.APM, are you aware that Joe Hockey's parents are from the Middle East? 

Could you say why it is you think they could not and would not integrate?harry, you might want to look up the definition of 'pollutant'. 

"The presence in or introduction into the environment of a substance which has harmful or poisonous effects" (OED online).

"Any substance, as certain chemicals or waste products, that renders the air, soil, water, or other natural resource harmful or unsuitable for a specific purpose" (dictionary.com).
Thanks harry, but that's simply your opinion. If I do not agree with your opinion, that does not mean that I have an "inability to comprehend" what you are saying, but rather that I disagree with your opinion. 

Why is it you think people who don't agree with you are stupid? Were you gifted with some special insight that us mere mortals missed out on?harry, if you look at the definitions of "pollutant" I provided, you'll see quite clearly that the "harmful or poisonous effects" are not related specifically to "plant photosynthesis."

However, it doesn't appear you're much bothered with specifics or detail, as you seem more intent on trying to provoke a slanging match along the lines of "You're stupid!", "No, you're stupid!" and so on.Great idea, BF! Extreme User-Pays!

By this measure, we should exempt pacifists from the cost of our military; anarchists from the costs of our police, prisons and politicians; and environmentalists from the cost of industry subsidies. 

Why? Let's go one further and say that only Coalition and PUP voters should pay for the current government; Coalition MPs and Murdoch writers shoud meet the full $3 billion cost of disarming Iraq of non-existent weapons: and anybody who made a profit in Australia should pay interest to the English taxpayer for the money they invested taking ownership of the continent.Craig, in breaking the law, Snowden showed that, according to US district court judge, Richard Leon, "the US intelligence agencies were breaking the law" and engaged in activities that were "probably unconstitutional".

As a consequence of Snowden's actions, a bill was introduced into the UG congress titled "USA Freedom Act". which was supported by both Republicans and Democrats and sought to wind back surveillance abuses by US intelligence. 

Sorry, but Snowden's 'crime' led to a greater 'crime' being curtailed with bipartisan support. 

A victory for democracy and accountability over an over-bearing security state, I would have thought.Zing, you miss the point that, had Snowden not acted, there would have been no democratic mandate to address what turned out to be an abuse of power. 

As for Snowden acting without a democratic mandate, are you honestly suggesting that people should be required to run for election before blowing becoming whistleblowers?Zing, the NSA wasn't punished; rather, legislation was passed to address its abuse of power. 

I agree it wasn't a good look Snowden seeking refuge in Russia rather than facing the music at home. However, perhaps Snowden had good reason to believe the scales of justice would have been weighed heavily against him if he'd returned to the US.Well, this is just the kind of 'nanny state' pandering we expect from the Coalition's big government. 

The worry is that certain sections of the media are actually supporting this clamp-down on freedom of speech, transparency, and the ability of whistleblowers to expose abuse of powers by the government.Ben, your problem is that you align me with a straw man of your own making which you label "the left". 

Nowhere have I ever expressed any "love of section 18C," so to claim that I have done so is simply a lie,  

If you want to see the world through the bipolar absolutes of "left v right", then go ahead. But don't expect those you might otherwise engage with to succumb to your own flawed assumptions.Ben, no amount of distraction will hide the fact that you've shown yourself here to be incapable to owning up to a lie. 

But then, you also seem to be incapable of understanding that others might refuse to be defined by the dumb labels you choose to give them.PtL, paraphrasing gives us something like: 'Funny how Andrew Bolt and all the right-wing commenters are suddenly for government interference when it comes to intelligence gathering.'

Do you consider that a fair comment?mortan, ask yourself why it is that people now tend to think of Daniel Ellsberg and Mark Felt as whistleblowers rather than thieves.Well, if the law was infinitely perfect, Zing, there would never be any need to change it. 

Take, for example, the 1924 Racial Integrity Act in the US, part of which criminalised marriage between 'whites' and 'non-whites'.

The law was repealed by the US Supreme Court after a white man was jailed for a year for the 'crime' of  marrying a black woman.Given Palmer is reportedly still donating to the Coalition Parties and is listed as lifetime member of the Liberals, you have to wonder whether he is a genuine voice of opposition or simply a manufactured showbiz opposition. 

It's tempting to see PUP as a kind of safety valve for the "battler" vote which, on being disillusioned with the Coalition, might otherwise have gone to Labor.

I guess we won't know until Palmer puts his Senate votes where his mouth is, but if he proves to be little more in practice than a rubber stamp for unpopular Coalition policies, we might safely say he's never actually left the Liberal fold, but has simply become the dancing face of a false opposition designed to sideline Labor and re-align the political debate to a point where it seems that the natural opposition of the populist right becomes the populist right.The fact is though, Tropicacat, the Murdoch press have been gunning for Palmer relentlessly (from June 2012 at least) since he first hinted at a split with the Libs/Nats by criticising their tendency to have paid political lobbyists on their national executives.Is the world meritocratic? 

Well, I'd say Australia was one of the more meritocratic societies in the world, and yet we know that the wealth of our seven richest people is greater than wealth of our poorest 1.73 million households.

A true meritocracy would surely mean that those 7 people have done the equivalent productive work as those 1.73 million people?

And of those 7 richest people, 3 (Anthony Pratt, James Packer and Gina Rinehart) inherited much of their wealth, plus the networks and circumstances that enabled them to become among the richest people in Australia.

So, the answer, I guess, is that we live in a relatively meritocratic society which is far from meritocratic.Michael, so your "leftie" is not allowed to talk about inequality if there is somebody in the world poorer than him or her? 

Is this a new meme that's popped up in the Menzies House style-guide? For, accordinga Liberal MP, "lefties" now aren't allowed to talk about climate change if they use electricity or burn petrol. 

What a shame this "living only by example" standard wasn't in effect in 2003 when all you principled "righties" would have been in Iraq, leading by example, dodging bulltets and IEDs while trying to find all those non-existent WMD."Bob Carr . . . said that the asylum industry has talked up mythical threats. "

APM, while it's interesting to see that Bob Carr is now being promoted as the fount of all wisdom by the Abbott-fanciers, you also need to consider the fact that the demonisation industry has also regularly talked up mythical threats with regards asylum seekers. 

For instance, the Coalition and its followers have damned asylum seekers for throwing their children in the water, for being terrorists, for being treated to a life of luxury if they make it to the mainland, and even for causing traffic congestion in Western Sydney.

So, both sides have been guilty of exaggeration. And indeed, you have thrown in your own exaggeration by claiming "they" are inevitably not seeking asylum but economic gain (yes, some are, but not all are), and that "they" will invariably attempt to blackmail Australian authorities if we give them the time of day (some may, but not all will)."Not being sceptical is just dumb."

I agree, APM. And there you are claiming to know what motivates all 'Iranians' and all 'Sri Lankans' on the basis of what, exactly? 

Some sceptic.No Peter, they didn't all admit as such. The families of some of them admitted as such. But one of them, we know, even the Abbott government admitted, had a genuine case. 

"How do we tell when the boat people throw away their identity papers?"

Well, that's up to us, no? The effort we put into making that call is the price we pay for being humane. Otherwise, let's un-sign the 1951 Refugee Convention and stop pretending.Frank, when Labor proposed the Malaysian Solution as recommended by a panel of experts not aligned to one side of politics or the other, the Coalition opposed it. 

By your measure, then, while in Opposition, the Coalition was "encouraging the people smuggling trade every step of the way".

No wonder a key Liberal Strategist wrote in November 2009 that "the issue of asylum seekers was fantastic" for the Coalition and "the more boats that come the better", eh?But Frank, by your own measure (and by their own measure), the Coalition were encouraging the people-smuggling industry and therefore helping cause the problem at which taxpayers money is still being thrown. 

If you want Australia to wash its hands of the refugee problem, as you appear to, then there is no other alternative than to unsign the 1951 Refugee Convention.

And that's something I would encourage the Abbott government to do given its policies both devalue the meaning of the Convention and bring into question our own integrity as a nation.Craig, the point of the Malaysian Solution was to slow the number of boats arriving. There may well not have been over 800 arrivals after it was implemented, a point that the Coalition surely understood when they opposed it so cynically."At least there has been no deaths at sea"?

You're wrong, john. 

The death toll in the Mediterranean continues to rise despite Abbott claiming to have stopped the boats. 

Just because we're not seeing people drowning off our own coast-line does not mean they are not drowing off somebody else's coastline. 

And if it isn't Australia, it's Lampedusa, and if it isn't Lampedusa, it will be somewhere else. 

I think you've made my point, Coogara. People will risk death at sea to reach another country regardless of where that country is.

Stopping the boats from reaching Australia has not stopped drownings at sea, it has simply moved it elsewhere.frangi, I don't think there has been any reliable measure of asylum seeker numbers with regards source &amp; destination countries produced since Abbott's crusade to "stop the boats".

Are you suggesting that Australian immigration policies actually reduce the number of people leaving places like Sri Lanka, Iran and Iraq?I honestly don't know how you can say that, frangi. 

There is an increasing number of displaced people. And that is unlikely to change because Abbott stopped the boats. 

So, the displaced people will go somewhere, even if not across the Mediterranean, even if not to Australia. 

My point is that asylum seekers did not die at sea because Australia lured them here, but because they are, for whatever reason, making a journey from one country to another. They are still going to embark on that journey regardless of a particular destination.And how about the 1000 or so who died at sea trying to reach Australia on Howard's watch, Craig? 

Were they lured to their deaths by the Coalition?Don't tell me, Tropical, the Royal Commission has found that union thugs have trashed international law? And sent poor business owners back to the people who threatened to torture them? And caused executive mothers to attempt suicide in a desperate attempt to improve the lives of their children?Actually FG, it was your leader, Tony Abbott, who stated that the government was being blackmailed by people attempting suicide.  

Of course, you can assign rationality to whoever you like, but that doesn't change the fact that Abbott posited your government as victim and suicidal mothers the villains of the piece.FG, I would think it fair to say that if a person claims they are being blackmailed, they are therefore positioning themselves as a victim of a blackmailing attempt.Actually FG, you can a 'victim' of an act as well as a 'target', even if the alleged intention of the act did not transpire. So, the word I used was actually the word I was looking for. 

Likewise, the 'villains', according to Abbott were "people who are attempting to hold us over a moral barrel."

Victims and villains. Goodies and baddies. That's how your government seeks to divide Australia. 

I wouldn't call that kind of simplicity rational, exactly. But, of course, you're free to assign your own value judgements however you please. Just don't presume they're universal.mortan, forcing people to seek refuge elsewhere doesn't actually save lives, it simply moves the problem elsewhere. 

Had saving lives (or shifting the deaths of asylum seekers to somebody else's sea) been the Coalition's main aim, it would have supported the Malaysian Solution. 

But, as we know, the Coalition opposed Labor's attempt to stop the boats because Abbott wanted a problem to fix.Yes Harry, and now asylum seekers are drowning on other country's doorsteps, that's perfectly fine, is it?

Just because they are not risking their lives getting to Australia does not mean they are not risking their lives getting to some other country.George, according to a recent OECD report, if developed countries want their economies to continue growing by around 3% a year, these countries are going to have to increase their intake of immigrants by at least two million over the next 50 years or risk stagnation. 

The choice is pretty simple: 

1. Close the borders and embrace economic stagnation.
2. Open the borders and continue to grow the economy
3. Come up with a politically palatable alternative to endless growth.Apologies, I meant to write "at least two million per year over the next 50 years or risk stagnation"FG, the tendency of the neoliberal crowd to shout down the 'free' market the moment their self-interests are threatened is truly astounding.cutyourchin, my understanding of what happened to rent increases at the time negative gearing was quarantined was that rents went up in Sydney and Perth, but in every other state rents rose in line with inflation. 

I also don't think the quarantine was in place long enough for us to be able to reach any reliable conclusions as to its effect.How unsurprising that the current government only wheels out its user-pays rhetoric for the poor and the sick, but not for the rich.

When it comes to investment in our people and the future by way of education and health, we're told the age of entitlement is over and that individuals should be expected to pay their own way regardless of their circumstances. 

However, when it comes to rich people investing in unproductive property, there is a deafening silence as the Coalition continues to divert public money into private purses.WP, perhaps then, people (such as gbe) who demand less public servants and less public services should be a bit more specific about which public servants and public services they wish to get rid of? 

As far as I'm aware, the two areas of the public service the Abbott government is increasing are defence and communications. So, surely any self-respecting 'small government' libertarian would be looking first and foremost at these two expanding government 'juggernauts' ?Paula, it's not just crossbenchers whose "views don't always represent those of the Australian majority, and often run completely counter to what most voters believe is best for the nation."

Often it's government itself that doesn't. 

Whether it's Howard's WorkChoices, Gillard's carbon tax, or Hockey's budget, governments of both sides can be said to have met your definition of "fringe-dwellers." 

The only difference is, the major parties sometimes tend to have more resources and friends in higher places to build bridges and sell lemons once the damage has been done.I think the theory is that, if the government puts the Charity Watchdog to sleep, there will be less regulation of charitable institutions, and so corporate money will flow into corporate-friendly think-tanks. 

The government will then be able to save money by outsourcing policy-making to these 'not-for-profit' corporate-funded think-tanks. 

In essence, the government will look like it's saving the taxpayer money while shovelling public money into the private sector. 

The taxpayer ultimately pays the corporate world's lobbying fees.As Greg wrote above, cutyourchin "The great thing about such a strategy is anecdotes are all that is needed". 

And the strategy has proved a success in the UK, where the Tories and their media partners have managed to persuade voters that 41% of the welfare budget goes to unemployed people when the real figure is only 3%.

Endless drip-drip front page stories with sub-headings such as "The Sun declares war on feckless benefits claimants and waste in Britain's shambolic handouts culture" and the anomaly becomes the rule."There are jobs"? 

OM, did you not read the bit of the article that said "In May there was about 4.9 unemployed chasing each vacancy in Australia", or did you simply choose to ignore it?In addition, Ben, we might look at how the notion of "teamwork" undermines the Rand fans' preference for the cult of the individual. 

Messi, for example, is a fantastic footballer, no doubt, but put him on a field on his own, and even the Meadowbank Thistle reserve side would run rings around him. 

For all his talents, the great man would never be on a winning side without people to pass to him, make space for him, distract his opponents, coach him, fix him up after injury, and close down those who manage to take the ball off him. 

And let's not go near how the 'salary cap' they've got in US and Australian football increases competition . . .Peter, on another thread, you wrote that ""The left wing worldview has always been that co-operation is the way to go"?Jennifer, given Tony Abbott promised back in August 2013 that "there will not be deals done with independents and minor parties under any political movement that I lead', the numbers in the Senate surely don't matter ?

Or perhaps after the raft of already broken promises, the PM is no longer "determined to say what we mean and do what we say"?Why try again, AO? Abbott should be measured by nothing other than his own benchmarks.CP, the link you provided does not provide any evidence that there is an "entrenched sloth and indolence amongst the majority of public school teachers."

In fact, I would question the veracity of any report that states that a third of Australian teenagers "are practically illiterate".

In addition, the dire interpretation of the PISA results overlooks the fact that Australian results were "above the OECD average and better than most other countries". 

The fall in rankings might be more to do with the improvement in education in booming Asian countries, rather than a sudden outbreak of "sloth and indolence" in a particular component of Australia's education system.PtL, a recent report by senior economists at the IMF, citing evidence that "supports the view that inequality impedes growth", concluded that lower inequality "is robustly correlated with faster, more durable growth."

Martin Wolf at the Financial Times - not exactly one of your terrible "Lefties" - recently wrote that "not only does inequality damage growth but efforts to remedy it are on the whole, not harmful."

Now when you've people traditionally from the neo-liberal fold talking about the adverse effects of growing inequality, I'd say it's a good bet there's some quite compelling evidence to back up their concerns.Looks like a stitch up to me, Darrin. 

Palmer - previously very close to the Liberal Party - has essentially provided an outlet for disenfranchised Coalition voters. 

In doing so, he's now delivering those votes to the Coalition (albeit with a few conditions, accompanied by the pantomime that he and the Coalition are arch enemies). 

Abbott got what he wanted - no action on climate change because he considers the science "crap" - while the more rational heads in the Coalition (Turnbull and probably Hunt) have been appeased by the ghost of an ETS and by the maintenance of an RET. 

Needless to say, Abbott now has an excuse to break yet another election promise (reducing CO2 emissions by the stated amount). 

It's just a shame Palmer doesn't just get back in bed with the Libs and stop the patronising theatrics.harry, I'd say that if, on the basis of a controversial title, people presume a speech they've not heard represents an amorphous Islam amorphously endorsing honour killings, then that is indicative of an underlying Islamophobia.Gomez, it is one thing to be offended by a controversia title, but another thing to then tag on desired assumptions based on that controversial title. 

You must first assume the title summarises the content (a curious assumption when we live in a world in which headlines and titles are little more than click-bait). 

And you must then assume that your assumed summary of the content defines an entire religion.

Assumptions don't tend to be based on verifiable evidence, but on the wish to reach conclusions the assumer is already determined to reach.It's a pity you either did not read, or did not understand the context of my post, frangi, as I clearly did not state that opposing honour killlings, or being offended by the very title of the speech equates to Islamophobia.

The sentiments are actually in full agreement with your "It is perhaps Islamophobic of you to assume that Muslims are the only ones who commit honour killings".frangi, I did not dismiss "the furore as evidence of Islamophobia", I posited that Islamophobia was evident in the assumption that an unheard speech was proof of an amorphous Islam endorsing honour killings. 

Given you have been a rare voice of reason on this forum, I'm rather surprised that you continue to misrepresent what I wrote.Peter W, Abbott saying that government road-building creates jobs directly contradicts Joe Hockey's claim that government does not create jobs. 

Still, it's quite the norm for the Coalition to hold two contrary positions and hope that nobody notices."The people in rural Australia want better roads"?

Well, in the Coalition's new "user pays" society, if the people in rural Australia want better roads, then they must pay for them. 

The age of entitlement is over, didn't you hear?"This is more about British journalism ethics, than it is about News Ltd"?

clete, given the near-monopoly of News International as employer in the list of those arrested, charged and jailed in connection to the phone hacking scandal, it would appear that the widespread criminality is more about the Murdoch Empire than it is about British journalism in general.Just a correction, John: Nick Davies' report of Milly Dowler's phone being hacked was published in July 2011, not 2009. 

Although, it should be said that The Guardian had actually broken the phone-hacking story in 2009 (unrelated to the Dowler story),  but that Murdoch's power in the UK at the time was such that the media, the media watchdog, the police and the politicians all fell in line behind News International's "one rogue reporter" defence, effectively conspiring to bury what turned out to be widespread criminality.Yes PtL, "The ignorance of the law is astounding". You would have thought the editor of Britain's largest selling newspaper would have been aware that phone-hacking was illegal.Of course, the "threat" that the Coalition and News Corp are warning us about comes as a direct consequence of the Iraq war, which the Coalition and News Corp lobbied for. 

The justification for involvement in Iraq was, of course, WMD: a "threat" that turned out to be non-existent despite the government and media telling us the the evidence was "incontrovertible."

According to the Coalition/News Corp axis, Australians must be sceptical to the point of denial when it comes to evaluating tonnes of publicly available peer-reviewed science. But, when it comes to assessing hidden, government-reviewed intelligence, we should all be gullible to the point of stupidity. 

Can't sell your domestic policy agenda? Look over there! Muslims!!Graham H, how on earth is the above article a "LNP only bash"? 

Green calls the Rudd-Gillard government "self-destructive", "self absorbed and clueless" and "inward looking." He also points to its "internal dysfunction."

Try reading with both eyes open.If the ABC was privatised, it would be legally bound to serve the interests of shareholders, not the Australian public (as is currently the case). 

Its news and programming would then be biased to reflect the commercial interests interests of advertisers, sponsors and corporate partners (much as the corporate media is already).  

Why would you want ALL news limited by the dictates of the market? 

Is it that enough is never enough and you want it all?Agreed, John51. I thought Kelly's hypocrisy on Q&amp;A was most evident when he was talking about "a constructive dialogue" and a "constructive relationship" with "the Islamic community in this country" being "part of the solution."

Yet he totally ignored his newspapers' frequent role in demonising this same "Islamic community" . . . the most recent example being its deliberate distortion of the words of army chief Peter Leahy for it's front-page headline "We'll fight Islam 100 years."Actually, FG, the long-term debt problem began when Howard began shrinking the revenue base to gain political capital, imagining the booming global economy and the local resources boom would last forever. 

The 'big picture' has never been one of your party's strong points, has it?No FG, both Coalition and Labor played a part in creating Australia's current financial situation. 

The 'big picture' is not as simple and easy as either/or, and is often missed by partisan contributors such as yourself.Actually Ravensclaw, Jericho argued that Swan was cutting too hard and fast when trying to deliver the surplus he was foolish enough to promise. 

As for Costello's 1996 budget, it was hard, but did have widespread support. 

The reason it did have widespread support was because it was seen as necessary, not ideological. Neither did it attempt to disproportionately hit/punish the poor, nor serve to undermine what we see as our egalitarian tradition. 

Hockey's budget is unpopular because it is vindictive, full of broken promises, inconsistent, contradictory, and seeks to force Australia into a Social Darwinist/neo-liberal future that voters did not vote for.Nothing's hard about paying a little bit extra, BF, except the Coalition promised voters prior to the election that it would not raise taxes.

It is now raising taxes. A broken promise. So, people feel lied-to, mugged. 

In addition, the rhetoric the Coalition used to demolish the carbon tax ("it'll increase the price of everything", etc) can similarly be used to demolish the increase in petrol excise. 

The Coalition are essentially being hoist upon their own petard. And there's no better place for them, I wouldn't think.WS, if you had bothered to read the post to which you responded, you would have seen, quite clearly, the following sentence:

"Nothing's hard about paying a little bit extra, BF, except the Coalition promised voters prior to the election that it would not raise taxes.""Why this obsession in Australia with ever little utterance by a politician?"

You obviously forgot, WS, that the Coalition and its media partners sought to trash the reputation and character of Julia Gillard pretty much every day for three years because of something she said before the 2010 election. 

"Juliar!" and "We'll make an honest woman out of you", etc, etc. 

Now, given the raft of lies and broken promises we've had from the Coalition since it was elected, I would say the government should be judged against nothing but its own benchmarks. 

As Tony Abbott himself said to the House of Representatives on August 16, 2011, "If this government had any honesty, any decency, that is what we would have: an election now."No micka, all would be well if only the government hadn't lied to the people and broken so many promises. 

People kind of expect that, when they vote for a party, if that party is elected, it looks similar to the one they voted for. 

The Coalition neither looks nor acts anything like the party it promised voters it would be prior to the election.micka, if the Coalition could not deliver what they promised, they should not have made the promises in the first place. 

Thanks to Peter Costellos charter of budget honesty, the Coalition knew the state of finances prior to the election, yet opted to make promises they knew they would not keep. 

Given they deliberately lied to the Australian people - and lied extensively - is reason enough to criticise them.Aaron, the problem is that the Coalition say there is a budget emergency that requires an urgent fix, but are, at the same time, foregoing revenue (the mining tax, a carbon price, Medicare Private, corporate tax collection), and increasing spending (the PPL, defence, spin doctors for Morrison, security, direct action, roads, health research fund).

In addition, the Coalition say the "budget emergency" is why they need to raise excise and petrol and a $7 GP tax, yet the money raised is going to be spent on roads and a brand-spanking-new medical research fund not paying off the debt.  

The trouble with the budget is that it makes no sense. Words contradict actions and vica versa. Rhetoric undermines policy, and policy explodes up rhetoric. 

As a species, we like to make sense of things. And the budget makes no sense.gbe, I've got no idea what "Labor has planned for us if they win government" except it surely can't be much worse than what the current mob has planned for us."Labor . . . should never be allowed to govern"? 

"Allowed" WS? 

You're aware that Australia is a democracy, and that we don't tend to ban political parties here?Come on Chris, to imply that Rudd's stimulus package was purely political is to attempt to re-write history. 

Support for a stimulus cut across the usual ideological boundaries.

*The Business Council of Australia urged Labor to "spend up and send the budget into deficit" (Jan 30, 2009). 
*The usually anti-Keynesian writers at The Australian editorialised  that "The case for a cash splash strengthened yesterday, with news that December retail sales were up 3.8per cent on the previous month, thanks to Canberra's $3.9 billion Christmas gift to millions of Australians." (Feb 5, 2009).
*The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry called on Coalition senators (and Nick Xenophon) to reconsider their opposition to the $42billion second-stage stimulus package (Feb 13, 2009). 
*The IMF Board gave Labor's response to the crisis a tick of approval: "Their timely policy response, which has effectively cushioned the impact of the global financial crisis on the Australian economy." (Aug 2009).
*Macquarie Bank economist, Rory Robertson responded to news of the effects of the stimulus (Australia's best trading performance in 48 years) with "Australia is certainly standing out as one of the remarkable performers in the sharpest global downturn since the 1930s." (Jun 3, 2009).
*One of Australia's eminent economists, Max Corden, wrote a paper lambasting the reasons given for opposing the stimulus (July 2009).
*The OECD's annual report stated that "Australia will be one of the Western countries to suffer least in the global financial crisis . . . the Government's stimulus has already had a strong effect in cushioning the downturn" (September 2009). 

Even Rupert Murdoch publicly declared in September 2008 that "I personally think it (the bailout) has to happen. There's no alternative."The trouble is, Todd, at the time, the stimulus was supported and praised by The Business Council of Australia, The Australian, The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, The IMF Board, Macquarie Bank economists, The OECD and Rupert Murdoch, among others. 

None of these, I would have thought, would seriously fit your proposed Labor/Greens constituency?
So why did you label the supporters of stimulus as as "Labor/Greens" Todd, when it included business lobby groups, self-avowed right wing neoliberals, local banks, international financiers, etc?

As for your 'they had a "private agenda"', it's a lazy charge you could lay at the feet of anyone anytime. It's a vague charge you could also lay at the feet of those who opposed the stimulus.No burke, Murdoch has market share because he's created a near monopoly in places such as Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, Darwin and many metropolitan regional centres such as Geelong. 

He's also seen off competitors not by producing better newspapers, but by outspending rivals. So, market share for The Age and SMH is squeezed by The Australian appeals to more readers, but because it is essentially a vanity publication clamped to the News Corp teat.burke, The Australian doesn't appeal to enough readers to cover its expenses. Therefore, it is a vanity publication. However, it's existence distorts the market by squeezing out more viable, more popular newspapers. 

Not so long ago, Murdoch tried and failed to kill a newly launched Independent (UK) by selling The Times at a loss (10p).

The method is simple. It's called buying market share (as opposed to earning market share). Basically, you flood the market with cheap, subsidised products until competition is squeezed out. Then, once the competition is reduced sufficiently, you raise your prices (so you're no longer making a loss) and start claiming that you earnt your market share.AE, two companies sell similar widgets. Company A is wealthy and powerful enough to be able to afford to sell its widgets at a loss whereas Company B is not.  Eventually, Company B is forced to  either reduce costs/quality or forced out of business because it cannot compete on price. 

It's called predatory pricing (undercutting) and, if not tackled, it distorts markets by allowing power and wealth to shape markets (bought market share) rather than supply &amp; demand and fair trade (earnt market share).Yes they do, burke. Everytime you buy a product that's been advertised in a Murdoch paper, you pay a portion in advertising fees.burke, you're aware that companies have advertising budgets which they recoup from the price they charge consumers for their products?frangi, my point is in response to burke, who said that "Nobody forces you to pay one cent to Murdoch."Not at all, frangi. For instance, people go to the supermarket to buy food and part of what they pay for that food goes towards the cost of that supermarket advertising in News Corp papers. 

A small amount of what you pay for onions goes to Murdoch. 

You don't choose to pay Murdoch, you choose to buy onions.yes micka, in the Soviet era nobody forced the Russian people to buy Pravda, but they did. And nobody forced East Germans to buy Trabant cars, but they did."All the lefty contributors to the Weekend Australian"?

Burke, don't tell Rupert "the left" have infiltrated his vanity publication or he'll stop subsidising it.Zaphod, your response is straight our of the News Corp 'How to handle a complaint' handbook.

1. Impugn the motive of the complainant (ie "Murdoch haters" or "leftists"). 
2. Attack to distract (point out how other media organisations are worse). 
3. Justify with a polarising hypothetical (ie, if such and such happened "they" would be more terrible and "we" would be better. 
4. Under no circumstances address or acknowledge the charge.micka, what do you mean by "successful", exactly? The WSJ, The Times (UK), New York Post and The Australian are all largely market failures, as far as I'm aware. 

As for Murdoch's tabloids, their success resides in:

1. A perversion of the idea of the "fourth estate" whereby Murdoch's papers unashamedly act as a campaign arm of certain political parties in return for favourable legislation from elected governments. 
2. The drip feed of content from Murdoch's near-monopoly owned sporting rights (rugby here, football in the UK). 

If 'whatever it takes' is your thing, then the American mogul has done well. 

However, if 'freedom of the press', 'free speech', the 'free market', an 'informed electorate', and the 'fourth estate' are things you cherish, then the Murdoch Empire has failed you on every count.Actually micka, my assertions are proven, it's just the word limit on forums such as these do not allow for the presentation of the supporting evidence.

I'm happy to provide specific references if you're able to be more precise as to which assertions you contest?  

As for Rupert running his newspapers at a loss, of course that's his business (up to the point at which it is considered an "abuse of market power"), but given every one of his newspapers argues for the moral sovereignty of free, merit-based markets, it does open him up to the charge of brazen hypocrisy.There's a somewhat obvious connection that runs through that list, Craig . . . a connection that also runs through a similar list you didn't inlude (Columbine, IRA bombs in London, Sandy Hook, Port Arthur, Utoya, the Cave of the Patriarchs massacre, etc, etc). 

The perpetrators are all from different religions, different geographical locations; different socio-economic backgrounds, etc. But, they all seem to be men!Andrew, I wouldn't say that Abbott damning the Greens as "fringe dwellers"; or damning those who happen support Scottish Independence as ememies of freedom and justice; or damning anybody who claims benefits as a parasitic "leaner" is demonstrating acceptance of difference or inclusion. 

A leader has to lead by example. 
china, the fact is that Abbott has been an incredibly polarising figure. This can be seen in his pre-election promise that "there will not be deals done with independents and minor parties under any political movement that I lead."

In essence, he's been elected with the support of just over a third of Australian voters, but has ruled out taking into consideration the democratic will of the almost two-thirds of Australians who didn't vote for the Coalition.

Why should the majority of Australians want to join Abbott's Team when he's already excluded them?Actually Peter, if you look at the world prior to the advent of multiculturalism, I think you'll find it was much worse. 

Europe, for instance, regularly descended into industrial scale-barbarity in an effort to keep their sovereign nations monocultural. Australia, of course, had the White Australia Policy to keep us 'pure'. 

If you compare, today, the multicultural societies of Europe, North Americas and Australia, you would surely admit they are preferable to more monocultural societies such as Saudi Arabia and Iran? 

Worth mentioning also that, without immigration, modern industrial economies could not grow. Immigration serves capitalism, and immigration would not be socially feasible without efforts towards multiculturalism.People working together for a common cause, clete? Sounds like some kind of socialism, no?

What happened to the sovereignty of the individual? And taking responsibility for their own actions?  And user pays? 

Surely, the market would dictate that the man with his leg trapped - having been foolish enough to err - would have offered a large sum to get his leg unstuck? 

Instead, he got "something for nothing" thanks to "do-gooders" and "bleeding hearts" who effectively destroyed jobs by offering their services for free.gbe, I seem to remember the mantra from the Coalition from 2010 to 2013 was that "it is the job of the opposition to oppose."Coogara, it's not about multiculturalism, it's about power. 

There are various organisations in the Middle-East who are vying for the power that Western nations have relinquished. 

Don't forget that, since WWI, Britain, then the US (with assorted EU allies) were the dominant powers in the Middle-East. 

Now, there is a power vaccum. And whoever gets to fill the power vacuum stands to make a lot of money from oil.JohnM, the same ABS report also stated that the poor would be hit hardest by a hike in petrol prices because they spent more as a percentage of their income on petrol than the rich. 

Hockey selected details to justify his unfair budget while ignoring details that would expose his budget as unfair. 

It's called trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the electorate. And it didn't work in this case.SimonP38, the problem for the Coalition with regards the budget is quite simple:

It is seeking to justify raising additional revenue (itself a broken promise) on the basis of paying back debt. Yet, neither the rise in fuel excise, nor the GP tax are earmarked to pay back the debt. Instead, both are set to fund additional spending (on roads and on medical research).Realist, if Hockey didn't say it, why did he apologise for it?Zing, since Abbott's tories gained power, unemployment has reached a 12-year high; consumer confidence has plumetted to levels not seen since the GFC; car manufacturing has effectively gone; and business investment has slid by 5.2% - more than any time since the global financial crisis. 

That's not the Senate's doing, its' the party of "no excuses" talking down the economy and opening fire on the battlers with a first budget salvo that nobody except the ideologically blind or born-to-rule could possibly support.
