I didn't know that their were any Americans or Israelis on the Malaysian jet but if there were or weren't so what does American warship shooting down an Iranian airliner and an Israeli fighter pilot shooting down a passenger jet have to do with the incident? No one has mentioned or has it been conveniently forgotten  by those who wish to attack America and Israel at every opportunity that a Russian fighter pilot also shot down a passenger jet Korean airlines 007. Not only did they shoot it down knowing it was a passenger jet they lied about it, denying that they had do so for weeks and it was shot down in international airspace after leaving Russian airspace. America never lied about shooting down the Iranian jet and I can remember footage on TV of the ship after they realised they had shot down a passenger jet they weren't jumping for joy or happy the crew were upset. Russia has a history of lying about shooting down planes and concealing the truth will they do the same again is the big question.Flightradar24 can only track aircraft with data provided by the FAA, or aircraft with ADS-B compliant transponders - the FAA obviously doesn't cover Ukraine, and I highly doubt that a Russian military aircraft would have an ADS-B compliant transponder.I think a comparison to KAL007 in 1983 is a far better comparison to make with MH17, than MH17 with the IR655 incident.  Both are certainly tragic events, and likely massive "military" mistakes.  The US personnel involved with the IR655 incident at least made some reasonable attempt to contact and identify the plane, but with KAL007 and MH17, it would appear that identification was not the primary objective before the shootdowns apparently occurred.While there will surely be much more discussion on whether that airspace should have been used - in retrospect, it's obvious it wasn't "safe" - some perspective is required here. Military aircraft travelling at low altitude may have been downed in that area recently, but that's not at all activity to be confused with a commercial jet. Civilian aircraft travel above active military zones all the time, but the key word is "above". 

The US FAA are not necessarily the one source of truth on safe airspace, as they tend to be fairly paranoid - there's large chunks of airspace around the world that US aircraft won't touch even though the rest of the western world has no problem travelling through them at a safe cruise altitude.

I agree though, much more discussion to be had on this topic.Four years ago I met a Tamil who was accepted as a refugee.  He told me this the only had to wait a certain period of time and he could go back to Sri Lanka to visit his parents and he was going to. His story was soldiers looking for Tamil fighters and weapons came into their house and during a struggle one of the soldiers hit him in the face with the butt of his rifle knocking his front teeth out. I thought at he time if things are so bad why would he go back and also why didn't the soldiers just shoot him if they are as bad as alleged. I don't believe that the situation is as bad as it is being made out in Sri Lanka by some and is getting better as those Tamils who caused the civil war are either dead, imprisoned or left. I would like to know how many refugees have actually returned to Sri Lanka on a holiday to visit relatives or friends since being accepted as refugees? Because if there are large numbers of them there is no reason for Australia to accept Sri Lankans as refugees. If those claiming refugee status and are Tamil fighters we definitely don't want violent extremists here and they should be sent back whatever the consequences facing them in Sri Lanka.Iain, 
There are always alternatives, humane alternatives. Don't try and lock in people's thinking with the ' No alternatives' stuff that this government prides itself on. 

For example, we could provide substantially more funding to the UNHCR office in Indonesia, which currently generates a miserable hundred or so refugee approvals annually, from the thousands have fled there. This current poor policy practice creates a queue where asylum seekers wait years just to get an interview, which feeds them taking a chance in boats. Putting a numbers ceiling ( eg 750-1,000 annually) via this source, would be a significant shift 

This could be done in lieu of paying international companies billions of dollars to very slowly persecute asylum seekers in our detention gulags for months and years, and add further to psychological trauma.  The evidence on Australian detention centres as  responsible for extensive human misery and despair is now extensively documented after 15 years. 


So it's fear that is the basis of your ideology, despite the fact that nothing like 51 million wish to come here as asylum seekers.

Fear is a wonderful source of  creating a web of rationalisations about 'otherness' as we also project qualities onto those unfortunate enough to reach a decision that they must leave their countries of origin, and risk death in questionable boats.Sue, Australians are evolving into a wealthy, but intensely fearful people.

Many of us now seem to crave a gated Anglo-Celtic society, which keeps out ' those people', so that we can practice our favourite pass-times: sports, gambling ($23 billion annually), watching our TV shows on cooking and talent competitions, and building McMansions

The relative peace we enjoy engenders a limited capacity in many of us, a failure of the imagination, an inability ( fostered by fear), to appreciate the desperation destitution, and despair that many in war ravaged countries experience.  We cannot envisage that such people might have a right to act to change their life circumstances by fleeing their country of origin.

Others of us go quietly about looking out for those who have come here as refugees. We are seen as the 'bleeding hearts' foolish folk who seem not to heed that there are millions watching and waiting to 'gate-crash' our national barriers and ruin our party. 

The result of all this  is a sickness of spirit across the Australian community with respect to the asylum seeker / refugee questions that has evolved and developed from extremely poor national policy development over 15 years

It doesn't have to be this way,and will continue for another decade or more unless government assumes humane and innovative policy leadership, in accord with the values of the UNHCR. 

Meanwhile Scott Morrison is trying to convince Indian leaders that they should take the asylum seekers his Border Protection people apprehended a month ago. His reasoning: a few more adding to their 1.2 billion population would hardly make any difference, particularly when so many Indians are desperately poor. In contrast, they would represent a far bigger percentage of our 23million if they were to come here, and reduce our standard of living. 

What a Christian man he is!
Why were the Human Rights Commission missing in action when we had a Labor Greens supported government? Why are they so concerned now? More claiming refugee status were in detention then and the independent, unbiased, not politically motivated or aligned Australian Human Rights Commission hardly raised an eyebrow or said a word. One can only wonder why they are so caring and compassionate now?I agree with Mell it is terrible all the fear that is being played by the race card. I just hope Mel that Australians are more accommodating to all those nice Islamic State of Iraq fighters and their families in Iraq if those poor people start leaving Iraq because they are loosing the fight against the Iraq army and start seeking asylum in countries like Australia. They would easily mix in with all Australians and wouldn't come here and cause any problems  they are just the sort of people we should welcome once they claim asylum from persecution. The Tamils are just as nice as well, yes they might have been fighting and killing in Sri Lanka because they wanted an independent Tamil state but once they come here all that is forgotten. The Tamils haven't set up organisations like the Australian Tamil Congress they have just forget their past and move on fully integrating into Australian society not bringing any of their problems here. We should welcome all asylum seekers because they don't bring any problems, racist beliefs or bad attitudes from their own countries and are an asset to Australia bringing diversity and some even bring a wonderful and tolerant religion with them.I think all those opposed to asylum seekers arriving on boats should should use the same tactics the asylum seekers use, threaten self harm if the asylum seekers are allowed into Australia. They wouldn't have to do any real damage just a scratch here and there. By doing that they would get sympathy from many no doubt and their demands would have to be met. If they are real clever they could have their 'children' draw heartbreaking pictures of themselves in suitable states of distress also telling stories of their parents distress. It would only need one or two protestors to appear outside Parliament House with plastic knifes (a bit of tomato sauce would not go astray) the knifes not to sharp of course to swing public opinion! Play the self harm, distressed children, it is not fair, I have rights game it works for many.One death. One. Where was the concern when  a 1000 drowned? Accidents happen was the response. Accidents happen when people are abusive, attack others and riot. Tempers are inflamed, common sense goes out the door and the worst happens. Best not to riot in the first place otherwise accidents happen and accidents are acceptable for some, just depends on who is on government.Wake up Alpo. Unfortunately lots of people die in custody in Australia in prisons, psychiatric hospitals and in police stations. It happens. Those 1000 or so died at sea at least weren't involved in rioting like Reza Berati who also according to his family wasn't a genuine refugee.Abbott is not responsible for the alleged murder of Reza Berati he had no control or was capable of controlling the person or persons that hit Reza Berati, he wasn't there. You also presume it was murder it hasn't been proved the person or persons that hit him could have been acting in self defence for all we know.It wasn't reported on the ABC that the UN found more rockets hidden inside one of the UN's schools either. The second UN funded school now where rockets were hidden. Where is the outrage when Hamas hides rockets which it fires into Israel in UN schools?  Perhaps Mr Abbott could call for Hamas to stop using UN schools to hide rockets, Hamas to stop telling Palestinians not to leave when Israel warns them that they are going to target a building and Hamas to stop firing rockets into Israel. I would certainly like some leadership from the UN to stop Hamas hiding rockets in its schools but I don't think we will be seeing that. When will Hamas be bought to account for its acts of terror? When will Hamas be bought to account for encouraging its followers to kill Christians and Jews? I guess it is another indication that some people don't like Jews.More bulldust Joe Bloggs. There is NO footage of the missile launch, nada, zilch. There is NO CREDIBLE footage of the Russian Federation supplying the BUK to Ukraine, the US said so today and is currently headlining on the ABC.

The phone conversations are not verified and there is evidence one has been tampered with. Only one conversation mentions a passenger plane specifically, and there is no admission of guilt. The other two could have been taken at any time.

The evidence the US has on the launch is from satellite and spy plane data, none of which has been released. Russia has released information regarding Ukrainian BUK's being shifted around and a suspected SU-25 flying with MH17 before it was shot down. I repeat, they released the info, they have qualified their claims, unlike the US.JoeBloggs, the footage is not available. It does not exist.

The USA hasn't released satellite data, they have only reported on it.

One of these images has already been discredited, while the rest cannot be proved. 

You confuse 'maximum' ceiling with service ceiling. Planes can fly beyond the surface ceiling though it's not advised.Also, Mr. Bloggs, the plane was 'assumed' to be a SU-25. Ukraine recently modernized some of their SU-25 fleet to the SU-25M1 which is capable of reaching 10,000 meters. Ukraine also has quite a few SU-27's which are designed to fly at very high altitudes.Come back Kevin and Wayne the Worlds best spenders! Let's spend, spend, employ more public servants and  give $1,000 handouts! They are the solutions. Let's employ more public servants and spend our way out of trouble! Let's not forget the carbon tax, the tax that will create 1,000's and 1,000's of full time sustainable real jobs that have now just disappeared, 1,000's of jobs all created by the carbon tax just gone, bring it back to save us from the mess we are in!Ha!

Wait a few years until the network Malcolm puts in is obsolete, and all the money he spent on it becomes waste when we have to do it all over again, with the network that should have been built in the first place.

Financially responsible? Hardly.How many religions kill others because they don't believe in their god? One in particular does but must not be named by the left. But how many has the left killed with its poison in Russia, China, Cambodia, China, Korea to name a few countries. What is the bigger evil no belief in a god or a belief in a political philosophy of socialisim and or communism or do you like many deny the poison of the left?So your argument is that because superannuation is frequently being rorted then the negative gearing rort is also ok?

All this emotive language such as 'mum and dad investor' to try and justify something that is plainly poor policy and has done nothing to stimulate housing supply. You also argue that because super wasn't compulsory then it is OK for you to now receive an entitlement from the Government. Were you prevented from saving money before 1991? (super is just quarantined saving).

I have no problem with negative gearing in the general sense as it applies in almost every country. That is deductions/gains are applied within the asset class and not against income.

When the market falls apart a lot of these mum and dad investors are going to be severely impacted. The misconception you have is that housing investment is 'as safe as houses'.

Do you want a medal or something?

Seems like you aren't really able to think outside your own view of how people should live their lives.

Maybe people do not see the value in wasting 2 hours of there day getting to/from work. This is completely unnecessary in Adelaide in particular where there are vast amounts of land close to the city (and a dormant economy with little immigration).
 
Your last paragraph is the standard (mainly boomer) argument that it is impulsive, excessive consumption that prevents many young people entering the market. To an extent I agree, however house prices are now so out-of-whack that even judicious savers on modest incomes have no chance of entering without getting parental assistance.

For the record I have lived in Adelaide for my whole life, rent in the inner city and am not a Uni student.

When I say there are vast amounts of land I am mainly talking about under-utilised land. There are widespread objections to the Government proposal to allow building up 5-7 stories along the city ring roads. This wouldn't be described as even medium-density in any other major city.

Your assertion that most people travel 30 minutes each way to work goes against your original argument that people do not want to commute to work. It may be true now that 30 minutes is the norm each way now but this is only a recent phenomenon in Adelaide due to congested roads, cheap parking and poor public transport. In terms of distance I would guess that 60% of the population lives within 15km of the city. The 15 minute commute used to be Adelaide's selling point. Coming from Sydney you probably don't understand it.



So social media is judge and jury? The soical media posts could have easily been people making assumptions or trying to claim credit. There is no credible admission of guilt.

The yanks reckon they have evidence of the shot, so why haven't they produced this evidence? I'll tell you why, Robert Parry (google him, he's not just a political hack) was informed by a credible source that the shot was fired from a BUK in a Ukrainian held area by people wearing Ukrainian uniforms with empty bottles littering the area. I am inclined to consider this possibility because you might have noticed that the US state department were investigating possible 'Ukranian detractors' firing the missile. Why would they say that? Because the people that fired the missile were Ukranian.

It infuriates me that people so quickly swallow the given narrative thrown to them by their government and media, like trained seals.Take another look at the situation Jim, your Ukrainian apologist sophistry demonstrates the propaganda war we're witnessing post MH17.

Russia was not 'shamed' into supporting the UN resolution, they wanted one right from the start, as long as no blame was assigned in the wording. What use is an investigation if you're already saying Russia is guilty?

You justify the continued aggressions from Kiev as pragmatism. Possible military victory derived from perceived advantages is more important than conducting a proper investigation on an international aviation disaster? Military victory at any cost.

Donetsk and Lugansk should be granted autonomy. What does Kiev really have to gain by seizing these regions? A few coal mines and some factories? Give them soverignty, you'll have access to the crash site, and hundreds of thousands of cilians can stop living in fear of vaporisation by cruise missiles, artillery, bombs and rockets.

I think it might have been you Moi that pointed me to Robert Parry, cheers.

And you're dead right on everything. I'll mention the photos of BUK launchers with a sign from a car dealership in Ukranian held territory.

Or the flight data from the Ukraine flight control we've never got to hear.

Or the grainy photograhs of US proof of Russian shelling in Ukraine territory that was released on Twitter. Ah the mass media.It is exactly your simple-minded logic the author is referring to.The media only reports what they want us to be concerned about, or about what they want the national conversation to be. I've seen some of these videos too, it's hard no to when ISIS is sharing them and gloating about it.

Civilian deaths in Iraq stemming from the US invasion and the West supplying Syrian 'rebels' with guns. Crickets chirping. We're supposed to be more worried about Gaza and Ukraine.No evidence of Hamas murdering people? Do you forget they are a terrorist organization that kidnapped three Israeli boys and started all this?Ukraine is killing children. The US has been drone striking children for years. I'm sure I could compile a much larger list of hard done by children. The fact is, Hamas is training children to fight, and they hide in places that will cause maximum collateral damage if they are attacked. Obvious anti-semitism is obvious.Not true.

Taxation and property law is not designed for multiple partners.Why does the government care about straight couples but not about homosexuals? Because straight couples can biologically reproduce, the children from that relationship benefit from having two primary caregivers that work together for the child, and in a monogamous relationship they have the advantage of guaranteed paternity. Socially, it is about a committment to love and care.

The gay lobby fight for marriage based on the love and care primarily. The goverment doesn't give a rodents rectum who you are sleeping with and your particular mechanics of intercourse. If we redefine marriage, we have to squeeze a square peg into a round hole, meaning we have children without a mother or a father. That's a whole different argument, and one that is usually fought with emotions rather than logic, much like everything else the gay lobby fights for.You can't stop lesbians having sex with a bloke to knocked up, turkey basting or more recently getting IVF. Just because it happens doesn't make it justified.I nearly agree with you DG. Marriage has its base rested upon the fact a man and a woman are required to breed. Since it seems we are free to redefine marriage I guess my point is moot, but it dishonours tradition to change things to suit popular opinion. Say what you want about tradition.Are they all turkey basters or IVF? Of course it is happening now, doesn't mean I agree with it. I shoudln't just wake up in the morning and think 'Hey, i'm going to the sperm bank and having a child' like they are a handbag or somehting. But that's me personally and I'm OK with you feeling differently.Get real Jimmy, you know what I mean.Gay people, and the population in general, are only concerned about this because lobby groups have made them feel victimized. 'Yeah, why shouldn't I be able to get married!? Curse society.' Kinda like feminism really. Gays can have exactly the same rights and priveledges with a civil union, so it has nothing to do with inheritance or hospital rights. It has everything to do with their sexuality being validated and equated to a heterosexual relationship, when they are two different things. I also believe they're doing this as an FU to the people that support marriage in its natural form or find their sexuality distasteful. Fair enough, I like to gloat when I win too, but it's still childish.That survey itself was bias, it allowed the respondents to gauge how well they parented rather than measuring off actual outcomes. There was a study based on outcomes but it is hard to compare since many homosexual relationships w\ children were in heterosexual relationships prior, meaning they came from broken homes already.Help me Esteban, I'm in the same boat.

The more I argue against it, the less I believe myself.

I have no problems with homosexuals, but the idea of them standing there in suits being blessed by a Priest, it kinda feels like they're taking the piss.  A social pillar that has been a particular way for so long, reflecting the biological union and natural (and predominant) partnership of Husband and Wife, Mother and Father, and there's two blokes up there getting married... surely most of the opposition from others feel the same.
Thank you Paul, that gives me something to think about. Stark contrast against some of the things people are saying.Seems to me that Ukraine has consistently been the aggressor Mr. Bloggs. Right-wing nutjobs facilitate the overthrow of the democratically elected President, then engage in a political war against the Russian language and culture, followed by massive protests and the murder of Russian protestors. The Russian East in response want autonony from said government, and Ukraine doesn't want to give it to them. They try send in the army who doesn't want to fight, so they supplant the aforementioned right-wing nutjobs into the military so they can murder civilians and take 'their' land back from the Russian bear.If you recall the protests started because the elected President of Ukraine chose not to sign up to the EU because Russia offered a better deal. He was not going to 'delver Ukraine to Russia', what does that even mean? Is an economic and military alliance a 'delivery'?

Who was involved in the Euromaidan protests? Svoboda, the Nazi's of Ukraine and their paramilitary buddies the Right Sector. Sounds a awful like the beerhall putsch.How do you know this when the Ukraine government confiscated all records from flight control and the data from the black box hasn't been released yet? You're making stuff up.I'll take that as an admission of guilt Fran, clearly you make stuff up to suit your argument. I'm not citing Carlos, I'm citing reality. If the flight control information was not taken or censored, why hasn't Kiev released them?What makes it 'their' land? The people that live there want no part of Ukraine. Appealing to soverignty and divine right doesn't wash anymore.Those 38 Aussies- collateral damage. But hey, that's politics right?'Perhaps if the Russian Federation forces in Donetsk cease their counter attacks then the AFP can go to the debris site.' So the separatists should submit to the Ukrainian aggressors? Has a cease fire never crossed your mind? Oh wait, there was a cease fire and Ukraine renewed the aggressions. You are blaming the victim here. The Ukrainian President promised a 40km cease fire zone, says a lot about the Ukrainian regime really. They are deliberately going against the demands of the UN resolution.

Of course we can blame the USA. They have given 5 Billion to NGO's within Ukraine to force regime change. Now they provide them with military advice, intelligence and a host of military equipment including flak jackets and rations, not to mention the political support\propaganda. The people in the region do not want to be a part of a Ukraine beholden to US interests. Their sympathies are with their motherland and they should be given independence.
Not intriguing really, you just have to open up your other eye as well- the Ukraine Army has initiated military actions against the rebels within the vicinity of the crash site, not the other way around, thus making them the aggressor.You struggle with telling the truth and looking beyond your own bias as well. That is your failing, not mine. 

Bloggs is suggesting the separatists lay down their arms and submit to Ukraine so the debris site can be examined, when the easiest and more sensible solution would be for Ukraine to fulfill their cease fire promise and allow examination now.

Ukraine only have an armed rebellion because of regime change instigated by the US. This is a proxy war, not just the Big Bad Putin picking on poor Ukraine. Thousands of civilians, men, women, children, elderly, slain because of US interests in Ukraine. The Ukraine army are attacking the east, not the other way around. They are not prepared to negotiate and insist on war.What murders?

If we were mates I wouldn't go to the pub with you. Friends and family look after each other. Donetsk and Lugansk would have fallen under the Ukrainian military if nobody came to assist them.No use in lying just to support an internet argument. So what if Spetsnaz are there, the US are helping Kiev making them equally culpable.Joe

On the assistance provided by the US:

"Today, the President indicated an additional tranche of security assistance focused on body armor, night vision googles, communications equipment that the Ukrainians have requested." Google 'whitehouse ben rhodes nonlethal' to confirm.

Fair enough on the rebels attacking during the ceasefire,  though I think the casualties you list are exaggerated.The OSCE observers were going into insecure areas, that is why the shot was fired, that is why access was denied in some instances. Now the Ukraine military are trying to do everything they can to prevent access.Prove otherwise.This would be a bad idea if for no other reason then the sellers seeing this as free money.

Everytime the government steps in and gives people first homeowners grants ect it leads to an increase in houseing prices, which in turn leads to an increase in renting prices.

There is no short term solution.

The government needs to set up a longer term solution.
Legislation about a 'home buyer' interest account. Where you get bonus interest but can only withdraw the money as part of a home deposit (or in the event of bankruptcy). This way a generation from now people who are now kids may have a chance at buying their own home and it shouldn't inflate the market by much because you are not 'injecting' the same amount of money into the market in a short period of time.

However this won't happen as it would not generate votes for the next election and this is what more pollies care about.Can't get rid of negative gearing.

The reason for this is flow on. If you remove negative gearing then about 70% of rental properties will be put on the market. Flooding the market and cause house/unit prices to drop. As soon as people start having overheads greater then their asset value it will become a major problem.

Removing negative gearing would reduce the home price of everyone who lives in their own home. You would very quickly put people who have struggled for their own home into a financial crisis.
My response was in response to Sydney Bob saying  "there are several short term solutions."

Removing negative gearing is not a short term solution. It would take decades. 

You also have to be careful because if you remove negative gearing are you doing so for individuals or corporations.

Businesses are allowed to claim business losses against their income. If you remove negative gearing for individuals then business will snap up all the property for tax purposes. If you remove negative gearing for everyone then businesses will sell all of it even if the government mentions this being an idea. Which would flood the market.

I would still argue that removing NG is almost impossible now.
So once again if it is only allowable on 'new' properties wouldn't that still flood the market?

If NG is only allowed on 'new' properties. Then investors wouldn't want 'old' properties. They would sell.

Anything that fell into the 'old' category would be put on the market because they can't use it for NG.

Unless I'm misunderstanding youIf you flood the market then many who do own their own home and are not "Cashed up investors" will go out the back door.

Having dept greater then their asset value.

This needs to be managed as well." maybe you should have studied harder so you could get a better job."

That's another myth.Actually most studies at the moment show they are unrelated.

Drive not study get's you a good job. Learning not study gets you a good job.

Many people who leave uni with very good grades don't even get jobs in their industry.I'm aware of the product you are talking about. It however was still only short term. 

What I am proposing is a system where you can open a bank account for your kid/kids. Long term planning. Not a four year thing.Actually it would have a dramatic effect on Australia.

We have huge amounts of income invested in housing, both home owners and investors.

If house prices dropped by ten percent the government would be kicked out because all the people who are buying their own home and now have overheads greater then the value of their assets would vote for the other guys.The original loan and interest has been paid on the higher rate. To sell at a 10% loss means you might not recoup your losses.

More recent buys who have only paid a 10% deposit have to choose between paying a mortgage which is higher then the value of the property or selling at a loss. Both of which are capable of forcing someone into bankruptcy
Because if you are repaying payments on a debt which your assets can't cover you are in severe financial strife.


You won't be able to get any other kind of finance, if you miss a payment or a short on a payment the bank will cancel the mortgage in order to recoup loss.

If I buy a house worth $500,000 and plop down 10% then I still owe more then $450,000 (mortgage insurance get's added to any home loan where the buyer has less then a 20% deposit). Then the house price drops by 10%. 

I now have $470,000 debt and only $450,000 worth of assets. 
Why do you think anyone would hold on to property like that?The only criteria I can see is that it is a recent purchase and they are forced to sell.

The change in regulations would force the price down. And as most people who buy at the moment struggle to get the deposit together it is reasonable to assume 10% deposit.

If it is a recent purchase then unless they are paying twice the minimum repayments they could indeed be in trouble.At first I couldn't tell if this was a facetious post but the last paragraph actually makes me think you believe this.

You are comparing one leveraged investment (buying a house) to a non-leveraged investment (buying shares with cash only). Neglecting compound interest only makes your calculation even more ridiculous (it does make a difference in long time frames). Furthermore you are also extrapolating historically high levels of price growth into a period which is likely to be defined by falling real incomes. Have you thought how anyone could afford a $2 Million home in 15 years if incomes grow at 2 or 3% ? What multiple would that be? 15-18 times household earnings?

Your financial planner was right - there was a bubble in property ten years ago. In fact we are still in the SAME bubble. It never popped. The fact that it never popped is due to a confluence of factors namely Fed/State government policy, immigration policy, Chinese stimulus post GFC among other things.

The inability to look deeper into the past than the last 20 years and compare markets outside Australia is one of the surest signs of a bubble. There is no real evaluation of downside risk. 

"I got my first full time job after printing off 50 resumes and door knocking businesses." I did that for six months.

100 resumes a week. Every business in my home town.

Every factory, every take away food store. Every retail front. Car washes.

Fact was there were more unemployed then there were jobs.

So my anecdote negates your anecdote....

Lets get back to the thrust of the article which is making statments like this is stupid.The worst is yet to come. If the Iraqi army starts winning and the ISIS fighters and their families leave in fear of their lives they will be seeking asylum in countries like Australia. Who knows what will happen in Syria, will those fighting start seeking asylum in Australia as well? All we are doing is bringing people into Australia and Europe is facing the same problems of people whose religion is their defining character with its lack of tolerance for other religions and hatred for others who do not believe as them. 
There are reports of a Muslim cleric preaching at a mosque in Berlin encouraging those there to hate and kill Jews. How many have conveniently forgotten the uncovered meat comment about women from the Australian Muslim cleric. Many are living in denial and criticise anyone who raises these issues. They need to start taking responsibility for their part in what is going to happen. Because the bombings and beheading in London and the bombing in Boston and the planned but thwarted attacks in Australia are going to happen more frequently because of those who have allowed a religion to flourish in Austrlia that is not tolerant, peaceful and even at war with itself.A day isn't very long when you sleep in to 9am and by the time you get up, have a shower, have breakfast, maybe make your bed it is nearly 11am and not worth doing anything because it is nearly lunchtime. By the time you have lunch it is getting a bit cold especially in winter so its best to stay in. So really you don't have much time to look for a job in four days and one day a week community work would make it much tougher.The government should do nothing to encourage unemployed people to work or even leave home. Let people just apply for unemployment benefits and let them receive them for the rest of the lives if they feel fit. It is all too harsh and unfair to expect people who don't have a job to apply for jobs or do volunteer work. Unemployed people should just be allowed to sit at home, watch television, go to the beach or whatever suits them. Expecting unemployed people to do anything at all is just to harsh. I sometimes wonder how some long term unemployed even get out of bed to feed themselves. Perhaps instead of trying to get the long term unemployed to work it would be better to have carers appointed for them. Those carers could go to the homes of the long term unemployed  feed, bath and clean for them after all they want everything else for free without contributing so why not?What are you talking about? According to the immigration Department, the number of refugees Australia accepted in 2012?13 was 20,019 - over FIFTEEN TIMES the figure you claim...Interviews with a number of the recent "Tamil" arrivals showed ALL OF THEM had come hear because they could earn a much better income than in their home countries. NONE of them claimed persecution until the refugee advocates had suitably "educated" them...The communists were in charge of Vietnam in the 80's and I don't know why anyone wouldn't like them. The North Vietnamese Communists  during the war had many supporters in Australia from the left side of politics and the left are well known for being caring and kind and would never support an awful regime or one that would mistreat its people.How can someone be a refugee fleeing persecution if they can return to the country that they alleged persecuted them?  Obviously things are not as bad as what some like to make them out to be and some are just looking to go to the land of plenty.Coogara, 

The number of posts you have made in response to this very thoughtful and multi-faceted article is extraordinary, and the time you have put to it considerable. 

What seems to emerge from your carefully worded responses to so many people you think have got it wrong,  is a desperate personal fear that Australia will be over-run by asylum seeker boat arrivals. 

Your so frequent articulating of the phrase '51 million refugees' world-wide, and the inference that many of them wish to come to Australia, and the sheer energy you have put into 'correcting ' others who have it wrong, suggests you are on a payroll. ..... The IPA springs to mind ..... but perhaps you are one of Scott Morrison's ever expanding small army of media advisors ( last reported to be 96) simply engaged in your daily work, much of which is in the Blogosphere. 

The author of this article courageously outed herself as ' a closet refugee' 

I invite you to out yourself likewise. 

Who employs you to do this ideological correction work ? 

Of course you will say no-one is employing you. 

If if it is the case that you are not employed by anyone to counter views contrary to the government's line (and I doubt it,), an alternative explanation is that you do it in a quest to quieten an insistent xenophobia  condition that troubles you enormously.

I guess we all have our demons and nightmares. I am much less  fearful of being overrun by refugees, than by what Abbott and Morrison who via their assortment of dreadful policy frameworks, are currently doing to destroy the better side of what it is  to be an Australian. 

Articles penned by people such as this author give me hope in the quest that we can build a better more humane Australian


Some people like to make an event bigger than what it is. Australian Police have gone to the Ukraine to recover bodies and examine a crashed aircraft. Unarmed Australian Police. Nothing unusual about unarmed police going to conflict zones it is quite common. I am sure those who are actually there are taking all the precautions needed. This story is really just another story criticising the Abbott government.They have the right to run in an NZ election.

And they should have the right to run in an Aus election.

Let's face it, they can't be any worse then our recent pollies.I have no doubts governments have more information than they release about situations. But why do journalists think they should be provided with it? It could cause all sorts of issues regarding security and foreign affairs. The government could also be accused of fear mongering as the have in another Drum article and trying to manipulate the media. Journalists can't secure confidential information anyway as the loss of the Age tapes revealed. The author complains about the inspectors not telling them what route they were taking and supplying information on where the fighting was. Why did the media need to go they had already been to the site filmed it and obviously left. What is the purpose of the media in attending a site to show inspectors looking at damage that is hardly news. It shows more about the egos of journalists being able to state I am standing in a war zone with fighting going on around me in a fiercely rebel held area. Which of course looks and sounds good on the news, a resume or even better when it comes to bragging.What crime did they commit in Australia and if they did how can it be proved? Don't deal drugs or commit crime and you will not have any problems. Simple really. The Bali 9 got exactly what they deserve and should not have any sympathy.The Australian Federal Police are well known as a joke by state police and are referred to as 'Plastics' or 'Cardboard cut outs.' The AFP would be lucky to be able to put a brief together and the Commonwealth DPP would be lucky to win a school debate on a good day. We should be worried with the AFP investigating anything.Obviously you haven't heard the news there are refugees, people fleeing their homes. Others were buried alive, women taken for sex slaves, crucified and the lucky ones who were captured were just shot. The best solution you and many others would have no doubt would be to start a Facebook campaign, Stop the Burying Alive would no doubt work or Stop the Head Chopping. Why not an anti ISIS march that would work to. Once ISIS realise that people are against them on Facebook and maybe Twitter they would stop.There would be statistically 50,000 less homeless Australians if Labor and the Greens looked out for Australians.When Julia Gillard introduced the Carbon tax she gave ongoing compensation of $500 as an offset. Tony Abbott ignored the offset and claimed the tax was costing people $500. The $60 compensation re the co-payment would go the same way - people would still feel they are paying extra. And when Julia compromised with the Greens because of the unexpected makeup of the Parliament, and broke a policy commitment in so doing, she was called a LIAR. Tony Abbott now has to compromise some of his core policies because of the makeup of the Senate. What should he be called?How many doctors bulk bill? If they do it most only bulk bill for pensioners and those who don't work and have health card cards. Medicare is failing and needs major changes a co-payment does nothing and is only playing around on the edges of a failing system.Slaughter in Gaza. Hardly not even 2,000 people killed in total, most fighting age men. Hardly a slaughter. At least the Israeli army didn't bury people alive, take female Gazians as sex slaves, cut heads off and have their children photographed with them. But anyway obviously some like to live in denial. No doubt you also believe Hamas are nice people who mean no harm to Israel and are only too willing to live in peace as are the people who voted for them. Did you hear about Hamas a week or so ago shooting those who were opposed to them? That was a slaughter twenty or so people lined up and shot. No where is it alleged that the Israeli army has done anything like that.Heretic, complete nonsense. More recent studies have shown pain responses in foetuses well before 20 weeks. Even if what you say is true, so what? Would that make it ethical to kill a quadraplegic just because they couldn't feel pain?So if a women is pregnant with a disabled child consideration must be given to a society that be inclusive of all forms of ability before termination but if a woman decides to abort a perfectly healthy child that is not an issue? Is it ethical to abort a Down's syndrome child the author asks but does not ask if it is ethical to abort a healthy child. One could ask is it ethical to bring a child into the world with medical and health issues whilst perfectly healthy children are not.The old it is the mothers choice only argument but no doubt if the mother wants the child and the father doesn't you would argue, 'He must pay.' Responsibility but no rights. Equality is demanded by females but equality on their terms.I think this article is badly targeted as Dr N's current review is due to his involvement with a non-terminally ill, non- mentally ill patient/person. (I put the slash person in as Dr N says that he was not a patient of his even though he admits to providing medical advice and making a medical assessment of the person's mental well being)

Several people here seem to be missing the point of the article.

The article is showing that assisted suicide is NOT a religious point. That religious organisations have not made any real objections.

And yet in the first dozen comments 
"If there is a god I dont really care what he and his followers"
"Get religion, the do gooders and the conservative politicians "
"What is it to be the Roman Cathaholic, Anglican Church "
Let me rephrase

This is what the article is attempting to show.

Most response's, including those I showed, are not putting up counter points to the articles argument like you have.I think you are giving a lot of people more credit then they're worth.I don't believe religion should be taught at school either. But whose ethics would you want taught and who decides what and isn't ethical? Ethics could just become another method of indoctrination like religion.I don't believe religion should be taught at school either. But whose ethics would you want taught and who decides what and isn't ethical? Ethics could just become another method of indoctrination like religion.I hope any male politician who makes similar comments about females is given favourable treatment by the sisterhood. After all a new standard of acceptability in comments about the opposite sex has been set according to many and what is good for the goose is good for the gander.Hi @markT

Yes, motorists to blame in four out of five serious crashes involving motorists and cyclists.

A study by the University of Adelaide:

http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/south-australia/four-in-every-five-crashes-between-cars-and-bicycles-caused-by-driver-of-car/story-e6frea83-1226581475412

I trust you will now completely rethink your ideas about who is causing the danger on the roads?

A simple name change would have resolved many issues Financial Product Salesperson instead of the misleading name Financial Planner. Make is illegal to use the Financial Planner name which is simply misleading in 99 percent of cases.  Calling finance product salespersons a Finnancial Planner is like calling a new car sales person a Transport Planner. Then people would be aware that they are buying a product from someone as skilled as a used car salesman. It would be buyer aware because that is what you are doing buying a financial product with the associated risks and as we have seen in the past the so called financial experts have no idea with all credit taken when things go well and the market to blame when it goes bad.Of course electricity consumption decreases as our manufacturing decreases. Australia's aluminium producers used to consume about 15% of Australia's electricity just think when they all go even less electricity will be consumed. How good will that be. Just think how much electricity won't be used when Holden, Ford and Toyota stop making cars. It can only get better! Australia saving the planet by ending manufacturing, well in Australia anyway. But at least we can import everything and feel good about it because we won't have any polluting industry and for example any electricity consuming aluminium plants. We can take the moral high ground and announce to the world we have reduced our electricity use.So you are saying that just because someone makes a complaint it must be true or because you accuse someone it is true. What was the version if the driver? Did they say you attacked them? If you weren't happy with the police lack of action you could have gone and seen a solicitor who could have launched a private prosecution. Why is your version of events any more believable than someone else's is the question and why should the police act on what you say if there is no other evidence?I have seen wicked camper vans with all sorts of disgusting things written on them sometimes about males it appears that whoever writes the messages has a sick mind without the intelligence to write anything witty which does not offend. Someone one told me many years ago that only ignorant people swear because they don't know the words to express themselves in any other way. I do find the more recent comments about women extremely offensive and disgusting but I am get tired of this whole misogyny issue. I have often felt like spray painting the sides of the vans myself when I have seen them erasing the disgusting comments directed at both males and females. I don't think the comments have anything to do with misogyny myself just a sick mind and a company ran by a person with a similar sick mind with employees with similar minds as I wouldn't work for a company like that. To me it shows how rude as a society we have become but it is similar to some stickers you see on the back of cars, that are obviously there to offend and are just rude which I have often felt like removing and then others wear t-shirts with offensive comments and think they are funny. This sort of behavior is becoming more common, rudeness, bad language and the use of language to offend others. Wicked campers is just an extreme example of bad behavior, rudeness and ignorance. The really concerning issue is that some think that it is funny to write it and others to drive around in vans with this written on the side. The solution is a can of spray paint and if I see one of the vans with anything I have heard recently about women which are the worst things I have heard of written on the side of these vans I will spray paint it myself. But perhaps the real solution is all of their vans should be spray painted and all their offensive comments erased.Fifteen years of policing and the Woods Royal Commission only confirmed what I was told when I joined, corruption is acceptable as long as you do it with the right people. Politicians, political parties, the legal profession including the judiciary are the right people. Nothing wrong with bribery, drugs or kiddie fiddling when the right people are doing it. Do I believe it will change, no as the most greedy, dishonest group in society the legal profession have infested everywhere with their greed and dishonesty.Rex Jackson. He was even voted in again when the half the truth about his corruption started coming out. What can one say. Spent a few years at Berrima happily making clocks I believe.I really don't think Australia is a homophobic country. I am sure that there are some homophobic people in the community some I understand are homophobic because of issues with their own sexuality that they can't accept but the majority I don't believe really care. Did I think Ian Thorpe was gay? I didn't care but my wife has commented on it and so has one of our friends who made comments about it in the past and also last night but strangely enough my wife has always thought he was a bit that way himself.  I don't care who Ian Thorpe likes sexually. Makes no difference to me. Why he has to come out and tell everyone is beyond me it is no ones business but his. Then again I suppose if he feels he must and makes him feel better. As long as he is happy with his choices that is all that should matter. Making a big issue of someone coming out and announcing they are gay, I believe doesn't help. It is almost like saying I am different and look at me I am a trailblazer coming out. Instead if no issue was made of someone's sexuality and it was just accepted as a normal part of someone's life and no one cared as I am sure many don't, it would be so what, what's the big deal and if it was no big deal and no one cared people could do as they please without any fear of being looked at differently or not accepted, the fear I believe is worse than the reality.Obviously things are getting desperate at the ABC when John Howard is being lauded. But what's even better is all the crocodile tears from all those commenting who are so concerned about he planet. So concerned 12.7 million new mobile phones were purchased last year in Australia. How many people upgrade to the best and latest I-phone every year. Real concerned about the planet. I had a phone for six years and it didn't need upgrading. The sales of sports utility vehicles are increasing every year. Small cars use less fuel and emit less carbon but no concern there by those who purchased a 4wd or sports utility to drive around the city which now account for a third of all car sales. These same people would no doubt complain about Australian workers losing their manufacturing jobs but purchased an imported vehicle as well. What about flying overseas for a eco holiday? Australian Bureau of Statistics 2010 state that 31 out of 100 Australians travel overseas for their holidays and it is increasing every year. So concerned by climate change they hop on a plane. To all those who drive small cars or don't even do that but use public transport or ride a bicycle everywhere, don't upgrade their mobile phone every year or travel overseas on holidays good on you. But all those who drive the big 4WD or SUV, upgrade your mobile phone every year, fly overseas on holidays stop complaining about what others do and start doing something to change your habits which are destroying the planet. I wonder how many of the so concerned commenters fall into the SUV driving, mobile phone upgrading overseas flying concerned activists demanding change feel good crowd. Of course really I suppose it doesn't matter it is all about saying you are concerned but not actually doing something isn't it. Lets all blame Abbott because it is far easier to blame someone else than to take responsibility for our own actions.The lie about renewable energy industry. We don't have a renewable energy industry. The last solar manufacturer ceased production whilst Labor were in government. We have a renewable energy installation industry. Everything us made overseas usually in China imported and installed, installed not made in Australia. Solar panels, windmills all made overseas. Hundreds of thousands or so we were told full time sustainable jobs would be created we were told. Just another lie as industry disappears one by one nothing to do with the carbon tax, the price of electricity or the cost of compliance with environmental legislation.Those on the left complain about inequality. They certainly do but do they put their money where their mouths are? No. I can use an example of a ABC leftie buying a house worth $1.4 million. No doubt correctly described as an 'Old rich white guy.' No doubt one who would be one of the concerned left who attend concerts as well as writing articles about inequality. People like that complain when they could for example buy a house in a cheaper suburb and help others with the their wealth but don't because it is all a pretence and a feel good exercise. No doubt many here will say that $1.4 million is not too much to pay for a house and your not wealthy if you own such a house. But if you are like me worked since 16 years of age lost a house as a result of divorcee, can't afford to buy one,  and now don't own a home, $1.4 million is a lot to spend. I could feel that someone spending even $500,000 on a home displays inequality let alone $1.4 million. Obviously rich people should be paying more tax especially those spending that much on a home. After all wealth is a matter of perspective when you have little, everyone is richer and greedier than you if have that belief. It's true to say that socialists always think that those who have more money than them no matter how much they have, say those with more are the greedy selfish ones but don't look at their own wealth. Concerned about inequality do something about it yourself give up your own wealth to those who have less than you, down size your home, donate what you make, buy a smaller car, forgo that overseas holiday and live a simpler life do your bit to end inequality by handing over what you have.Have you ever heard of hypocrisy? Complain about inequality and demand others hand over their money but hang onto yours even if you have more than needed. If you wish to raise environmental issues. Is it not hypocrisy to complain about climate change but fly overseas ever year for a holiday, upgrade your mobile phone to the latest every year and buy the biggest flat screen TV you can get.  What about those who complain about fracking and the damage to the environment but have no problems driving cars powered by a product from oil which comes from the ground and damages the environment and causes even more damage if spilt when it is transported. I love those who demand change and are so concerned but do nothing themselves obviously that makes me a conservative although one with no wealth.500,000 thousand Chinese killed by the Japanese. Terrible and wrong. Unfortunately many more Chinese were killed by communism in fact millions more. How many of your relatives were killed and do hold the Chinese people, communism and the supporters of communist philosophy responsible for their deaths? Or  if you had relatives in China at that time were they ones they doing the killing because many must have been involved? Or is your anger only directed at the Japanese for what they did and you have no issue with millions being killed in China by the Chinese people themselves in far greater numbers and by their own countrymen which is far worse? Perhaps China and the Chinese should start looking at their behaviour and start to accept responsibility for the millions killed for political reasons.But Abbott didn't laud the bravery of soldiers he repeated the words spoken by Admiral Muir-Head Gould who gave the Japanese sailors who manned the mini sub that attacked Sydney Harbour a full military funeral. If Abbott should have mentioned the atrocities that Japan committed in relation to the sailors shouldn't Simon have also mentioned or acknowledged the millions killed in China for political purposes? If those sailors are to blame for the atrocities their countrymen committed is Stephen also responsible for what his countrymen did to their fellow Chinese and at his funeral should it be said that Simon was a nice man for example but it should be remembered that his fellow countrymen killed millions?I note that the author of this article doesn't even use the words that Abbott used. Why not if it as so bad and offensive unless it wasn't. Abbot repeated the words that Admiral Muir-Head Gould used who also gave the Japanese sailors a full military funeral and was an example of how Australia respected those who fought and died bravely. But of course the Abbott haters are out in force as usual.I disagree.

No empathy is required here.

Are there laws being broken? Then pursue that, don't self harm.
Are you, legally, a refugee? Then you should be allowed in.
Are you, legally, not a refugee? Then you shouldn't be given refugee status.
There are many avenues other then self harm and if you resort to self harm in order to 'persuade' the government then which definition of terrorism should I point you at?

No matter which story you read none of them can say that these people are refugees. 

They are being processed and there is little more we can do at the moment.
I stabed myself in the chest with a cooks knife when I was thirteen. I know what depression is.

There is no evidence that these mothers have been driven mad. The fact that the news articles say that there are a number of people doing this would strongly suggest that it is not depression because depression does not manifest the same way in each person.

And the government cannot run on empathy. It must be a rule of law.

I work in an industry where scientific and ethical decisions fly in the face of each other every day. We don't have the luxury of making decisions based on empathy and I don't think the government does either.

I know people who work in healthcare for the detention centers and it is not uncommon for people to refuse healthcare. We simply don't know enough to know if these people are suffering depression or are manipulating the system. But empathy will not change anything.

You also will note that in my original post I said "if you resort to self harm in order to 'persuade'" not 'that they are resorting to self harm to persuade' as you state in your post.
'If' is the qualifier there. I was not saying they are resorting to self harm in order to persuade I was saying if they resort to self harm in order to persuade.Of course you can but it would be odd to have 10 people all becoming suicidal at the same time.

And your second paragraph is not correct at all. It depends entirely upon the person and every human is capable of overriding instinctive programming if they think the reward is enough. Ordinary people can indeed just 'decide' to commit self harm.Luckily for me I have saved up my airfare and 4000 euros.Most FF voters (myself included) are well aware of their policies. While it is true that there is a large overlap with Liberal policies, for many of us it is issues like euthanasia, gay "marriage" and abortion that are important, where FF take a much stronger line than the major parties.It's a valid point. 

I wish this was made more prominent away from NAIDOC week.

Too many people have the opinion that NAIDOC week is a time for indigenous Aussies to whinge. Making points, regardless of how valid, at this time will be drowned out by racist attitudes.

If the definition is war like circumstances and Australians then this war fits.The sensible middle ground is being lost? It is obvious that the middle ground is an opinion based on the authors and many of those commenting  based very much so on that persons bias one way or another.  One could argue it is only arrogance that someone declares where the middle ground is. Declaring where the middle ground is they are obviously trying to swing debate and government policies to their beliefs by criticising all those who don't fall within their definition of middle. It is just another way of trying to enforce their political views on another by name calling instead of arguing on policies. Who decides what is first class journalism or trashy debate as well is that not a matter of opinion? Or do those who think they know best should decide and tell us what is trashy debate and first class journalism and what we should listen or not listen to and believe or not believe?Sorry but how can you have transparency to the democracy without announcing things to those which may be hostile to Australian interests?

I'm not advocating complete secrecy but you try negotiating the sale of your house when your opponent knows your minimum price and how desperate you are to sell.

There will always need to be secrecy.The situation as I understand it is that an ethnic minority the Tamils wished to create a separate state so they started a civil war that killed 80,000 to 100,000. The Tamils lost and now wish to leave. They weren't able to co-exist wth the Sinhalese so how can they co-exist with anyone else? How do we know that those seeking seeking refugee status aren't responsible for violence themselves if not war crimes? There is even an Australian Tamil Congress in Australia who wish to remember their people who fought bravely in Sri Lanka. Of course they complain about the behaviour of the Sri Lankan government but what about their own behaviour of terrorism, massacres, bombings and ethnic cleansing by the Tamil Tigers. Obviously these fighters should be remembered according to the Australian Tamil Congress and accept no wrong doing on their behalf. Do we really want people in Australia who are unable to leave their ethnic problems and hate behind and wish to bring their issues with them? Unfortunately the Tamils aren't the only ones with these attitudes and maybe we should asses people on whether they can leave behind or not their intolerance. If they can't we should not accept them because they will only bring their problems and racist attitudes with them which they then pass down to their children and destroy our society as they have attempted to do to another.Andrew Thomas you can't be serious!! How can Coalition voters at last election be responsible for what this government is doing? I hate everything the Tories stand for and I didn't believe one lie Abbott told to get elected, but even I and millions of like-minded Aussies, could not have predicted the  extreme policies of this government and the brazenness with which they are implementing them. So what chance did swinging voters have of not getting duped?I doubt those who are members of TWU super who have found out that a unionist was paid over $90,000 for a couple of days work would feel the Royal Commission is a waste of time. Considering those payments and no doubt many more come from their money. Or is it wrong when a corporation is greedy and dishonest but fine for a union to do the same?My point is both sides are as bad as each other. Unions one could argue are worse because they state they are looking after their members but are instead helping themselves to their money. Many just attack one side of politics and yet accept no fault on their side. I personally think that there seems to less and less people in political parties and unions who really are interested in doing anything but helping themselves. Also CEO's and business people are becoming greedier and greedier. The Assistant Treasurer has the same attitude that the unionist did. Both are examples of greedy people who should not hold any public office because they are not fit to do so. I think it is a reflection of the union movement if he keeps his position same as it is a reflection on the Liberal Party if the Assistant Treasurer gets his position back. But let's not forget all political parties appoint their own greedy mates to similar positions.The organised labour movement also have their grubby, greedy fingers in the money as evidenced by the unionist being paid $90,000 for a couple of days work fit TWU super.  He thought there was nothing wrong with those payments when asked. Obviously unions should not be running super funds because when they do they are just as greedy as organisations like the banks and then don't want any investigations into their activities because they are shown up to be just as bad.Wealth Loss Industry more like.I have no doubts a royal commission is needed but just not into the Commonwealth Bank but the whole financial and superannuation sector. All those opposed to the union Royal a Commission have an example of why super funds pay so little when over $90,000 is paid to a unionist for a couple of days work. I have no doubt this greed and abuse of ones position is rampant not just in union super managed funds but all of them. The whole financial/superannuation sector needs to be looked at starting at salaries and commissions paid to the managers, directors and sales people whether any political party, financial provider or union wants it to happen is a different matter altogether.How about now that he has been convicted his victims should sue for damages. That way his continued fame would actually pay his victims.His actions are not his art. 

His actions are criminal and disgusting but that is not his art.

This would be like saying, "Hey someone found a cure for cancer but he's a pedophile so let's not use it."

He is a disgusting man and I am not condoning his actions or his person but removing his art will do nothing.

If you think that other assailants are looking at this thinking "Oh well his art's being taken down better look at what I am doing." you are wrong.

Tag everything with information about him.

"Here is a painting by Rolf Harris, convicted sex offender, musician and artist."

But taking it down does nothing.
Not at all.

You might like to judge art on who makes it but I don't, neither do many others.

I think it is a perfectly reasonable response to say "My child could do that." Statements are all well and good but they have to be reasonable statements. Well thought out and presented.

I despise blue poles and hold no place dear for Rolf Harris' work, in paint or otherwise. I will continue to judge his work as independent of himself. As we all should.

I will not make a judgement on the quality of someones work based on their sex, religion or background. Unless that work directly references those things.

Anyway there have been quite a few studies which have shown that art and entertainment is very important for one's health and well being so how would it be any different to a medical discovery?My post above was actually at Vince by the way. I posted it and then your message showed up...
I do wish abc had a different way of showing who was responding to whom.He has been convicted and is being sentenced. That is your justice right there.

Tell me how has this changed his paintings?

Have they all of a sudden grown with grief? Or is the paint tainted with paedophilic slime?

No. The painting has not changed at all

Judging the quality of someone's work based on the person is simply wrong and holds no dignity. Are you going to judge an author differently if they are male or female?
If someone saves someones life but is also a murderer they  should not be comparable or contrasted or measured against each other. 
One does not wipe the other out. Each person's actions should be judged independently.

The question is not whether Rolf is an artist or a criminal, he is an artist and independent of that he is a criminal.Harris didn't use his victims to make his art, they are two separet things which is my point.

The data from the japanese and germans was at the cost of their victims, so they are not comparable. 

To judge someones work on things other then the merit of their work is repugnant. To hire someone or promote someone because they are a good drinking buddy outside the job, to judge someone a bad writer because they cheat on their taxes, or a poor artist because of theur crimes. His art, artwork and music have not changed, they are still lackluster at best. To take down his art because of his crimes is to judge his work on something unrelated to his work. 
No, never. He is a disgusting criminal who I hope spends a long time away from society. His art I don't like, but that's because I don't like his songs or paintings.
I'm going to try a different approach here.

I an not Christian. I am a sinner.

Does that mean it is morally right for Christians who must, according to the bible, believe I am not a rightious person assess my work as inferior?

People who are saying tear his art down are applying their morals to work which is unrelated to their morals.Not to degrade your situation here but your opinion is justified by your own anecdotal experience. So can I not also refer, anecdotally, to the bloke over in Iraq fighing for ISIS/ISIL previously living in Australia on a disability pension? Or my own mother feigning symptoms to stay on the DSP? It's these people that are bludgers, not people like yourself.To all those blaming Bush, Blair and Howard for all the deaths how many were opposed to the war in Vietnam and proudly announce that to all and sundry? But do they take responsibility after the North broke the ceasefire treaty invaded South Vietnam and the US and Australia did nothing to help and the South the fell to the communist North? Because it is estimated that close to 3.8 million Vietnamese lost their lives due to political violence with about 1.25 million murdered after the war. Are those so critical of Bush, Blair and Howard who opposed the Vietnam war prepared to accept any responsibility for the millions of deaths caused by the communists after South Vietnam fell?We are being told there is a climate catastrophe coming by many but if that is so why don't those who believe it act in a way to stop it. Al Gore flies in a private jet to be by Clive Palmers side 9500 litres of fuel is used it is reported for Al's appearance. Greenpeace fly their CEO around in a plane to attend to work twice a month. How many responding to this article demanding change fly overseas, upgrade their mobile phone every year, have the biggest television available, drive SUV's and yet not only demand change but pretend to care? It seems to me that the whole exercise is really a feel good exercise for those with money to pretend to be concerned but still live their selfish greedy consuming lifestyles.Labor doesn't reject privatisation. It only rejects privatisation in opposition. In NSW for instance Labor privatised rail freight and some track maintenance. The current opposition leader was even involved in an attempt to privatise prisoner transport. Obviously Labor supports some privatisation but that obviously depends on the unions representing the workers. Obviously some unions have more power than others.I don't know any investigators who work for ASIC but I know other investigators who work in other federal government departments. If ASIC investigators are same they do nothing and I mean absolutely nothing. Often encouraged not to do anything because if they investigated and discovered fraud or criminal activity it could embarrass the minister. I have been told that some departments such as Centrelink prosecute all. But others just ignore even major fraud. Home insulation scheme fraud was ignored not to embarrass the government and there is a lot more than that ignored. I don't know what ASIC is, a prosecutor or it just ignores criminal activity to save embarrassment to the government of the day but it seems to do very little.Clive Palmer and Al Gore on the stage together as they say birds of a feather flock together. Two media tarts one the climate change guru who lives in a nine million dollar, twenty room home with eight bathrooms a home all this purchased by a man who supposedly was putting all his profits from his non profit organisation into saving the planet and a wealthy mining magnate seeking media attention at every stage. One idolised by the left and worshipped as a great man trying to save the planet and the other hated for his wealth and the other whose wealth and abuse of resources is overlooked by his worshippers. Both fly everywhere in private jets, living lifestyles and consuming far more resources than anyone has a right too. Says it all really about those who pretend to be concerned about the planet and the wealthy and extremely wealthy people who do nothing for anyone but themselves for own egos and financial benefit. It is really is an inconvient truth that the majority who pretend to be concerned about the planet are just like the pair of them, consume more and more whilst mouthing platitudes about saving the planet and ignoring not only their own over use of resources but their own idols such as Gore.Rugby leagues fans should be the last to laugh and mock. I think I would rather be bitten by a soccer player than have a rugby league player stick his finger up my behind. But I suppose some might be partial to that type of activity and good luck to them I say. But let's not criticise a biter too harshly and his sport. After all there are far worse things that could happen in a game played between adults with strange or to some not so strange, uncomfortable and unpleasant behaviours.Palmer wiil be no worse or better than the majority of politicians elected. A self serving hypocrite except his ego seems much larger than anyone else's. Palmer could easily fit in either the Liberal, Labor or Greens party room meetings and no one would notice any difference as he is just like them all. The senate will operate as usual in its obstructionist way with wheeling and dealing going on to the detriment of the majority and to satisfy the egos of the few. Really it is about time the whole senate was reformed and make it a house of review where it can recommend changes and return legislation but cannot block it because as Paul Keating said it is unrepresentative swill. It woks in the UK why not here? Many will say that that would not be democratic but is it democratic that Tasmania with its population has as many senators as NSW? In my opinion I would rather see a government instigate its own agenda and fall on its on sword as John Howard did with Workchoices and Gillard with a Carbon Tax although one can argue Gillard negotiated with the Greens her own downfall but that's what happens when you get into bed with idiots you end up like them.How about this for a dangerous idea, "Islam is a religion of peace and tolerance." Let's see that debated honestly and freely.I wonder if the people who support freedom of speech in this case support freedom of speech of those like Andrew Bolt, would they support someone to speak who had racist attitudes, did they support Gert Wilders coming to Australia or are they merely apologists for Islam like many from the left who for some reason criticise Christianity to no end but say nothing negative about Islam and criticise and mock those who do?John Howard was Prime Minister from March 1996 to December 2007 and strangely growth in real average income of  the bottom 90 percent rose dramatically even with the introduction of Workchoices in 2005. Who would have known because the Liberals are always at war with poor people according to many. It must have been an accident and nothing to with the Liberals. Interestingly it dropped dramatically in 2009 under Labor whilst the share of income of the top 1 percent rose another accident no doubt because the Liberals only care about the rich whilst Labor cares about the poor.This is just too scary to comtemplate, and scarier still that the bogan masses will never know about it until it hits the fan.It is about all forestry was stopped. The loggers could be retrained as park rangers and tour guides. With our magnificent forests tourists from around the world what fly to Australia to walk in and breathe the fresh air. Real jobs environmentally sustainable full time jobs would be created. Once our forests our saved we could then start on our cities knocking down those three and four bedroom mac mansions and plant even more trees even more jobs would be created planting trees, caring for them and growing them from seedlings. We could then start digging up roads and plant even more trees because we should also stop drilling for gas and oil because of the damage caused and cars well they must go because if we can't drill for oil and gas we can't drive them. Planes wouldn't be able to fly either but that would be no loss. The world would be so much better but I suppose it would make life tough for activists who wouldn't be able to fly around the world telling us how to live. Computers and mobile phones well we could all live without them because mining is wrong and damages the environment so we would have to stop making them. No more upgrades to your I phones Eco warriors but we all have to give something up. Yes it all needs to stop to save us from ourselves.Surely after the revelations in Ireland and Germany and now Australia no one is actually surprised at either the actions of the RC churches or the efforts to trivialize and dismiss them any more. Horrified, ashamed, and determined to prevent it from reoccurring yes - but surprised? - no. 

Participation in religious and related superstitious practice should be limited to the voluntary actions of consenting adults. 
No? Really? A political party did something for political show rather then actual effect?

That's unheard of..... Wait. No the other thing.... Umm what is that..... Oh that's right. 

That's completely common place.

If you think governments do something for a reason other then political favour, either with the voters or industry or etc etc etc.... then you need a wake up call.

Even the NBN. Labor introduced it and focused it's roll out to areas which could gain them votes. And the Libs used it to try and dismantle Labor. If you think either party were doing it with the nation in mind then think again.I disagree.

Nerve centres should have been built in business centres. But not connecting businesses.

Then the businesses should have been made to pay to join onto the nerve centre, as they were going to be the best finantial benefit from the NBN, the money spent on that by business should have been used to expand the NBN.

Finally the government under no conditions should be spending this kind of money to build a new network which they then, more or less, hand to a private company. That's just idiocyYou say you are a Panthers fan......So what do you say about Penrith and it's responsibility to Sandor Earl?  If the Sharks management and coach are responsible then the Panthers management and at least one of their medical staff are equally responsible based on claims by Sandor in his use of peptides in the recovery of a shoulder injury.
I am not a Panthers fan nor a Sharks fan and I too have no time for any drug cheats in the NRL or any other code.  But I do believe that he has been the NRL fall guy in this whole ASADA investigation into Danks.  Is he any more or less guilty than the Sharks players and why is his ban far more lengthy?
I hope so for to long the press has had to much say in the running for governments all over the world creating headlines when there where only rumors, helping parties into power to suit their on agenda and all only to line the pockets of one man most of the time who care little for anyone else and has gone may pasted his used by date.John is outraged at the ABC bias ignoring Labor corruption whilst in power. Those who ignore corruption, do nothing, say nothing are just as guilty as those who are corrupt. Corruption flourishes when those with the power to shine a light on it such as the media ignore it because of their political bias which makes them just as corrupt and responsible as those who are corrupt.Anyone notice that a 'solicitor' is offered a deal roll over and no charges? The legal profession looking after their mates again. Many years of policing taught me that corruption is acceptable as long as you do it with the right people, solicitors, magistrates and judges are the right people.If white people are given probation or excused by the courts that is the fault of the obviously racist judge not the police. Obviously highly educated people are racists too.Didn't Michael Brown commit a robbery shortly prior to be shot? No mention of that in the story. I suppose he wouldn't be the poor black victim that many want him to be. Just like many who wished he was shot in the back running away but that wasn't true either. Perhaps we should wait for the whole story to come out not just one side which appears to be lies such as being shot in the back whilst running away. It's a bit like the George Zimmerman case where an Hispanic man shot a black youth but Zimmerman was described as being white Hispanic because obviously white people are racists but Hispanics aren't."There are more than enough children in Australia to be adopted"

While that was the case decades ago, it's no longer true. With the easy availaility of abortion, unwanted babies are normally killed (about 100,000 per year in Australia alone).Regime change might be good or might be bad. Regime change hasn't worked so well in Iraq. Best do business with the North Koreans and negotiate diplomatically for change. Those concerned about human rights but how could the in a communist country really especially the ones who hold Stalin and or Mao in high regard ycould also start Facebook or Twitter campaigns demanding change, they always seem to do well at least it makes people feel better. The North Koreans could actually be worse off if during the Korean War the Americans had managed to hold the North. If that had happened the North Koreans would have been subjected to the evils of capitalism and have been taken advantage of which is far worse than living in a workers paradise that communism is. Of course many will say that North Korea isn't a communist regime but can't identify a better one. Maybe Cambodia and Pol Pot would appeal to many from the left who would like the idea of returning to a simple life working on farms together in harmony with nature with the odd murder here or there of those who don't agree.North Korea is defiantly a communist country. Just like Russia and Cambodia were and just like China is. Stop living in denial about the worst political system this world has seen. The human rights abuses are the standard communist ideals of control, murder of those who don't do as they are told or might not do as they are told, gulags and a life of luxury for those who are the ruling class. Of course communists deny any country ever was a true communist country because communism results in countries like North Korea, Russia, China and Cambodia with Pol Pot and millions of deaths.This is why we need to have better medical records.

It would not be difficult to have medical issues listed on a website for doners by donation number.

If you did it right and had proper compulsory medical records for all Australians then as they found out medical issues and were diagnosed or tested notations could be made to the website.

All could be completely anon.Yes we do.

Many people have allergies or past surgical procedures which are relevant in the case of an emergency but you don't have the information at hand when someone has been in a car accident.

Associate it with your medicare number and keep names off it. So all the hospital would need would be your medicare number. 

The website can link medicare number with doner number and show the details without actually showing even the medicare number.  

No "ticks" ( as you called them ) required.
Your quotation marks were around individual words not a statement it came across as sarcasm.

My point was about more then the donar information.

Your medical history is important and there are deaths every year because the patient is not aware, or incapable of communicating, their medical past.

So yes we NEED a proper medical database. 
Having the donar information amended to the biological childs page would be easy and safe. There is no reason to believe there would be any issues. 

There is nothing, except public uproar, to prevent the government from publishing your home address, criminal and traffic infringements, HECS/HELP debt, income, tax file number etc

Why do you feel this would be more likely then any of that information?Not at all. 

You are saying that there is nothing to stop them from selling the information. I am calling you out as using a slippery slope fallacy as the government 'could' sell any of the information they have about you.

But they don't for the vast majority of the information they have about you. So you have no reason to fear that they will sell this information.Having the information be voluntary defeats the purpose of having the information at all. As people will forget they have donated or not both to even start a medical record like that.

My point simply is that you are using a single example and using it as a basis for a generalised statement.

It's not saying the boat wont sink. It's saying that less then 1% of boats made this way have any issues. 

Where your are saying 'OMG there was a single sinkage that's it we can't have any more boats they aren't safe.'Mandatory sentencing is terrible. It removes the power from the courts to show leniency to offenders who are sorry for their actions. It is often only after someone has bashed someone senseless, raped someone, molested a child or killed someone that they realise they must change their ways. Often you hear about the truly remorseful apologising in court or writing letters apologising to the victim or in the case of a death the victims family. Obviously these opologies and letters are meant in the most sincere way and really show the contrition of the offender. We need to show compassion towards those who have committed crimes because often they have suffered a deprived child hood where mum and dad sometimes just one couldn't afford to buy everything that they wanted or worse neglected in some terrible way. Others were born with a silver spoon in their mouth and believed they could do whatever they want because of mummy and daddies position and it is only when they do something really terrible that they realise they can't. I feel sad at society when it wishes to impose a lengthy sentence on someone who has committed a crime no matter how bad because society is saying that person is too dangerous and should be locked away for the safety of others. I remember twenty or thirty years ago a terrible case of a man with HIV who had a lengthy criminal history walked into a service station to commit a robbery and shot and killed the attendant when he went to court the judge sent him to gaol for ten years, I was very moved by the judge who cried because he said the offender would probably die in gaol and he was giving him a death sentence. How terrible it must have been for the judge to send someone to gaol knowing they were going to die there. It was obviously distressing to the judge because he cried some truly insensitive people commented that he never cried about the service station attendant but that just shows their ignorance and lack of compassion.  Locking people away in gaol doesn't solve any problems how often do we hear of prisoners fighting and assaulting each other if not murdering another whilst in gaol. Gaol is not safe with all those criminals confined together in one place and is too dangerous an environment for anyone. Obviously the solution is intensive counseling, understanding that some just like to go out and steal, assault, rape and murder others that it will take time to change their ways so the odd set back now and again has to be accepted and compassion for those who have trouble controlling their behavior so that they are given a chance to change their ways.The author is concerned about what affect this court case will have on Firth. Many suffer from some sort of mental disorder where they state they are going to commit suicide but don't and have no intention of ever doing so. It is all about seeking attention from family, police, ambulance and hospital staff. If Firth was so mentally ill and suicidal one could ask why is he still here after being charged and going to court on top of the authors concern of being described as selfish and reckless was so distressful? How does he feel now? Having dealt with many like Firth who state they are going to kill themselves seeking attention he would have loved the court case, the media attention and being cast as a victim. Now he will become a nobody again and the attention seeking will start again. These people don't care about the harm, inconvenience or waste of time used by their attention seeking, it is all about them. I have no doubt Firth has no care for the harm caused to those who attended his home. Strangely the author states concern about Firth being described as reckless and selfish but does not mention anything about him being distressed about the injuries to those who attended. I myself believe there should be a do not attend register for police and ambulance. Firth should be on it and if he really wants to commit suicide let him, he was not and is not worth one person being injured to save him.I think you are just trying to make excuses for your attitude of hatred towards police. It is obvious that you see all police as brutes who enjoying hurting others.  Do you suffer similar attitudes of dislike towards people of different cultures and backgrounds or does that ignorance and discrimination only apply to police? I believe Firth should be on a do not respond list and you should be on one too. If you ever get attacked or any of your family members defend yourself and them and see how easy it is. I am sure you would be single handily able to control violent people, disarm knife wielding offenders and convince armed offenders to give up their weapons with your calm and measured reasoning skill in the heat of the moment. Oops sorry you can't even control your keyboard. May I suggest  if your car is stolen or house broken into being one of the 2 percent of the population with intelligence solve the crime yourself. Don't call the police so that there is no chance the person who attacks you, broke into your house or stole your car is hit or Tazered by those police brutes.Defining a rich person is easy as many here display, anyone who has more than them especially if that person is not seen as being from the left side of politics. Wealth is good when they have it or their fellow socialists have it but anyone else they are just greedy and selfish.Council elections are different to state and federal elections and don't compare. Councils should be providing local services if someone lives within that council area or owns property and pays rates why shouldn't they be allowed to vote? After all if I own property and pay rates to a council is it not fair that I have some say regarding who determines where and how my rates are spent even if I don't live there? Unfortunately some councils wish to involve themselves in politics outside of their role instead of emptying bins, maintaining parks, cleaning streets, repairing pot holes and collecting stray dogs. I suppose if some think it is unfair that those who pay rates vote in two three council elections because  they own two three properties or more perhaps if you own multiple properties you decide which council you pay all your rates to instead of multiple councils and only vote once. That would be fair because the voter and rate payer gets to decide who represents them and how their rates are spent and only pay the council where your property is located for basic services such as emptying bins.


We need to be realistic about this; switching to renewable energy (for example) requires quite a bit of financial leverage.

The Abbott govt's priorities are completely out of order, but as this article notes, people are finally starting to realise that the govt has a structural cashflow problem which adjusting the priorities won't fix.

If we're being deprived of tax revenue by these tax havens, that IS an environmental issue, because even if the carbon price were to return, a major shift in our energy mix will require public funding. End of story.

Increasing taxes is politically dangerous so the tax evasion issue is a very safe, and effective, solution to missing revenues which the G20 would be an excellent forum to address.I agree with you Rae i am also not a communist or socialist but it is wrong that someone thinks they are worth that much. It is unfair, unjust and not equitable. How could one person be worth $5 million a year? When she leaves the bank will still continue doing business and make the same profit no doubt without her there. CEO's are overpaid. If she started the bank up with he own money and built the business up to what it is today I would have no issue but all she has done is turn up and run a business with no risk to herself.We need quotas I believe to increase female involvement in certain occupations but also for men as well. Nursing, teaching and child care are all female dominated. We need to get more men into teaching, nursing and childcare. I suggest free training for childcare courses and free university for men if they become teachers to encourage their involvement. Priority must go to men for all positions until we have at least 40  percent of all those occupations filled by men no matter if women are more inclined for the positions or better qualified. Equity must be achieved out of fairness to men the same as demanded for women.I dream of Australia where no one identifies themselves by their religion, that religion plays none or only a little part in society maybe an hour a week when some wish to pray but then the rest if the time it stays where it belongs in the place of worship and where no one feels the need except maybe in their place of worship to dress in different clothing that identifies themselves as being of one religion or not. Just imagine if everyone was just happy living here and ignored their past, religion and current world problems how much better off we would be. Just imagine how much fear, hate, xenophobia and conflict would disappear without religion if only those coming here could change, if only.My understanding of this particular set of circumstances is that although he does not meet the definition of a refugee he may still be 'owed protection' under a different rule set and visa condition.

I find it interesting the the author specifically references the definition as being persecuted for "reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion" but does not once reference how he fits into one of those groups.

I have no doubt his life was a risk. But just because your life is at risk does not mean you are a refugee, and it is not just refugee's which are owed protection. 

Could he have applied under a different protection system?In answer to your questions.

- Irrelevant according to the refugee convention
- 'He' did not pay any, 'he' would have financed bribes
- Irrelevant according to the refugee convention
- Irrelevant to any point really. Not every country even provides identity documents for all of it's citizens
- That probably would have been told to the interviewers when he got into the country. Though the smuggler wouldn't have used his or her's real name.
- Irrelevant to any point really why even ask?
- Irrelevant to his claim of refugee. 
- Irrelevant and to the second part client privilege. Don't ask questions you aren't legally or morally allowed to have the answer to.
- There are many more options then just refugee or queue jumper. Even if he is not a refugee he could be 'owed protection' under any number of other acts, agreements or laws.- You might like to check. The convention only uses the word safe once and the word first twice. None of these times are in relation to when someone 'must' claim asylum. I think you are referring to the article about 'good cause to be present' Article 31. This article does not require them to stop at the 'first safe' nation. Nor does any other of the act.

- It is incredibly unlikely that the person hiring the smuggler is going to bribe people separately to the payment made to the smuggler. If they could do this then why hire the smuggler at all? Secondly why should Ducktagnan be entitled to this information? He cannot do anything with it and it would have been assessed by immigration.
He has no right to this information nor capability of doing anything with it it is therefore irrelevant.

- Answered above Article 31, to which I believe you are referring, does not have this condition.

- Once again this would have been assessed in the entry interview by immi and is irrelevant to Ducktagnan as he has no right to this information nor capability of doing anything about it.

- Once again as above.

- Which lawyer is something 'they' (immigration) need to know. Ducktagnan does not and once again he cannot do anything with said information so it is irrelevant.

When I said irrelevant I meant these things are irrelevant in the context of Duck's question "I've asked these questions before, with no response, so I'll ask them again."

I was not saying these things are irrelevant to the claimant's claim, simply irrelevant to Duck.

And to Duck it really is quite a pathetic argument to say 'You must be a refugee advocate.' when it was you who couldn't muster a legitimate question.

I am not a refugee advocate and if what this story has said is correct he has no claim to refugee status under the convention. He does have claim to other protections though this would not result in citizenship.Reading these comments one can also see a good deal of "provincial reflex".

I read the other day that China is subsidising the Chery EQ tp less than half its cost price. China seems to be the only country that actually knows what it's doing.Reinhard, Australia has NEVER been the #1 per-capita emitter, not even close. Why do you keep repeating this dishonest statement when the actual data is easy to find?The consumer upgrades their mobile phone and laptop every year to the latest and greatest, buys bigger and bigger televisions, notice more and more  4wd's and SUVs on the road all consumer driven as is the growth in overseas travel. Everyone is really, really concerned about climate change on Twitter, Facebook and the Drum. It's just like saying everyone is really concerned about Australian jobs but buy a car made overseas it's the same thing. Meaningless words all said to feel good, sums up all those complaining about climate change and nothing being done by government because they don't want to stop buying a mobile phone every year, going overseas on a holiday or give up their SUV because someone else has to do it.Please stop pretending this issue is inconsequential, commenters. For sex workers this is not a voting issue- this is a matter that affects our livelihood. For some of us, it can be a life or death issue. The Swedish model leads to increased violence, decreased income, children being taken from families, loss of housing, etc. etc. We are talking about real people, real lives, not just policy platforms. This isn't a political game.Warning... Spoiler! Let's see if I've got the plot right. Humans, descendants of those who escaped the demise of Earth and colonized a new world in a far away galaxy, constructed a wormhole near Saturn in our solar system so that their ancestors could escape the demise of Earth? Hmmm. (But I enjoyed the movie despite the time-travel paradox!)I took my 10 year old boy to this. He loves all things science and the stars and was able to dream big dreams after watching this moving. For him it was his '2001' experience and I think this is what matters. He wants to learn more than ever so to the moving makers I say "job done!"That's because he was a Republican. If he was a Democrat loved like Clinton and Obama by the left he would have.Socialisim an evil miserable system still loved by many lefties who dream of a one party socialist state was there for all to see in the stark contrast between east and west Germany. Stalin the idol of the left killed many more than Hitler yet many still in Australla during and after the war supported not only communisim but also Stalin. It is hardly surprising that so few have commented on this story because deep down they were sickened by their system of control they wish to inflict on everyone collapsed after causing so much misery. North and South Korea also examples of a socialist state are also examples of two systems of government but of course many will state Korea isn't a socialist country and neither was the former USSR. Unfortunately there are many in Australia who have similar views to Stalin and Pol Pot and would only be too willing th dispose of their class enemies as is seen by the bile that that speak and write.Just a quick point.

The 'chaff bag out to sea' incident was not about sexism in any way shape or form.

It was expressed by Jones towards both Gillard and Brown equally.

It was used by many people to 'show' that there is sexism against Gillard when in fact it was a horrible comment against one woman and one man.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me. It could have been worse those protesters could have attacked Parliament House assaulting security and police, forced their way inside and then smashed up the inside of Parliament House up like the progressive side of politics did when John Howard was Prime Minister. Could you imagine the outrage from the progressive side of politics if that had happened. What were the protestors mocking called the Convoy of Incontinence?  Of course John Howard was called names and Tony Abbott was referred to as the Mad Monk and Wing Nut in comments allowed on The Drum. Comments were also made about Abbott wearing speedos. All these comments were allowed on the ABC Drum by the moderators until Julia Gillard was called Juliar and complaints about name calling were made by the progressive side of politics. It wasn't respectful they said. The same progressives had t-shirts made with offensive words expressing their opinion of Abbott as Prime Minister.  Comments about Abbotts ears, mad monk and speedos only stopped when the progressives decided to try and pretend to take the moral high ground. Of course it is fine to call a male names and mock his swimming attire but you can't do that for a female who is on the left because they are so precious and must be treated with respect. If you can't take it you shouldn't dish it out and many progressives love dishing it out but cry like babies when it's thrown back at them.NZ can increase the GST because the people see that they are getting value for money. In AU it's very different. Australians don't see that they are getting value for money. We see money being wasted on corporate welfare, purchasing of expensive planes that we simply don't need, submarines that have never worked and are useless for AU defence needs. We see the rich being given handouts in the form of negative gearing and super tax breaks. We have no faith at all that our leaders will behave in a manner befitting adults. It's really obvious why Australians don't want to pay more tax.Obviously what is needed is that John Key goes to Iraq and speaks to ISIS to resolve their issues, then off to Israel to solve the issues on the West Bank, he could stop Irans nuclear programme easily with his measured words, next off to Japan to stop whaling the list is endless of world problems that need solving. A man so clever and eloquent could easily solve these problems as John Keys so obviously is. The only problem is that those whom he is talking to might not feel the same.  But who cares this is the idealistic world of Barrie Cassidy where you don't actually do anything you just have to say the right words. In actual fact it is better not to do anything because you are criticised if you do something because it might not work out, but if you do nothing and give lectures you are idolised as an intellectual with superior knowledge and wisdom. In Barry Cassidy's and his followers world an example would be those lecturing about the evils of domestic violence yet when they witness domestic violence occurring they do nothing, do not get involved, because they might have to use violence to stop it, two wrongs don't make a right, the one committing the violence might be a marginalised member of society who really is the victim and don't call the police because it could make the situation worse. But of course they can still moralise about the evil of domestic violence and more should be done to stop it. NZ really is a world leader in standing up for.... And taking action to prevent .... Well who knows but because they do nothing but speak they are seen as mature.There are actually companies such as Heinz moving their production to New Zealand because of the utopia and beacon of light of lower wages. Just ask any New Zealander how much lower their wages are and that is shy many come here.This is an opinion piece.

It is not the ABC's job to police peoples opinion pieces.

If it is factually incorrect then point that out in your response to it but the ABC editorial staff should not be fact checking third party opinion pieces.I think it's difficult.

I think it is difficult for a lot of reasons.

To start with people can, and have, been punished for causing birth defects and mental disorders/developmental disorders on an unborn child when they have beaten the mother.

If this can be the case in law then you must, under reasonable expectations, expect that this can then be applied to the parents of the child. 

Further it opens up a whole heap of other issues. The Father could, after this case, sue the mother for costs of medical care in raising the child as she is already found culpable of the damage which has been inflicted.

Please not I am not saying this is right (morally), just applicable (legally).

I do agree that someone should have full control of their own body, within the law (I state this because you shouldn't be allowed to access and use illegal substances just because 'it's your body'). But along with that comes responsibility, the difficult question is where and how to draw the line.

Women can drink and should be able to if it is their choice when they are pregnant. But are their actions capable of being held against them later by the child who has been damaged by those actions?
We should not change the way women are allowed to use their body. But are they responsible?We should mind our own business. The west should build a fence around itself and let others do what they want on their side. Trade can still happen but the movement of people stops for any reason as does interfering in the affairs of those on the other side for any reason.If America gets involved they are criticised if they don't get involved they are criticised. Best thing is for America and the west is to never get involved in the Middle East but to merely say things like, "This is wrong. How terrible. I feel for the people" or similar then you can be seen as caring and concerned but actually do nothing. It is a policy that works for so many.The AFP aren't missing in action for just the coalition they have also been missing for labor as well. I don't believe that it is intentional. The AFP are just missing all the time. The AFP are a called plastics or cardboard cut outs by state police because they are useless always have been useless and are well known for being useless.I long for the day when we can just treat people as people. When people are not judged on race, colour, religion or their sex. Unfortunately many groups are opposed to that and many feminists fall into that group.Australians vote every day on their belief in climate change. They vote by buying bigger and bigger cars, bigger and bigger houses, travelling more and more overseas, buying bigger televisions and buying more and more consumables. They vote by their actions and just mouth platitudes about the need to do something about climate change. Demanding action on climate change for the majority is a feel good exercise and they do nothing their change their ways although demanding others do. It is just a trendy feel good cause.I am not a scientist. But it is obvious to me you can't keep burning fossil fuels without some affect on the planet. But what I object to is the fear mongering and misleading predictions that have been made. It is like the boy who called wolf. Those fear mongering and making wild and ridiculous predictions have caused the damage to the debate and the taking if sensible action. Also those who want to take money from one and give to another to cover the cost of action have turned a reduction in carbon into a socialist system. The scientists and the left side of politics have a lot to blame for the misuse of science to push a political agenda.You said a fuel excise and raised GST were inevitable but made no case as to why they were inevitable. I can't see any reason the market should be skewed by having a selective fuel excise (or any fuel excise for that matter). Better management of the money would mean that GST is fine. Do we REALLY need those expensive fighters - the answer is no. See I just saved billions for the taxpayer.This is their ABC so it is definitely not seen as double standards. Just imagine if Tony Abbott behaved in the same way it would be dragged up all the time like his past is.The gutter of cheating, lying, abusive and racist comments was created by Nova Peris herself and the Murdoch press merely reported it in the public interest.It is actually greed, greed on behalf of your friend so he can have more money himself. But it is the same greed that many have who go overseas for the cheap holiday or buy a cheap car made overseas. The same same greed for cheaper wages by the employer and cheaper goods by the consumer is what is closing down and has closed down Australian businesses. There will be no up heaval because nearly everyone has the same greed more for less and dam the consequences.Jonathon Green pretends to be concerned about growing inequality. Where was his concern when he purchased his inner city Melbourne home for 1.4 million. Jonathon could have purchased a cheaper hone on the outskirts of Melbourne and made a sizeable donation to a charity to reduce the growing inequality which he is part of. Jonathon could also take a reduction in his ABC salary to something more akin to the average Australian wage to show his passion to reduce inequality in society as well but can't see that happening either. If only those doing the complaining would take action themselves.If many in society didn't over value their worth and demand so much there would be more to spread around, how is it fair that someone is paid $640 a week which is the minimum wage and others three, four and more that? Why do many believe that they are should be paid double, triple and more what someone else does? Yes if they work longer hours, fair enough but it is the rate of pay that is unjust. The arrogance of those with an university education for instance believing that they should not only get a free education but be paid much more than those without shows what is wrong with society. Greed, self importance and arrogance. Taxation does not resolve the inequity. What needs to happen is a reappraisal of everyone's wages and the people earning more should have theirs reduced as they are being paid more than they are worth. Of course many well paid people who have big homes, drive flash cars, eat out at flashy restaurants voice similar concerns to Jonathon but it is all a pretence when really they are just greedy, selfish, filled with their own self importance and arrogant. They are usually jealous to of others wealth no matter how much they have, complaining about inequality.I am for all free university education with one caveat all those who have a free education only receive the minimum wage because after all those on the minimum wage paid for their free education. Education also disadvantages those who aren't't very intelligent so why should those lucky enough to be born with intelligence have an advantage over others who aren't. It is a common complaint i read on the Drum about those been born to wealthy parents being unfairly advantaged so it is only fair that it should apply to those who are lucky enough to be born with intelligence usually because their parents were intelligent. All forms of social disadvantage should be tackled not just wealth, intelligence or lack of it precludes many from a successful 
Life and why should someone lucky enough to be intelligent have more opportunity and be able to earn more?Social co-operation and mutual obligations. So the lucky ones born intelligent get the better jobs can afford to buy the homes closer to the cities whilst those with less intelligence and lower paid jobs get pushed to outskirts of the cities reducing their children's educationally and work opportunities.  Social co-operation and mutuall obligation should mean those who receive the benefit of a free education repay it by working for the minimum wage. The falsehood of paying more in tax deceives the truth that they still have more disposable income and those on lower incomes have to pay more for the services they need which the higher paid have more access through a higher wage. Inequity and greed in action by those demanding others pay for their education so they can earn more and be paid more than those without. 
The so called intelligent have been doing a great job haven't they.Free education and free medical which would be cheaper because academics, doctors and nurses would be on the minimum wage the same wage as everyone else. Equity in society we are all paid the same whats wrong with that? No advantage to anyone through the good fortune to be born with wealthy parents or intelligence.Whitlam didn't introduce free health care he just re-instated it nationally.  Queensland had free healthcare up to the introduction of Medibank. Free healthcare was introduced nationally after the second world and in the 50 and 60's charges were reintroduced in all states but Queensland. Whitlam should be recognised for reintroducing a national scheme but he certainly did not introduce free medical care to Australia.If all those concerned Greens gave up their Suv's there would be less congestion on the roads and we wouldn't need new roads. But alas it is much harder to actually do something than say something.Something else to thank John Howard for. John Howard also reduced my child support payments which allowed me to eat, drive a car and pay rent when my ex wife gave up work and went on the single mothers pension increasing my payments to an amount where I could not pay my bills and had to declare bankruptcy. I have hated Labor Hawke and Keating ever since paying child support  always will and will never vote for Labor again. Any male paying child sport should thank Howard for reducing their payments and blame Labor never voting for them.  Child support is an example of socialisim in action he who works us screwed for every cent while she who sits on her bum gets more and more and the harder he works the more he pays. If only Howard had never been voted out we would have a massive debt thanks to Kevin and Julia whose political philosophy is the same as the architects of child support screw the person who works and give it those who do nothing. The fuel tax is now being re-introduced to pay for Labors philosophy of spending and spending without considering where the money comes from or who is going to pay it back. If only we could make those who vote for socialisim pay for it by increasing their taxes. We should have a voluntary system where those true believers can volunteer to pay more for their fellow man. How many volunteers would there be none I bet as a socialist believes only those with more money than them are rich no matter how much the socialist has. Thanks to Kevin and Julia someone has to pay for that $1,000 hand out and all that other spending one way or another.It's all about the fees, the legal fees. Morals and social values do not buy the flashy car or office and the wealthy lifestyle the legal profession seeks.Chomsky did and the evidence is easy to find when you search. Chomsky being a communist/socialist supported communists and disputed that the Cambodian genocide took place and even stated that it should be compared to France after liberation. Chomsky was also a supporter of Mao who killed who knows how many millions in China.I am all for a more inclusive society. Let everyone abandon any type of religous clothing except when they are attending places of worship. That will instantly remove any feeling of seclusion from those not wearing it and those who used to wear it will not look any different to others in the community and won't be secluded by their clothing.It will take years to put this place back together? So you are saying that Australia changed overnight with the election of the Abbott government, that people suddenly all became different changing their attitudes, morals and values  that Australia ended as we know it and it will take years to be repaired. Whose the fear monger now?Barry talks about peddling fear. Well the ABC has been peddling fear in Australia in relation to Muslims and how they are supposedly treated. It is obviously in the ABC agenda to spread fear about how Muslims are being treated badly in Australia. But where are the stories on the ABC about video Muslim Hate in Australia a Social Experiment which showed ordinary people saying something when a Muslim is being abused? The media always peddles fear and the ABC does the same. That is how they entice their readers or watchers and how they try to push their political agenda just as Barry is pushing his anti Abbott political agenda now. Does the ABC ever broadcast good news stories where for instance someone helped someone, someone went to some else's aid, someone stopped something happening. someone did something nice for someone else? As the case in the Muslim Hate in Australia a Social Experiment where ordinary people stood up and said something? Occasionally but the good news stories are outweighed by the bad or the story is presented in its worst possible light or even ignored when it does not suit the journalists view of the world. The world and Australia isn't all bad and if more focus was placed on good stories instead of the bad or the positive aspect of a bad situation such as a situation where something happened but people have come to help and assist. If the story was more directed to the positive than the negative we might all feel better about ourselves, Australia and the world. It might even encourage more people to stand up and do or say something when something bad is happening. But unfortunately the Barry's of this world would have to change their attitudes and that is not going to happen because Barry can't see that he and the ABC are part of the problem.By your logic we can stack extra years onto any conviction where the law has become harsher over time - say, drugs. It's a part of their sentence now so why not?

It wasn't a part of their sentence then, it shouldn't be retroactively applied now.I have just spared a moment to look at the link supporting the assertion that "global health academics write about 'WHO's crisis of leadership'".  It's not clear from the article that Mr Berg has read it, or perhaps has misunderstood it.  Ditto the article about its irrelevancy, which concludes that it's understaffed and underfunded. No doubt WHO could have done better, but Mr Berg's random cherry picking of vaguely related articles does nothing at all to support that thesis.If the emails are so bad that the professor has been stood down. Why wasn't the person or persons who received them if members of the university also stood down for not reporting them? After all have they not condoned the behaviour by saying nothing for two years. One can only wonder why those emails have now been released when they have been created over a two year period and why not before. Obviously there are ulterior motives for their release and it can only be to discredit the professor who obviously is not an appropriate person to be a professor teaching others and reflect badly on not just the professor but all those concerned who also lack the moral ethics the professor lacks.I would appreciate it if this behavior was called as it is rather the referring to racial stereotypes.

The behavior of childish baffoons.

Not boy's games.
The question you should be asking is why news outlets like Fairfax, ABC and The Guardian are exempt from this 'critical thinking'.
Right. So your point is everyone has something to hide.

No.

I look at porn, deal with it.

People are allowed to have an abortion if you are not involved it does not involve you, deal with it.

If my partner asks how much I spent on a gift I will tell them the truth.

Countless other, supposedly, things to hide I have been presented with by other people and it's rubbish.

I have nothing to hide.

Do I agree with the laws. No.

But don't make the assumption that everyone has something to hide. That is a weak argument against a real issue.Private is not 'Something to hide'
It's something others should respect.And the government can't get a warrent because they are curious about your sex life so your point is irrelevant. 

It's not semantics at all.Twelve months ago I went to ANU for work. Parking was a problem. All those concerned about climate change obviously love their cars. I wonder do the academics who made this decision have reserved parking spots for their cars? One could easily argue with Canberra's network of bicycle lanes there is no need for anyone to drive a car. Especially those so concerned about climate change. I have seen some but certainly not a majority of students cycling to uni perhaps the academics could start leading by example.I was heart broken when I perused my friends daughters high school history book when I found out this Aboriginal children are the most loved children in the world. Little did I know until I read that that my parents did not love me as much as Aboriginal parents love their children. If that is not indoctrination in someone's political ideology I don't know what is. The whole curriculum from what I have heard is filled with similar political ideology as another friends daughter had to write an essay on what is was like as a refugee in a detention centre and how the government could make it easier for refugees. The curriculum might have been written by experts but carefully selected experts to present the world in a left wing view. Of course some might argue that education should be designed so students are aware of history for instance and can make their own decisions based on research but the left side of politics hates independent thought, a view other than theirs, you either agree with it or you are belittled and mocked and in the case of education you just fail.What is the definition of " Employed" according to ABS?Superannuation was introduced to Australia to replace the aged pension for a very good reason. Demographics have dictated that people must work longer or support themselves in retirement. Presently with both superannuation and the aged pension in place people are spending thier superannuation on a home to live in so they can still qualify for the aged pension. Being asset rich still qualifies you for the aged pension. This loophole also exists with the New Start Allowance in that a single person can have up to $350,000.00 in cash and assets and still qualify for the allowance. When will it be mandatory that Australians must first exaust their own incomes before asking for benifits. This behaviour seems very natural to me. Would you ask your neighbour to give you his car if you had a luxury car in your driveway? 

It appears the pension will be another social benefit society will lose along with other luxuaries such as free University, and eventually to be I'm sure free public education. This is ok because they are luxuaries that not everyone is entitled to in a country that can not supply it to everyone. However I feel we should also lose the title "lucky country" because it appears that other northern European countries can provide these luxuries to their citizens. This I feel is what makes a lucky country, when a person can rise above his/her socio-economic status through education. Einstein started as a patterns clerk, imagine the loss to the world if a pattern's clerk could not afford the level of education needed to be a great Mathematician.I am both scared and fascinated by this piece.

"Control Orders allow a court to place restrictions on a person's life without them being convicted of an offence."
I don't honestly know how you can comfortably support something like that; how you can see it as anything other than a step towards 1984 and V for Vendetta.
It's worse than that though. You see that, AND you see the no-go zones clause, and the new laws that allow ASIO to spy on any computer within a network (which, funnily enough, would be anyone connected to the internet) as well as fuzzily detailed data retention plans, and the government's tendency to ignore important UN conventions on human rights, and the government's overall lack of transparency.
You see all of these things and your response is "Sure, if I feel safer, why not?"

I guess we're just different people, but I don't like that we're heading towards a society once relegated to science fiction novels. To each their own I guess.

Even being a non practicing Catholic I am getting sick and tired of the constant attacks on the Catholic Church. All this negativity just makes things worse, isolating Catholics from the community it could even cause Catholic extremism which could end in violence and terrorism. All those critics of the Catholic Church would be to blame for any violence that occurs. After all any critics of another religion get accused of the same thing and we must tip toe around and not offend or insult them yet the Catholic Church is a target for all and sundry. Perhaps if Catholics and Christians generally became more like and acted like the believers of the religion of truth and tolerance and would rise up, protest and worse when their religion is criticised  their would be less critical comment about them. Easy to be critical of a religion when it and it followers don't act violently but many especially from the left and arts don't dare criticise or mock any religion other than a Christian religion. Of course that is not to condone the behavior of the Catholic Church which is one of the reasons I am a non practicing Catholic but to comment on the double standards of the critics of the Christian religions but support the religion of peace and tolerance and its supporters no matter what. 
I don't know what the death rate is from footy accidents - but suicide is the 14th leading cause of death, 10th for males. Of course people are free to take the comparison with a footy injury a little too far - as some above sadly have. Like all good metaphors it highlights one point, the stigma associated with mental illness. Apart from an occasional tragic death, I don't know how many people have died from footy accidents, but luckily for me (and not for want of a couple of attempts) I'm not one of the suicide statistics. Depression and other mental illnesses kill people. And for those of us who don't die, loosing a marriage, career, home and so on is not uncommon. I like the metaphor of the footy game - it highlights the stigma that still haunts mental illness. But last time I checked not many people who cued up at the hospital with their football injuries were to find their way into a morgue.Part of me is pleasantly surprised by Abbott.

Saying he finds them confronting but it is not the government's place to police clothing.

The other part of me thinks he should have just said the latter half.

The PM however is entitled to his personal opinion. Pushing personal opinion on government (which is what I feel lambie is doing) is wrong.Why should there be special treatment for certain religions? ANYONE who wants to enter parliament (or airport etc) wearing an identity-obscuring head covering should have to remove it right there and then. Don't like it? Don't try to enter a security-sensitive area. Don't try to make the rest of us pay for your lifestyle choices by employing extra staff.Oh, and nuns don't need to remove their head coverings, as they don't obscure their face / identity.Leafygreens, we're talking about head coverings that obscure the wearer's face. Not sure why you bring up the hijab - no one is talking about banning that.More poor Muslim stories where they are the victims of intolerance. I haven't heard of any Muslims being stabbed in Australia like the two police in Victoria. I haven't heard any stories of non Muslims planning terrorist attacks against Muslims like Muslims in Australia have. But we of course hear from Muslims themselves stories about being abused because they are Muslims. Didn't one Muslim woman state that a policeman forcibly removed her burqua which was an outright lie and luckily for the policeman and the community was recorded by the camera in the police vehicle. So we know that even though Muslims wear burquas for religious reasons telling lies is obviously acceptable so how many others are telling lies about being abused and spat at? If Muslims want to experience real discrimination they should go live in an Islamic country and tell everyone that they are a Christian or better still converted from Islam to Christianity, or are homosexual and then they can experience true discrimination. The burqua doesn't do anything to create social cohesion, serves no purpose and should be banned. The burqua is the ultimate symbol of  Islam the most violent and intolerant religion in existence that we would be better off without. If the burqua is worn for religious reasons one can only come to one conclusion that those supporting it and wearing it have of those who don't wear it and we would be far better off without them in society. If the burqua must be worn go to an Islamic country and live there amongst your own kind not with others whose views, beliefs are so different to yours that you can not live in harmony with them. The burqua is worn only by those who are the most religious and as we have seen throughout the world the most religious Muslims are the most violent, least accepting of any other religion, the most hateful of diversity, the most bigoted and intolerant people in the world.Religion is wonderful isn't it. Are you one of the many who love to criticise Christian religions but Islam is beyond reproach? I personally don't like much about any religion and wish we could have a world without it. The constitution should be changed religion should not be allowed to preach hate and division. Someone a little brighter than you might realise that religion is dangerous when taken to extremes.The bombing of Russell Street Police Headquarters had nothing to do with a religion and was not done for a religious purpose. I have had a muslim nieghbour who lived behind me whose wife did not wear a scarf, he was religious, told me that he did not believe in woman wearing scarfs, his wife did not go to the mosque with him and he did not force her. He was Turkish. I made the mistake one day of asking him about problems in Turkey between the Sunni's and Shiites. He was upset about the whole issue and quite angry. He told me that if his daughter bought home a man who said she had to wear a scarf on her head he would throw him out of the house. He was strongly opposed to head scarfs of any sort. He told me it is not needed.  His nieghbour was also a muslim and his wife did not wear a scarf, his son who was an adult and although nominally a muslim was not religious, married a non muslim wowan who didn't wear a scarf and the Islamic religion was not forced on her. Not all muslims are the same. The muslims whom I have been friendly with are opposed to head scarfs of any sort and are critical of many within their own religion.  There is no need for any type of scarf to be worn by any muslim. I was raised as a Roman Catholic but do not go to church and dislike the Catholic Church for many reasons. Am also a 'racist' because I dislike the Catholic Church? Or is it alright to criticise the Catholic Church but not Islam? I thought that the many had grown up to accept that religion is divisive and intolerant. Some religions are worse than others. The Catholic Church has changed because it had to because people would not accept its intolerance. Muslims need to start looking at their religion its divisiveness and intolerance. I can only wonder why so many like to critiicise Christians and Christian churches but support Islam whole heartedly. The world will only improve when people are prepared to criticise what is wrong without being called names such as 'racist' instead of arguing on the facts of the issue. But it is easier to call someone names than have an argument or discussion based on facts.Exactly the same as anyone else covering their face - they should remove it when required to prove identity.We might not have banned churches because of the sexual abuse but I for one am disgusted with the Catholic Church for its behavior in my opinion condoning the abuse by taking no action against those who were doing it and moving them to other parishes where they could abuse others. That is one of the many reasons that being raised as a Catholic I have little if anything to do with the Catholic Church and I certainly won't be inflicting religion onto my children. Perhaps the world might be a better place without religion who knows/ But how do you know that your nieghbour wears a hijab because she wants to? Does she have any choice and was she brain washed as a child into believing in religion? If she was brainwashed as a child into believing in religion is that freedom of choice? It does strike me as telling about the Islamic religion that only woman are covered and not men but lets ignore that so we can feel all progressive and good about others.I can remember being at school forty years ago being warned causes lung cancer and will kill you. I even remember Yul Brynner who died because of lung cancer being on television saying don't smoke but of course some idiots did. Idiots is the only word to describe smokers. They were warned time after time so I have absolutely no sympathy for them. So that 52 year old woman who is the same age as me smoked against all the warnings not only that but I bet she didn't care like most smokers where they smoked, around who they smoked and the consequences of their smoking on non smokers. Emphysema isn't nice but you were warned so don't complain neither is lung cancer but if you smoked obviously you enjoyed it so accept the consequences of it.  Take responsibility for your own actions and accept responsibility for what you did and don't whine now and blame everyone else but yourself.The Queensland government should have an enquiry themselves, into the Senate, its relevance, the undemocratic election process where states with fewer electors have the same number of senators and the senate committee process.I agree we can all still fly overseas on holidays, drive our SUV's everywhere, who likes public transport anyway, upgrade that laptop and mobile phone every year, bigger and bigger televisions, build bigger and bigger homes as long as we put a few solar panels on our roof. That's the way consume, consume more and more it makes no difference to the planet at all. No need to feel guilty at all because as long as you believe in climate change, tell everyone you do and of course attend the occasional climate change action march, driving there of course you can do what you want.Everyone votes everyday on their beliefs about Climate Change, whether it is buying a new mobile phone, upgrading their laptop got to have the newest and best, buying a SUV, driving their car to work or flying overseas on a holiday. Australians show their true concern for Climate Change or Global Warming on a daily basis. Words are just meaningless without actions but really isn't that what the whole climate change club is about feeling good and doing nothing? Because mobile phones, lap tops, more and more SUVs on the roads, overseas holidays keep on selling and there has been no let up just a steady increase year after year. Not to worry though the ACT government has given a grant to a theatre company to produce a show called, 'Killing Climate Change Skeptics.' Just think of all the concerned climate change groupies driving their motor vehicles to the theatre seething in anger and hate at those evil, selfish climate change deniers. Then the mocking and laughing during the show and the commentary on the drive home or maybe even at a wine bar over a imported bottle of wine. One can only just shake ones head at the hypocrisy which is ignored with the moral superiority that goes with the true climate change believer.
