Abbott should trigger a DD. He tried to provoke one for three years straight and called the government cowards for not doing it. It should be about the good of the nation rather than the good of any party or other. But it's not, is it? It's about Abbott, his ego, his party and his Stalinist idea about history and destiny. This is period of history that will be regarded as fondly as Uncle Joe's. Uncle Tony's wasted years."I sometimes envy the Left's discipline and ability to stoically renounce truth for electoral gain"

It's convenient to portray 'the left' as collective drones, while rightist nutters are simply a bunch of ill-disciplined yet benevolent and benign good guys easily led astray by good causes. The truth is that righties are so incensed by the idea that their god given right to high status is so comprehensively challenged both intellectually and morally by the majority in whose societies they claim to lord it over that their only response is impotent outrage.

The Right is being outwitted by its own incompetence - the various factions are just manifestations of the same faulty thinking. Abbott, Palmer, Barnardi - they're just different flavours of the same kind of entitled idiot.Right and Left at the extremes are the same place - it's more a curve than a pole. Totalitarianism is not a right/left thing. When I say 'the right is being outwitted by its own incompetence' I am talking about the specific Right in charge of Aus - some examples being:

- a claimed end to entitlement while introducing a baby bonus that increases in value the more you earn;
- a free market philosophy on all things, yet a cancellation of the carbon pricing market mechanism in favour of central planning;
- cutting waste (ie poor people's benefits) while giving tax dollars to wealthy people so they can send their children to private schools and themselves to private hospitals.

Incompetence is not a philosophical thing - it's an executional thing. You can see their lips moving but the words don't seem to match - it's like being trapped in a surreal episode of Monkey.gbe - your point is irrelevant. Either the budget is good or it is not. Whatever you reckon Keating did has no bearing on whether Abbott's budget is supportable. You need to assess today on today, not yesterday. It is you who is mindlessly partisan.gbe - you're a bit long in the the tooth to still be blaming deficiencies on what happened in your school years. You seem to know a lot of things now that you didn't learn in school - why not permit grammar or english be amongst them.

Anyway, you clearly have no defence for Abbott's budget other than 'Keating's was worse', which I'm guessing means you think Abbott's in nearly the worst you've seen. So, we're pretty much on the same page there.Operation 'look at me in my metaphorical budgies'.If you saw an atrocity and said "that's an atrocity" do you think you'd deserve an accolade? Evidently, that's all it takes. Abbott has some atrocities of his own to explain: just where are those hundred-odd Sri Lankan boat people? MH17 is Abbott's 15 mins of fame. I only hope it's a sincere effort to bring those responsible to account, rather than what it appears to be: more sabre-rattling grandstanding to court the boofhead vote.Hamas is a terrorist organisation bent on destroying Israel. Every rocket they fire is a crime rather than an atrocity as 99% of them explode alone in a desert. I think Hamas is a bigger problem for Palestinians than Israel is. But the real problem for the region is god: yours vs mine. 

The difference in Ukraine is that the separatists fired on a civilian aeroplane - that would be like Hamas firing into Malta or Israel firing on Greece. Well done Abbott for seeing so clearly that this is atrocious - it sure passed me by. 

Those people are not "only stuck on the boat because of their own request for a legal injunction" - they're stuck on a boat because the Australian navy was about to hand them over to the very people from whom they were escaping, and this was their last desperate throw of the dice. Is their claim legitimate? Dunno - and nor do you until their claim is processed. Of course, Morrisbot don't want it processed - they want it to go away. That is an atrocious way to deal with desperate people seeking safe haven.There is no such thing as a safe drug - not even paracetamol is safe. However, the personal and societal problems associated with narcotics have little to do with the drugs themselves and everything to do with the laws surrounding them.

Imagine all drugs were illegal and you had a splitting headache. You'd go to a dodgy part of town looking for some 'Ps', a biker guy might point you towards a pub where you can get some, where you will be shown a couple of pills that may or may not contain paracetamol. In what dosage? Who knows - maybe it's actually aspirin or ibuprofen, or perhaps chalk dust and flour. Either way you take them because you're desperate.

In that scenario you have exposed yourself to a number of potential risks like assault, poisoning, overdose and so on. Did the paracetamol expose you to the risks? No. With education, proper manufacture and distribution millions of us safely take drugs every day. Millions of us safely enjoy alcohol every day (all we hear about are the idiots who get drunk and cause aggro), and millions of us remain healthy every day.

Prohibition has nothing to do with drugs or public health - it's a moral crusade designed by pious authoritarians who think they know what's best for you better than you do.Whenever a CEO says something publicly, it's always to to improve his company's profit. It is his statutory duty to do so. To make pronouncements that prioritise anything, even public health, over shareholder returns would render him liable to prosecution and dismissal. 

We should not consult CEOs when discussing industry policy of any kind. Corporations do not not have the public interest at heart when making decisions. This is not a moral failing of the corporation or it's executives - it's company law. That's what they are specifically designed to do. Don't ask foxes how to fortify the chicken coop - they don't want a strong chicken coop."Corporations do not not have the public interest at heart when making decisions.'

Who does?"

Our democratically elected representatives, in theory at least. Corporations are not created to serve your interests (unless you are a shareholder), whereas your government is created precisely to that end.

You need to understand business and corporations' objectives to understand their perspective - but in tobacco, for example, where is the value in involving the CEOs of these companies in formulating public health policy? They have fought against such measures tooth and nail. It's naive not to think that all corporations do the same thing with every public policy - it's just not always as easy to see as it is with this example. 

Murdoch's decades-long rant against the ABC (and the BBC) has nothing to do with the public good or saving taxpayer's money or indeed anything at all other than creating more market share and profits for his companies and more personal wealth for him and his family. Simply don't involve the man in public broadcasting policy - he doesn't have our interests at heart. For example."Is that any better than a smoker affecting you?"

Smokers affect you by exposing you to toxins, whereas regulations simply make it harder for you to expose other people to toxins. There is a difference - it's not entirely dissimilar to rifles on a rifle range. They're OK on the range where everyone's signed up for the risk and reward - not so good on a public street or workplace."It takes one idiot do something stupid"

Then why did you vote for him?

Terrorists use VPNs, they use relayed ISPs, they use code language, they use their knowledge of surveillance to mislead snoopers. They have false identities.

The only people this will catch is you or I watching beheadings on youtube and strutting our radical stuff around the mosque as teen rebels, never having any intention to do anything radical. Just like how we gather up suburban potheads in police cells while international drug rings grow and thrive.

Dipsta - your fear has been manufactured for your mindless consumption and your trust in the benevolence of your leaders is misplaced. History shows it's you who is the naive one here."In the mind of some, the law passes and the next day they locked up in a government sweatshop under parliament house"

Not quite the next day - it's more like the frog in the slowly warming water who ends up boiled and doesn't quite know how.

Stalinist Russia, Nazi Germany, Kim-ist Nth Korea, Putinist Russia, Khomeini-ist Iran - their liberators haven proven to be nothing of the sort. Their governments were and are their greatest threats - it starts with 'common sense' measures to identify enemies in the community.

A little perspective in life does help, it's true - the perspective of recent history, not just that of last ten minutes."Those of us with nothing to hide, have nothing to fear"

So, you would presumably be comfortable living in the Big Brother house with cameras and mikes everywhere. Why not? If you nothing to hide then what's to fear? No-one's going to watch you unless your behaviour fits the wrong algorithm. But if it does then surely it's better for ASIO to see who you're with, what you're doing and what you're saying rather than just relying on metadata and phone calls, isn't it?

In fact, why don't we all wear GPS tracking devices like those on parole? Again, we have nothing to fear if we've done nothing wrong, and these might more quickly rule us out of any potential enquiry by recording us away from any crime scene. 

I suggest DNA harvesting at birth, sub-dermal tracking devices, household cameras and mikes, and monthly interviews with security authorities. Rewards should be offered to those who dob in neighbours behaving suspiciously. Children should be taught at school that their parents might be covert terrorists and to be ever vigilant.

I mean, if we have nothing to hide then we have nothing to fear, right? That argument justifies everything I've just described.

Problem is I do have something to hide - my privacy. I do have a right to fear its loss. I have history on my side to support my fear. And anyway, I don't believe in the benevolence of my government - I don't believe I have nothing to fear from them as long as I do nothing wrong. Their idea of 'wrong' and my idea of 'wrong' might make a sudden divergence. I don't believe they always act fairly. I don't believe they would show me the evidence. I already know they conceal from me 75% of everything they do. I already know they justify a lot of this with glib phrases like 'Operational Matters'.

You're a fool if you trash your freedom for more of what the government calls 'security': it's nothing of the sort."Well it's back to the (carrier)pigeon and imitation Groucho Marks nose &amp; glasses. That's the only way that one can be secretive"

It's not 'secretive' to demand privacy. I don't consider the perusal of medical sites to better understand my haemorrhoids to be a secret endeavour, just a private one.

Anyway, your point is a good one - the people ASIO are trying to catch are already using the cutting edge equivalents of carrier pigeons. They're not stupid enough to type "how to blow up a power station" into ASK.com - they use the 'dark net' or VPNs or wevs. 

These new powers are about you and me - the terrorists (hello? are you out there? Do you really exist?) will do what they've always done. Like they do in Gaza, for example, in spite of all hell raining down on them and being surrounded by their enemy. We can't keep drugs, weapons and corruption out of prisons in Aus, for god's sake, even though prisons are like the Big Brother house with cameras, mikes and guards. Plenty of drugs and violence, but it's not a great place to have w***.

Neither will my place be after this.I agree. It's not around the dinner table that ideas about supremacy, the 'one right way', the 'other', and non-rational thinking are inculcated: it's in classrooms and assembly halls around our faith schools and elite private privilege generators. All supported by public taxpayers."Are you suggesting that these high tax-paying individuals should not be permitted to relieve the burden on the public education system by educating their children privately?"

I'm suggesting that these individuals should pay for their private aspirations privately. The tax system isn't a personal savings scheme whereby the more you put in the more you can take out. In fact, in most cases it's quite the opposite - except for private education, private healthcare, and soon for executive maternity leave.

Private religious (or religion-befuddled secular-ish) schools take taxpayer money to peddle obscurantist, sectarian nonsense about the supernatural, churning out deluded children to continue old world hatred towards 'the other'. Religious education is an oxymoron, as is 'private education' while it's funded from the public purse."It should therefore cut income tax by the same amount that it funds private schools"

Should it also cut income tax by the same amount that it funds roads that you don't drive on, hospitals that you're lucky enough not to be admitted to, and state pensions that your super fund means you need not access? Should taxpayers only pay taxes like a savings scheme that only they personally intend to draw from?

I'm not sure you understand taxes, government services, or indeed society. The air you breathe is clean, the streets largely walkable and orderly, and the workplace fair and liveable not due to private capital and market forces, but due to taxes and regulation. 

When you're affluent it often seems like your peaceful life is all your own doing, but rich people in Rio or Lagos or even Moscow know different. Public services are the price we pay for a voice as citizens. You may not use them, but their availability enables your privileged existence to feel like a privilege rather than a siege.

You cannot afford the life you have without the life your taxes provide for wider society. You're as much a beneficiary of our welfare system as anyone on benefits.

"It has been widely published that Muslims youth joined in fighting in the Middle East. Does anyone know if Jewish youths did the same?"

The diff would be that Australian Jewish youths would be enlisted into the armed forces of Israel, a bona fide nation, to fight against a recognised terrorist organisation, while Muslim youths are largely fighting for those terrorist organisations. I don't think there's any equivalence there, excepting that as Australians maybe they should stay home and watch it on the telly.

Imagine this: a Jewish Aussie returns home after completing his service in the Israeli army. During his service he shot dead an Islamist volunteer from Aus who just happened to be an old school friend. Has he committed a crime? What if the roles were reversed? Has a crime been committed?"While our universities and media outlets systematically deconstruct the foundational philosophies which made the west the successful place that the rest of the world wants to be ....."

Would those be the foundational philosophies largely developed in universities by deconstructing the prevailing ideas based on metaphysics and mysticism? Do you really think we have arrived at the end of history where no more enquiry is required?

That's the talk of the kind of people who condemned Galileo for daring to challenge the Orthodoxy. You might think the West is the end point, but three quarters of the world believes otherwise. You can choose to ignore them and revel in your ignorance, but please don't expect the rest of us to regard your recalcitrance as a virtue."what supplies are they passing through there and how is this possibly easier then getting supplies passed through Iran?"

It would be quite difficult to get supplies through Iran to Gaza. That would require a tunnel Allah himself would need to fund through a PPP."Labor's very deliberate policy in whipping up envy and resentment in society, seems to me the more reprehensible and divisive behaviour"

Would that be like drawing attention to a baby bonus scheme that gives new mothers more if they already earn more? Or helping middle class people over the line to educate their children privately? How about helping higher earners to buy private healthcare?

Isn't drawing attention to Liberal policies that favour the rich and powerful at the expense of the poor and vulnerable a duty of an opposition? It's the policies that are divisive, not the spotlight being shone on them."That proposal is to give mothers the same salary during times they are not working to care for a new baby as they would have earned if they had opted not to have a child"

If a corporation thinks that an employee is worth $100k per year for the arcane task they perform within that organisation then should we as taxpayers really agree to match that through our taxes when they have a baby? I agree they should entitled to their usual pay when on parental leave, but I don't agree that taxpayers should pay it to them. 

If the ANZ bank thinks one of its insurance salespeople should earn $100k then that's their lookout: as a taxpayer I don't think I should be held financially to their imprudent assessment. The ANZ bank should pay their parental leave pay, not taxpayers.The party of small government wants to know your every move: where you're going, who you're seeing and what you're doing. Small, it seems, only applies to big business' activities - with you or I it seems that they want to interfere with everything.

This is a Brave New World government, concerned only with exercising more control over average Aussies under the cover of national security. An AG who thinks we have more to lose than we have to gain is our most clear and present danger to national security. These kinds of moves are once-only, irreversible encroachments. One day we'll look back and marvel at how free we were."It's always funny until someone gets hurt, and then it's just hilarious"

Faith No More.I agree with him - we've fought too hard for our freedoms over centuries to have a bigoted reactionary take them away in the name of national security. 

This is a convenient excuse, not an essential measure. Giving a government the right to treat us by default as suspects can never be a good thing."171 Australian companies or businesses became wholly or partly owned by foreign interests between March 1996 and December 2006"

I'm not sure what your point is - are you saying that private and public businesses should not be for sale? Are you saying that the Liberals are better at telling public and private businesses which of their assets they can or cannot sell? That's what your stats seem to be saying.

Australia is a small subsidiary of Western Liberal Democracy Inc, and just like the multinational outposts it hosts, it is now in the business of repatriating Australian wealth to its legal owners: foreign capital.

Our governments are simply the dressed windows that give us the illusion we're in charge of our own country. It used to be that we answered to our governors in London via our political system - now we answer to them through our economy. The unfettered free hand of the market is working well for us, isn't it?The public can't make Turnbull PM - his own party won't have him.

The reality is that Turnbull represents a political party that doesn't yet exist in Australia. I think it's maybe something like a liberal democratic party that regards the economy as an important part of society rather than as a substitute for society.

Abbott represents an anachronistic, old school authoritarian patriarchy - a party that fears change, mistrusts science and values money over people. It doesn't value the market so much as it values capital - it trusts the owners of capital to do the right thing. It trusts that only good men gain power and that these good men will use it wisely. 

The Australian public can vote Abbott out, but the men with the money will still be the real ones in charge."For decades, the USSR and Communist China were strong allies"

I would say, in diplo-speak, friends rather than allies. I reckon the only people less appetising to the Russians than the EU would be China. At least they know the EU is moderated and restrained by its democratic processes, whereas in China one man and one Party calls the shots. Putin knows from his own behaviour what that could mean for Russia."Yet the enactment now of 90 days of sanctions... could sour relations for decades to come"

But shooting a passenger jet out of the sky is a stroke of diplomatic genius? These sanctions are not some kind of random punishment for the old enemy - it's a response to bullying and barbarism. Yours is the kind of thinking that has led to the unchecked growth of militant Islam in the West because we didn't want to offend anyone's delicate sensibilities.You have predicated your entire argument on the idea that militant Islamism is solely the product of the existence of Israel. I disagree - unfurl your reasoning.PPL should be a mandatory employer benefit. It already is with some employers. The one thing it should not be is a taxpayer funded baby bonus for wealthy new parents. That's what Abbott's PPL represents.

Any public servant who currently receives a PPL is getting what every other new parent should claim as an employee entitlement, just like super, two days off per week or holiday pay.

"Either everyone gets it or no one does"

I disagree - everyone should get it, but if not then as many as possible through enlightened employers is better than no one. Are you some kind of socialist who just wants everyone down to the lowest common denominator?"Why should an employer fund a person's decision to have a child?"

Why should an employer fund a person's decision to have a holiday or a pension? Why should an employer fund a person when they're too sick to work?

People have children, people work - society is about people, not money."are you some sort of socialist who wants people to get paid for having children?"

Yes - I am some kind of socialist who wants people to be able to afford to have children. I don't think fertility is an entitlement - I think it's a biological phenomenon. 

I think human beings eat, take leisure, get sick, reproduce and retire. I think all these things need to be funded, and where else to fund them from but the engine of the economy - the entities that need human beings to enable them to operate: businesses.

However, this government thinks one of these should be a welfare entitlement funded by the taxpayer - in addition to private healthcare, private education and religious proselytisation.The public service is an employer - the benefits they offer are employee benefits, not taxpayer welfare. Unemployment benefit, single mothers' pensions and the salaries of Tony Jones or Christopher Pyne are not the same category of payments, as much as you would like to portray them as such."We are the employer. So we are paying - as we would with The Liberal proposed PPL"

We are not the employer - the public service is the employer. We fund the public service - we are one step removed. 

You know this - but your argument only works if you pretend that welfare and govt employees' wages are the same thing (ie your argument doesn't work at all).Levy? Isn't that a tax in English? Isn't that a 'no new taxes' tax? Isn't that a 'toxic tax'? Doesn't this new 'levy' equal the tax cut? Isn't the whole thing a croc to give yummy mummies a smart new BMW to go with their cute new baby?

Pity the new factory worker mum who's helped pay for the new bmw but whose $10k based on her minimum wage means she'll have to get back to the factory floor in a fortnight to pay the rent. That's Abbott's Brave New PPL.A welfare benefit that pays you more if you already earn more? Sounds like a Liberal policy. Subsidies for private health and private education? That's also OK with the Libs in charge. Unemployment benefits? Not without 40 applications per week for jobs that aren't there.

Wealth is a virtue that should be rewarded, while poverty is a shame that should be punished. Both by the taxpayer. Is this what you really voted for?"PPL was to be funded by big business, not consolidated revenue"

Same pot. There is no special bank account for PPL. Big business got a tax cut to equal the PPL - no change. It's the taxpayer who would fund this Tuscany holiday fund for well-off new mothers."I'm not in favour of any type of PPL"

What do you think about weekends off, or sick pay, or holiday pay or super? Are you in favour of these? Do you not think all organisations in society have a moral duty to those individuals who constitute that society? 

Humans need a break in the week, need their pay even when they're sick or on holiday and need to live after they retire. Employers fund these as part of their deal with employees. They also need to reproduce. If we all stopped having babies today then in 50-years or so the population would be zero.Only the right sort of people. Only the right sort can afford to now.I genuinely don't think diplomacy will sort this. I think only a genocide of one side or the other will settle things. Neither side wants peaceful coexistence: that's just a dream we on the outside like to dream. 

If Israel were Australia we would already have destroyed Gaza and the West Bank and have converted them into barriers to the rest of our sworn enemies surrounding us. If rockets were heading towards Sydney or Melbourne from the Alice Springs Strip or FNQGaza then we'd have reacted just like Israel. In fact, back in the day, we did - even without the rockets!Bush couldn't have given a damn about democracy - Iraq was a grudge match for his father. It was a target that he could pretend had something to do with 9/11, and he convinced his voters of that too.

Bush is typically Christian - shoot first then ask no questions later.Yet again religion is at the heart of a story about hate, discrimination, murder and horror. What a surprise! 

I am heartened by the death of silly ideas like Christianity, and although I don't like to read of people being persecuted, I can't help but think being openly X in a Y country that professes to hate Xs is a typically stupid religious thing to do.

Religion is the preserve of under-educated, desperate, oppressed people. The real problem in these places isn't their persecution by rival fairy stories: it's their lack of education.I agree that this issue affects everyone, in the same way that accepting aborigines as citizens affected us all, not just aborigines. At last we could all stop feeling morally bankrupt for treating one part of society as not equal to all others. The same thing is at stake here. Jesus would approve, given his apparent preferences.I agree: equality under the law is a socialist idea. The maintenance of inequality under the heading of 'tradition' is v conservative. Or should I say Liberal (big L).You cannot have a referendum on a matter of legislation. What you're asking for is a vote - in a representative democracy you vote for parties with policy platforms. You do not vote for individual policies.

If you don't want gay marriage then vote for Abbott - but remember that it was the Conservatives in the UK that recently legalised gay marriage. And they did it without a vote and without being overtly pressured by lobbyists. Gay marriage isn't anti-conservative: according to David Cameron, UK's PM, it's as conservative as it gets.

Marriage is between two consenting adults - any other distinctions are discriminatory and morally wrong.Media in the public domain is free. Don't put it, or enable it to be put, in the public domain unless you want it to be free. It's not stealing to look at things in the street, in the sky or on the internet. It's not stealing to borrow a book, read someone else's newspaper or to listen to a song at a friend's house. The internet is like a street, the sky or a friend's house.

Upper case is not more persuasive: quite the opposite. People who shout usually have the weakest arguments.Theft is a clearly defined crime - file sharing is something entirely different. You can call it murder if you like, but that doesn't mean it's murder.I agree we should renounce whatever claim they have to be here, or intern them indefinitely as potential risks to national security. If they have just fought Jihad then they accept that there is a war between ideologies, and in a war it is legally permissible to intern potential enemy combatants until the end of that war. 

I suggest camps on Manus or Christmas islands - on second thoughts that would be too brutal. They've only committed atrocities after all - it's not as though they've tried to claim asylum whilst simultaneously floating in a boat. It's important we don't lose our humanity in the face of those who have lost theirs.You're helping indoctrinate more people in these poisonous ideas through your taxes that subsidise private religious schools, churches, synagogues and mosques, and chaplains in secular state schools. This problem won't go anywhere while its maintenance is supported by the state.

Anyway, such conflicts were fought in the past between communism and fascism - it's not just religion but all forms of totalitarian thinking that needs to be be challenged in our education systems and our national conversation.I think you'll find that I'd like to change society from a belief in "belief" to a society based on facts and knowledge. Belief is just a proxy for knowledge proffered by people with weak minds and reactionary cognitive reflexes."And let's not forget the hundreds of young Jewish Australians who have joined the Israeli Army..."

There is a difference between joining a democratic nation's army to defend the country and joining a band of rebels to fight a holy jihad. Ex-Israeli servicemen and women might return to Australia brutalised, or with PTSD, but no more so than Australian soldiers from Afghanistan or Iraq. Israelis don't regard non-Israelis as infidels or kuffir and they don't proselytise their religion. In fact, a significant number of Israelis and 'Jews' are atheists.

If we accept as a nation that wars must sometimes be fought then we must surely accept that those returning from those wars might be a danger to society. The difference with jihadis is that we know for certain that they are a danger to societies like ours, war or not.

Maybe, if we are involved in a war - a war on terror as we call it, or a jihad as our opponents call it - then we should re-introduce internment for potential enemy combatants until the war is at an end as per the Hague Convention of 1907. We detain asylum seekers in this manner, after all, and most of what I read on here against asylum seekers seems to be regarding their potential jihadi intent."This means it's a bad idea to let young australians go and fight for anyone, state player or not. It's bad for them and ultimately it's bad for us"

But we send young men to fight for America in Iraq for worthy causes. When our decision making is already so corrupted by political expedience then how can we call those fighting for their worthy causes un-Australian?

It's surely our culpability in joining unworthy military expeditions that makes us hypocrites when we, legitimately in my view, condemn jihadis. An unworthy cause is an unworthy cause, whether it's Islamists against Assad or Americans against Saddam. Our righteous condemnation has been undermined by our less than righteous participation."In fairness, the Government is also saying that it will improve the employment services system to help people in their work-search endeavours"

Watch out for the spouse of a politician somewhere near you to cash in on this. Isn't this how Rudd's missus made $100m? Fat, juicy government initiatives with ideological money flowing into private bank accounts?

How is it that a politician's wife can go from zero to a hundred mill in a handful of years on taxpayer money yet not attract attention? More to the point, is anyone watching to see who picks up the torturer's new contracts?"These afp people are not glorified parking meter cops, these people are the toughest most highly trained military specialists Australia has"

God you've got it bad. These are unarmed federal police, not the SAS. You and Abbott are just panting after that 'Mission Accomplished' moment, aren't you?Mick, you are falling for it. Where is the terror in Australia? We are an outpost. An atrocity in Australia would achieve nothing. This is a Reds Under the Bed scare to make us believe we're under siege. I'd rather take my chances with The Terrorists than with a government who wants know which websites I kill time with.

Just because we have a government that crumbles in the face of potential danger doesn't mean we have to agree with them. These are the kinds of people who almost nuked us all in the 1960s and 1980s due to their disproportionate paranoia.Not a figment of our imagination, but nor escapees of our existing security services. Reading your emails didn't make the difference.Then thank goodness the government are reading your emails and tracking which websites I visit. That'll stop them. 

Crime is the same as it ever was. Our liberty, though, is flickering in the ever strengthening 'national security' wind."So, presumably if / when there is a terrorist attack, you'll have a different view?"

Isn't that the same logic we use in our daily lives? I mean, we could each by hit by a meteorite, or be attacked by a flock of birds, or spontaneously combust - but we don't live our lives as though it's going to happen at any minute. There is little evidence that we are a more of a target today than we were yesterday. And anyway, there's nothing the government are proposing that a determined (ie serious) terrorist organisation could not sidestep with ease. This will just fill our justice system up with headbangers and angry teen nutjobs (whom we can already find with existing powers).

I think we all need to chill. I plan to stay at home in bed, though, with the quilt up over my head, just in case.I trust the benevolence of my government about as much as I trust my neighbour's good intentions. I wouldn't want my neighbour to read my emails or to have access to my personal data - and I trust him: he's a mate. So why should I trust people who constantly let me down, spend my money on the wrong things, show little compassion for the things I hold dear, and promise me things they later fail to deliver due to weak excuses based on contingencies they must have foreseen.

Fear, and our governments' reactions to that fear, are the precise definition of 'terror' that terrorists have worked so hard to create. If you feel terror is in our midst then they have won. Clearly they have won. Maybe we should have a 10pm curfew, just to be even safer. I mean, "there is no safety in ignoring the target that we already are".The problem in the ME is obscurantist nonsense displacing rational thought: too many people who believe in make believe. GRF is one of these and supposes that the answer to make believe is more make believe.

There is a 'certain spiritual force entering the world' - it's called wilful ignorance and it knows no boundaries in the harm it can cause."Same thing in the history of bacteria"

What we need is religious penicillin. I'd hoped the Enlightenment would be it, but ignorance is like the MRSA of the ideas world."There must be limits in the tolerance one affords lunatics. Once they become dangerous, society MUST take steps to contain them"

We did take steps to contain them in the middle of the last century: Saddam Hussein, Hosni Mubarak, Muammar Gaddafi and Assad. I think we forgot how bad things could get and quite how we were corrupt enough to install these ogres. We sure remember now, though.jimbob - the correlation between ignorance and religion is irrefutable. The correlation between education and rational thought is irrefutable. the correlation between an educated population and civil peace is irrefutable.

Name one modern-day scientist of any note who remains befuddled with religion &amp; I'll give you a paddlepop. When Newton strutted his devoutness there was no alternative explanation for the universe: now there is, and it's far more convincing and predictive.

Automatons are the soldiers of IS, the suicide bombers of Al Qaeda, the homophobes of Pentecostalism, the Christian soldiers standing up everywhere to oppose women in power - these automatons have been programmed by 2000 year old fairy stories and their programs are surprisingly crash-proof."And yet, you can't deny the fact that religious belief is inversely proportional to education"

Of course he can - denial is all religious apologists have left. They've been at it since Galileo."Why should knowledge of a biological process be incompatible with a belief in supernatural reality?"

Because knowledge of a biological process is based upon observation and facts, whereas belief in supernatural 'reality' is just made up nonsense based on nothing at all. Supernatural reality is an oxymoron: 'supernatural' and 'reality' are entirely opposing concepts.I admire how your entire rant avoided the fact that your entire worldview relies upon the existence of angels, demons and fairies. And your evidence for these fanciful anachronisms is...?"You may not like the arguments for God's existence but to say they don't exist is wilful ignorance"

I didn't say there weren't arguments, I said there wasn't evidence. Arguments without evidence are humble opinions.

"Now provide me with evidence that atheism is accurate and correct, and also tells me why it is that something rather than nothing exists?"

Atheism is the default: it is not for those who say something is nonexistent to prove someting's non existence: it is for those who claim something's existence to prove it exists (eg the tooth fairy, the Higgs Bosun, gravity etc).

Why is there something rather than nothing? There is no such thing as nothing. Prove to me that the state of 'nothing' is even logical, let alone possible. 'Nothing' is a red herring: there has always been something, even if it has not always been what there is today. And that 'something' has never been god. Unless you have some evidence?
I suspect they'd find an excuse to be angry elsewhere. It's the humiliation of being a supporter of a failed idea that riles them. The idea has failed utterly and their idea tells them that if they change they will be put to death. Duh."Why must we constantly rehash these basic facts?"

Because the religious right likes to obfuscate reality. It likes to twist facts so that the average unthinking person feels they are unreliable, then it likes to substitute faith, which is unwavering nonsense. But it is unwavering. 

We all know what god thinks - after all, we made it up - it's so much easier than having to think for ourselves. That dark colour must be black and that light one white. That'll do for me."Terminating for a disability is as evil as terminating because the baby is the wrong sex"

Thanks for the independent and open-minded view of the religious right. I think every sperm is sacred too, isn't it?

Terminating is 'evil' (how quaint) or it is not - you cannot decide that for reason a) it is permissible, while for reason b) it is not. But of course the religious right makes those kinds of distinctions all the time, doesn't it? Stoning adulterers to death? That's doing god's work, not murder. Killing Iraqis in Iraq who don't share GW Bush's view of the world? That's Operation Yeehaa, not murder.

Terminating a pregnancy for any reason at all that the mother deems sufficient is sufficient reason. It's none of your business. Personally, I see no good in bringing profoundly disabled people into the world - it is no good for them, for their parents or for their siblings. It is no good for the taxpayer. 

Down syndrome is a tragedy - except where there was prior knowledge, then it is irresponsible."It's interesting to me though, that even though we clearly understand how evolution works and what its imperatives are - we are effectively choosing to breed weaker humans and stronger diseases in almost all cases"

That statement demonstrates you don't understand evolution at all. Evolution doesn't have imperatives. Evolution doesn't have a purpose: there is no endpoint or 'ideal' human being. When people intervene medically to keep alive children who in earlier eras might have died then that is part of the evolutionary process. Our evolved behaviour, which facilitates such things, is a consequence of evolution rather than a contradiction to it.

I think what you're really getting at is that our evolved sense of compassion is counter-productive to a race of pyscho superhumans who could take over the earth, rid it of weaklings and run it for their own benefit. Fear not though: we have evolved corporations and free market economics for just that purpose."I would argue that people don't exist to make things easier for society, society exists to make things easier for people"

I challenge you on that statement. You do not believe anything of the sort. You are one of the more prolific campaigners against 'society' - you frequently rail against government services designed to provide societal safety nets, you claim that individuals are more important than collectives, and you advocate the idea that people's circumstances are the consequence of their own actions. I have never read from you any support whatsoever for 'society' or any kind of collective responsibility towards those with impoverished circumstances.

A child born with Down syndrome is a tragedy - but where there is prior knowledge and time to terminate it is irresponsible.

By the way, babies are born, not terminated. Foetuses are terminated. Caterpillars and butterflies are not the same thing."What is a baby, mitor?"

Good question. It is an emotional trigger that tries to manipulate the debate about abortion. A 'baby' is one of those cute beings that burble and giggle and live in bassinets and are the centre of attention for any compassionate human. That's why 'murdering' one under the euphemism of 'abortion is so heinous. 

But it's not a baby and it's not murder. It is a bundle of cells and it is part of the woman's body and it's her body over which she has sovereignty. It's her body over which we have no sovereignty. At 24 weeks it is the idea of a baby, not an actual baby. The alternative is us, the non-pregnant woman, telling the pregnant woman that her body is ours to make decisions about.Coles can't collect any data from you unless you voluntarily join their data collection scheme, aka flybuys. It is an opt-in scheme. Just imagine any program with the word "loyalty" in it is a euphemism for data collection; then avoid it.The 'Coalition of the Willing' killed a few kids in Iraq and Afghanistan too, and we let our contingent of that 'coalition' come home. Israel is a nation state, like Australia, unlike Hamas and unlike IS. Maybe they're all fighting and maybe they're all being twisted by their experiences, but we do as a nation regard the defence of a nation to be more worthy than the attack on democracy and secularism that jihadists represent.

There is no equivalence here.There's only equivalence if you're an anarchist: if you don't believe in the sovereignty of nations. That's a legitimate point of view, but you'd have to declare yourself an anarchist to hold it. Israel and Australia assert their legitimacy militarily, as do IS and Al Qaeda. Whether you think these are equivalent assertions depends on your view on the equivalence between nations and terrorist organisations. Are Australia and IS equivalent?"given they don't believe in the right of self-determination granted to Gaza and the West Bank"

Gaza and the West Bank are not nation states. They are also firing rockets into Israel. They are led by Hamas, a terrorist organisation, which has committed itself to the destruction of Israel.

I think they are showing restraint. If Australia was in charge we'd have scorched the earth of Gaza long ago. And heaven forbid any of those Gazans show up on a boat in the Torres Straight - let's see how well our compassion works then.Abbott's entire government is a distraction from what Australia needs from it's leaders. We've spent the last 4 years or more looking at boats and carbon while a few wealthy individuals tell us how and what to think about equality, money and humanity.

It seems we should think that wealth is the reward for innate capability while poverty is the punishment for lazy stupidity. And god agrees, according to Monsignor Pell.

One day soon we'll wake up and wonder when exactly it was we gave away our liberty in exchange for self righteous indignation and petty revenge. It doesn't feel half as good as it sounded.Imagine Abetz had been talking about the flatness of the earth, not being a trained geologist; would he have said he was not qualified to offer an opinion? Would he have attended a conference where such ideas were being promoted? Would he have claimed stunned mullet points of view on the 'conflicting' data?

We all heard loud and clear what Abetz thinks and where his 'thinking' is coming from.The author's POV is religious, she is religious - it's so frustrating that the most vocal opponents of this and other progressive and compassionate changes in society gain their strength from make-believe but try to dress it up as rational thought.

When will we deny the religious a voice in the affairs of human beings? This author's views are no more credible than Tom Cruise's or Uri Gellar's - why don't we get the Thetan perspective on this issue, just for the sake of completeness?"But whose ethics would you want taught"

It's about teaching children how to think, how to recognise faulty thinking, and how to determine the right criteria to make decisions. It's not about substituting one book of arbitrary rules for another.

When you know how to think you don't need shamens or gurus - just time to weigh the pros and cons.That's only true if you think every game is zero-sum. Humans have evolved to value cooperation with its 2+2=5 outcomes. God didn't know about this, which is why the Commandments are all zero-sum.

Morals are human, not divine."why bother to be nice person?"

From experience many devout people are not. In fact, some of the most devout people detonate themselves in places full of women and children.

You should bother to be nice if you think that this is the best way to navigate through life. However, many people decide otherwise - you won't be troubled by the afterlife either way. 

I think religious people completely misunderstand the idea of death - I know it's a scary prospect, but the idea that once we're born we'll live forever is childish fairynonsense."I'm still waiting for someone to tell me why an Athiest feels the need to confine their behaviour to something ethical"

Because ethical behaviour is an evolved impulse: it serves humans well to cooperate. When we're nice to one another it is self-perpetuating. Humans have evolved a survival advantage by not doing to one another those things we would not like others to do to us. Transgressors are known as criminals and are dealt with harshly.

It's a good system: no god required. It's the basis for civil society."And the point of Evolution is the survival of the fittest"

Evolution doesn't have a point. It is a phenomenon, not a philosophy. Survival of the fittest means those best adapted to the environment will better be able to reproduce and pass on their genes. It doesn't mean that he who is physically stronger will kill everyone else to survive.

In your example it might be better to share the food. Unlike in the biblical Jerusalem where sharing is the last thing any religious person wants to do. Religion is poisonous to our evolved impulse to cooperate as human beings."The incentive for the religious us to do good"... is illusory. There is not much evidence for it. The conflicts in Palestine/Israel are religious, ISIS is a religious movement, suicide bombers shout "god is great" before detonating themselves and murdering others. And so on. Religion gives humans a focal point for hate.

Let children have a choice about religion once they become adults and are able to separate the message from the messenger. At school the teacher is the boss and his word is truth. But when he's spouting nonsense he should not be lecturing trusting, malleable minds."I think Atheistic teaching and Godless humanism is nonsense"

But that is the default. People have to be taught about god - it's not something they can discover, like science or numbers. Stories are made up - religion is made up. Maths and science describe the universe, while religion just makes up improbable stories with no empirical foundation. Surely children should be taught what is known rather than what is made up?

Harry Potter and religion should be taught in English as fiction. Unless you have any evidence to the contrary?"The religious aspect is all part of the package that parents want for their children"

Have you any idea how hard it is to find a private school without a religious leaning? Are you sure parents choose the religious aspect rather than simply find it hard to avoid?

I think parents put up with religion and hope some useful values are instilled regardless. If faith were self-confident it should be an opt-in option in all private schools. Let's see what's left of your 40% then.I am raising a family, dave, and religion is not a requirement. Good judgement is a requirement, and you won't find that in any religious text or any religious school. Poor judgement is their modus operandi."Winkgate.... What hypocrites you all are."

You see a sitting PM making crude gestures towards a disabled pensioner who complained about the effect one of his policies was having on her life as equivalent to an obscure minister for a fringe party saying generally she likes sex with well-endowed men?

I think you are confusing what the 'gate' in 'winkgate' was about. It was about Abbott's utter contempt for a fellow human in plight - not about "ooo-er, she said the word 'sex'."

I'll bet you never had 'that conversation' did you? It's still all a bit embarrassing, isn't it? Best done with the lights off and no talking."... or Ms Lambie can say what she likes and so can I"

That is the case currently - and you will both be judged on it, which is what has happened. Ms Lambie is free to publicly air her sexual priorities in her role as a minister if she wishes to do so, in the same way you are free to express yours in your workplace or community. You might find yourself out of a job because people find the practice unacceptable, but surely this is well and good? 

The other component of free speech is consequences, is it not? You can call my wife fat but she will slap your face, you can make lewd suggestions to young girls and risk prosecution, you can call black people the [term that is so obscene I refuse to even start you off with a letter. Oh my god, I just thought it... aaagh!] word, but I wouldn't recommend it late at night in a Caribbean bar.

We're all free to live with the consequences of our actions - Ms Lambie is now living with hers. I don't care what she said, but her judgement in saying it was clearly flawed."why in 2014 we're still connecting a woman's unapologetic interest in sex with being low-class"

Expressing a blunt interest in base activities based on physical features is low-class, whether it comes from men or women. I thought the same when Abbott said as much about an MP with sex appeal - it was icky. Imagine he'd said "I like a woman with large breasts and not much brains" - would you defend his right to a sex life, given his large ears and questionable deportment?

Having said that, the reaction to her comments is typically wowserish - I think foreigners would be surprised at just what prudes Aussies are when sex is mentioned. It belies our 'up for it' self-image. We're just a bunch of pious hypocrites constantly looking to something to get outraged about.

I think with a bit of depilation she'd scrub up quite well, though on her two stated criteria I probably wouldn't."What do you suppose the reaction would have been if it had been Hillary Clinton?"

If Hilary Clinton were an obscure senator representing a fringe party then I suspect we'd not have heard about it. The former First Lady, presidential candidate and Secretary of State is not really a valid comparator with ms Lambie.Of course it is. You hear far worse than this down the pub, as you know. Would you tolerate Abbott saying publicly some of the things your mates say after a few pints? This woman is a nobody, who cares what she says? By the way, Abbott has said not entirely dissimilar things and has been similarly pilloried.

We expect people of 'calibre' to behave with more discretion, even though we know they're as base us we are. But it's not until they're really up on that pedestal that we hold them to it."there is not a single scientist among them"

You're missing the point - whether they understand it or not is not the issue. They say they understand it and they say they believe it and they say they want to address it. However, what they're doing says something else. Their actions say that they believe nothing of the sort.

We could decide to do something or we could decide to do nothing - it's the pretending to do something just to get us to shut up that is the issue, because it is anti-democratic. This is what what we should be discussing rather than the childish 'I believe/I don't believe' idiocy filling this forum with the usual rants and ranters. Why will our government not tell us the truth about their own policies?If the Coalition believe climate change is real, and they also believe that the market is the best mechanism to solve all issues then they should support carbon trading. 

The fact that they do not support carbon trading implies they believe either climate change is not real or that they believe the market is not the best mechanism to solve all issues: so, which is it?

The government is either lying about its belief in climate change or lying about its belief in the free market. Either way they're lying."Real markets don't need the government to invent them, they exist spontaneously"

What, you mean like utilities, hospitals, schools, roads and defence? Is the telecommunications market not real because it is ex-govt infrastructure? Markets exist where there's demand, no matter whether that demand is created by regulation or human desire. 

Come on, you can surely create some more robust apologetics than that for Abbott's duplicity. You usually do.States are so 100 years ago. If Abbott thinks the states should have more power it's not because he thinks it's best for us: it's because he thinks it's best for him. The states are an anachronism - we're either a nation or we're not. I think we are, Abbott obviously thinks we're not.I don't think it's because they don't accept the science - these are educated people who must understand simple physics and chemistry. I think it's simply that they think their own mortal horizons and political ambitions are more important. Maybe because of their Catholic educations they believe that god will save his creation. Whatever, they know the facts and they understand their actions: they just don't care."Whatever, they know the facts and they understand their actions: they just don't care"Edward Snowden is a hero for us citizens who reject governments that spy on us 'for our own good'. Little that governments do in secret against their own citizens is 'good' - history has taught us this and only fools reject it.

Of course, look around this forum to see the the 'if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear' fools parroting their captors' lines. You have everything to fear from governments' so-called security measures. 

It's ironic that those who shout loudest for 'small government' are the most vocal in support of government surveillance of all our personal information and communication. 

Snowden deserves one of Abbott's new honours - perhaps an honorary Knight of Australia."I'm on your side with this one and I suspect many other 'small government' advocates are too"

I was really talking about our government and its supporters, who make the same claim yet can't resist interfering with everything and everyone both overtly and covertly.

"... neither do I trust you or Snowden to make decisions on a democracy's behalf"

Snowden enabled democracy to be involved in these decisions - prior to his intervention only governments knew what was going on. Snowden didn't sell the info to foreign enemies, nor did he reveal specific details of what the likes of PRISM discovered - just the nature of how the information was collected. He has sacrificed his liberty to do so - I think that's the ultimate accountability.

I think people are becoming increasingly convinced that they have more to fear from their governments' interventions than they do from terrorism or drugs or whatever. Your blind faith in governments' benevolence runs not only counter to global and historical precedent but is at odds with even day-to-day political manoeuvrings. They're corrupt and duplicitous enough when acting in plain sight, let alone behind a veil of secrecy."Democratic governments have the mandate to keep secrets, as provided by legislation and law"

I don't recall a mandate to spy on ordinary citizens' emails and phone calls. Keeping secrets doesn't imply doing anything you like as long as no-one finds out. Snowden did find out, then so did we and we collectively withdrew our (non) mandate to keep those kinds of secrets.

There's no reason our government couldn't tell us "we're spying on you, intercepting all your communications, taking photos of you and your families if we have any reason to suspect you, and we're sharing all this info with overseas governments' agencies". 

They don't have to go into specifics - but why shouldn't we know what they're doing? Then, if we don't like it we can demand that they don't do it - we live in a democracy, after all. It's our nation, not theirs. They simply represent us. Maybe we'd be OK with it if we were involved in the decision making.

The argument that says if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear has been debunked by experience time and again. If we as a nation prefer a little less security for a little more liberty then so be it - but we should not have that choice taken from us like we're silly children.

Snowden has done us all a favour - of course he will suffer for it like all whistleblowers. I am satisfied he chose to do it for more pure and moral reasons than, for instance, our government chooses to suppress all knowledge of what they're doing with 100-odd asylum seekers rotting somewhere on a boat in the pacific.Ian Thorpe looked and acted gay. That's not a bad thing, it's just a thing. That many of us assumed he is gay is no kind of homophobia, just simply recognition. If he'd not been gay it would have seemed dissonant, but no big deal either way: a straight guy who seemed gay. 

I assume some people are conservative or liberal or sincere or funny when either they are or are not. So what? It's only a big deal if you think these things are abominations. Gay or not gay: who cares? I also think he's a good swimmer, and tall, and has big feet - other than that he's just some bloke off the telly. 

I wish I was like him in many ways, except for the ostentatious self-importance, insecurity and need to share boring personal stuff with newspapers and magazines. He really needs to get a life - a proper one, not one defined by his reflection in the media.It's not about whether direct action vs an ETS is a valid comparison, it's about whether a government is telling the truth about what it believes about climate change. If you were a free market party that believed In climate change the you would let the market address it. 

The only case for direct action rests on the idea that you don't really believe in climate change but think you have to be seen to be doing something while actually doing nothing, even if it costs billions in taxpayer's money. That's what you voted for: duplicity."either that or you don't believe in the market after all"

There is plenty of evidence for that too. I suspect they believe only in winning elections, however that might be achieved."It is notable that most people advocating open borders... do not have to... worry about the fear of gunfire at night, and stabbings"

Wow, you've got it bad. They come over here, shoot their guns, stab our kids. You realise there's an entire category of stereotype jokes dedicated to gullible reactionaries who say things like this?

Not only are they invading, now they are attacking. Old time racism is getting another day in the sun, it seems.Bj - I think I know what people are concerned about, but it dismays me that they couch it in terms that hark back to reactionary racist terminology. The majority of gun crime and stabbings are perpetrated not by asylum seekers but by home grown Aussies. I don't think it's loony to correct this nonsense. Be angry if you think that's a useful response, but be angry at the right things - don't let the government tell you not only what to think, but how to think. 

When did they last make a decision that you reckon had you and your circumstances in mind?"Too many choices and too much uncertainty are problems in all sorts of fileds and endeavours"

... with the exception of our politics. We got Abbott because the only other choice was Rudd. And really, aside from their slightly different interpretations of the New Testament I could hardly spot the difference.

I'm not sure I agree with the author's analysis - I think it might simply be that the game is an anachronism while younger people have more engaging and participatory preoccupations to fill their time.Everything's politics, science and religion. Anything else is just a proxy."Our war memorials don't list the thousands of Turks, Japanese and Germans who died trying to kill our soldiers"

That comparison is invalid - the Turks, Japanese and Germans were would-be foreign invaders of Australia, not indigenous residents. If the Chinese invaded Australia today and declared it a colony of China - and Australians fought back - would you recognise their categorisation of those Aussies as "at best... enemies of China. At worst... traitors"?

However, that said I don't think we should be commemorating wars at all - it glorifies organised violence and vindicates military force as a legitimate means by which to settle disputes. We should regard our participation wars with great shame. 

The AWM should be a monument to our embarrassment and folly - not for the soldiers who fought on behalf of their masters - but for all of us who allowed such things to happen in our names. Aside from WW2 all Aussie military expeditions have been nothing but state-sanctioned murder."it would have given us greater incentive to become real Australians."

No chance of that at the moment with the Queen's No.1 subject Tony in charge. We are not citizens of an independent nation but subjects of a foreign monarch. Jump Ma'am? How high Ma'am?"If Germany dominated Europe, then Australia's mother country would have been in peril and therefore so would we"

And you think Australia's contribution made all the difference? Whoever had won would have been terribly wounded - look at Britain after WW2: they supposedly won that war yet lost their empire, lived in austerity for 30-years after and ceded power to the USA.

There was nothing great about Australia's participation in the Great War - it was folly pure and simple.Australian democracy is nothing of the sort. We are hostages to ideologues, theologians and chancers. Thank serendipity for financial independence. I hope the rest of you are comfortable with the choices you have made.Maybe he's wrong - your rebuttal? Or is your right/left dogma rant enough to persuade us?I'm not sure what enpiffelating means either, but I'm pretty sure the IPA are guilty of it. I think what I've just read is a pseudo-rational justification for the public subsidy of private nannies for wealthy people. I suppose this is in line with public subsidies for private education and private healthcare so at least it is consistent. 

So, one can use one's $50K baby bonus to have an extension built to house the live-in nanny, and write off some of her running costs - all at taxpayer expense! It's all very squiffy."We have never ever had in our history a government as dumb as this one."

They're not dumb - don't be fooled into thinking these things they are doing are errors. Think about what else they might be - what bigger picture do these pieces of the jigsaw make?

If you want to live in a country where the wealthy and privileged gain additional taxpayer-funded privilege by simply being wealthy and privileged, then keep voting for Tony. 

He ultimately wants a society where public services are bare-bones and for the truly fallen and desperate. He wants charity to help the poor, not the government. He wants everything else to be private - health, education, childcare, the penal system, you name it - and for quality to be the preserve of those who can afford it. 

America's a great place if you're wealthy - but it's as bad as Sao Paolo or Dhaka if you're not. Some places are so anarchic and poverty-stricken they are no-go areas any time of day. You've seen them on the TV. That's what Tony wants for Australia - not the bad bits, at least not intentionally - but that's what you get when you dismantle society by removing the welfare system. In fact, you don't have to look to the USA to know what it would be like - it was already like that in most places before WW2. Fancy going back to that? Keep voting Abbott."I'm fiercely opposed to Abbott's $5.5 billion per annum non-means tested maternity leave..."

It is means tested - the more you earn the more you get! Taxpayers will pay to keep wealthy people in the manner in which they've become accustomed. And, more importantly, to keep poor people in the manner in which they've had to get used to.

If I were the CEO of a multinational with a subsidiary in Australia I'd be thinking a fat man in a red suit had just come down my corporate chimney - all my executives of child-bearing age will be paid $50K by the local taxpayers to look after their babies for 6 months. Great! Now I don't have to pay them. I wonder if I can mount a case for their company cars too?It's true, money is fungible - it could equally be spent helping people who need help rather than those who have demonstrated they can help themselves. 

There is no moral case for giving more money to wealthier people because they are wealthy at the expense of poorer people. I cannot believe this and the PPL haven't got people on the streets. Are we all so bovine that we can't see what happening? Let me tell you, my fellow cow-frogs, the water's getting hotter by the day.Rolf painted pictures, he didn't create art. His pictures are valuable because he did them, not because they are good. So, I think it's inevitable that they will be removed - without our affections for him they are just the pictures they always were. They're not bad for pictures, but no better than any street artist you might see out and about plying his wares.

But I agree, none of us would shun Monet if we discovered he was a rapist or indeed a murderer. Newton advocated capital punishment for children for petty theft, was a nasty and vindictive competitor and carried out vendettas against his scientific enemies. He sent many men to the gallows for minor infractions. He was not a nice chap at all. But he was a genius and his works are works of genius. We admire his genius and his works, not the man himself.

Rolf? His works are the works of an entertainer that we no longer find entertaining.

It's hard to talk about it without sounding either like the member of a lynch mob or an apologist. As I understand it he didn't actually rape anyone. I wonder if he hadn't been Rolf Harris but some some bloke or other anyone would have come forward. 

Many people have emotional problems in their lives and feelings of self-loathing, but not all of them can trace it back to a specific event like this. It's hard to prove cause, or even understand cause in cases like this. 

Standards were different back then - they really were. Things were acceptable then that are criminal now. Sitcoms used to show dirty old men rubbing themselves up girls on buses and so on - for comic effect! 

I wonder what went on in the 1920s, 30s, 40s and 50s that we'll never hear about. Male adults had a status so far above female children that it's hard to imagine many of them didn't take advantage of it, given what we know today.The standard of proof for someone touching you inappropriately is quite low - it seems to be testimony-based entirely. While this means few charges ever reach conviction - anecdotes are not really evidence, after all - it does also raise the spectre of vexatious charges. Who'd be a male teacher these days?If we discover a paedophile architect should we raze his buildings? Certainly we should stop inviting him to opening ceremonies, but the building is OK.

I think it's more the songs that will suffer - for people of a certain generation ditties like Two Little Boys and Jake the Peg have great nostalgic virtue (if little artistic merit). These memories have been ruined, much like the songs of Gary Glitter.

This author seems to be suggesting the contemporary equivalent of book burning - sure Harris is a paedophile, but his transgression should not make reactionary idiots of the rest of us. He's going to prison for the rest of his life. He has lost everything he stands for - his liberty, his money, his family, his public affection and his honour. Dignity will be the last to go when he slips into his prison greens.

Justice has been seen to be done. It's time to move on."All this logic from a man who has previously wanted organised religion dismantled because of the actions of some horrible priests"

That's not quite correct, is it? The priests did bad things - the church did worse by concealing the facts, protecting the priests and persecuting the victims. The Royal Commission is not about priestly deviance, it's about institutional coverup and corruption. Religion and the institutions it has spawned are the problem, not people.

Nice try though.It's not about knowing, though, is it? It's about actively suppressing, vilifying victims and moving offenders out of harm's way. I'm not sure anyone did that for Rolf or Jimmy.

Anyway, the entertainment industry doesn't set itself up as the guardian of our morality. It doesn't run children's homes, orphanages or schools. It doesn't claim to act on behalf of the creator of the universe. It doesn't force it's hierarchy into celibacy or forbid its audience from thinking for themselves about sex or marriage or birth control or homosexuality.

The entertainment industry creates a class of untouchables called celebrities - but none of us would really trust them with our children, would we? I don't think your comparison is valid.Organised sport doesn't claim to be the arbiters of god given morality. The church does. I think you need to think a little harder about for whom you apologise.Austerity means different things to different legal entities. To you or I it might mean homelessness or not enough to eat. It might mean inadequate healthcare or substandard education for our children. It might mean our modest aspirations for family and a home are forever lost. But for multinational corps or mining billionaires or bankers it might simply mean not quite as much growth in profits. 

Austerity is simply a euphemism for hard times for already poor people. Prices in Point Piper are still rising. Tables at the Ivy are still hard to come by. Qualia on Hamilton is still fully booked.

Austerity is a con - it's only austerity for some. Abbott and sponsors are looking pretty flush.How much would one of his wobble boards be worth if he hadn't committed his crimes? How much do you think it's worth now? I can't imagine it will appreciate - like his art its only real value is that that it was created by Rolf Harris. That's about as valuable a brand as Thalidomide from now on.His art was good in the sense that your mate's cousin's is good. It's not really art, but it's technically proficient and pleasing to look at, even if it says nothing particularly interesting. It's decorative rather than artistic. It won't be remembered after the life of the artist - it is good just because it's his, rather than because it's good.

So, I'd say sell sell sell. It won't be worth any more than it is right now while he's in the dock. In the future he'll be in prison then dead. It'll be more or less worthless by that point.Art is not divorced from the artist. Why is the third album from a favourite artist viewed differently from the first from an unknown? Can anyone really listen to Coldplay's latest thinking it's the best thing around at the moment, as its sales figures say it is? 

Van Gogh's art would not be what it is if not for the character of the man himself. If Joni Mitchell had been a married mother of two who attended church and wrote recipes for women's day her music would not seem the masterpieces they surely are. They truly are.

Who's listening to Gary Glitter or LostProphets these days? 

I read a psych experiment once that asked people to wear a woolly jumper in a cold house. Then they told people the jumper used to belong to Fred West, or Madonna, or Heinrich Himmler or Mother Teresa - you can imagine which ones preferred to shiver rather than keep warm. People believe in people - art is no different. Can you tell what it is yet? An unfortunate investment, that's what."the object reminds us of the sentiment, but the sentiment lives in us, not the object"

Tis true - but that's not how people think about it. I'd wear Hitler's jumper rather than be cold, that's the only rational thing to do - but only if I had my lucky St Christopher necklace on."Such misplaced hatred - you have my sympathy.
List also please the charitable works, homes for the homeless, hospitals for the sick, the millions spent relieving poverty."

That was the same cover both Jimmy Saville and Rolf Harris used for their abuse - they hid behind their good works. Both were given honours - in Saville's case a knighthood - precisely for their good works. 

So, AJS, should we list Saville's good works before we discuss his rape of children, violation of cadavers and sexual humiliation of disabled patients in hospital? That seems to be what you're suggesting for the church. Why should we dilute the seriousness of the church's crimes against vulnerable children just because they do some good stuff too? Would you feel less pain and humiliation while being abused if you knew that a homeless person somewhere was getting somewhere warm to sleep tonight?

Stop forgiving the unforgivable and stop trying to justify the rape of children just because the enabler of the rapists is something you refuse to let slip from the pedestal you've elevated it to."... nervously awaiting the recollections of former under aged groupies"

Doesn't the idea of a groupie imply some kind of consent? I know that legally, emotionally, morally one cannot give consent when one is underage - but what are rockers to think groupies are there for? 

Maybe if some rocker or other made a special effort to recruit underage groupies then the evidence might stack up - but I doubt a solid case could be assembled for the average muso who didn't bother checking ID and took the sexual enthusiasm of the individual to mean consent had been given.

Anyway, most rockers in their heyday were barely out of their teens themselves. Rolf was in his thirties and forties when he was going out of his way to molest prepubescent girls in supposedly safe places - that's a bit different to a drug and alcohol-fuelled after party in a tour bus.People like palmer wouldn't have prominence if not for the paucity of ideas from the Establishment. He is a symptom of the failure of our political elite to be elite.Dangerous ideas should be dangerous. Your suggestions are safe and well-worn. Conscription? Didn't we have that one 50 years ago? 

Honour killings happen now and some people think they're justified. Some cultures support the practice. So, shouldn't we hear the kind of thinking and rationale that justifies such barbarism? 

If you don't understand your enemy you stand no chance of defeating it. Ideas can be deadly - unless we analyse and diffuse them they will persist. An opportunity has been lost to squeamish wowsers. Maybe 'dangerous' is another word, like 'literal' that has been diluted out of existence.I would like to hear those debates. I'd like to hear a debate on the wisdom of multiculturalism. I'd like to hear a debate on relativism too. But I'd also like to hear about the justifications for honour killings, suicide bombers, female genital mutilation and death for apostates. 

If Badar has a convincing argument for Islam to be regarded as anything other than a fairy story for weak minded idiots then I'd like the opportunity to point at him and laugh, like I do to Christians, Jews and Hindus.

Stupid ideas are only dangerous if you believe in them. The most dangerous phenomenon isn't ideas: it's the credulousness of people who are prepared to believe in them.How about "dismantling hard won rights for citizens is progressive" or "healthcare and education free at the point of access is for leftie wimps" as dangerous ideas? "Asylum seekers are not proper humans and don't deserve to be treated as such" and "one or two billionaires amidst millions of poor people is societal nirvana" might be interesting too.

But they're not ideas, are they? They're policies."Where anyone implies that their own culture is superior to other cultures and yet is fearful of those other cultures:-

- are they irrational? (i.e. why are they scared of something they consider to be inferior?)"

By that reckoning we should not be afraid of gang culture. Some cultures are inferior to others - this much is obvious. What is puzzling is some people refusal to acknowledge this self-evident fact.

On any measure of human happiness, social stability or collective prosperity Australian culture is superior to Iranian, Saudi or North Korean culture. There is no moral equivalence between these cultures - some are simply better for more people than others.You're free to be outraged - but not free to censor those of us who are both outraged, intrigued and curious to understand how some people justify this practice. Maybe you think outrage and ignorance are the road to peace - I think history proves you wrong. 

Censorship is not the best way to address problems."Where is the censorship?"

Many here seem to be making the very basic mistake that not providing a concert-hall and paying the man to speak is somehow "Censorship"

Cancelling a speech that was already booked based on public outrage is censorship. If Badar had demanded to talk at the conference about Islam and they'd said no, and he'd claimed "censorship"! then I'd agree with you. 

A man was assigned a topic to speak about and was cancelled not because he was unavailable or because they had run out of time but because some people decided that what he was going to talk about was not for our delicate and impressionable ears. No other speakers were cancelled - just this one - and only because of what he was going to talk about. I can't think of a better textbook example of censorship. It's not only governments that censor things.Did you guys read 'asylum seekers' and just trot out your usual Abbott NewThink rants? I have to say you're learnt them well - I suspect you could recite them without notes.

The issue under discussion is whether Morrison's amendment is legally or morally sound. I'm guessing you really couldn't care less - these aren't real people anyway, are they? They're not people seeking asylum, they're asylum seekers, a kind of un-person not-like-us subcategory of human beings."To be fair, a Convention is a Treaty not a contract."

A treaty that has been offered, accepted and implemented is a contract. A contravention of that treaty is then a breach."However, I suspect that the Tribunal will just agree with anything they say and wave them throiugh anyway"

That might be true simply because of the impossibility of being able to say with any degree of probability - let alone the balance of probabilities - what the likelihood of torture or whatever actually is.

So why bring in the new measure? Won't it simply waste more taxpayer dollars on more bureaucracy?"I think the ABC will now turn on dear funny old Clive"

You mean they currently support him? The man is a parody of himself - at least, that's how I read him on the ABC. And I agree - a self-interested, self-serving mining magnate with some political power.

There's no way Palmer will act to trigger a DD - if he did he'd lose his senate position and his power. This is just brinksmanship - a kind of unspoken conspiracy with Abbott to get the ugly stuff through while jettisoning some of the easily disposable trinkets."it just means that if you seek to prove a fact, that fact has to be more than likely to be tru than not"

The balance of probabilities is a legal measure that refers to some contentious event in the past: did it happen or did it not, based on the evidence. The balance of probabilities is not a measure of future events - that is pure speculation. Morrison can just say "I reckon not" and back they go to probable or improbable torture. The Coalition bases a lot of its policies on such speculative 'reckoning'.

If, after a few years under this new rule, we learn that only 40 out of every hundred people sent back were actually tortured and killed then Morrison will call that a success. I'm sure the congregation at his church will sing, clap and sing hosannahs to that!Morals are simply a set of rules. If you set a rule that says family honour takes priority over any individual rights then such killing is understandable, even forgivable within that paradigm. Plenty of people and societies do forgive it and tolerate it; even encourage it.

Surely it's important for those of us sane enough to understand the heinousness of such a moral outlook to be able to recognise this kind of thinking when we encounter it. I think it would be informative to hear someone put forward their moral argument in defence of honour killing. 

As long as we accept religions' claim to be the font of morality in our societies, based on nothing more than a false and irrational belief in make believe beings then this kind of moral outlook will persist. Morality has nothing to do with old books of nonsense, men in caves talking to angels, or walking on water, or talking to burning bushes - it's an evolved and innate set of imperatives humans possess so that we can rub along together for our mutual prosperity. There's no situation I can imagine where murdering my daughter could help either me, my family or my wider community, save for respecting the revealed word of some god or other.

This idiot should have been allowed to present his case, whether he claims to support it or not. He certainly supports a lot of other oppressive and violent nonsense. Free speech means hearing things you don't agree with - there's nothing free about ensuring things you disagree with remain unspoken.Equality is one of those leftie commie ideas Abbott and his mates hate. Who said equality was a virtue? Who even really thinks people should be valued equally? Do we value those kids behind razor wire on Manus? They're not proper humans like us, are they? I mean, we wouldn't treat them that way if they were, would we?

Back in the day you had to be a property-owning male even to vote. I think that's the kind if entitlement this government would like to revisit.

Western Europe is going thru hard times at the moment - the GFC hit it hard. However, to claim that its social welfare ideas and supportive societies are to blame for that is the biggest lie being propagated at the moment. The GFC didn't happen because healthcare and education to tertiary level was free at the point of access in France: it happened because Reagan allowed bankers to enrich themselves at all our expense, and bankers worldwide had to do the same to compete. Labor's school halls were a response to the GFC, not the cause of it. And they kept us, at least, out of recession."Give a man a fish and you've fed him for a day. Teach him to fish and you've fed him for life"

Create a fish derivative that allows a banker to bet on the number of fish a fisherman might catch, then deregulate the market so that an investment bank can package it up with fishermen with no rods or bait or nearby water and sell it on, then bankrupt the fisherman so that he can no longer fish... then you've taught him global international finance. How can he feed his family with that?

Perhaps Abbott knows.Your blind faith in the benevolence of our governments is touching.The fact that we've had to learn about it through WikiLeaks tells us all we need to know about the planned 75% majority plebiscite you're hoping for.

Anyway, knowing as I do that you think WikiLeaks is tantamount to treachery with whistleblowers like Assange and Snowden deserving nothing short of orange jump suits in Guantanamo I can only assume you've chosen to expunge this 'illegal' info from your memory.

You voted for Abbott - he now wants to make sure you never get to vote for anything useful ever again. These treaties are one-way streets you know - the benign hand of the free market has never been so malignant."Hmm, why do they need secrecy? Let me think. Could it be because of the rank political pointscoring we see here? The disregard for the national interest we see exhibited by the Lee Rhiannons of the world in seeking to further her political interests with complette disregard for the risk of doing harm to the nation? Could that be it?"

Or, to abbreviate your diatribe, 'they need secrecy' to avoid subjecting it to the contest of ideas. Pesky democracy!"There is absolutely no mandate for any government to sign anything that could undermine our financial system"

Abbott thinks he has a mandate to unravel all government 'interference' in the working of a free and unregulated market. It was implicit in his speeches about 'getting out of the way of business', Australia being 'open for business' and government becoming small. 

He might not have specifically said 'I will hand over control to international capital' but then he never actually said he'd introduce new taxes like the budget levy - but he justified it by saying "I said taxes will always be lower blah blah". 

What you or I regard as a mandate and what the current government regard as a mandate are not the same things at all."As a card-carrying member of "the bogan masses"

The fact that you're commenting here means you're not one of those Michael describes. Most of your fellow travellers have zero understanding of this kind of stuff - their vote was bought with dog-whistle 'stop the boats' jingoism and misleading statements about having to pay the mining tax out of their wage packets.

I mean, we saw in Egypt that when you give democracy to people with no understanding of what they're voting for, what you get is what you had before. In our case we're getting something we've never had before but that we'll never get the chance to reverse. I saw those voters on the telly turning out for Abbott - they have no idea about any of this. In fact, nor would any of us if not for WikiLeaks.Talkback radio is meth for the masses. This is the place where stupid people get angry and vindictive. It's a way to distract voters with red herrings while the clever pollies sneak thru the important stuff no one knows about. We've all been getting worked up about boats and mining tax and carbon on the radio while the bankers and Abbott have been plotting our ruination.You might be right - but then why conduct the discussion in secrecy? The only things of this nature discussed in secrecy are those that the public are expected to object to.

Bankers know that democracies can still undermine their global models - these treaties try to sidestep such blocks to their activities. 

Do you really trust global capital to regulate itself for the benevolence of populations? If so I'd like for you to reveal an example of where it's done this previously and contrast that to those numerous examples of where it hasn't.You are talking about a different thing to me: I understand why there are no cameras in the room - but as a minimum we should know who's in the room and what they're talking about.

We didn't know what was said by whom in the run up to the Iraq war - but at least we knew that the debate was being had, between whom and we knew what the potential outcomes might look like. If private citizens were meeting in secret to discuss such manipulation of regulations and movement of capital they would likely be charged with conspiracy.Governments are elected to represent the interests of voters, not international financiers. Sure, the 60s etc were a bit socialist, but look around you at the schools, roads and hospitals - would we have these if not for those halcyon days? There aren't too many of these being built these days. Our modern societies were created in the social-welfare aftermath of WW2.

Do any of us want our government to turn us into a Nigeria - just a few wealthy people with resource billions flowing in and out? Global capital doesn't need happy, equitable or stable societies and so will do nothing to maintain them. Gina wants that - she has no regard for her fellow Australians, she thinks we're all lazy losers. I mean, look how she seems to regard her own flesh and blood! What chance the average Aussie with someone like that in charge of the bank?

The danger for us is that people like Abbott and Hockey seem to agree with her.

Zing, the question is not are they virtuous and justified, it's should we (NATO, the West, Australia) get involved?

I say no. I say IS is an ME issue. Saudi should lead the resistance. Iran should lead the resistance. Similarly, Ukraine and the Baltic States should lead the resistance in that part of the world.

Look at maps of the world from 100, 200, 300 years ago to see what and where Ukraine, Iraq and Serbia were. Lines on a map drawn by colonists do not nations make - they're good at making wars though."I find it alarming that 30 per cent of respondents think Costello is the best treasurer"

Alarming for sure, but unexpected? 50% or more voted for Abbott. You should stop being surprised by the gullibility and fecklessness of the Australian voter. We also voted for the Queen of England rather than an Australian to be our leader. We voted for mining billionaires to get a tax cut. We voted for executive mothers to get a $50k baby bonus while the $5k that stay at home mums got was abolished.

We're not the Lucky Country, we're the Stupid Country. I predict marches of toothless, obese, poor people hobbling through Sydney to abolish commie Medicare and commie state education in support of insurance and vouchers anytime soon."And the vote was not for the Queen (who wasn't mentioned on the ballot papers), but against the proposed model of republicanism"

The vote was for a dinky di head of state or a pommie one - we went for the pommie. And we revere a treasurer who spent like a drunken sailor, but not on anything useful (Costello), while we pillory one who spent to avoid a recession (Swann), but whose contribution was nevertheless recognised internationally by economic commentators and practitioners whose views were not twisted by Abbott's negative propaganda.

If you want to know the truth of a matter then read opinions from disinterested parties, not opposition parties.Team Australia: wealthy new mums, miners, media executives, bankers, the armed forces, police, big corporations, the entitled. 

Team UnAustralia: pensioners, the unemployed, disabled people, the working poor, asylum seekers, unionised workers, environmentalists, the unentitled.

My expense account comes out of my after tax income, like yours, most likely. I'd like to do a fundraiser for my pet project in another capital city too - the ATO nor my employer sees my need in quite the way they see Abbott's.National security is an issue or it's not: it should not be used by our elected representatives to distract us from their economic and social incompetence. This government is incompetent at managing the one thing they claim to be good at - why should we trust them to make the right decisions about something they have stuffed up so royally in the past (Iraq, Afghanistan)?

This is just a Punch and Judy show with real life puppets."Indeed. Do you not think that it is?"

I think it's the issue it always has been, not the new pumped-up issue Abbott would like to distract us with. Has our Amber Alert or whatever increased? Are we under some kind of existential threat today that wasn't with us yesterday? Haven't Aussies been going to fight for Islamistan since 2001?I'm Australian, but I'm not part of Team Australia. I don't agree with many of our our foreign policies, our domestic policies, our asylum policies, our recent budget, our 'national security' policies or our social conservatism. 

To paraphrase Groucho: I wouldn't be part of any team that would have Tony Abbott as a member."Democratic socialism is a contradiction in terms"

Democratic conservatism is a worse contradiction: anti abortion, anti-gay, anti- divorce, anti-immigration, anti- everything that involves change. Conservatism is simply 'no' as a political philosophy. Extreme right and extreme left meet at that sweet spot that we call conservatism: life set in aspic."In the book, Jesus suggested that child-abusers should be bound in a mill-stone and dumped in the sea"

In the book it offers similar suggestions about homosexuals, impudent children and people who wear poly cotton shirts. I think we can safely treat it all as nonsense and move on.

And don't go all OT:NT on me - JC lived by the OT, if you believe the stories, so I'm guessing he wanted us to live by it as well.'Atheist regimes' were nothing of the sort: hitler, pol pot, Stalin, the kims were like the roman and Japanese emperors - they were their own deities. But atheism isn't a 'regime' - it's a way of thinking rationally about the world, where evidence and reason are the measure of good and evil. It rejects received wisdom where that wisdom cannot support its claims with evidence.

Religion allows people to kill each other with impunity and claim divine mandate. It is an idea that allows any behaviour at all, given that holy books are 'interpreted' rather than commonly understood. But the real problem with religion is that it gives respect - even aspiration - to faulty thinking. Magical thinking allows people to escape their responsibilities as humans - if you're answerable only to a made-up idea (there is no made-up idea but made-up idea!) then you can do what you like with humans.

Political ideologies are the same, but when they fail, like with soviet communism, their inherent weaknesses are revealed. When religion fails apologists like the author blame everything and everyone but religion. More god is never the right answer, as we can see in Iraq and Syria, but it's always the only answer people like the author have got."Some things that may not be evident to you may be evident to others"

That's just obscurantist nonsense. Evidence is the same for everyone: 2+2=4 everywhere and every time. The speed of light is the same for everyone, always. Some people might experience delusions, but these are by no means evidence. 

Agnosticism is just religion for cowards. It's embarrassing to claim you believe in the supernatural in the absence of evidence, but it's hardly less humiliating to claim that because you can't disprove the tooth fairy you prefer to sit on the fence about it."Now the world is full of secular and non-secular 'religions' proclaiming they are The Way to Good Outcomes which are nothing of the sort"

I don't think secularism is the way to anything in particular. It could be the way to happiness or doom; who knows. The point is that the acceptance of reality as it appears to be, which is to say without the existence if the supernatural, is the only honest way to confront life. You might wish the world to be all things bright and beautiful because Jesus told you so, but in reality it is what it is, because the evidence tells you so. That's as beautiful as it gets."It is lovely that you are heading over to one of the most dangerous parts of the world to help religious minorities"

Is it? Didn't our PM call that behaviour 'home grown terrorism'? Or does Christianity get a free pass? Neil should stay home, there are enough Islamic soldiers without adding Christian soldiers into the mix.

If you wonder why the Islamic community doesn't stop it's young men going to Iraq to help then read your own words to discover how they might think about this.I agree. Reading educated people pontificate about god and Jesus is like seeing doctors smoke - they should know better. They're a bad advertisement for stupid people, like a celebrity endorsement. Faulty thinking should have no respectability at all and should gain no support from our public institutions, as voltaire correctly surmised.The idea of 'meaning' is a human concept brought about by brains evolved big enough to outwit competitors and the environment. Abstract thought and consciousness are side effects of a large brain. The universe doesn't need meaning, only humans do; and only a smaller subset need to have meaning proscribed to them: the religious.He didn't apologise for what he said, only for the misrepresentations (from such as you) ascribed to him. A profoundly disabled Downs baby is just a life-destroying bundle of unhappiness for everyone, themselves included. It is immoral to use a belief in supernatural beings to justify imposing this burden on oneself, ones family and on society more generally when one could have decided otherwise."Dawkins also argues that it is immoral to not abort disabled children"

You cannot abort a disabled child - children are born, not aborted. Your terminology is wrong. And I agree with Dawkins: what possible good is done by giving birth to a disabled person? It's not good for them to live a short life of suffering, for their parents and siblings to have their daily lives swamped by their needs and attention, or for society who usually has to finance their care.

However, he didn't recommend violence against human beings - again, your terminology seeks to mislead and pillory rather than inform."It certainly appears that morality is a human construct"

I think it's an evolved human impulse. Religion is a human construct. Morality is innate - it's neither divine nor considered. But it's easily corrupted by my god vs yours.The idea of a league of militant atheists is cultish, and therefore religious, by definition. Atheists don't 'believe' things - they just refuse to accept baseless assertions without evidence. Atheism isn't a point of view so much as the absence of a point of view in the absence of evidence. No evidence: no god.This is a conflict about power and territory, like most conflicts. However, its recruits are befuddled by religion - this poisonous way of thinking about the world in terms of supernatural imperatives and absolutes convinces otherwise rational, educated people to saw other people's heads off, detonate themselves in crowds of innocents, and treat women like dogs.

There is really only one way to end conflicts like these and it's a slow process: we should make the teaching of religion to children as socially unacceptable as the teaching of drug taking, black magic and promiscuity. In a generation' time the world would be a far more peaceful and rational place.

Religion, as has been noted before, poisons everything. It is always the problem and never, ever, ever the solution."In the end, commercial surrogacy is just a form of human slavery"

What nonsense. Surrogacy is a big ask as a form of charity, why shouldn't it be a paid-for service? Being a nanny attracts a fee, as does paediatrics. Is renting one's womb any more a form of slavery than renting one's muscles on a building site or in a physiotherapy clinic? I think it should attract far higher fees as the commitment is far greater, but to claim it is something more than a fee for service by willing participants is a pious point of view that places theological ideas above human urges."Having a child is not a right"

I think you'll find it is. In fact, it is a biological inevitability. We don't issue licences, you know."Someone as smart as Jonathan Green might have gleaned that the PM is attempting to talk about the things that that bind us as a good PM should"

Shouldn't he be more than talking about the things that bind us? Shouldn't he be making policies to do that very thing? How does his budget that seeks to separate the haves from the have nots seek to achieve this? Abbott's 'shared values' are only shared between him, his Coalition colleagues and those who are doing alright anyway.

Statistics have a way of cutting through the BS - however, most voters these days are interested only in ideology and slogans, not facts. That's how we got Abbott in the first place.Half of Tasmanians are illiterate? Wow! I thought it was just another part of Australia, not a holding penn for sub humans. What is going on? That rate is worse than rural India or Pakistan. I thought our only third world ghettos were aboriginal reservations, or whatever they're called. It seems Australia really is only interested in middle class white folk in Sydney and Melbourne. Shame on us.I agree - it's just a going nowhere merry-go-round. We get the same disappointment no matter who we vote for. Illiterate Australian natives who've gone through our public school system in 2014? What kind of place are we living in?"The reason the USA failed in Iraq is for a simple reason:"

Because they didn't understand what success looked like. The situation in Iraq is largely the consequence of the absence of Saddam. It's pretty much why we sponsored him back in the day. IS or some other rabid Islamist outfit is what constitutes 'success' in Iraq. Just because we don't like it is not the point.

Bush thought you could substitute Jesus for Saddam, or the idea of 'democracy' (which, as we all know, is nothing of the sort and which Iraqis discovered when they 'voted' for Maliki). Iraqis are not killing Iraqis any more than Europeans were killing Europeans in Bosnia - they don't identify as Iraqis so much as they identify with their tribe or religion or whatever. Iraq is an idea made up by the postwar allies. Ideas like 'Egypt', 'Libya' and 'Syria' are similarly under pressure from people who recognise and identify with no such grouping.

The reason the USA failed in Iraq is for a simple reason: there existed no other possible outcome (other than Saddam winning easily)."Abbott will I believe lose the entire Scottish vote here in OZ"

The scots in Aus don't have a vote. Only residents of Scotland have a vote, whether they're scots or not.Sperm donors do it with benevolence, presumably, and for the benefit of others. They're only demand is anonymity (and cash, maybe). Why would anyone want to know who the sperm donor is? Their only input is entirely functional and devoid of commitment. 

I suspect the seeker has a fundamental dissatisfaction with their 'adoptive' parents and some kind of hangup. I have never donated sperm, but if i had I'd want absolutely nothing to do with the beneficiaries or their offspring. Some people are just plain weird. It'd be like meeting the person who got my old coat from Oxfam - I hope they liked it but I don't want to meet them."Are you an adopted/donor child? Then you can have a say on whether it is the right thing for them to know about their origins"

What if you are a donor who was guaranteed by law your anonymity? Can you not then have a say on whether the 'donor child' has rights that take priority to yours? Can you not offer a robust opinion regarding whether someone's 'feelings' are superior to what you were assured was your legal and moral right to not be identified to future strangers?So, Mr Hockey said that basically car ownership is too expensive for poor people. Poor people need cars just as much as anyone else, but they cannot afford them. And now he's made sure they are even less able to afford them. And that, in his mind, justifies the tax increase?

I wish my wife was a successful merchant banker."Need is relative"

Actually, people can live in refugee camps. They don't 'need' houses or education or healthcare any more than they 'need' a beer after work.

Silly argument dispensed with, Australia has poor public transport. Its cities have not evolved over centuries in an organic way, like in Europe for example, yielding communities connected by roads, rail, subway and cycle paths. Australia's cities have expanded in ever increasing radii from central hubs connected only by motorways. Most of our roads don't even have footpaths. Much like in places like Los Angeles the car is the only realistic method of transport. 

Sure, you can struggle by with walking in a few gutters, catching a few buses and wasting maybe 2-3 hours per day to get somewhere that's really only 20mins away. Students do that kind of thing - it's part of their education. It teaches them they need to get a car. But for a working mother? It's not really practical.

Hockey doesn't really care about these people though - he suspects they don't vote for him and never will. Hockey's constituency is the aspirational middle class, not the working poor. And now he's made sure there's a few more of them."If we were interested in efficiency, business, the environment and saving lives we would build more rail networks"

Do you see the flaw in your argument? 'We' is not a thing - there is only you and me. This government doesn't believe in 'we' - that's a socialist idea that seeks to spend my money on other people, and that just won't do. Want a train? Buy it yourself."Perhaps someone can give a scenario where a punch without initial violent action that is unforseen by the victim deserves less than ten years"

What about if the perpetrator was provoked at an earlier time? Say, bullied for years or a victim of domestic abuse. What if he was mentally ill? What if the victim was the drug dealer who sold the drugs to the perpetrator's dead sister?

With mandatory sentencing the judge cannot take these mitigating factors into consideration. If we don't trust judges then why have them at all?Not with the DPP pressing for a mandatory sentence.Better still let's just hang them from trees. In fact, why bother with courts at all: we all know who did it - let's just get 'em. Yeehaa!Firstly, there should be no such thing as 'state law': we live in Australia, and crimes in Australia should be dealt with the same no matter where in Australia you live. 

Secondly, the separation of powers is universally regarded as one of the bedrocks of civil liberty and democracy - isn't it bad enough that our governments make new laws that allow them to spy on us for who knows what purpose, for instance, or to stop and search with impunity without them deciding what sentence we get for breaking those laws? 

Mandatory sentencing is tampering with our democracy to win votes from meatheads. There are courts and there are courts of appeal to watch those courts. We have a system road-tested over centuries - the idea that some guy who used to run the meat raffle at the RSL who these days finds himself premier of a state thinks he knows better than the judiciary would be laughable if it weren't actually happening right before our eyes.

Maybe we should just dispense with elections altogether and hand supreme executive and judicial powers to George Brandis and his state teams. I mean, what could possibly go wrong?you learn, on long haul flights, how one or two individuals with a sense of entitlement and aware solely of their individual 'rights' can make everyone else's flight an endurance. Most people rub along pretty well, giving or taking with a sense of what's fair and considerate; but some feel like the whole experience is about them. 

I can understand that bloke who tried to open the door mid-flight. I suspect he was trying to push out the armrest warrior, the put-your-seat-back-during-dinner charmer, the 'it's my baby and therefore it's your baby too' earth mother, the 'I'm gonna take a window seat even though I need the toilet every 30 mins' idiot, and the 'there's no need to wash or apply deodorant it's a free country' hobo.

They say that a plane full of monkeys would arrive on the London flight with only half a dozen surviving - sometimes I think we should also have a go at that.But we cannot formulate policy for the many on the maybe experience of the few, can we? Of course some people will be coerced one way or the other into death - but doesn't that happen now? Isn't the regular 'stepping up' of morphine in nursing homes just this very thing? Isn't it the family and the doctors who 'suggest' this today?

This should not block my access to assisted death if that's what I want, any more than my free access to Panadol in supermarkets is also some people's free access to an overdose. You cannot stop negligence, crime or ill will just by making martyrs of sick people who no longer want to be here. These are separate issues."Overseas, people concentrate on the rhetoric between Russia, Europe and China - with no-one being aware of what our PM says! Oh except for one thing: he stood up to Putin. They admire him for that"

They don't admire him for that - they know nothing about it. Your first two sentences were correct, the last two simply wishful thinking. It's ony we who care what Abbott says and does, and most of us care that he behaves like a strutting bully while underneath being an obsequious coward. And a hopeless economic manager and incompetent leader.

I'd vote in a coin toss rather than this buffoon.
Is that the only recommendation you have for Abbott? That he's not as bad as Rudd? Wow, what a ringing endorsement. Maybe that should have been his campaign slogan: not 'stop the boats' or 'no change to education and health' or 'give billionaires a tax rebate', but 'I'm not quite as bad as Rudd, fair dinkum, vote for me'.

Gosh, I'm inspired.I'm sure if there were no witnesses Abbott would like to deny he said the shirtfront thing, like so many other things he's denied saying or doing. I used to be embarrassed to tell friends from overseas that Howard was our PM - specially when he rather undiplomatically said a vote for Obama was a vote for terrorism. But Abbott? 

It could be worse, I suppose: it could be PM Barnardi. I mean, it's not that far removed from what we've got, but thank heaven for tiny mercies. This one only threatens to assault the president of a nuclear superpower."I hadn't realised he was quite so short"

That's right, focus on the important stuff. I mean, Abbott is such a commanding presence with his shiny face and hair cap. At least Putin hasn't gone prematurely orange.

The only thing Putin's height explains is why he takes shorter but more frequent steps to get to where he's going - anything else you infer is the kind of offensive, discriminatory nonsense one could expect from an Abbott acolyte."The Americans would support Australia against any conflict with Russia"

You'd like to think so, wouldn't you? I'm not so sure, though. The US only ever acts in the interests of the US, not its allies' interests. If Australia (Abbott) wants to go around making physical threats against other national leaders then I'm not sure that's a fight the Americans picked.

What this ship does is highlight Australia's impotence in the global military scheme of things and to further highlight what a ridiculous man Abbott is with his empty, strutting, action-man rhetoric. 

Speak softly and carry a big stick like Comrade Putin, not shout loudly with a twig in your pocket like Mr Abbott.I wouldn't be surprised if some cleric somewhere issued a fatwah against it. There's nothing about an asteroid of water filling the oceans in the Koran or the bible, therefore it is surely heretical, or haram. God forbid they find life on it - there will need to be a new revelation, to someone in private of course, to explain how these microbes got there from the Ark. Those microbes are probably fallen and in need of salvation. No doubt there's a passage somewhere that can be twisted post hoc to have predicted such a thing.

Science has had its day - in the 1960s this would have been great, but today we've lost our rationality. There will be people praying to it any time soon.I feel your pain. However, they've done it with the Arctic - what's so different about the asteroid belt? It's nothing to do with 'rights' - it has everything to do with military might."Hello, we are still taking refugees, not just the ones who have the means and money to get here by boat"

Hello. But do we have to treat the ones who come here by boat like prisoners of war? They're only using whatever resources they can muster to do the best they can do for themselves and their families - should the reward for this be indeterminate detention behind razor wire with cruel, violent guards treating them like vermin? 

Surely, whatever you think of who qualifies to remain here, we shouldn't be treating innocent human beings worse than we treat committed rapists, murderers and paedophiles. And yet, we are.This call for appeasement will bear as much fruit as past such calls: let's not back hitler into too narrow a corner. Putin, like every other world figure, should be held accountable for his actions. The real question is how do we do this? 

Not by shirtfronting him about a plane crash, that's for sure. Of course, no-one is likely to do that, in spite of the tough talk. If this piece is meant to forgive Abbott's turbocharged reverse gear then it's weak. I don't forgive his tough talk - follow thru or shut up."That means that we the people have social responsibility removed from us and given to politicians"

I agree, not ideal - however, this situation did replace the ideal you genuflect towards, which was ideal only for a tiny minority. History shows us that without government intervention people from 5 years of age end up working 16 hour days, seven days per week. In fact, there's no need to resort to history - just look at what's happening now in places with small, weak governments - the kinds of places your trainers are made and where your oil comes from.

Social responsibility does not naturally emerge from the pursuit of individual interest - that much is proven beyond doubt. What we need is a way to ensure a 'fair' society - fair as defined by the majority of us - without crushing both initiative and will. No-one's really happy with a situation where 1% are becoming abstractly and gratuitously wealthy while 80% get poorer and the remainder fight to stand still. And it's facile to keep blaming 6 billion people for creating their own poverty through their negligence and fecklessness - that's clearly neither the cause nor the solution.Abbott is further right than Howard; Howard was considered to be centre-right; therefore Abbott is far right, not centre-right. I think that's the point. 

Your right wing friends probably supported Sarah Palin (as did you - I remember these things) and her 'drill baby drill' and 'take aim, fire' commentary on anything she disagreed with - that says nothing for those left-of-centre people, it just says a lot about your friends. Golden Dawn also probably think Abbott is a commie, but again that says nothing about those of us who think Abbott is a dangerous reactionary ideologue."If drugs were 'legalised' you would see 10,000 pages of legislation"

That is one of the most duplicitous arguments I've read for maintaining the Right's pointy-finger banning of someone else's recreational pastime. Let's ban everything to save on admin and make all of life a criminal enterprise. A stupid argument.

Gang culture, organised crime and terrorism are the holy trinity of the world's problems at the current time - all are caused by the Right's promotion of its ideology: the War on Drugs based on temperance; the War on Sex Workers based on biblical ideas about sex; and terrorism based on fundamental ideas about god (the sort promoted in every church, mosque and faith school in our supposedly secular country).

Conservative distaste is policy, not just PR. How much 'admin' has been spent fighting the 'War on Drugs'? How much 'admin' fighting organised crime, which is funded almost entirely by the War on Drugs and the War on Sex Workers?Banning space flight doesn't implicitly delegitimise a large proportion of workers in every country on earth, whereas banning the purchase of sex from sex workers does. It's like banning the purchase of drugs but not their manufacture or distribution. 

Don't be surprised if this latest Rightist idea is imported here - it might not be the traditional conservative's preferred stance of blaming women for men's extra-marital desire, but at least it manages to ban something to do with recreational sex, and that's one of the core principles of Rightist ideology."That scene in the Life of Brian is to the left what Spinal Tap was to hair bands"

I always thought it was more a dig at the Right - like the various splits in religions (catholic, methodist, presbyterian, sunni, shia) or terrorist groups (IS, al qaeda, boko haram), or Righty political fringes like the Liberals, the Nationals, One Nation, Golden Dawn and so on.

That scene was to the Right what Bill &amp; Ted's Excellent Adventure was to conservative ideology formation.How can it make sense to criminalise the purchase of a decriminalised service? Isn't that like decriminalising the manufacture and distribution of drugs while criminalising their purchase? As a purchaser I would demand discretion - somewhere away from other people who might be watching. Somewhere dangerous for the seller.

You can licence as many brothels as you like and make them as safe as possible for the sex workers - but if entering one to buy sex is illegal then many will still prefer a dark alley or a car, and sex sellers will go where the demand is.

The Swedish model is about god, not about sex workers. The only sane model is legalisation - the same regs that surround massages or physiotherapists: all in the open, all legal, all respectable. Discrimination against sex workers or their work should be as distasteful as discrimination against racial minorities or homosexuals."Also the fact that wave particle duality dictates that until observed a particle is merely a wave function ,.... hence until we are observed we are merely wave functions"

Really - so, who observed our planet before we were here to make it solid? Who is observing every solid, non-wave atom in the universe to make it real? I realise that quantum physics reveals some unusual results, but I don't think it quite says what you're implying.Quantum physics is weird, and it's weirdness allows cranks to misinterpret it to support their superstitious ideas about the universe. However, no matter how weird it is, it's positively common sense when compared to ideas like transubstantiation, the holy trinity or men in caves talking to angels. That's truly weird, and utterly nonsensicle.

But back to the topic, it always ruins films for me when key narrative points hang on factual errors or plain fantasy - that's why I snore my way thru movies like Harry potter or the Lord of the rings. In fantasy anything can happen, and therefore who cares? It's the laws of the universe that are truly magical, not the inane imaginations of those who prefer to believe they're optional.
"Matter and energy don't make themselves, unless there is an actual experiment where this has been achieved that I missed"

Maybe you missed two experiments: that one you mention and the one where a Creator did it. None of us will witness either, but at least the residual universe can be led backwards like Hansel &amp; Gretel to a Big Bang, whereas there's no trace of a Creator whatsoever. God is proven to be nothing more than a story made for those who are frightened of dying.

Matter and energy have always been here - there was never 'nothing'. The idea of 'nothing' is absurd. I don't know what preceded the Big Bang, but there's no evidence it was 'nothing'." the CREATION of a thing is a more complex phenomena than the thing itself"

Evolution has proven quite the opposite: complex organisms evolve from simpler organisms. Simple algorithms in mathematics can evolve into unimaginably complex outcomes. A snowflake is extremely complex, yet made from nothing more than simple ice crystals. Your base premise is false and therefore your conclusions are fallacious.

If there is one certainty that can be inferred from our observations of the universe it is that it was not created by a supreme being, which according you your 'theory' would have required an even more complex entity to have created it, and so on ad ridiculum. No evidence? No god."Now it's sensible to assume the null hypothesis in this instance but you can't make definitive statements without actual evidence"

So, describe to me the evidence that might present to prove the non-existence of something. Would it be something like the non-existence of evidence to demonstrate its existence? Isn't the null hypothesis for God as robust as the null hypothesis for goblins? Doesn't science insist that when something is unsupported by logic, physical laws and evidence it is safe to operate under the assumption that it is false? Aren't the idea of the ether and phlogiston dismissed under just these assumptions?

God is no more robust an assertion than unicorns and fairies, and we should not be afraid to say so just as emphatically."This is the nub of the disagreement between women of the left and women of the right over what should be done to progress the advancement of women"

The Right still think women should advance themselves by going to the right schools, marrying well and then becoming the best-dressed Mrs &amp; Mummy that hubby can afford.

Bishop is a career woman - there's nothing conservative about that. At least, that's not really what conservative MPs want for other women.The very idea of 'women' is a bit collectivist for people of the right, isn't it? There are individuals - some are female and some are male. The former do ironing, save their virginity as special gifts for men and perpetrate tragedies all too often on their foetuses. That's the view of the PM - as stated publicly many times - and that view is reflected in his Cabinet. Surprised? Then you haven't been paying attention. 

Take the Coalition at their word - they say enough and more about this kind of stuff. You just have to listen."So if I give a pregnant woman an abortive medicine without her knowledge and the baby is miscarried, I've committed no crime in your books?"

Yes, you've committed a crime - against the woman, not the foetus. That's a stupid argument.

Babies are born, not conceived."but we have to discourage drinking in mums for the sake of the unborn child"

Discourage, yes: criminalise, no.

Anyway, this UK bill has little to do with foetal alcohol syndrome and everything to do with abortion. If foetuses have rights then they cannot be aborted - that's the position the religious right wants to install by hook or by crook."If one is planning on carrying the foetus full term, then the foetus could then be said to have rightS"

'One' has rights in that instance, not the foetus. The foetus has right or it does not - it does not inherit them from the caprice of a third party.A duty of care is a different thing altogether. We have a duty of care towards our pets - we cannot abuse or cause through negligence cause our pets to suffer without consequence. 

However, our pets do not have rights. We protect them through the law without assigning them rights - this case in the UK is not about a duty of care - it's about the Christian Right banning abortion. Don't be fooled. Right for foetuses is about stripping away rights for women's sovereignty over their own bodies."It's not just women's bodies"

Not for you it seems - they're just men's bodies by proxy over which they should have sovereignty. Your other arguments make no sense either literally or comparatively; they're just chip-on-the-shoulder rants.The consequence of abortion is the end of a pregnancy. Women face that all the time. I think what you mean is that they should be answerable for their decisions to conservative, God fearing men. That's not a natural consequence: that's oppression. But I'm sure that's the same thing in your world."it is about the definition of where a human life starts and when we convey inalienable human rights onto that foetus or unborn baby"

Never - the inalienable human rights arrive at birth, the point at which the baby is born and becomes an individual rather than a part of the woman's body. Of course, mistreatment of the foetus becomes emotionally more unacceptable the closer to that point that we get, but the line in the sand is birth. This is intuitive as well as logical: if the 'death' of foetuses was such a societal issue then miscarriage would be regarded as equivalent with cot death as a focus of medical research. It is not.

Please don't try to mount the argument "what about halfway out" or "before or after the umbilical cord is cut" and all that. At this point it's 24 weeks, and I think that works for most people on a moral level. As for maternal negligence with alcohol - well, the same people who argue anti-abortion are the same who argue for the right to abuse their children with corporal punishment for being naughty, so they lose any argument from compassion.

In principle, though, abortion is about a woman's body, not about some clerical view on the 'sanctity' of incipient life. You do support the banning of abortion, but try to disguise it for fear of ridicule.Au contraire Mr Frog - women should forgo any rights they may naively feel they have over their bodies either before or during pregnancy: they should cover themselves entirely as god intended, show themselves only to their immediate families, remain virginal until married then simply pop out children (pref boys) for her entire reproductive years, or as her husband requires.

Alternatively, the state should take control of her body from puberty until menopause, during which time she should be subject to mandatory monthly pregnancy tests. 

Women are not proper human beings - they're just organic incubators. Everyone knows that.

I suggest you be in charge of the ministry of pregnancy - it sounds like you have the right attitude.APM, border control is a serious issue for countries that have borders - Mexico and the USA or Syria and Turkey, for example. Overnight these countries can find hundreds of thousands of 'migrants' in their territories unless they have some kind of barrier. For Australia? It's not that easy to get here. You would need a fleet of cruise liners sailing 24/7 for 52 weeks per year to even approach the issue that most countries that border hellholes like Iraq and Somalia face.

But, for the tiny issue we have and the tiny risk it represents people like you argue that we should accept that our security services should be able to kidnap my wife, murder her, deport me and for no-one to be allowed to either discuss or report it under threat of imprisonment. ASIO wouldn't do that, you say? That's nonsense, you say? How will we know and why should we have to trust them? 

Who else in public life are we forced by law to trust implicitly? Isn't the very notion of democracy about knowing what our governors are doing and being able to express our support or otherwise for what they're doing in the ballot box? Are you really prepared to trash democracy just to make sure no-one with brown skin moves up your street?

That farce a few weeks ago with the 800 men and the plastic sword? We won't know about those kinds of stuff-ups any more. What if you're an accidental witness who might embarrass the AFP or, god forbid, the AG? Well, you could just disappear - the AFP will have that kind of executive power and no-one will be allowed to question their behaviour, their motives or its illegality.So, if you disagree with this erosion of privacy and oversight who do you vote for? Or is non-agreement with government policy now forbidden? I wonder what would happen if the media created a hypothetical SIO (based on real events) just to show people what their leaders have signed away - would that be a de facto breach of the legislation?

By the way it's not security legislation -  that what they've called it, but its objective is not security.It's not Dunham's fault that black women don't feel they have the freedom to discuss reality the way Dunham does. Should she not say these things just in case there's someone who, for whatever reason, feels they cannot?

She is a child of financial, if not emotional, privilege. So what? Can such people not discuss such things? Black people should not become so entitled to think that every utterance from a non-black person has to consider their feelings. Maybe their particular needs are not part of Dunham's story, or indeed many people' stories. Maybe one's hang ups are one's own, not everyone's

There is no abuse here, just weird little kids doing weird little things.Such sentiments imply censorship. Is feminism the new fascism?This government - a so-called small government - wants to be bigger in our lives than any government before it. It wants to know everything we do, say and, by inference, think. It doesn't want to know this for our security, it wants to know this for its omnipotence. We are not to know what their security people are up to - not even allowed to ask what we've just seen even if it happens in front of us, not allowed to enquire - we are not allowed to communicate with one another without surveillance, and not allowed to demand privacy as a right, or even a privilege.

There are ways to avoid this - electronically. Buy shares in VPNs and proxies - it's the future of freedom. Peeping Tom-ism is now policy for them, while still illegal for us. We can't run, but we can still hide. For the moment."No, there are no good guys in the Middle East"

I think in retrospect we can see that Mubarak, Saddam, Assad and Gaddafi were 'good guys' - maybe not to live under if you had any kind of ambitions towards freedom - but I think daily life was both more secure and more prosperous for the average Egyptian, Iraqi, Syrian and Libyan; and certainly we in the West were far more secure with them in charge.

You can deal with people who are interested in power and money - that's business as usual. It's people who're interested in martyrdom, paradise and Koranic literalism who are impossible to deal with. We've substituted Goodfellas for Godfellas - I know which I prefer.Zing - George Bush was the individual who claimed democracy was the reason for deposing Saddam - are you suggesting the consequences of his actions are a Leftist conspiracy? If so I contest your opinion on the basis of historical fact. Iraq today is the consequence of neoliberal ideology, not 'leftist' ideology. The 'democracy' we are are trying to defeat in IS is a rightest creation. Without Bush's war on Iraq IS would not exist. IS is neolib's creation, not 'Lefist's'."I'm puzzled as to which side would be the right one for liberal democrats to support"

The side that represents less danger to Australians. Supporting the fight against America's enemies has led to all of us being surveilled mercilessly by ASIO, by the recreational use of drugs being seen as equivalent to murder and having the might of our legislature being used to protect the copyright of American entertainment companies.

Who is the enemy, remind me again?

"Australia doesn't need a population policy"

Remember Costello's 'one for mum, one for dad and one for the country' statement, with accompanying Baby Bonus? That was a population policy. From one of your political heroes.

How about 'one for your country', and a bonus for no more? Same incentive but different objective. Problem with that? Please show your answer with workings out.But why are you left to speculate? Where are the checks and balances? How do you know this will happen?

With a market mechanism polluters are punished for polluting - with direct action we have to trust bureaucrats to monitor and be honest and competent etc. do you trust them to do this because their record is so good? In pink batts etc?

Oh, but it's Abbott so therefore by definition we can trust it, right? Slavish commitment to the Liberals aside, do you really believe Direct Action is a good idea Mr Gardener?"Checks and balances you ask? How would I know. Wait until the program is implemented"

Really? You're happy to see a $2.55bn scheme implemented before it is revealed to us how we're going to make sure it works? Isn't that a bit like checking that the brake pedal is connected to the brakes after you've started driving?

Why so miffed? Because $2.55bn that could be spent on something useful is being wasted on an objective that the government doesn't believe in or have any moral commitment to. I'd rather they say they don't believe in AGW - or believe it but don't think that Australia reducing its CO2 will make any difference, or whatever - than pretend to believe that Direct Action will do anything other than waste $2.55bn.The Coalition's policy only makes sense if you know that they either a) don't believe in AGW; or b) don't think there's any need to respond to it. It's a great excuse for giving big business subsidies from taxpayer revenue while cutting subsidies from the poor and disadvantaged. This is not a revelation, or at least shouldn't be: this is Coalition ideology 101. 

In 20 years there will be no public healthcare beyond last resort emergency, no free education, no unemployment benefits, little regulation on pollution or banking or employment protection. People who are rich and corporations that are powerful will have their statuses protected - that's what 'conservatism' means - the poor will have only themselves to blame for their predicament for not being hardworking or smart enough. Not being smart enough, at least, to realise that voting for the Coalition is the same as voting for a pay rise for your boss while yours goes ever downwards.
"How about dubious about AGW"

Then why not say so? Since when has duplicity been a great idea for policy formation? If you believe the science behind AGW then you will want to act on it - if not then you won't. But acting on it whilst not believing it is just deceitful. It's like committing $2.55bn of taxpayer money to defend against unicorns.

The Coalition believes the market can fix education, healthcare, infrastructure, employment and banking but is not the right mechanism for dealing with pollution? Only central planning can fix that one? Please explain how this makes any sense unless the Coalition is lying to us about either their faith in market mechanisms or their faith in the science of AGW they've just committed $2.55bn to.

I think you know it's $2.55bn of taxpayer money down the toilet like I know it's $2.55bn down the toilet - but I'm not on here supporting it.The most significant changes in history have come about through revolution, not evolution. When the disparity between rich and poor reaches a tipping point then revolution is the only alternative. Representative democracy seems to only give us the choice of tinkering around the edges, not at the centre. Brand isn't the guru, but maybe the fact that his message resonates is a sign that we're tired of tinkering at the edges.

Brandis and Abbott are trying to legislate us into not being able to discuss such things; that they might be an indication of incipient terrorism. This kind of suppression of freedom of knowledge is not a good indicator of peaceful times to come. The new terrorism laws do not suppress terrorism, they oppress us. 

The idea that the world is run for some rather than all is not false; the question is what we - as voters in a supposedly democratic nation - are going to do about it when merely voting every three years doesn't seem to make any difference.Wouldn't it be better if the engines of our economy, and therefore our prosperity, also recognised that we are not just employees but also human beings with human needs? Freezing eggs may be one solution, albeit one that simply delays what industry sees as a problem - procreation is a business problem! - but maybe another is to simply accommodate that a business' main producer of profits is its employees? And some of them are women of reproductive age?

I'm pretty sure if men had babies this wouldn't be an issue - a twelve month sabbatical would be standard business practice. It's only work, for god's sake. If businesses planned for the inevitability that some of their staff will disappear for a few months every now and then, rather than treat it as an unexpected shock, then this issue would be a non-issue. 

I think this is a hangover from the revelation that women are impertinent enough to want to do man's work. Is any employee really so indispensable that their absence requires such radical, and stupid, intervention?"Because with the RET there is evidence to suggest you can have an environmental policy and lower electricity prices too"

So what? There was plenty of evidence showcased night after night BA (before Abbott) to show that 90% of the rise in electricity prices was to do with unnecessary investment in poles &amp; wires and other energy company trickery to increase their margins. Did anyone listen? No.

Evidence schmevidence. Facts trouble Abbot as much as children behind razor wire bothers him: not at all.So, you agree that the rise in costs was practically nothing to do with the carbon price then? My swipe at Abbot was in recognition of how he caused voters to believe that it was; and then won an election on that piece of mendacious duplicity. Meh? Meh!"but the 70s equivalent..."

... was joining the Black September movement, or ETA or the IRA, or the Symbionese Liberation Army, or Pol Pot, or the Baader-Meinhof group. You think terrorism is a modern thing? Suicide bombing is pretty modern - we haven't seen martyrs like that since people stopped believing in the afterlife and realised through science that this life is all there is. Those heady few decades have been erased by the zombie-like march of evangelism so that today Monty Python could not make the Life of Brian - and certainly there could be no islamic equivalent.

But of course, today's idiots are even more idiotic than that - they behave as though stupidity is not only a virtue but the solution to their problems - whereas it's always always always been the cause - and they build their lives and communities around it. The idea of 'muslim lands' begins with 'muslim communities' - this is the idea that we actively promote in Australia with our policies against integration and assimilation and our support for faith schools churning out yet more generations of deluded medievalists, Christians and Muslims alike."Boredom, testosterone, naivety and I suggest low IQ attract these young men"

I think we like to imagine these people have some character flaw like low IQ or poor moral development, but that's not supported by the evidence. The case at the moment of Britain's 'Pompey Lads' - 6 young men from Portsmouth of Bangladeshi heritage - shows how young men with intelligence and prospects can be seduced by this nonsense. These are university undergraduates and tradesmen with nothing in their futures but potential.

It's always ideology - and the most dangerous ideology is religion, and at the moment the most dangerous religion is Islam. Yet we still support the opening of new faith schools to teach yet more hungry minds that their religion is the only right one and only they will go to paradise and that evidence-based knowledge is 'haram' if it contradicts a 6th Century book of make believe."One of the most effective means to decrease the distance between in and out-groups is to interact with people in perceived out-groups"

We have a policy of multiculturalism which has created 'separateness' - if we had a policy of assimilation, like in the USA for example, maybe we wouldn't have these problems. If I wanted to interact with muslims I'd have to drive for over an hour to get to one of the dangerous ghettos they're forced to live in. In general, they're not safe places to visit after dark and even during the day there's a quiet menace in operation. I'm sure most muslims don't like being there but that's where their communities have been encouraged to settle and create little pockets of the old country (and the old culture they came here to escape).

We need to encourage integration, to demand language skills as a requirement for residency (no-one has an excuse to not speak English if they've been here 12-months or more) and get rid of the idea of white Australians, black Australians or Australian muslims - we're all just people living in Australia.

IS, Al Shabab, Al Queda, the IRA, Nazis, and bogans on trains wrapped in a flag - all of these thrive on defining people by their affiliations rather than their humanity. That's why the medical profession stopped defining people by their afflictions - there are no more arthritics, spastics or mongols, we recognise people with arthritis, people with cerebral palsy and people with Downs syndrome. People first, whatever else afterwards.The states are an anachronism - the only reason we have them at all is because they were once separate colonies of Great Britain that reported directly to London. The states are expensive, poorly run by incompetents, largely corrupt and/or mismanaged and create unnecessary tension in our democracy. 

20m people and three levels of government voted for by people who only seem to understand 3-word slogans and handouts? Talk about milking it. We barely have enough talent for a federal government let alone state governments. We've all seen what's been happening in NSW and VIC, and we watch in horror at Campbell Newman and his band of wreckers in QLD - would anyone really vote to give these administration yet more power? Yet more money? Yet more autonomy?

It's time we grew up, got rid of the monarchy's artificial lines in the desert and became a proper nation with our own head of state. One state.It seems Abbot used the same narrative to damn the fiscal stimulus that saved australia from the global recession of 2008. Sure, we had deficits - but no recession like the rest of the worlds economies. So Kevin 07 seems like a failure in Liberal retrospect, but in reality was a major success. Remember, we lived thru it and not all that long ago. Spend any time in Europe or the USA even today and witness how lucky we were to have been the beneficiaries of such prescient policies.

Revisionism is the only tool the Coalition have got - it's disappointing just how many voters are suckered by it.I think there's a case for NSW to become the first state without a state government: let a new Federal model come into operation with NSW Federal ministers picking up responsibilities for state affairs. Let's face it, as long as they don't raid the tills, give all the jobs to their extended families and sell state assets to companies owned by their mates then they'll do better than the last two mobs of idiots.

States are an anachronism, and an expensive, corrupt one at that. Get rid of 'em all.Abbott is milking this for all its worth: and for him it seems to be worth a lot. What budget? What co-payment? What cut to healthcare?"Are we so silly to buy into this nonsense?"

Unfortunately, it seems like we are. The voting majority never blame themselves for the decisions they make - they prefer to blame the decisions of the people they elect to do their thinking for them. It's 'their' fault, not mine. We are less free, less secure and less well informed than ever - all courtesy of those we elected to keep us free, secure and well informed. As Jonny Rotten once said back in the 1970s: ever feel like you've been had?"A woman's right to choose should include a myriad things"

I agree, and my right to offer commentary and opinion on anything I choose is also my right. I can't see how my right both to notice the way a woman looks and to comment on it in any way I choose is any of your business or hers. 

You're not arguing for freedom here - you're arguing for censorship. Shame on you."Correct me if I am mistaken, but weren't these private emails?"

Ah, that takes me back. I too remember a pre-Brandisian time when there existed some sense of a right to privacy. Halcyon days indeed. We have logged your heretical statement and someone will in contact v soon, possibly 800 someones at dawn."But if the claim is "he was just joking, innit?" I must say I will take some convincing"

That's the point - your need to be convinced is not relevant: you were not the recipient. None of us needs to be convinced - this was a private email to a confidant, not a public declaration. None of us should have an opinion on a private conversation. 

It was not a criminal conspiracy, it was not sedition - it was a private commentary. What you and i think of an eavesdropped exchange is the only wrongdoing here - the point that we have an opinion at all is wrong. It would be like me commenting on Jennifer Lawrence's figure after having seen her hacked photos - I really shouldn't have seen them, and the fact that I have seen them is an invasion of her privacy."It wasn't private - that's misinformation peddled by his lawyers"

So, if he'd simply whispered this to his colleague whilst alone and the university had bugged the room this would still be OK by you? Maybe the uni could also install cameras in the toilets and publish piccies of his genitals. I mean, according to your side of the argument, when on uni property the uni owns you, right? Nothing is private in a public place?

What a ridiculous excuse for an invasion of privacy. No doubt you think Brandis new prying laws don't go far enough.its a shame that there are those who believe it's ok to be considered to be culpable of a dismisssble offence to be overheard sharing a private joke with a colleague in a whispered aside in an office one assumed had only the two of you in it.

We should be careful our newly-minted i-Piety doesn't come back to bite us. Oh! Brandis' new anti privacy laws have arrived - well done everyone.But biased, righty laws - like not being able to talk about something you've seen happening in your own street if someone retrospectively declares it an SIO - are OK, I suppose. Is the definition of bias anything that abbott and Bolt don't like?Has no one here said a forbidden word or typed an unacceptable insult to an intimate friend knowing that it be received with faux shock or in recognition of the irony? I think you all need to get off your high horses - horses which none of you, I guarantee, have any right to be mounted upon - and stop supporting the idea that snitching on people in private is a public duty. This is Stalin's legacy being promoted here in Aus.

All we should care about this man is the statements he makes &amp; supports publicly. Privately, his affairs and his views are nne of our business. And the email address he happens to use is a red herring - just an excuse for hounding someone you don't like.There was no such being as Jesus Christ - the anecdotes claiming that Jesus was an actual character in history is a Christian trick to lend credibility to the supernatural. 

Maybe there was a preacher named jesus, maybe there were many - let's face it, there were lots of deluded preachers roaming about the place and jesus was a common name - but this says nothing for the Jesus of the Bible. Similarly, there might well have been a detective somewhere in Victorian London called Holmes but that says nothing in support of the stories of Conan Doyle.

By the way, atheists are not apologists - they do not have stories about which they must obfuscate to support. That's a purely religious pursuit.It's a time-honoured strategy: create an enemy that seems far more threatening than an authoritarian government, then introduce the idea of an authoritarian government as a solution. A useful tactic is to populate this authoritarian government with weak-minded idiots and ideologues like Kelly O'Dwyer, and it's a stroke of luck if the Opposition are out of their depth intellectually and operationally, as with Kate Ellis.

There are no sunset clauses because these are not emergency powers - once these pass we will have them forever. Many on this forum never shut up about the Left's attempt to gag the press - where are they now that the government are proposing to lock up journalists and citizens just for talking about something they see happening in the street if it happens to be part of an SIO? Suddenly there'll be all sorts of SIOs going on (nudge nudge wink wink) and there'll be no way to check if we're being lied to. I mean, we're lied to constantly now and cover-up is an established bureaucratic manoeuvre - behind a shroud of legislated secrecy we won't stand a chance.The evidence for god is as robust as the evidence for Atlantis, ie non-existent. When you put your hands together do it quickly - at least that would make a clap which might be useful. Praying is for weak minds deluded by superstition."Whilst not necessarily (and probably not) a city as described in the legends, the legend of Atlantis..."

... is made up nonsense, like god. which is also not an all powerful being as described in the legends. But thanks for the fascinating geology lesson.It's pretty clear what you'd need to believe in God: evidence. The better question is what the faithful would need to give up their faith. If the answer is 'there is nothing that would stop me believing' then it's a dogma. It's a trap for the gullible.

I have an open mind whereas the faithful have closed minds - that's really the definition of faith."Can you prove god exists? No, can you prove god does not exist? No."

That is such a facile argument. By the same reasoning you'd have to remain agnostic about the tooth fairy and unicorns. If you cannot devise an experiment, even in principle, to test the assertion that god exists then it doesn't exist. Anything not falsifiable is false."I will pray for you" is the biggest insult that can be offered to someone in distress"

I agree - i reminds me of when Howard made us all pray for rain. I felt so embarrassed to have such a man in charge. And it didn't rain, surprise, surprise."Is it that believing... everything is the product of sequential accidents... so noble and righteous?

Atheists believe no such thing - they simply don't accept the existence of god in the absence of even a shred of evidence. If the evidence says "everything is the product of sequential accidents" then that's what we should accept as our best approximation to the truth - there's no 'belief' involved. And furthermore, that could change tomorrow if new evidence demonstrates otherwise.

It's paradoxical when the faithful believe that words presented in their holy books are the 'words of god', even when they contradicts the physical evidence presented in a universe that god is supposed to have created.

The religious world view is founded on fear, threats and magic - its replacement is knowledge, understanding and reality. Religion is wishful thinking, not actual thinking. Facts are those things that can be observed, measured and predicted - not those things asserted by decree from a man in authority.Abbott just wants to grandstand again. Perhaps they should re-enact that scene from Rocky IV - or better still Abbott could wear his fireman's hat and Putin could be the leatherman while they perform a duet of A-S-I-O. It's fun to stay at the A-S-I-O.

Abbott and Putin are both old-school bully boys full of macho bluster. Neither of them is to be trusted. They are both power-crazed.If Bill Shorten had said this and if he promoted it to the electorate and made it a policy platform that differentiated it from Abbott &amp; Brandis then he might well win the next election. Unfortunately, he didn't.

How long will it be before articles like this cannot be written for security reasons?"The press will certainly be at liberty to report on incompetence"

No they won't, not if it is an SIO. They won't be able to acknowledge the existence of a mission, let alone any incompetence therein."Private is not 'Something to hide'"

I think you'll find that it's the textbook definition. I think you are confusing 'something to hide' with criminality, which this bill effectively does too. As that phone hacker in London said "privacy is for pedos'. Everyone has a right to hide their private business, and just because you lead with the chin in saying 'deal with it' doesn't mean that's what everyone else should do. 

Gay people in the army, in football, in rural areas - are you suggesting they should all 'come out' because in your personal opinion they should not be permitted to hide? How about an ex-Muslim who doesn't want to be persecuted for apostasy - he should also just fess-up? In Europe Google has had to comply with a Court of Human Rights order to allow people to hide - or at least not have their personal history published. But you think that in Australia - fast becoming a human rights-free zone - we should be an example of reckless candour? Don't you think it's paradoxical that while our right to privacy is stripped away the very agency that's doing it is increasing its ability to hide from us by totally removing itself from public scrutiny? Under threat of imprisonment for treason? Even if - or specially if - you're a journalist?

It's hard to understand what a life without privacy will be like, but we're all about to find out."True, we may never know just how many plots are undone by increasing counter terrorism efforts"

Why do we not know? When did we settle for ignorance when discussing things done in our name?

Remember that incident referenced in the article where 800 AFPs with helicopters and guns descended on some hapless idiots in Melbourne only to arrest a handful of people and let them go again. We heard about that one - a textbook lesson in overreaction and incompetence, given they've only charged one person, and that person is religiously opposed to IS - but in the future you might see that happening in your street, wonder what it's all about and never be able to find out, never see the incident on the news or read any speculation on what it might have been or what happened. It'd be as though it hadn't happened, like it was some kind of hallucination. If you're caught talking about it in groups of other witnesses (ie neighbours) you could be arrested under the Act.

I don't understand why everyone's not up in arms about this. It's hard to see how this could be much worse than living under a caliphate. Having our freedoms eroded by Islamists or security Acts - what's the difference? Surely we should be protecting our freedom above all else.A spokesman from the IPA criticising an investor for making decisions on moral rather financial reasons? Shock, horror. For the IPA moral and financial are synonymous: the value of anything and everything is reducible to dollars.

Some people are IPA heretics. Some people think life is not a financial question. Some people think morality is about people, not money."Some people" who "think life is not a financial question " should not put their hands out for taxpayer funding of their political commentary"

So, you're saying that every publicly funded institution - the ABC, universities, the health service - should toe the political line. They should agree with the current administration's policies by default and not make decisions with regard to anything but slavish obedience to The Party?

I think maybe our growing distance in time between the regimes of Stalin, Mao, Ceausescu etc have made some people nostalgic for it. If you do a politics degree at uni you should only be allowed to learn neocon - unless Labor get in, in which case only collectivism. The world we enjoy today was not created by those with your opinion - it was created against the wishes of those with your opinion. The intellectual foundations of our world were developed in places like the ANU, not in the cabinet room, and it was created through dialogue and activism, not by acquiescence.A lot of people work very hard in vocations that are not designed to make them wealthy. We all want there to be very able teachers and nurses, and we all want clean streets and well-stocked supermarket shelves and taxis to take us home. None of these jobs will make anyone rich no matter how hard they work. Not everyone either is, or wants to be, an entrepreneur or has the requisite abilities.

The attitude towards money from the Liberals is that its accumulation is the sole purpose in life even though they demand that the majority of people do not do this, otherwise who would clean their houses?"we're all free to quit our jobs any old time we want"

Most wealth is not earned in the labour market - it's either inherited, embezzled or returned from investments. Very few employees get rich. Very few poor people get rich. People with money tend to get more money. People with less money tend to lose even more. This is what the statistics tell us and it is facile bordering on negligent to claim that this is purely a consequence of the actions of the individuals involved. It's a systemic thing, not the result of individual endeavour.

Anyway, the labour market is not free, as you correctly identified. I am not free to be a doctor or a lawyer or a chartered accountant - that takes a lot of money, the right education and the right connections. Apart from all that it also takes a pre-existing level of intelligence and a certain kind of temperament. 

The idea that 'hard work' is all it takes to achieve anything you want is utter nonsense. The children of the security guard at Coles can never be doctors - they have not inherited IQs of 140 or so and they've learned their parents' poor impulse control. They'd have to have been born with some pretty special and pretty improbable innate qualities to escape that  - and no matter how hard you work you cannot change your innate abilities. It'd be like telling a short person that they could be tall if only they worked a bit harder.

If you believe in society then you also believe that there are all sorts of jobs that have to be done, and that we shouldn't have a system that says that the people who do 8/10 of those jobs are losers. A nurse isn't a loser just because she isn't financially independent or because she didn't have the wherewithal to set up a nursing business. Of course, if you don't believe in society - as Liberals do not - then the only value anyone or anything has is measured in dollars."Any attempt to end the universality of healthcare must be strongly resisted"

I haven't seen any resistance and it's been going on at least since Howard used taxpayer money to subsidise the growth of private healthcare. Now it's a co-payment for doctors and an anticipated co-payment for hospital treatment. Then there'll be a funding crisis and the government will address it with a raft of PFIs - private finance initiatives that require a return on investment.

Then the universality of healthcare will be unaffordable and we'll be asked to vote for scrapping it or raising taxes drastically. Healthcare or new flatscreen TV? We know how people vote on these things - look what they voted for last time.If you understand Liberal party philosophy then you should understand that universal healthcare free at the point of access is as unpalatable to them as it is to US Republicans. The only reason they haven't completely abandoned it is because they know voters overall wouldn't like it - however, we frogs might notice the water getting a little bit hotter as the months go by. Or maybe we won't - that's the point, after all."Besides, we already pay tax for health care. If that tax isnt enough then raise it"

I agree. How come noone's prepared to talk about raising taxes to pay for things we agree we want? Why does everything have to be paid for by cuts? When did the narrative change from tax and spend to cut and spend? Or worse, cut and cut?Shorten might as well be Abbott's deputy - voters rejected Conroy's nannying over the internet and would have totally rejected Abbott and Brandis' police-state measures had Shorten had the guts or intelligence to explain to them just what the government were squandering for who knows what purpose.

Now an ASIO mission could accidentally shoot your mother and they would neither tell you what happened or why it happened, the papers couldn't report it and you could be incarcerated for merely talking about it.

I know, that sounds far-fetched, doesn't it? But the new legislation makes it a perfectly feasible scenario - only our complete faith in the rock-solid competence and integrity of our public servants makes it improbable. I mean, human beings never stuff things up or do things for the wrong reasons, do they? Not security personnel, police, military or politicians - they are beyond reproach. And now we are legislated to trust them because it's illegal to place them under any scrutiny whatsoever.

Nice one Bill."Did you ever attack Conroy's plans"

Yes, immediately and constantly."argued that sexism within her own party as well as that in the broader Australian community and the media would likely prevent her from ever reaching..."

I think it's more likely her shallow character and barely passable competence that will nip that aspiration in the bud. She's been around a while and apart from one meeting in Europe about a plane she has only surpassed at underwhelming our expectations. Where was she as shadow minister vs Carr? Absent without a clue, that's where. 

Until v recently she was widely regarded as a lightweight, and surely no one with any sense of time can think differently now? Or is our succession plan so barren that we have to consider one party trick the road to leadership?"only Zing could take an article on feral cats destroying native wildlife and support the cat"

But no mention of human beings, or pollution, or foxes ,or dingos, or rabbits, or cane toads, or feral goats and pigs, or pigeons or fungi, parasites and diseases. Just puddy tats. It's interesting to note that they didn't come here on boats seeking asylum from Catistan - they were introduced by the no. 1 threat to biodiversity anywhere in Australia: us.

The real question is do we get more value from our introduced species than we lose from the problems they create? Certainly, life is better today than it's ever been for humans so it seems to me that, at the very least, the jury's still out on that one.

99.9% or more of every species that has ever existed on earth is now extinct - this is not a specimen jar floating through the void: it's a dynamic, living planet that evolves under new pressures from within and without. Bye-bye Nullarbor dwarf bettong and lesser bilby - it was good while it lasted, eh?It's a bit like Putin's law on advocating homosexuality. Perhaps the act of failing to condemn terrorism will be an offence. 

Back in the 1980s anyone supporting Mandela would have been guilty.So, do you mean that because the media sensationalised global warming it's OK that they sensationalise the threat of terrorism? I'm not sure that makes any sense, unless you agree that global warming isn't a thing whereas terrorism is. Isn't it right that the media should try to keep things in perspective? Isn't it right that they be held to account for both?

I think you are trying to justify sensationalism with reference to your own biases. If you thought the media were selling newspapers by scaring us unnecessarily about AGW then I cannot see how you would disagree with the author's assessment on their behaviour regarding Abbott's war on imaginary terrorist threats in our suburbs.

Behaving in the same way you think Jonathan behaves but on a different topic doesn't make you virtuous, you know.Perhaps, then, instead of trying to combat IS with fighter aircraft we should just have a reasonable discussion with them.

We all know that the wearing of the niqab and hijab has grown in recent years amongst those who were born here or who settled here long ago. Why is this? I fail to believe that there is no community pressure on them to do so.

When we first saw that BBC reporter back in the early 2000s showing women in burkas in Afghanistan we were shocked that a culture was so ashamed of women and so oppressive of them that it tried to hide them in plain sight. We felt instinctively that they needed liberating. We were disgusted that seemingly ordinary men appeared indifferent to it.

Now, here we are a decade later fighting for women's 'right' to wear the same sorts of things here. And we are seemingly indifferent.

Any culture that demands a woman cover herself in shame - sorry, modesty - is a poisonous culture. Maybe we shouldn't ban it - prohibition rarely works - but we certainly shouldn't portray it as a 'free choice' or as an equal choice to any other sartorial decision. This isn't a debate about fashion, it's a debate about liberty.I've heard life imprisonment without the possibility of parole works quite well too.It would be better if they died in battle. Someone who has murdered or tortured in the name of an ideology is unfixable. If they can be persuaded once to abandon their humanity and commit atrocities on innocents then they can be persuaded more than once.
Katter had plenty of time to publicly renounce the views he has promoted in the past. He had time to say "I'm sorry for the things I've said and I no longer believe them to be true". Instead, he chose to excuse himself. 

He wasn't hijacked any more than pauline hanson is hijacked whenever anyone asks her "So, do you still hate ethnic minorities?".It is our money, you're right. Ours, as in, collectively ours. Tax revenue doesn't belong to you, it belongs to us. It is the price we pay for civil society. Go to places with little or no tax and see how you like the civility there.That only applies to dual-nationals - you cannot leave someone stateless. If they were born here then they have the right to return, as I understand it."In the UK, the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act had to be renewed by Parliament annually"

I think this would be the most sensible way to proceed. If the relevant authorities could not demonstrate to Parliament the need for such liberty-eroding laws then they should be cancelled. Instead, we now know that these gross infringements will be in place until 2024 at least - happy with that? Isn't it rather pessimistic to assume through our legislature that we will be in a state of siege for the next decade? Will we end up like Egypt in a State of Emergency for a generation?"So, tell me, how does that amount to a 'burqa ban blunder'"

I don't think it was a blunder - he was simply appeasing his two constituencies: the first don't want governments to tell people what they can wear (classic small-L liberals), the second want Muslims out of Australia (classic large-L Liberals, or White Australians, as they used to be known).

Abbott has appeased the first group while letting the second know that fair dinkum mate, if only he could, he's on their side, in a fairer world, these bloody foreigners etc.

He learned a lot from his stoush with Pauline back in the day."On this one little issue, what did Abbott say that was wrong ?"

He said he found it confronting and that he wished they wouldn't wear it. Then he failed to do anything about it. So, he had his constituents yelling "Yes! I agree" after justifying their bigotry with his supportive words, but then denied them the legal right to act. So, as we've seen, people will take what they see as their moral right to abuse burka-wearers with the PM's tacit imprimatur."The gendered abuse currently being generated online against Abbott's chief of staff Peta Credlin, the Speaker Bronwyn Bishop, and the mining magnate Gina Rinehart, for example, casts just as ugly a light on perpetrators from the left as it does on similar abuse coming from the right"

Julie Bishop was as sexist towards Gillard as any of her male colleagues. Wasn't it she who coined the phrase 'handbag hit squad' and wasn't it she who made the 'cat' gesture towards Gillard during question time?

If she suffers at the hands of people like herself then she could hardly complain. Of course, should we be stupid enough to let it get that far, she will."I say Mr Abbott's religion, which advocates drinking the blood and eating the flesh of the saviour each Sunday is kind of aggressive too, and at least as silly"

I agree completely - the answer is to keepany and all religious symbols out of the public sphere, like they do in France: no crucifixes, no niqabs, no stars of david.Abbott, as PM, has a duty to temper his personal feelings with his public responsibilities. He also thinks women should stay at home and keep house, thinks god is watching our every move and will reward/punish us as appropriate, thinks homosexuality is unnatural and its practice immoral, and that a women's virginity is a nice pressie for men. He should say none of these things publicly as PM, and what he believes personally is of no relevance to anyone but his friends and family.

But you're right, he uses casual and seemingly innocuous statements like these to foment division in society. He makes it clear who are 'us' and who are 'them'. We are not gay female muslims, that's for sure."How else can we decide who to vote for if the pollies don't tell the truth about what they believe"

Unless you live on Sydney's Lower North Shore you didn't vote for him. Don't we vote for parties and policies rather than individual pollies? I think, for similar reasons, that politicians should not be allowed conscience votes. They are supposed to represent their constituencies, not their personal feelings.

"His public resposibilites relate to the legislation he enacts, not his personal views"

In that case of what possible interest to us are his personal views? We should see his working out only when it relates to his policies. It's not meant to be a popularity contest. 

However, as Jimmy says, he says these things because he know that few of us vote for policies. We vote for personalities and we vote for the words between the lines. He was saying that he agrees with the anti-Islam crowd, he agrees that the burka should not be worn, that we should try to stop any more coming in, that gays should not have intimacy with one another, that women should raise kids rather than compete with men in the workplace, and all those other things he says without actually saying them. Those are the ideas we voted for, the things he would do if he thought he could get away with it, the things we'd like him to do if we thought he could get away with it.

Duplicity is the name of the game and he plays it well."if the government's goal was actually to stop people smoking then why don't they ban the product entirely"

... because that's worked so well with drugs and guns, hasn't it? Prohibition never works. Slow but steady erosion of its social acceptability combined with tax hikes seems to be working very well. This senator isn't representing smokers, he's representing the companies that make enormous profits from smokers. He represents an organisation that is worried about how effective the government's strategies have proven to be in reducing smoking rates.

"smoking by underage people is already illegal". 

Again I refer you to drugs and guns. It doesn't matter that something's illegal if it's also desirable - people will ignore the law. Tobacco companies want to encourage young people to smoke and they do everything they can to make smoking look cool and the symbol of the maverick transgressor. Their ability to do this is severely limited, but they do try. Look at how sexy the people look in those e-ciggie ads, for example, and how the fags still look like fags whether they're glowing blue or orange.

The government's policy is the good guy in this scenario. The tobacco company is the bad guy - always has been and always will be. Ever since they knew about the health consequences and covered it up then denied, denied, denied it until they could deny it no more they have been operating as an immoral lobbying group to maintain private profits at the cost of people's lives.

More cuts to pay for further erosion of our freedom. More cuts to pay for another foreign war. This war on terror is going well, isn't it? I think it's about 5-0 to them, with a couple of own goals in the mix.Don't hold your breath. We had to fight for those freedoms we've just given away for nothing. If we want them back we'll have to fight for them all over again.The freedom to communicate without surveillance, the freedom to meet with likeminded friends without being deemed to have committed a crime, the freedom to surf the net with all the net available. The freedom to enquire what is being done in my name in the south Pacific. The freedom to report what I consider to be lawbreaking by people who happen to work for ASIO.Labor must have been off the scale offensive last time round, because abbott was Olympic standard offensive, and has only got worse.In Russia any non-state media is presumed to have an anti-Putin bias, in China an anti party bias, while the state channels represent truth and the majority. In free societies like ours where governments own but don't control media, the government channels are considered to be 'left' and anti business, while the commercial channels portray themselves as the truth and representative of the majority. 

Seems to me that where there is central control, either from government or commercial interests, the 'truth' is just those ideas that serve the controllers.

Some people don't like the ABC because it questions the rationale of the controllers. They call it leftist, but really it's just the stance of an organisation whose control isn't serving the interests of someone else's power. If you want to see bias then watch Fox in the USA or listen to Alan Jones. The ABC simply refuses to agree with either government or business just because they'd like them to. And because they can't control the ABC they cannot make threats. Except, now the Coalition is making threats.

Bias comes where there are vested interests - where are the ABC's vested interests? I cannot see what's in it for the ABC to present any POV other than the one they infer from the facts. They have no interest one way or the other. It's power that corrupts, not freedom.Sanity? Are you kidding? How can anyone who professes to believe the nonsense this author just wrote claim sanity as an attribute?

One day faith will be correctly regarded as a pathology in the DSM and there will be treatments.David - the author himself quotes a passage from the NT advocating violence:

"For the one in authority [speaking of Roman authority] is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for rulers do not bear the sword for no reason. They are God's servants, agents of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer. (Romans 13:4)"

And the bible makes it clear that being an unbeliever is 'doing wrong'. Christians regularly invoke Jesus before beating to death homosexuals or adulterers in places like Uganda. Your sophistry is merely an indication of your allegiances. I am regularly bored to tears by Muslims also claiming that theirs is a religion of peace while it is invoked for shocking violence around the world. Christianity is throwing stones in glass houses on this issue.

The only rational answer to religious violence and befuddlement is no religion. I am shocked to my core that otherwise rational human beings still believe in make believe, and that they use it as a justification to murder people whose make believe has a slightly different cast of characters.Omega is right - Muslim countries are far less tolerant than Australia. But we've all been sucked into a false dichotomy here - this isn't about Islam vs Christianity, it's about rational thought vs magical thinking. 

Religion is the problem, not religion A vs religion B. Religion is intolerant at its core - there's no denying this, it's in the books, you know the passages. Just because one passage says hugs and kisses doesn't dilute the bits that say rape and murder.

Christianity is not the answer to any question worth answering.I agree 100%. Similarly, agnostics are one step further along that path: too afraid to declare the same conclusion they've reached about the tooth fairy even though the evidence is identical, for fear that they might lose Pasqual's ludicrous wager.Does anyone else think it's odd how asylum seeker intercepts are 'operational matters' that cannot be revealed, while counter-terrorism raids in Sydney and Melbourne are live, as it happens must-see TV? When did we last see live helicopter coverage of leaky boats?

As Johnny rotten once said "ever feel like you've been had?"You can if you want to. You can impose a news embargo. That's all they've done for leaky boats. There are plenty of witnesses, but they're just not allowed to say anything. Or rather, what they say cannot be reported.
