These missiles effectively take out aircraft and flying objects at up to 70,000 feet. Why on earth did the authorities at Malaysian airlines and the pilot who ultimately signed off on this route do so, when other international carriers (including QANTAS) avoided the Ukrainian air space. I think people knew it was a conflict zone it which weapon capabilities of these missiles and airstrikes were used without fear or favour.

I don't believe that the para military Pro Russian rebels went out of their way to shoot down an international civilian aircraft. If the person who fired the missile actually calculated such an act of sheer criminality surely they would be defeating any moral or political claims to their cause. If a person did do this deliberately then they are beyond causes are just psychopathic murderous deranged individuals who in all honesty I could not see how they could have obtained access to such a missile system.

There are some mitigating circumstances, especially as this tragedy happened in a conflict zone where such military hardware was  being used on a regular basis. I say it was human error. Humans consistently make wrong decisions. We may never find out the real truth because the innuendo and the blame game and the political brinkmanship and the media circus surrounding the tragedy will see to that.Dave 
"Hundreds of commercial aircraft were in that particular airspace in the days prior to this event.""
Can you verify your assumptions?. What commercial aircraft were flying through this area of Ukrainian airspace? Who were they? About half a dozen will suffice for now.

CheersDave I stand corrected. 
From Wikipedia.

"On 3 March 2014, Korean Air and Asiana Airlines "stopped flying over Ukraine airspace ... because of security concerns."[46] Later, in April the International Civil Aviation Organization warned governments that there was "the possible existence of serious risks to the safety of international civil flights" over Ukraine. The US Federal Aviation Administration issued restrictions on flights over Crimea just south of MH17's route, and advised airlines flying over the rest of Ukraine to "exercise extreme caution due to the continuing potential for instability."[47][48] Aeroflot, Lufthansa, Singapore Airlines and others would continue overflying eastern Ukraine until after MH17 was shot down.[49]"

As you well know Dave a NOTAM was also issued prior to MH17 being shot down.

I would say at least this a learning curve for International Air Traffic.The front page of Stoke's West Australian made me want to Puke today. 

The West Australian has a full page spread where it is going to extroidinary lengths to paint PM Abbott as some sort of grand statesman seeking justice on behalf of the Australian relatives and friends of the victims of the downed Malaysian aircraft and his beloved nation, Australia. 

Really, I must of forgot that Abbott is the Winston Churchill of Australia.

I don't buy into such blatant propaganda that would be more at home with Pravda. 

In reality it is an attempt by the West Australian to resurrect Abbott's disasterous fortunes with the Australian voters. A leopard cannot change its spots and no amount of trying to elevate Abbott by trying to portray him as a man of the people is going to  change his political outcome of being a "Lying, bullying, nasty, lame Dud."A few points.
It was reported on the ABC last night that a Ukrainian air strike had been perpetrated on the train which has the carriages where the bodies of the deceased are being kept. Why then did Ukraine launch an air strike in the vicinity at the very least?

Why would Putin and Russia agree to the resolution if indeed they had something to cover up that could potentially embarrass them with investigations into the origins of the plane being downed? Why not just Veto and be done with it by Russia thereby stopping any ongoing scrutiny of the downing of the plane?

I'm not saying Russia and Putin have clean hands but some are too quick to judge and jump on the bandwagon.

Also all the ICC is not recognised by the United States, therefore why should other nations and juridstrictions acknowledge it.
The idea that individual countries could launch criminal prosecutions is almost laughable. The United States is about the only nation that tries to insist on this arrogance as it believes its laws are above international norms at any given  time. Why then would Russia and Putin accept any such undertakings if the lead nation of the West does no such thing?
Already there is too much politics involved in what is a civilian airline disaster. I only hope that it is not railroaded into a political blame game.

There is a lot made in the usual media circles notably News Limited that many international air routes fly over war and conflict zones and therefore because of this precedent the downing of the Malaysian aircraft was of course an outright crime against humanity and that Russia is basically the culprit. What these media organisations fail to disclose (deliberately I would opinion) is that in the Ukrainian civil war these missiles were known to be deployed and they could strike any aircraft up to 70,000 feet. So the so termed 33,000 feet claimed to be the altitude at which to legally to avoid any military conflict is just that, a Furphy. Also other conflicts around the planet the combatants are not actively using or have access to such missiles or in fact have a need to use them in their particular conflict situations. Unlike the Ukrainian civil war where air strikes are and air missiles of the calibre used on the Malaysian aircraft are deployed without fear or favour. Finally why when this information about the conflict in the Ukraine and when other international carriers went out of their way to avoid or minimise straying into such an area did the Malaysian authorities and ultimately the pilot sign off on this route. It seems so much folly to start off with.

Ultimately I fear that the tragedy of the whole affair will  be used by those in the political arena to further their own political interests above those of the relatives and friends of the victims which will result in these politicians using these grieving and distressed people as pawns for their own political agendas.Just the facts as they are conveyed to me and I have not singled out any Ukrainians behind the grassy knoll. On Monday night on the ABC it was reported that the Ukrainians had initiated air strikes in the vicinity of the refrigerated railway wagons where the bodies of the victims were interned for the time being. I was merely asking with all the coverage and apparent knowledge of the railroad wagons why the airstrikes were initiated in the first place. 

You are attempting to quote myself out of context. 

 I am not one to use the blame game. Rather I question the responses and opinions of those who do. Why don't people just settle down a little and take a breather lest the situation get usurped by vested interests who do not wish for any outcome saving one that fits in with their world view and political ideology. As some say "Why let the Truth get in the way of a Good Story"It was a Lateline report . I didn't say it was verified and I didn't at any time say that the Ukrainian air strike blew the train up. It was reported that there was/were a Ukrainian air strike in the vicinity. It was also mentioned on Lateline that there was Ukrainian military pushing into the provincial capital in the same area that is under "Rebel" control.Neil 
"No Mercuriell, the weapon was supplied by Russia, was most likely fired by regular Russian troops, who would have known they were targeting a civilian airliner using a designated civilian flight path. There is even footage of the weapon with a missing missile being transported back to Russia."

Really . must be breaking news Neil.

Then how come it has been widely reported and quite well known by most people up to scratch on the Ukrainian Civil War that pro-Russian Rebels captured the very same missile system from the Ukrainian military just weeks prior to MH17 being shot down. 

Why on earth would Russian regulars target a civilian international airliner deliberately? How would that assist Russia and assist Putin?. Crazy assumption. Barking Mad.Give me Keating's high interest rates over the affordability of housing since the Howard government gave into the real estate industry, the banks and short term fixes of picking winners and losers. At least under Keating we didn't have the housing bubble we have now thanks to Howards inept policies.todd Maybe it is people driven to despair will resort to drug use through ruthless manipulation of their situation by criminal elements who like a lot of capitalists believe in the bottom line at all expense to everyone else in society. 

When people are drug users more often than not if they come from low socio economic backgrounds they are desperate to alleviate their poverty and drugs offer a short term fix.

Everyone knows that. Treat the CAUSE not the  SYMPTON.No FB Foxtel is a monopoly and it is price gouging.  It's explanations are to treat Australian consumers with contempt and good on anyone who wishes to download Game of Thrones. 

When something is inherently wrong no matter if it protected by the law in this case a weak law about copyright which the content provider then expects the nation state in question to legislate against  ISP's to then expect overworked and  overburdened law enforcement in Australia with the names and address's of people who download content so termed illegally (since when is the law always just) who are then to be charged, taken to court (further clogging up the court system) and whilst this then becomes a drag on society just to appease the wishes of Rupert Murdoch, it costs society heaps in time and money as well as making criminals out of normally "Good Citizens". How does Turnbull think he can justify this? By hiding behind the law when the law discriminates against so many just so that law enforcement supports so few or ostensibly in Australia's case , one Rupert Murdoch who is not even an Australian citizen.

Just because King John once ruled England and his word was law does that mean that Runnymead and the Magna Carta should not have happened because they challenged the power and the status quo of one man. Same with Murdoch.FB
There is a plain difference between "Semantics" and "Common Sense" Whilst technically you can say that Foxtel is not a monopoly I say that by applying a common sense attitude it is. What/Who are Foxtels competitors in the subscription television market. Its a bit more than an inconvenience. Have you read anyone of the contracts that Foxtel currently has with the sporting codes. You can easily imagine the exclusive rights clauses. Not  to mention Game of Thrones. Its all about having a monopoly on content. Free to air rarely, if at all has "direct" telecasting of sports. Its all to do with time frames.

The whole purpose of the proposed laws to compel ISP's to comply with giving out personal details is to allow content providers to take legal action against individuals that will see those same individuals criminalised to appease ostensibly one man in Australia and that is Rupert Murdoch.

When you join all the dots together it is always going to get back to Rupert Murdoch and Foxtel and Price Gouging. You can argue semantics about the proposed laws being there for content providers and protection of copyright but the truth of the matter is that the person who stands to gain the most for unfettered use of our law enforcement and courts to criminalise or have the implied threat of criminal prosecution is always going to be Rupert Murdoch. Yes you can say it is all about protecting copyright but who gains the most out of this financially and with pushing his unimpeded business model onto the Australian public?. It is Rupert Murdoch. The whole thing ties in neatly with Murdoch's business model - that is not to be denied.

BTW good to see the Time Warner take over not come off.Politically Australia had no choice but to join Britain in 1914 in WW1 against Germany and Austria Hungary. Australia's foreign policy was dictated from the House of Commons in  London. Australia did not have its own independent foreign policy in 1914. It was not until 1942 that Australia finally had an independent foreign policy that was bought to the fore by Australia's greatest PM , in John Curtin. 

 It was the popular and politically expedient thinking that  in 1914 or even up until 1942 that Australia wanted to depend on Britain for support. Not so much as for the international shipping lanes to be open to Australian exports (commerce is commerce even if it was to be under Imperial German conditions), rather that the real feelings of the time were ones of Xenophobia. The fear of the millions in China that would descend upon Australia and pollute it with their Asiatic hordes and in the process disregard our laws such as The White Australia Policy (circa 1901 not 1914).
Without Britain , Australians felt they would not be able to defend/sustain their white working man's paradise.

Australians at the time also felt great kinship with Great Britain and had volunteered 16,000 troops for the Boer War from 1899 to 1901. Australians felt British and were proud of their British heritage.  Australians looked upon themselves as  "Australian Britons" and they were on their passports and official documents termed "British Subjects".  1914 was also the age of unchallenged and accepted White Supremacy over the planet with the only exception being  Imperial Japan which was an ally of Great Britain but feared somewhat by the white Australian public.

. It was not wrong at that time in Australian history to believe in the white race and the British Empire but  there were many white settlers in Australia of German background.  I seriously doubt Mr James assertion of keeping the international shipping lanes exclusively British was the Australian publics reaction and reason for entering World War 1 at the time. 

If Great Britain had not insisted on Belgium's neutrality not being violated and had not entered the First World War a lot of lives would of been spared. This decision lies at the foot of Edward Grey the British foreign secretary at the time. A complete British upper class moron.

BTW my grandfather saw action at Ypres in 1917.Cheers Neil.  I think Australia's contribution to its own defence can be put into the context of the parallel debate about Global Warming where the Deniers or Sceptics at best are always whinging that Australia's contribution means little or nothing in the greater scheme of things.  

It is always easy for politicians to beat the drum on nationalism and jingoism and then abstain from the consequences of their actions or just serve their term and get removed from office in these current times just like Howard did and who knows with Abbott and Bishop at the helm. There seems so little accountability for their actions.  It's just move on to the next government whoever that may be.  I believe the media are very complicit in turning up the volume on jingoism and nationalism as it serves their greater purposes although it has many consequences for the ordinary citizens of Australia , now and into the future. 

 I despair at the thought of our most professional service men and women being but pawns for these idiots in power. Curtin as  PM seems to have been the only politician who understood the plight of those in the armed forces and the times that really demanded it. Don't forget John Curtin was imprisoned (although only for about a week and a half) by Billy Hughes because he was a "Pacificist" during World War 1. Hughes would of thrown away the key if he could of.

A good historical read is "1914 The Year the World Ended" - Paul Ham. It goes into great detail about the diplomatic mess that was on hand and the alliances. Especially the shifting ground/wavering of Great Britain.  I may have been a little harsh on Edward Grey - he was a man of the times.David.
So does that mean that the White people in Europe, the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Southern Africa and in the colonies of the Great European powers and the United States did not think of themselves as superior and that only the dastardly Labor Party in Australia with the White Australia Policy was the only culprit at the time. Get things into context David.

As for Billy Hughes .  He jailed John Curtin as an agitator and for being a Pacifist who spoke out against Australia's involvement in World War 1. Hughes wanted Curtin to remain in jail for the duration of the war but he could not legally do it. Hughes tried three times through referendums to get conscription up but the tide was ultimately turned each time by those serving on the battlefield in that they did not want to vote for anyone to be forced to do what they had/were enduring.

'newstime2014

Sweden is to be commended. But Sweden allowed Hitlers troops to move through Sweden into Norway to ?nsure Sweden's neutrality in WW2. Sweden is not so innocent.

Imagine - John Lennon.I would suggest the loss of the British pound and the Bank of England as the worlds foremost currency and it replacement by the United States dollars in the 1930's contributed more than anything else to British demise.

The United States and Britain came very close to going to war with each other in the 1920's. Where oh where would that have left Australia?

PS             Also after World War 2 had the ideas of the great economist John Maynard Keynes been adopted and we had a world currency but the Americans insisted on the primacy of the US dollar and Stalin stupidly opted for the Soviet Union to pursue a completely separate economic system, then we would of had a much better economic world system and outcomes that did not favour one nations economy above everybody 
 else unequally.

 ".....the Pacific Ocean (Japan not being an ally after 1922)." And Japan was severely snubbed and insulted at the League of Nations in the 1920's. Billy Hughes was a protagonist in this as he could now hide behind Great Britain and the United States in slandering Japan. This was all based on racial overtones as the Western powers showed their true colours of racial discrimination rather than anything practical. It was way before Japans aggression in Manchuria which could well been avoided if the West had treated Japan equally and fairly. No points here for America and Britain.It was Prussian militarism that established the nation state of Germany and  Imperial Germany in the first place. 

It was the entanglement of alliances and the failure and utter balls up of diplomatic relations that led to Germany and Europe entering into WW1 , not German military adventurism.

Thirdly it was the support of Germany's corporate and industrial leaders who put  Hitler into power by splitting the Left into Social Democrats and Communists leaving  Hitler to become chancellor of Germany along with his Fascist thugs and the rest is history."Thus, for example, while it's (at best) politically incorrect to ridicule minority groups, Christianity remains fair game to those who resent its once held (but ever diminishing) power."

 Perhaps it is some kind of psychological, historical and scientific evaluation of the Western Christian past that has led to the current predicament that is Christianity in the West but particularly Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Europe (there are still plenty of Evangalistic Born Again nut cases in the  United States) .

Most of us in the West outside of our Muslim citizens do not believe in the Sky God. We have evolved to a stage where scientific thought out weighs, contradicts and disproves a lot if not most about the Abrahamic religions.  If persons wish to persist in adopting these religious practices they are welcome to do so.  

I also believe there are very strong cultural, social and historical reasons why followers of  Islam seem so devout. It is somewhat alien to a lot of Westerners but much of this attitude currently has to do with the whims of media moguls.  I don't believe historically that when the British empire was at its peak it had anywhere near the problems with Islam. Rather the empire catered quite well with its conquered Muslim subjects.I understand that ISIS  are of the Sunni sect and that Shite's will fare just as  badly  as Christians. Bit like the Catholics and Protos were once say in Northern  Ireland.

 In any event you could point to past American aggression in  Iraq and a quote from Dubwa  Bush. "Either you are with us or you are against us"The Howard LNP government was the most prolific spender of any government in Australian history. Wether you calculate in ratio's of expendicture in different eras or not.

The Howard government used all the proceeds from the mining boom and selling off of major public assets (Telstra) to bribe voters. Howard was all about ideology to the point of buying it with taxpayers dollars and furthering his time in office at the demise of building much needed infrastructure and setting the parameters for future generations to do it tough (excepting for mining magnates and mining corporations).

Howard left an abysmal Structural Deficit just so he could remain in office and say look I'm the second most longest serving PM. Completely selfish. Even when the writing was well and truly on the wall he wouldn't budge.

No infrastructure No public works Just sell off Telstra and squander the proceeds. The nest egg saved was but a fraction of what we as Australians got for selling off public owned assets and zilch when compared to the fiscal and social problems left by  Howards Structural Deficit. 

All  I hear from Abbott and  Hockey is they have to clean up Labor's mess. WOW It is well documented by the IMF and the OECD that the Howard government was the most prolific spending government in Australia's history and what did we get for it? Where are the ongoing benefits to the community and Australia as a whole? Nothing.

Abbott and  Hockey continue in the Neo Conservative to implement their ideology which is becoming more and more like Neo Fascism everyday by now attacking the most vulnerable groups in society to pay for their grandiosities such as the PPL and not tax the miners but effectively give them as much subsidy and assistance when the same miners are just to add insult to injury are FOREIGN CORPORATIONS. At least in Brazil," Vale" is Brazilian owned, Brazil government has a veto on any corporate decision making and the profits , guess what , remain in Brazil. 

Forget about the stupid royalties to the states scheme. Tax the miners directly, constructively and as Yank and others have pointed out set up a system like Norway's. We in Australia must be to use an Americanism "Patsy's to corporate profits".
Dismiss this states rights agenda about royalities because the Commonwealth of Australia (that is the Federal Government) has the power invested in the Constitution of Australia to TAX  corporations. Also in the Constitution where there is a clash of interests between the States and the Commonwealth on a specific area , the Commonwealth will prevail.Realist . 
answer : Tax the Miners. Ditch the PPL. Set up an ETS.C Ash

Food and Groceries are at record highs without the GST. Only wealthy morons could afford to pay more for these essentails.  Oh that's right lets all live on rice and tomato sauce. That should do it.There are some housing projects way out that you could argue that the first home owners could afford. But even these are overpriced. This housing bubble will come close to ruining Australia's prosperity and standard of living.

 And if you are young enough and feel drawn by signing away 30 years of income to purchasing one of these developers housing projects you better hope that your employment is local. However employment in these areas outside the real estate industry and the distance you have to travel just to be able to go shopping is a bad joke.

 So if you do commit to these developer money making schemes (they are not there for the benefit of first home buyers despite spin to the contrary) and buy a so termed family environment housing in a new estate then you have to add in the extra amount you are going to have to have to run your vehicle. There is no public transport in these areas and if there is it is only nominal and scarce. So throw in another $10,000 just for car costs per annum. Then throw in all the time you must allow yourself for transit to and from your workplace say 3 to 4 hours if you are lucky and don't get caught in too much traffic congestion and there you have it. Australia's answer to the first home buyers whinging.PW
 "Negative gearing is in fact a subsidy to renters. It allows a property to be rented for less than its true cost. This is why its cheaper to rent than buy. "

That's what those with property portfolios and those who are landlords would have us believe. It is in fact the reverse.  If negative gearing were removed then housing would become more affordable over all. NO worries there. If housing is more affordable then the Australian dream of owning your home can be reinstated and the building and buying of rentals would conversely become cheaper also. 

The negative gearing concept is unique to Australian circumstances.  It has not benefitted the Australian community as a whole and is putting the price of housing beyond the reasonable capabilities of future generations who then have no choice but to pay exorbitant rents to greed infected landlords or live on the streets or in hostels. This is the current situation.
If negative gearing had the effect of subsidising renters then why due to the fact of Australia having overpriced housing then contribute to lower rentals.  It doesn't. 

Some housing portfolios and some landlords might get burnt but why should the whole of the Australian community and Australian taxpayers subsidise these groups so that they can gouge ever bigger profits. 

Its financially and morally wrong for Australian society to continue down this path.  It is picking winners and losers in society when government is supposed to be there for all Australians. Obviously it  is not the  wealthy and the elite have far too much disproportionate power. Time to stop the rot.

In any event the whole housing market will probably collapse and burst regardless of governments supporting the status quo. Either that or eventual mayhem on the streets could become very real. Do we really want  to live in nominally democracised police state.?  A new form of Fascism.mick.
What about Engineering graduates NOT  getting employment?
What about IT graduates NOT  getting employment?
What about underpaid GP's when comparing their contribution to society as opposed to a developer?
What about all the nursing staff, other hospital staff and teachers?
What about social workers and councillors who help those who most need help?
Not every one is like you mick and studies just so they can make oodles of cash and assets.
What about Abbott being PM with an Arts degree? Abbott got there through connections of wealth. Not hard work.

My nephew recently chucked in his 1st year Engineering (and he has a government Uni Scholarship) and is now doing pure mathematics as his first degree. 

The idea that you just get a degree and get good employment has now since passed.  I know Pyne wants to bring it back so that people without merit but with money are the ones who into the future are the ones to access higher education purely based on bank accounts and also by eliminating competition through merit so that the elites can prosper to the exclusion of merit from the lower socio economic strata of society. 

As well a lot of professions are not the exclusive money making careers that some try to paint them as. A lot of professions outside the parasitical business degrees (read MBA's , real estate etal) are not studied for purely profit taking but rather to help the community. 

Back to Negative Gearing. Whatever way you slice it , negative gearing is a drain on the taxpaying public who do not own a property portfolio or are of the landlord class. Negative Gearing contributes massively to the distortion and over pricing or real estate in Australia. And Negative Gearing is continually supported by those who gain the most from it. And guess what mick? Renters do not prosper from it despite the spin and posturing of some.Andie
 "But the excessive rates the unions want to retain are doing damage."

In the lowest wage category of Hospitality and Retail.  I don't think so. I  get so  sick and tired of all unions and employee reps being tarred with the one brush. 

If the business can't pay these wages then it is a failed business venture. Business in these areas of hospitality and retail are affected much more by other factors. Such as a council allowing/cramming more business of the same type to open in the same areas as is happening in NorthBridge in Perth. And shopping centre cartel owners squeezing in as many retail and coffee type shops as they possible can, even by bottling up the median walkways down the middle of such shopping centres. Couple this excessive rents and excessive council regulations then there you have it. No use blaming wages.

Now if you are talking MUA or CFMEU then you have a point. But to bash all unions because of a couple of militant ones is wrong.rusty cairns

"What chance has our manufacturing industry have when the government is prepared to have ADF sea vessels built overseas ?""

Talking about the tender for our next fleet of submarines to be purchased from a foreign nation by this Abbott government. This is a disgraceful act.  In effect it is treasonous.  It is beyond the realms of  reasonable.  It stinks. Abbott hang your head in shame. 


So the Abbott government is prepared to put the last nail in the coffin for our most technological and advanced manufacturing industry of building and maintaining our submarine fleet. For what exactly. These nutcases don't care about us  (Australians).Ian.M.
Yes the Gillard government made a grave error of judgement in the MRRT as it delivered only little in the first years of the tax to the Australian community. The resource and mining corporations indeed pulled the wool over Wayne Swans eyes and the buck on that particular occasion  stops with him. 

However the MRRT is now at a stage whereby all the tax deductions and write offs by the miners has now effectively been delivered and the people of Australia (I won't say the Abbott government because like the ideological halfwits they are they wish to get rid of the Goose just as it is about to lay the Golden Eggs) are now in a position to benefit from the MRRT.

We are not a nation of complete morons and idiots so as to fall for the  spin of the MRRT being useless and not raising any decent amount of  revenue for the Australian people as the MRRT  is just about to raise substantial revenue for Australia.  

Why should Australia and Australian citizens throw away maybe $billions in upcoming revenue just to appease the mining corporations which are all foreign owned and controlled anyway?

Abbott and Hockey aren't governing for all Australians but they are certainly exclusively governing for mining corporations.

We have in the MRRT PRESENTLY, the means at our disposal to easily fix any budget and revenue concerns for Australia and the so called disreputable budget emergency and any other budgeting concerns.

 But no. What does the Abbott/Hockey government want to do? It wants to punish and "Target" the poor, the disadvantaged, the disabled, the aged and the young to pay for government revenue.harry
"Iron Ore is the most abundant mineral on the planet."
True harry, however just to qualify your statement. The iron ore in the Pilbara is of the highest quality of iron ore bearing deposits in the world. Quality not Quantity harry.

The miners are making $billions and they are investing only the bare minimum they need to get their projects up and running.  Of course the mining corporations don't want to pay a fair tax for holes in the ground. It might cut into their profits.

As for Gerard Depardieu is he now a resident of Ukraine? Just asking harry.

 BTW what is one individual who is mean about his finances and doesn't want to give back to the nation that looked after him, raised him, allow him to pursue his career through the heavily state subsidised French Cinema got to do with anything outside "gossip magazines" and disaffected wealthy individuals who will grasp at any straw no matter how ineffective in argument it is.

 Really is the nation of France built and reliant on Gerard Depardieu??

harry now read this post.  I think this will explain the full nature of Vale's position as to its ownership and shareholding decisions. Now compare Vale with BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto and there you have the TRUTH.  

BTW How many "Golden Shares" does the Australian government have in BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto??

Vale S.A. (Portuguese pronunciation: [&amp;#712;vali]) is a Brazilian multinational diversified metals and mining corporation and one of the largest logistics operators in Brazil.[5] In addition to being the third-largest mining company in the world,[6][7] Vale is also the largest producer of iron ore,[8] pellets,[9] and second largest of nickel.[10] Vale also produces manganese, ferroalloys, copper, bauxite, potash, kaolin, alumina and aluminium. In the electric energy sector, the company participates in consortia and currently operates nine hydroelectric plants.[11]

Currently the company is listed on the stock exchanges of S?o Paulo, New York, Paris, Hong Kong and Madrid. Its ownership is documented in US SEC Form 20-A, and includes 3 "golden shares" that belong to the Brazilian government, and a significant (if not majority share) held by the national pension funds.[12] Its foreign activities are based in the Cayman Islands,[12] a noted offshore tax haven.[13]

A golden share is a nominal share which is able to outvote all other shares in certain specified circumstances, often held by a government organization, in a government company undergoing the process of privatization and transformation into a stock-company.[1]

This share gives the government organization, or other shareholder, the right of decisive vote, thus to veto all other shares, in a shareholders-meeting. Usually this will be implemented through clauses in a company's articles of association, and will be designed to prevent stakebuilding above a certain percentage ownership level, or to give a government, or other shareholder, veto powers over any major corporate action, such as the sale of a major asset or subsidiary or of the company as a whole.

Now what was that about Gerard Depardieu again harry?"According to our constitution the mineral wealth belongs to the states."

Tell that to the Conservative premier of Western Australia. With all the royalties rolling in Barnett still managed to lose Western Australia's AAA credit rating.Norway does a pretty good job and its government revenue is far above ours. Norway also provided the best social dividend on the planet and Australia could of followed suit. 

However with the mantra of the Abbott, Hockey LNP nasty, free market (I mean monopolised corporate market which takes all profits outside Australia in this particular case mining. With mining we in Australia could of imposed even a slightly imitated process such as Norways and we would ALL  be siting pretty), subsidising anti Australian and pro only wealthy residents is bad news. 

Instead we have a divided society of haves and have nots further imposed by Neo Conservative ideology of user pays and those who can't afford to pay will have to suffer.

The whole concept of "Choices" by individuals (as the Neo Cons like to express it) is nothing more than an anathema to the society in which people are supposed to live in harmony.I can well remember "Telecom Australia" before it became "Telstra" and was privatised. Telecom Australia was an efficient and a well managed publicly owned organisation that went the extra mile for all customers.  It had a charter to provide services to one and all on a equal basis. Wether you lived in the cities or regional or even outback Australia. Wether you were wealthy or poor the economic discrimination was not an issue. Also it provided a continuous revenue stream which was set to do nothing other than increase over time. 

Then came Howard. Then came the half pregnant BS. Then came the mums and dads shareholding BS. Then there was the lie with the shareholding of the Howard government selling something that was owned by all Australians in the first place.

Then came the Telstra we now all know and all the other leaching telecommunication corporations which are not in Australia as a nations best interest but that of the CEO's and shareholders whoever the hell they may be.

Sell the farm then rip off the residents.  Good Call Neo Cons.Abbott continues to compound the myth that somehow BHP Billiton is Australian. While on his visit to the United States at the New York Stock Exchange on Wall Street he stood in front a graph showing BHP Billiton and in his garbled voice asked the broker something about BHP to which the broker replied something about the share price of BHP Billiton should improve latter in the day's proceedings.

 A photo op by Abbott designed to keep the story going and mislead Australian citizens about the true ownership of BHP Billiton and why Australia should not support  anything designed to help revenue for all Australians by these miners by employing visual subterfuge.burke 

"Meanwhile you ignore the fact that most of those profits are reinvested in Australia."

Show me any evidence of the profits being reinvested into the Australian community by BHP Billiton or Rio Tinto. 

These miners only invest the bare minimum they have to in order to extract the profits they make for their shareholders (read London residentals) and the CEO (not Australian citizens as far as I have known). And then add the subsidies and tax write offs they get as if they are agricultural producers which they certainly are not and do not give back anything of the profits they can take out to the max. 

At least Vale in Brazil has three "golden shares" owned by the Brazilian government. Vale is also Brazilian owned. Now compare that to BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto. 

Ignore no facts. Others however are deliberately ignorant when suits.

BTW if you don't understand "golden shares" google it.Jimmy Necktie. 
"You want to make cars then find a way to make it work and go make a fortune. Nothing stopping you."
Of course. I'll just waltz down to one of the big banks. Problem solved. 

It takes huge government help, government support and  government investment to get an industry like that off the ground just to start. We can't even get an NBN out of the Abbott government. What do you expect from the Abbott mob?."Peter the Lawyer
"It has always struck me that the least racist people are the elites, because we live in an international world where most of the people at our level in other countires think in a simila way to us."

There is absolutely no way you can substantiate that claim excepting that money and wealth are absolute and therefore all people who cannot have access to appropriate wealth are by your definition much more racist simply because they have small or nil bank accounts . Let alone own share portfolios, work as high paid lawyers or are CEO's and the like. 



Well summed up Peter. Of course the wealthy won't discriminate if it is going to interfere with their  profit taking.harry
 "Strangely the amount of mining investment world wide is still increasing, it just isn't coming to the former #1 destination, Australia."

Excluding oil and gas harry what mining investment are you talking about and where?. I would like to be informed.

In any event either the economic system will fail or the planets environment will just pack it up? I'm not sure which one will happen first but unsustainable growth will have its limits on a finite planet.  Unless that is we as human inhabitants of this planet can go down a Green path and Green economics. 

 I am firmly convinced and so is any other person that cares for the planet and all of its life forms that only vested, wealthy, powerful and existing  multinational corporate interests and their apparatchik politicians are the only ones who really believe in the current unsustainable economic growth at all costs  economic systems. 

 I will go to my grave being judged on my actions and objections and beliefs and lack of greed and  I do not conform to any organised religion but  I am and feel spiritual and love the planet , not hate it as an adversary to be used up as a commodity for profit. .That's why  the majority of the Western European nations, Scandinavia  and Canada all have universal health systems. Even in the UK with the disasterous Cameron austerity measures they will not touch the National Health system. Canada has a Neo Conservative government but does not touch its universal health system. Probably because Canada has seen what happens just over the border and where United States citizens go up to Canada and pose as Canadian citizens to access medicines and doctors. Some Yanks just die at home or on the streets thanks to their wonderful private health care system. But even in the United States Obama is trying his hardest (although up against powerful evil interests) to introduce some form of universal health care. Beware United States citizens the Reds are back under beds mantra by the Neo Conservative nut jobs.

But yeah we in Abbott land must of course follow the worst of American outcomes on health care and privatise our health system and subcontract it out for profit. We already know what will happen if we continue down this hopeless path. A privatised health system that would be two tiered at best thereby forcing even doctors with a social conscience and social contract to appease the private health care system and in the process create a strata of highly paid medical professionals who are more concerned with how much money they can screw out of the system than actually doing the right thing by society and caring for the maimed and sick and elderly.

Hockey just because you have had a good run in life (a lot of luck and fortuitous outcomes dressed up as hard work)  does not give you the right to impose an unjust system on middle Australia and the poor and wreck what is a good universal health care model just because of your insatiable desire to punish those who are not so fortunate through incoherent babble about  the bottom line , profit at the expense of society and the Budget Emergency that you are doing your best to impose on the rest of us as a pretext  for Neo Conservative / Neo Fascist ideology.ig  You are nothing like my GP. My partner goes to a bulk bill GP practice which is open from 7.00 am to 9.00pm Mon to Fri and open 8.00am to 6.00 pm Saturday and 9.00am to 6.00 am on Sunday. There are always queues and a waiting time of several hours is not uncommon. 

 I can tell you my partner and others DO NOT go to the doctor over minor issues or just random "I am worried about nothing scenarios". Even the low socio economic don't like to wait around for ostensibly wasting the GP's good efforts as you have described. 

 I myself only go to my GP for good reason and that does not include the common cold or Flu. So therefore as a GP I just don't believe you.

 If the AMA came out and issued a blanket statement backing up you so termed assertions maybe there could be some substance in that. But someone posting on the internet with your insinuations. No  way .

 I just don't believe you. If I knew you I would take your bet gladly.Ben .

 The "social contract" is implied on society. Everything does not need to be black letter law. We in the majority of society are the ones who benefit from the "social contract" as in this case "Universal Health Care". That much is obvious.

 To stand on legal interpretations as defence as it has not legally been written into and signed as a contract. Really . Stop wasting sensible people's time.
 "What makes you believe that most of these people are actually ill? People present for "illnesses" often because they are lonely and/or bored.

Same kind of people who call Emergency Services (once again free) when a small branch breaks off a tree. Or dial 000 (again free) for a fire engine when their cat goes missing. Or call for an ambulance (again free) because they have a small cut on a finger. "

Guess what Rusty - there are consequences for such actions as you suggest unless of course it may be a very distraught elderly person which can very reasonably excused. I believe the cat scenario can be excused on those grounds.For example in Perth if you call an ambulance no matter who you are you are liable for the $400 call out fee.  If you have ambulance insurance then the call has to be for a substantial requirement or emergency other wise you are still liable for the $400 call out fee. It has been in Western Australia like this since the 1990's.

Could you please give me some examples of a small cut on the finger and the cat rescue scenarios Rusty? And of course the outright and dastardly frequency that these events occur. Really Rusty. Beyond the Pale comes to mind.Rusty.
 "To go to the doctor to the extent that $7 per visit is too high a price means that they must be rorting the system."

Sorry to burst your bubble Rusty but yes it is an expense that many can't afford. Not only the GP but if you require a follow up blood test or Xray then that is also an additional $7.00 for both on top of the GP visit. There are lots of people in Australia on struggle street and many of them are darn fine human beings. Especially when compared to the likes of the wealthy snobbish, bullies who regard nothing in life is more sacrosanct than money, power and profit who in turn justify and rationalise their positions with the various means at their disposal.

There are plenty of struggling families. Struggling with mortgages, energy debts, sickness, injury, fighting for compensation that benefits only the legal profession, family court issues and the list goes on. Not to mention the outright nasty targeting by this government of the elderly, the young, the disadvantaged, the disabled and students. Really Rusty where do you live?  I live on  planet Earth.glen
  "you spend 15 min telling hin""

I'm lucky to get 5 mins with my GP.

I don't believe you are a GP's bootlace let alone a GP glen.glen you are a true "Humanitarian".
 
What else can I say?. 

And you want to save the government all that wasted money currently spent on the worried well.
 
A person (An ordinary GP) who wants with all his heart to take the burden off the overcrowded hospital system.

To reject the over generous financial advantages of government largesse by doing 5 minute consultations and instead focus on the easily identifiable 40 minute consultations of the complex care scenarios that GP's can access by merely just glancing at someone.


 A real person who cares not for himself but for the greater good of society.

 One who will sacrifice his own income to achieve these ends. 

One can but only stand back in awe of such a giant.

 I think you deserve a knighthood from King Abbott.If the Republicans were in office you  can bet your bottom dollar that Abbott would be champing at the bit to send Aussie troops  back into  Iraq at the drop of a hat. 

Abbott is just dying to be a warmongering, fiscal irresponsible, no heart but I'm a big tough action man (bully in essence) hiding behind the United States. 

Just look at the dialogue as concerns Abbott and Putin.  Without the US to fall back on does anyone think Abbott and that lawyer for Hardy's (fighting against and denying good Aussie citizens compensation for victims of meslothemona) would be so strident in their accusations against Russia and Putin. Abbott's thinks he's  playing world politics because his and Hockey's budget is a loser. I just wish more Australians could see through the distraction all dressed up as statesmanship. Eventually it will wear off I'm sure. I hope Murdoch does not succeed in this gloss of Abbott. For the sake of our nation.Eric Abetz is just symptomatic of the lot of them. So this idea of trying to pigeon hole Abetz as a bit of a rouge and it is all a thought out strategy beggars belief. And remember our esteemed social services minister Kevin Andrews is actually attending these lectures on linking terminations with breast cancer. What does that infer about someone in his position?  I think we all know.

Bring on a DD.NoGoodNamesLeft.

"4. The budget hasn't been rejected by the voters. It may be unpopular to many people but others accept it."

Yeah Right. That's exactly what all the polls have been saying since the Budget was announced. Maybe in LNP fairyland. But then they are not  "many people" who are voters by any stretch of the imagination. Even the  News Limited polls are showing the true feelings of Australian citizens regarding this great and fair and untricky Budget and the performances (maybe I should  rephrase that - TANTRUMS) by Ugly Kid JOE.aguy  "....Sadly only one side of politics has any intent to lead Australia to living within its means."

Tax the miners.(properly and adequately like Norway) 

Repeal Negative Gearing.

Abolish the superannuation rorts that allows the wealthy to circumvent paying their correct share of tax by shifting their wealth into super and paying only 15 cents in the dollar.

 BTW Everyone pays tax including the poor. The poor pay GST on essential items that they struggle with to make ends meet. eg Rent, Groceries, Clothing, Transport etc. Stop the childish rot about the wealthy paying most tax. Its misinformation and deliberately misleading.

Abolish Family Trusts. As only these can only be used successfully by the wealthy in any  event.

Throw out the government that picks on the poor, the disadvantaged, the disabled, the aged and the young. Get rid of bad rubbish. "I will govern for all Australians" - Abbott. Since when exactly?? Abbott governs for the Greedy and the Corporations - that's the truth.Abbott and Hockey can't be negotiated with because they have zero negotiating skills. Hockey is currently throwing another Tantrum and trying to threaten the senate with drivel. That's right LNP Neo Conservative Drivel. 

The senate will ignore his ranting and raving.

The system is not broken. Hockey needs to realise that he needs to self destruct his Budget and start again. There are always alternatives and just because Hockey is jumping up and down, should we take notice? We the Australian people need to let Hockey know he should start to behave in a more orderly manner and that his Budget is Broken not the system.I would prefer the Abbott government call the senates bluff and bring on a DD. Otherwise it is business as usual.

Abbott backflipped on 18C . Now will Abbott take the initiative and backflip on Hockey's budget? Will Abbott backflip on the PPP? Its what Australia wants. Can you hear me?

Bring on a DD. Just like you threatened you would at the beginning of your tenure as PM - Abbott.Hockey's latest. The Medicare GP's co payment is there to help prop up Medicare.

Are you really serious Hockey? We just lie back and let you get away with this misinformation and misleading the public.

 Spin. Spin.  Spin quicker than a top - Hockey.?PM
 "This means finding ways to accommodate the crossbench's opposition to changes to payments for families, eligibility requirements for welfare recipients, the GP co-payment, and changes to higher education charges."

The above won't happen. It is the most unfair, nasty and targeting those who can least afford it and punishing them at the behest of Neo Conservative ideology will not even pass this senate make up.  Everyone in Australia now knows who the Abbott government are targeting in their disasterous budget. The disadvantaged, the disabled, the aged, the young, the university students from low socio economic backgrounds  and anyone who is not wealthy. 

 I see  Hockey has resorted to outright MISINFORMATION  with regards to the Medicare Co payment  saying it is needed to continue to prop up Medicare. What when the Abbott LNP government has it earmarked explicitly to go to a so termed medical research fund (read into the pockets of  big Multi National Pharma corporations) ostensibly to find a cure for cancer and such as expressed by windbag  Joe. Really should the Australian public believe anything that comes out of this lying pack of dud's mouths. Not now they wont.

Hockey has now come out all guns blazing (as this guy knows no way how to negotiate anyway) and threatening the senate to pass everything now tied up in one package as not to do so would mean that the so termed "building Australia infrastructure"and the jobs that it will create are reliant upon such grand planning. 

There is nothing very sensible in the Abbott LNP infrastructure program at best anyway. There is no provision for Public Transport systems which all our major cities desperately need.  Instead it's all about creating further congestion by building bigger roads. And how many of those roads are going to be Toll Roads?.

 This NUTTY Neo Conservative, ideological driven infrastructure policy is also dependant on the states privatising all the public assets thus delivering services to the private sector who will then charge the public and inconvenience the public with substandard services so that it can add to its bottom line.

What's going to be the next statement of stupidity from the Abbott LNP ever desperate mob of lying, cunning, take the Australian public as fools forever government. 





This Abbott government is not about the interests of ordinary Australian citizens excepting when to grab headlines concerning airline disasters and terrorist attacks. This is not wrong in itself and I would expect all politicians to follow suit. However when it comes to the welfare of this nation and the welfare of its people , the citizens are given up as mere fodder and increasingly as a reposit for workers as our population increases exponentially to serve the mutli national agenda under the pretext of an economic paradigm that is reinforced by the Abbott Governments legislation to rip the finances off the people and the nation of Australia. 

It is truly an Orwellian observation that the ordinary punter in Australia is so distracted by technological apparatuses that do nothing for society other than engage citizens in endless, meaningless conversations  with such big girls and boys toys such as cars, phones, fashion and of course the killer of all, armchair watching of sporting events from  a young age, when youth and kids should be active not increasingly passive. Also the meaningless display of what passes for political debate in our media and in parliament where real policy and direction for the nation are ignored by almost all politicians (excepting perhaps the Greens who are always portrayed as the lunatic fringe and out of their depth) and thus the bandwagon continues to sell our futures down the drain whilst protecting and aiding those who don't require it like the multinationals, miners, big banks, media proprietors and other Greed obsessed and opportunistic individuals. The Abbott government more than any other government is compliant and obliging to these groups over any one else in society.

These wealth obsessed protected species always put out the "Mantra" about protecting the economy and economic circumstances. But whose economy are they defending and adding  value to? Certainly not in the interests of Australia's future. Ensuring some short term gains in a few consumer goods for the punters at large, to fulfil long term planning and ambition whilst simultaneously using weasel worded scripts and subterfuge backed by such organisations as the Minerals Council of Australia and the right wing economists who have no real understanding or could care less about ordinary punters are pushing for even more reform and repeal of legislation to further the Greed interests of certain multinational corporations, individuals and ideologues above all other citizens.

When even the United States is not silly enough to not have a domestic energy consumption policy based on domestic use and domestic industry exclusively before any energy is exported is nothing short of the Abbott government acting not in the best interests of Australia and Australians but in the best interest of multinational corporations and their shareholders to the detriment of our country and future society. The Abbott government is in eTrue Applaudium but at least it some response to the socio/political situation. More power to the online opinion sites in contrast to News Limited and Mr Stokes. We can at least let it be known how we view, feel about situations of these subjects and even let off  a  little bit of steam. If it makes any kind of "real" difference the jury is still out but it is an alternative to Murdoch and MSM. I think the ABC site is wonderful and wouldn't be surprised if "Turnbull" (Turdball) has it in his sights. Under some other sort of pretext as is always the case with Malcolm. Not my fault (Turnbull). Speaking of which "He is really a naughty little boy" - Monty Python.""Why shouldn't each individual or company put its interests first? That is the natural way""

If we just let corporations and individuals run willy nilly over the rest of us and the planet then we are by and large just standing by and letting these entities do as they wish to the environment for one, the people of the planet and the economy for those of us outside the corporate ideological paradigm.  the Abbott government is all very fine for this status quo to increase its power and wealth but the truth and reality is, is that it is grossly unfair, ruining the planet and in Australia's economic case - ripping off Australia's population and selling our assets down the gurgler for twopence.

It doesn't even make sense on a national economic scale for Australia let alone the rest of the planet. What is this world coming to?. All power to the corporations.

Just because something is law or is legislated or about to be repealed does that make the outcome right? 
 Of course not.
 Are politicians in the Abbott government above Truth in government?.
 Of course not.
 Are Corporations benefitting society and the planet at large?
 Of course not.

 When you speak of the constraints of the law a lot of that law is exclusively prescribed for the benefit of corporations , wealthy individuals and vested ideologues. The above wield far too much power and should be restrained however under an Abbott government these real rent seekers are committing untold damage. 

It is easy for those in Ivory Castles to throw stones knowing full well the power at their disposal and laws which protect and advance their causes. The trouble with wealth in the current era is that too much is concentrated in so too few and those too  few believe that it is only their interests that need to be advanced and protected. 

However Peter , people aren't going to sit by and become lambs to the slaughter if they can help it.Peter your simplified definition of Corporations is just that. Simple and open to a suggestion of watering down of the damage that corporations in effect have on society, the planet and in Australia's national economic situation "laughing all the way to the bank to multiply its Greed agenda." Aided and Abbetted by the ideological misfits that are the Abbott Government.


 People are waking up to this rip off in Australia. It has taken a while but with Abbott putting his stamp of approval on the status quo who could miss it. Abbott the person who got the PM's job on the back of attacking other politicians over lying to the Australian public is a case in point of being the most untrustworthy , lying polly who has come completely unstuck despite the News Limited media agenda to which Abbott is in total subservience to.

The Abbott government defends the very thing that is the cause of our national debt. The mining corporations and multi national corporations who do not pay a fair share but continue under the Abbott government to rip off Australia and its citizens.Wottha . 

Basically the difference in Selfishness and Self-Interestedness in neglible at best when recourse to multinationals and mining corporations and wealthy individuals is concerned. Before everything got so corporatized and the bottom line became absolute and their was a more widely distribution of wealth on the planet then yes there were those who have self-interestedness. But coming back to Self-Interestedness is by and large the preserve of Scientists - medical science, climate science, biological science, preservation of the species science, renewable energy science, electric car science, preventable disease science. 

None of this  has anything to do with the economic structure of society as things currently stand.

 The current practice of Big Pharma buying up scientific research and distributing medical science as a medium for profit is antithetical to medical science as a means to help people and the planet. 

As for miners in their current form and certain media barons for example they are no where near Self - Interestedness as far as the good and advancement of society, the planet and the preservation of flora and fauna species is concerned. To aim exclusively for the Bottom Line and maximise profit come what may is Greed. Selfishness if you like but it is straight out Greed. The way to maximise Greed is through the control of power. 

This is where we are at the moment. 
There are too few with far too much wealth. 
Hence these persons have far too much power. Power does not equate to better outcomes only better outcomes for those who wield such power and in the current circumstances this amounts to winners and losers, dysfunction in society, marginalising of ethnic and cultural groups and a propensity to compel ordinary citizens to lash out at what the media suggests they do no matter if in many situations it is to cut off their own nose despite their face.

I don't subscribe to wealth as being an indicator of "higher achievement" even if certain individuals are given awards in this murky of murkiest of areas of bad political policy, aggrandisement and Greed. It is nothing more than a display of power and coercion at best and of complicity at worst involving  those who control such matters. Nothing more Nothing less.The fact is those with large incomes have a tax system and financial system in Australia that favours them above all else. It is not a truism that everyone is on some sort of level playing field and that those with more income are sort of able to access these concessions and that these concessions are exclusively available to all. They are not. 

The tax and superannuation systems we have is geared to increase the wealth of those who are already wealthy to the detriment of everyone else in  society.. If wealth did not have such an impact on society and a skewing of those who may be meritorious in other disciplines besides being wealthy and increasing their wealth at the detriment to the greater good of society and the planet then maybe your "percieved" concession argument may have carried some weight. 

There are rent seekers and there are rent seekers but those at the bottom of the scale such as some perceive as "Dole Bludgers" have a much, much, more minimal impact (financially and socially and environmentally) on society than those at the top end of the scale as rent seekers. The Dole Bludger is nothing more than a whipping boy and a distraction from the real "Rent Seekers" in society. Such as corporations and greed obsessed wealthy individuals who believe in their own twisted positions of superiority who presently wield disproportionate power over the majority of us.Peter there are a lot of cunning accountants and "rent seeking" landlords who would agree with your statement. However the reality is , is that negative gearing which is unique to the Australian Tax system is a drain on Australian tax payers and the Australian economic system. Just because it is legal and couched as a tax deduction does not stop the unscrupulous mentioned above from taking full advantage of this quirk in tax law which should for the good of the nation and the majority of citizens (excepting the greed based opportunists who are in a position to take advantage and screw the rest of us) needs to be wiped off the books. 

Australians en masse (following the lead of our agricultural producers have known for a long time now) that the banks are not a service to the community but rather in reality businesses who are concerned only with the bottom line and return to their CEO's and shareholders. Just because something is legislated does not make it right . 

Negative Gearing may be law at the moment but it needs to be repealed ASAP. Not repealing Negative Gearing could bode very decisively catastrophic economically for Australia. It is absurd that a country like Australia has such high housing costs. This was never really the situation until the Howard Government and state governments gave into the real estate industry and the banks with short term fixes and increases in property valuation which was fine for those who had a mortgage at the time or owned their own property (who including a lot of my family members now realises the financial value they obtained is a burden to future generations, the nation and the expanding population of out country) but to continue to back negative gearing when the bubble does burst (not IF) then we are up shyte creek.

 Murray recognises this important fact so why can't someone who perceives themselves to be as educated as you are cant. It's about time people who cannot find a sensible , common sense way that is the fact of the matter butt out and stop trying to divert or circumvent the argument by pushing it onto something else that is completely irrelevant as you have done.Agree Helvi and Darenji. Abbott is a wet blanket. Abbott is a dud. It was not Abbott versus Rudd. It was Abbott lying (there will be no new taxes being bought in by my government, no changes to welfare, no changes to the aged pension, we are as one with Labor on Gonski and the NDIS, my government "Abbotts" will be transparent with the Australian people read "?n water operational matters, asylum seekers"', repeal of 18C, abolishing the Climate Change commission, abolishing the Renewable Energy Targets) and sloganeering that reached a "Crescendo of Frenzy" backed heavily by News Limited with "Stop the Boats" and "No Carbon Tax" (even though strictly it wasn't a Tax) Couple that that Labor were in complete leadership disarray and the disgraceful treatment of Julia Gillard by the same culprits (something bought on big time by the Murdoch media and the MSM) 

Thus comparing Palmer to Abbott is in reality that Palmer is really a lightweight at this stage. Palmer does not head the Conservative parties. Palmer has his own party of misfits who compared to Abbott's are babes in the woods. However how ever far or outrageous Clive may perform his duties in Parliament it will pale into insignificance and thereby Clive and PUP will in the course of debate always be preferable to the Australian populace at large as compared to the Abbott (lying, mean and nasty) LNP government. The die has been cast by Abbott himself and no matter how hard Abbott and his spin doctors try to put the Genie back in the bottle it has come to this. Abbott has a drive and direction that is so insatiable that his ego will stop at nothing to get what he wants.  However this is his only positive if you can call it that. Abbott is a bully surrounded by his goons (the LNP) without which he is a "Nothing Person". Abbott in reality is "Lame". 

If the LNP want to get any credit back with the Australian people they have to ditch Abbott, rearrange the ministerial deckchairs and on the revenue side of the ledger target those who can afford to pay instead of taking from the most vulnerable and giving to the rich and powerful individuals and corporations. The LNP also have to substantially alter the energy mix in Australia and help Renewables get on their feet and tackle Climate Change seriously and head on. Not this pay the polluters Crap. Australia risks becoming the Renewables and Climate Change Apartheid State of the 21 st Century otherwise and will be left behind only to appease those outdated corporate fossil fuel dinosaurs to our detriment if we follow through on the aspirations of Tony Abbott.What Australians desperately need is an updated and designed "Bill of Rights". In the Bill of Rights (Australian Style) there should be provision made for citizens to be protected against the exigencies of government. One such provision should be the protection of citizens against an incorporation of a semi or wholly "Fascist State" that may be democratic on the outside but with such draconian laws and law enforcement is in reality a fascist ideology in the works. The law should never be such that it is but a tool for those who wish to dictate to us how we should behave when confronted with moral, societal, cultural, ethical or environmental dilemmas that exist to ensure a status quo that is one of  a duplicity of democratic institutions whilst in reality is nothing short of an Orwellian Fascist state. A small but significant step is to protect whistleblowers from government and corporations. 

Remember Adolf Hitler would of never rose to become dictator if he had not had the backing of the big German industrial corporations. If you know your history you would know that it was Hitlers increasing incremental laws of national security that gave him the ultimate power that allowed him to rid him of his greatest threats of the Socialists and the Communists. The Socialist and Communists were two separate political parties in the Weimar Republic and Hitler with the support of the industrialists played one off against the other'and thus division in the Left , let Hitler rise implementing emergency laws that legally obliged the authorities to  round up all Socialists and Communists and eventually Jewry. 

Brandis is putting us on a slope akin to the Apartheid state (not run along racial lines but entrenched economic activity dictated to us by and large by corporations who shift their profits offshore and are not adequately taxed but rather assisted in ripping off Australia and Australian citizenry, not to mention the degredation of the natural environment) in that we should just stand idly by and have a sham democracy but in reality are run by Fascists both economically and socially.In a country that has the mentality that "Yagan" was indeed a freedom fighter for the Indigenous in the Swan River Colony yet still to this day a certain section of the population (namely Conservatives) consider Yagan a murdering criminal. But when Captain Stirling massacred the indigenous at Pinjarra that was considered a just course of action. This was taught to me in primary school as the "Battle of Pinjarra". Yet this was not recognised as a massacre whilst I attended primary school but more importantly none of this is considered as a conflict at all by the AWM. I suspect one day that may change but definetly not while Abbott is PM.The sensible middle ground is what according to this article is what my partner is a member of. She does not engage in politics or political debate save the fact that she cannot stand Abbott. It has nothing to do with personality although Abbott's personality is like lipstick on a pig anyway but the fact that despite the Murdoch agenda of which my partner takes absolutely no notice of is well aware of the meaness and nastiness of the Abbott/Hockey (missing in action Hockey thesedays after all his bluster of being "straight up with the Australian people budget dramatically backfired) and the fact that the accountability that Abbott once held Gillard to over Lies has in fact become obvious to the middle ground that Abbott and the LNP have lied their heads off and are simultaneously trying to lie their way out of lying and that their standards are completely shot. That's about it for the middle ground. They don't care for  politics but they are aware enough of the "Double Speak" and the mean Budget of this Abbott LNP government. And if Palmer thinks he can just carry on without taking the wishes of the middle ground and if any of his senators give way and pass government introduced legislation on welfare, education or GP copayments they will be consigned to the scrapheap. Palmer will just become another failed experiment. I like Clive.  I think he is affable and a bit way out but he is a very likable personality but a personality does not maketh a pollie. Abbott can attest to that. 

Other middle ground persons I know well are my step son and his partner and they are on the same page as his mother. There are a lot of these middle ground types who basically are apathetic to politics but are smart enough to smell the rotten egg that is the Abbott LNP government. It is obvious that a government that supports dinosaur industries, does not take Climate Change seriously (just give us a few more blistering hot summers and bushfire seasons that are increasing exponentially in extremes and then prattle on about normal Australian weather patterns and see  where that gets you for supporting the fossil fuel industries), helps corporations avoid tax,  gives the mining industry rebates, does not repeal negative gearing, does not abolish tax minimisation schemes for the wealthy, does not abolish family trusts and does nothing about corporations using offshore tax havens but then has the audacity to put the burden on the poor, the disabled, the disadvantaged, the aged and the young because they are seen as easy targets by the Abbott LNP government and it takes the any burden off the wealthy and those who can  afford  a loss of sorts. No Greed rules with this government and the middle ground punters can see it. And Thankfully the with the internet the old media is being displaced.My dear partner is the "middle ground" because before Abbott she voted Howard. Team Abbott has trashed the brand all by itself.Blame Twitter. Really. I think most persons know the extent of Twitter but Twitter is relevant wether you like it or  not. Twitter can be manipulated but even  taking that into account it can be used as a barometer of public opinion more so than say anything expressed by say News Limited and that is the real and constant power of Twitter. The old media is losing its manipulative and influentail base and this is particular true in spades from the younger the generation the more irrelevant the old media has become. It is no wonder then that the ABC may on occasion (but is not subjective to) having a the "Odd" feature in regards to Twitter. As for code of ethics for journalists I think the UK experience has buried that one once and for all.Clownfish, 
One thing for certain concerning Twitter. Twitter is more relevant than News Limited. Twitter is more of a barometer than News Limited. At least on that score Twitter is more relevant than a small crop of sycophantic hysterical extreme right would be jouno's who are on Murdoch's payroll and are becoming more and more irrelevant as each day passes thanks to the internet and Twitter.Think of the new Abbott government as a "Feral Cat" Now as the public we teach that Feral Cat with all the patience at our disposal not to kill the native wildlife. We go to pat the Cat and it lashes out scratching and hissing like hell at us on every opportunity. It jealously guards its own territory. Now there , there nice Abbott Government.

Or you could just keep complaining. 

  "Legitimately complaining that is."One notes that in Dave S's world view these persons would of got away with their opinions scott free with little or any stance taken to counter act their extreme right wing opinions in the public domain. For too long the right has been able to dictate the media agenda but now with the advent of the internet and twitter the public can have access to a more level playing field and can let loose their views and not have to put up with the constant and consistent right wing adverserialists with little or no recourse. With the internet not only is the old media being replaced but we the punters can establish our recourse. If this is seen by some as retrograde then why and who should care anyway excepting those who stand to lose. Noteably Jones, Bolt and all the other right wing commentators or opinionists. I don't really believe the Left will take such a hit with the New media as it is much more accessable, cheaper and you don't need a media empire and mogul to employ you.WP The citizens of Australia know already what the negative effects of the Abbott/Hockey budget are. There no real need for Christine Milne to articulate the nasty and mean disparities of this budget everytime she speaks in public. We know. There is no need to go on about it. And most importantly the "middle ground" are aware of it and are taking the sensible anti-Abbott stance. 

As far as personalities go Abbott has the personality of lipstick on a pig. At least Howard could appeal to the aged sector of society like my mother etal but Abbott is rejected outright as a mean, nasty, cruel personality type who has zilch charisma and that will bode him as useless to his own cause and so it should. It is not about attacking the man but the fact that Abbott who is a gibbering dud when faced with unscripted questions wants to avoid the spotlight in such situations or resort to bullying as he did so openly with a junior journalist on national TV. Abbott was trying to deflect when in fact he was bullying. Abbott is hopeless as a front person. 
The LNP are behind him but for how long??

 Without his staffers scripting him , Abbott fails the test of leader.
 Bully - yes. 
Yes man to miners and corporations - yes. 
Yes man to political donors - yes. 
Yes man to the wealthy and corporate elites - yes.
 Good for the citizens en masse in Australia - Absolutely Not.Peter the Lawyer
"I was talking the other day to one of the Coalition's psephological experts."

I suggest a dose of reality for Abbott LNP supporters if you are really so idiotic as to believe Peter's post and his fantasy about this so called expert and how the Abbott LNP is grounding policy based on the middle ground and also knows exactly in which street in the suburbs the middle ground resides.

This is delousional. At best the expert is conning the LNP for a buck. At worst - well keep deluding yourselves and telling yourselves that the Abbott LNP is there for the middle ground. 

I suggest the demonstrations and marches against the Abbott government and its mean, nasty, cruel budget and even the News Limited opinion polls dictate that what you are attempting to articulate Peter is a nonsense or typical of a party that has lost its way.

If the LNP don't sack this expert then they are lost completely but I hope they continue to employ him.I think you have your wires crossed. The Greens are about being compassionate and human towards Asylum Seekers. It is the BCA that wants a bigger Australia. The BCA want a bigger population so that they can drive down wages and other expenses and leave the problems up to government what to do with a large population and not enough employment to go around, whist increasing its profit margins for CEO's and shareholders. Its the BCA mantra of profit at any cost even if it is the society that bears the brunt of that cost so long as the profits to the wealthy are maintained and expanded upon. And the environment is nothing but an externality to be wrecked in the process as well.

 I name the IPCC as being in the same corner as The Greens  as a mob of environmental scientists who support The Greens on Climate Change. As for population growth - Take that up with the BCA.The welfare reform that this mean, uncaring, dispassionate Abbott government is trying to push through the senate has nothing to do with those who are afflicted by disabilities and everything to do with shifting costs from the DSP to Newstart and fits perfectly well with the doctrine of the Neo Conservative Mantra to punish the vulnerable and aid the powerful, in its extreme approach to balancing the books. For those now using the huon cry about this move by the government is there to do the right thing by future generations does not take into account the fact that is the corporate wealthy and noveau rich who should be shouldering the financial burden of this country.

 It is nothing short of a farce that those earning more than $200,000 per annum pay only $400 in a semi permanent levy and then the government and the more Greed obsessed of this cohort claim they are doing the heavy lifting. Lets look at this scenario rationally before the wealthy can claim to be doing their share. According to that particular levy if it was to be introduced universally then those on the DSP could contribute their equivalent fair share like wise. In other words those on $20,000 per annum could contribute their 2% which works out at $40 per annum. Now that's what is called everyone doing the equal share of heavy lifting. 

But no this Abbott government ably assisted by News Corporation and other sections of the MSM are out to demonise welfare recipients of the DSP claiming whilst shrieking like Banshees about stopping rorters rorting the system. This nasty agenda which the Abbott government which to shift the focus of the public to demonise DSP recipients (especially the Mentally Ill) is a new low for those involved whilst feathering their own nests and protecting their incomes and shifting the blame onto the most vulnerable and defenceless in our society. If the Abbott government or any government is serious, sensible, fair and  committed to fixing a perceived only budget emergency then how about repeal Negative Gearing, stop the wealthy using Superannuation as a means of Tax Avoidance, abolish family trusts, repeal the diesel fuel rebate for miners but keep it only for agriculture, abolish all tax avoidance schemes currently available to the wealthy and corporations to minimise their Tax and at the G20 do their best to close down the offshore Tax havens like Ireland and the Caymen Islands.In the ensuing meantime the corporations and wealthy individuals can continue unmolested to rip off the Australian people through rebates, Tax minimisation schemes and offshore Tax havens. I mean someone rorting the DSP is financially burdening this country to such an extent we should call a national emergency and use all possible means to punish more than just the odd rorters but those deemed fit to work by the Abbott LNP government , which we all know by this stage of the game is of course all about protecting and assisting the 'Genuinely" disabled and in the process of awarding them the respect that the genuine disabled deserve. By whom? We just let Abbott, Hockey and Andrews run willy nilly and not hold or question them to accountability? Really! I mean every Australian knows that when Andrews speaks of the genuinely disabled and his desire to protect them and only target the '"Rorters" whilst ably assisted by News Limited and shock jocks, we can all sigh with relief that the "Disabled" are in good hands. 

Are Australians supposed just to sit idly by and let this Abbott government blame all our financial woes on the disabled, the unemployed, the aged, the disadvantaged and the young and just go on whistling Dixie? The Abbott government is Dog Whistling ably supported by Shock Jocks, News Limited, selected MSM and people who comment in such snake oil language about protecting the "Genuinely Disabled" and only weeding out the "Rorters". If there are persons "Genuinely" rorting the system to the detriment of our society I suggest they are not the odd Centrelink rorter  but rather corporations and wealthy individuals. Just because something is legal and/or the government does nothing to address these imbalances but rather encourages them then that is not right and that is the true cause of malaise and the rip offs in the community.

As for the disabled able to get employment. If it is not mandated within the employer organisation or if you don't have some sort of family connection then the disabled are "Genuinely" barking up the wrong tree.It seems obvious to me and most of the planet that the only decent American sport is Basketball. The others NFL and Baseball are lesser codes of other sporting codes ie rugby and cricket. Basketball however is unique. It defines African Americans as opposed to White Americans and can be played anywhere there is a Hoop and a hard surface. Basketball is played and enjoyed enthusiastically and becoming ever more popular throughout the planet.
Soccer however remains the Beautiful Game and the world cup in all honesty eclipses the Olympics. At least in my book and most of the planets peoples. The Olympics (putting aside the Athletics) is a show case for sporting elites who come in the main from wealth and priviledged classes of the societies that they represent. Soccer as has been proven can be picked up by the poorest children of peasant classes the world over. All you need is a ball. South America has been doing it tough for a long time now but they are coming into a new era where they have shaken off the Neo Imperialism of the United States and opted for Social Democracy. And they produce probably the best soccer has to offer. Is this the paranoia that Ann suffers from? That even the poor can excel despite their obstacles. It probably makes her quake with fear.

I did note that Abbott (our esteemed Australian PM) did not even know the name of the Socceroo's captain and called him by another name when publicly wishing the Socceroos the best. Just goes to show the contemptuous of this man. However as Ben has pointed out maybe just maybe Abbott has a lot more in common with Ann Coutler.

As for "Maybe you could start by outlawing employment, in favour of contractual undertakings" Maybe we (instead of you) could start by dismantling the Corporate agenda's and bring decent and fulfilling employment for the world's populations but where you did not wreck the environment and take advantage of  people in the name of ''Profit''. We need to abandon and reject the current model of extreme capitalism whereby the wealthy individuals accumulate too much and are not prepared to forgo "Debt" even if it ruins the planet and enslaves the people. We need to force the wealthy and the corporations to forgo Debt. It is not the fault of the state wealth but of private wealth that is the culprit.
I've noted Joseph Stiglitz is in town. Now there is a real economist not  fake Neo-Conservative ones like Hockey and Shepard and Warburton. Abbott take note.The News Limited polls are a good barometer in the sense that if your party is the Labor or a left wing party and you are in front of the LNP then you are doing well. However I expect as the LNP is getting more and more SHRILL about its now Budget Failure and grasping at straws it is not surprising that the Murdoch response has been 51% Labor 49% LNP on a two party preferred allowing for a margin of error of 3%. 

The way that News poll conducts its surveys can be called into question although I don't know the exact formula they use and how consistent that formula is varying from News poll to News poll. I think at one stage the Labor party and the Greens (maybe) used to freak out if the News poll was against them. You could probably tell by the body language at media stops. However if you compare the News Poll to the Morgan Poll, the Morgan Poll comes out as the more reliable poll. 

Especially as everyone knows Murdoch (well including his supporters who will try to suppress such views to the contrary) will use every trick at his disposal to get his results or go down screaming anyway or maybe do a copout and do a 
"Murdoch backs Rudd" scenario when the end is nigh.  

Murdoch believes in the maxim 
"The Means Justifies the Ends". 

Pity for Murdoch though. The Abbott LNP is becoming nothing but SHRILL theatre masquerading as  a  government using just about every coercive manipulation it can possibly muster then retreating just as fast when the panic sets in that they will lose even more than they  have at present but in any event will lose any upcoming election. 

Go  on Abbott call a DD. 
The LNP Budget is a completer dud. 
Keep deluding yourselves because no one else is LISTENING.Wise 
The farming community has changed vastly since the days of Reith and Patricks. Although they to a degree remain loyal to the Nationals their real representation lies with The Greens. Just look at how the Nationals have treated them and stuck up for the farmers rights. Not a very good recent record. Look at how all these mining approvals in the Hunter Valley and Queensland have impacted the  agricultural sector. It's disasterous. The sooner the farming community re educates itself and  breaks from traditional forms of government representation then the stronger and better off their communities will fare.  There are developments on this front. "Lock the Gate" being the most visible. 

Of course you cannot factor all agricultural pursuits into this paradigm but the traditional, wheat, sheep, cattle and large scale cropping outside of cotton farming are the ones who need to and are in many cases waking up to the fact that the LNP are only there to promote miners and other multinational corporations at the expense of the agricultural community because they are the ones who bank roll the LNP and look after them once they are out of politics. Wake up the farming community if you haven't already. Its not the 1960's any longer no matter how hard some of you may try.

And in Western Australia the Barnett government has wrecked large scale cropping and denied markets once available to large scale cropping by introducing GM cropping. It started ostensibly as a trial but has been stepped up in recent years and now farmers who once had GM free crops have been infected by crop seed and dust blowing in from neighbouring farms who use GM. It's ending very badly. But that's what happens when the agricultural community puts its trust in the Conservative governments.Team Australia indeed. Maybe Abbott should change his name to Adolf by deed poll. It will be easier for him to be a Nationalist.Ditto.
 Grandfather WW1, Uncles WW2 , Uncle Harry Kokoda Track.

As far as I know and recollect they were not ones for Anzac Day Marches. 

My family are not  ones for this ugly resurgence in Nationalism. Gallipoli attendance has become sickening to my stomach. Although I suspect a lot of these young people may think they are doing the right thing they are playing into the hands of Right Wing Nationalism. Or is it just another scene to be seen like attending the October Fest whilst in Europe.

Abbott has taken a stupid stance and placed Nationalism over Patriotism. Something Hitler was a master at.

Team Australia is set up to divide the majority against the minority in Abbotts gamble.  It will either end badly for this nation or just fizzle as another ill conceived thought bubble and sloganeering by the Abbott LNP. It is however totally irresponsible by Abbott.I have a problem when one media organisation has a disproportionate influence on Australia's politics. This has long been the case with News Limited and Rupert Murdoch. Murdoch is well prepared to sacrifice $27 million to maintain ( or rather attempt to keep maintaining) his hold over vast swathes of the  population on opinions relating to politics. 

Murdoch has and does campaign furiously for anything that will extend the power of corporations which currently predominate the economic agenda of Australia that in turn feeds into his investments and continued influence in the politics of as many nations where he can possibly establish his propaganda expertise. 

Murdoch achieves his interests through Rat Cunning (daft in reality opinion of the extreme right so termed journalistic credible experts which unfortunately seems to cut through to various influencing segments of Australia's business and political community and other lesser mortals) and the wholesale backing and manipulation of the extreme right wing agenda of the Neo Conservatives. Especially Tony Abbott's LNP. 

 At the heart of Murdoch's success is a culture based on Greed and Individualism which has divided and continues to divide this nation. 

Greed is a very powerful weapon to ally oneself with. However it means to sacrifice the good for the evil no matter what or how one may rationalise or rather by many powerful and wealthy  people who squawk and shriek confected outrage. Murdoch well understands this.If you read something with a "Mindset" nothing is going to change your perception. If you are right wing you will continue to be right wing no matter if you read or watch the ABC, The Guardian whatever.
 "I also read the Guardian (UK version), the Independent, the Canadian Globe and Mail, the CBC, the ABC, the BBC, and sometimes Al Jazeera. I read the NY Times, the Vancouver Sun, and, from time to time, Corriere della Sera"

I noticed you didn't include The Huffington Post.

The idea that you read neutral and anything to the left of the extreme right is more about paranoia and knowing what the enemy is up to rather than any Ulturistic forming of opinion after weighing up all the  facts from all the publications. A Sort of
 
Wolf in Sheep's Clothing Approach,

 when making  such statements as
  "I'd say I've got a good a handle on the truth as anyone who sticks purely to media that mirror their own political persuasions. If you rely totally on the Oz or the ABC or the SMH, you are never, ever, going to get the full picture. Read all of them, and you might start to make inroads."

That statement is opinion as all your post. Opinion.



As I said earlier Fraginpani you are nothing short of a Wolf in Sheep's Clothing. You seem to sprout a  lot of objective analysis but then you always come back to supporting the extreme right. The idea that just because someone may look at the alternative opinions and even quote them and then back up their argument by quoting from an ahistorical source like Mill in your particular case does not in any way take away from the premise that you are and always will be a right wing zealot.

 I think it is beyond the basic concept of Know your Enemy in your particular circumstance in that you think if you put up a smoke screen of attempting to portray oneself as being one who adds up all the alternative opinions and facts from an array of diametrically opposed sources then persons who read your post must come to an opinion that you are indeed unbiased and just in your final analysis. This is not the case as you always twist the scenario around to come to a conclusion that the Extreme Right is always to be given the benefit of the doubt and therefore should be supported. 

Frangipani

As for 

 "And even when the opposing viewpoint is very weak, as with the Oz's take on AGW, in considering it you will be forced to hone your own arguments and improve your own knowledge of the underlying science"

NOT at all. The Murdoch rag as regards Climate Change is straight our misinformation. Design to  propagate an ongoing discourse in challenging the science when the science is in. Ostensibly so that those corporations that should be sanctioned and penalised  for their continuing wrecking of the planet can continue to avoid their responsibilities through smearing, delaying and outright opposition to the IPCC and other Conservation and Environmental groups so that they can continue to profit financially and backed with extreme intensity by Rupert Murdoch. 

Just because Murdoch may make  a statement that he believes in Climate Change he has left open the argument that indeed anyone (including Tony Abbott) can declare this but then these persons do not actually qualify their position by supporting whole heartily and unconditionally the consensus of the IPCC position and through means of their power and position throw in as many Red Herrings to the contrary position. Through careful manipulation of the media  persons such as Murdoch and Abbott can create doubt in the IPCC position whilst still maintaining a position for themselves as being open to science when in fact they have already made up their minds to the contrary. For example Abbott's Direct Action proposal compensates the Big Polluters at best.If we stuck to the original NBN model so detested and feared with good reason by Rupert. Then you would experience a fragmenting of his media empire in Australia. 

But with the Rupert obliging Abbott LNP that won't happen. 

Even Turnbull has his 40 pieces of Silver. No surprise there really though. "Its a team effort"

Funny how all the LNP roll over.Rupert has his prot?g?. And Rupert is replaceable. But Rupert was the best. 

"There will be a  cry of freedom throughout the planet the day Rupert carc's it."Seen the latest with Dutton. He more hopeless than most of them. He admits that with the AMA model the government will miss out on the funding that it factored into its $7.00 a visit GP proposal plus pathology plus radiology tests. 

In  other words with the AMA proposal those with health care cards, under 16 years of age and with ongoing chronic illness would not have to pay their $6.00 per GP only visit. Dutton is foaming at the mouth about the government losing funding because the governments budget GP $7.00 co payment 5/7 ths goes  to a  supposedly earmarked "Medical Research Fund" ostensibly to fund Big Pharma which won't help keep the Australian Medicare universal health care scheme in place one Iota. 

But now Dutton has let the cat out  of the bag because by declaring those sums to be a government revenue loss with the AMA counter proposal - Who knows where and what that funding will be used for and How it will be used?. So many holes it looks like Swiss Cheese to me Dutton. Although it reinforces the fact that the Abbott LNP government is to be trusted with and for nothing for the majority of Australian citizens."This is a govt that has a completely hands-off approach to the economy and hence the budget. I'm surprised they didn't out-source it to Gina Rinehart."



NO but Abbott takes his orders from Rupert and Gina so they are effectively running the government --"Their Way"

 Abbott's a Neo Conservative Stooge.The F-35 joint strike fighters are still on the drawing board. The days of American superiority in hard military technology are fast disappearing. We would of been better going to the Japanese or even Russians for that matter. The Russian strike fighters are at least airborne and have proven military technology.Hugo Chavez was loved by the poor and hated by the wealthy. Unfortunately for the wealthy (which Chavez let keep their business and media outlets to which he was harassed daily and there was a failed CIA backed coup attempt plus several  assisination attempts on Chavez's  life) there were more people from the Barios (the poor) than the wealthy in their elite suburbs thus outvoting them.

Something that the Neo Conservative fear is the masses have equal voting rights. They detest and hate it and often on these pages I have read  where their types believe that voting rights should not be universal. Well news for you lot. Voting in Australia is both universal and compulsory to attend to a polling booth.

If you wish to get a true picture of Hugo Chavez then I suggest you view John Pilger's great doco "War on Democracy"

Australian society was divided along socio economic lines by the deceitful Howard government and despite some attempt by the Gillard/Rudd Labor government we as Australians have been subjected to a barrage of pro Privatisation of services that further divides the community and as the financial strain of the have's (to maintain their wealth through preferable LNP legislation) and have nots (just to put a roof over their head and eat ) increases, ill thought out  pronouncements like Team Australia mean zilch to those on the low economic scale.

The whole philosophy of the Neo Conservative LNP is to divide and conquer hoping that with the support of the wealthy cohorts and their support, support from the BCA, support from the supporting the multinational miners and mining magnates that they can convince (delude in reality, bribe them or distract and make them angry ie the Carbon Tax, Stop the Boats) enough of the rest of the population to support and vote them into and sustain them in government. 

This was easily done under Howard who had buckets of cash to splash and thus leave us with a structural deficit. However the Abbott/Hockey Budget thought they could keep the divide and conquer maxim and pick on those least likely to vote for them and who the LNP ideologically opposed to help in society - the disadvantaged, the disabled, the aged, the young and students from low socio economic backgrounds whilst maintaining and increasing support for the wealthy. Well it didn't work. The Abbott government underestimated the Australian voting public. 

So to Team Australia I say. You are dreaming Abbott. Go back and ask Credlin "what do I do now if I can't pull this distraction off?"

Nothing much at all binds us together under an Abbott government.|AE  "Privatisation is good."

Is that so. What about Qantas. Failing as an airline against its competitors who have the financial backing of their governments such as those airlines from the Gulf States and China. Qantas has been badly managed and decisions taken by Joyce to ground the entire fleet of commercial aircraft over a dispute with aircraft engineers from which Qantas has not recovered. Good points there for privatisation - sure.

What about the Commonwealth Bank. Ripping off customers with bank charges as are all the big banks but furthermore with the CBA it directly misled and ripped off retirement and other savings from its customers through the selling of Financial Services which are totally unregulated and will continue unregulated under the Abbott LNP government. If this is what you can expect from privatisation then it must be good. Really.

Privatising Telstra. Has led to price gouging on the use of mobile phones and other assorted technology by all the telecommunication corporations. Admittedly Throdey is not quite like that Mexican American appointed by Howard. However consumers of telecommunications are out to be exploited for the profit of Telstra and its CEO and shareholders. There is no longer a public telecommunications corporations adding to government coffers and keeping services up and prices down. We the Australian public once collectively owned Telstra. 

And state enterprise privatisations of all the energy companies. Once state governments were there to provide services such as energy for the public. Now its all about how these private corporations drive up the price of electricity and gas and the Neo Conservative Liberal governments both state and commonwealth are hindering advancements in technology in solar, wind farms and geothermal so that these corporations can continue to make a profit whilst ripping off consumers and are a chief cause of Climate Change. 

Yeah "Privatisation is good" But you need to clarify that as it only good for the CEO's ,Shareholders and Ideologically twisted Neo Conservatives.AE."And as for Telstra - haven't you noticed how much telecommunications costs have come down in the last 15 years? "

Technology in telecommunications has improved in leaps and bounds over the last 15 years. However it is the privatisation business model that is broken. Yes its true that with the advanced technology in telecommunications if you used a phone for the same purposes as one used a phone for 15 years ago then yes you have a point AE. 

However with the advent of mobile smart phones and the internet and the frequency of which these advanced technological telecommunications are used then in fact AE it is costing the consumer oodles more just to even get the services on a monthly basis. You should have  look at some of the plans that are provided for these services and you will see how astronomically the costs can rise to use these telecommunication services.

If we had a publicly owned Telstra the corporation would endeavour to keep the costs  down lest their be an outcry by the public as the public would own a public Telstra and the politicians would be forced to comply. As much as I can recall about the publicly owned Telstra is that it provided a cheap as possible cost effective service and  I certainly didn't have any problems with the staff from Telstra and Telecom Australia. Not a privatised Telstra entity whose job by the CEO is to maximise profits for himself and shareholders at the expense of customers. Competition thus far has not bought prices down rather it has consolidated prices.

  Furthermore Telstra now will tell you when its service technicians will show up for a job within a four hour period and if you are not there you will still be charged. And they only send out technicians for free if you are signing up to a new internet service. . Also if you have a query and wish for a Telstra technician to attend you have to bear all the costs where once the publicly owned Telstra/Telecom would send out a technician which would cost you nothing even if it wasn't necessary.

Yeah a privatise Telstra is great for consumers err I mean the CEO and shareholders at the consumers expense.

Qantas has lost its Australian icon status and is struggling to stay afloat.

CBA is deliberately misleading and ripping off its customers with Financial Services products. But that's okay it made an $8billion profit last year. The same amount that Keating sold the CBA for. 

Privatisation makes real sense if you are the CEO or a shareholder in CBA but definitely not a customer.Howard's "Mateship" was a deceit. Howard drove a deliberate wedge into Australian society from which we as a nation we have never recovered. The Australian nation is now so divided (along similar lines to the United States and growing daily thanks to the inept policies and strategies employed by the Abbott LNP Neo Conservative that serve the rich and multi national mining corporations ) we are really starting to hate each other along more than one divide. 

Enter Abbott with "Team Australia" Is that a clone of George W Bush's "You are either with us or then you are against us" dribble that led us to making an undeclared illegal war against Iraq under the Howard Deputy Sherriff , Man of Steel, regurgitated garbage. 

Abbott seems to be trying desperately hard to tar all Australian Muslims with the one brush. Never before has a government so antagonised the extremists of these groups and linked them to ordinary citizens of a mainstream religion in our society. Does Abbott think this will galvanise Australians? Is Abbott aware of further marginalising the Muslim community to the point of breaking point so he can score some short term points with disaffected citizens and take their minds off the Domestic mess of his government.

Abbott its not about picking sides or starting political distractions to cover for a failed Domestic policy and failed Budget. How about some common sense for the future of our democracy and our developing nation?. We are not a super power . We never will be. So stop grandstanding in the wake of another nation/nations.Some shock jocks are Turning. Look at Alan Jones defending the agricultural community and standing up for rights which will protect Australia's food bowl well into the future. 

Death to CSG in this nation I say.Clive can seriously help the Budget with these measures. I'm sure that these ones will not impact on Clive's personal business interests and they are a good step forward that Clive should adopt..

Repealing Negative Gearing, 

Abolishing the Rort by the wealthy of shifting their taxable income into superannuation and paying only 15% at most in the dollar, 

Abolishing family trusts, 

Abandon the Direct Action fiasco, introduce an ETS 

Keep the RET.

Abandon the PPL. 

Review all payments and superannuation provisions currently available to all politicians and introduce a much more moderate perks agenda for all politicians both Commonwealth and State.

How much of this Clive will go with is pretty unsure but at least if he continues to block the budget in the senate with PUP and Ricky Muir at least we don't have the situation of the have nots paying for the upkeep of the Greed obsessed and power hungry LNP haves. 

The LNP are all out for the multinational corporations and this is what is ticking Clive off  I feel. If you are going to rip off the punters at least let it be a local punter (like Clive) and that way you have a very good chance of having the investment and profits BOTH  stay in Australia. 

Sure Clive said some stupid things in relation to China. Clive lost his cool and Clive reacted with words that maybe he didn't really mean but he was incensed at the questions Jones posed to him.

One thing you have to admire about Clive is that he is not a Guarded Sneaky Cunning Liar as is Abbott. Abbott can't even answer a question that is not scripted lest he Expose his true self. Abbott may be an expert at subterfuge and rat cunning but as John Lennon once sang.

 "One thing you can't hide. Is when you're crippled Inside" 

This can apply as a metaphor to Abbott. He can no longer hide no matter how rat cunning and no matter how propped up by Murdoch. 

 "Alpo: Yes and Yes; You are correct o ask "Who is Abbott?" Nobody knows."Totally agree Alpo and I would venture that it is indeed fact that the Abbott LNP is on the nose with the majority of Australian voters. 

There is no turning back or resurrection of the Abbott LNP fortunes from here. The die is cast and the Abbott LNP is finished. Its going onto 5 months since the budget was announced and Hockey can get no traction to get his most awful and divisive and pick on the ordinary Australians and the vulnerable reforms passed.

 I had to laugh at the last weeks Newspoll which had the LNP marginally closing the gap to Labor 52 to LNP 48. The same day the Morgan poll had Labor further extending its lead over the LNP 56 to 44 not as Newspoll suggested. Who do you believe? Someone who is rooting for the LNP or someone who is impartial and has no bias or vested interests? Really.Wining pom 

Were the Australian public chanting "Death to Putin" and "Get China out of the South China Sea" 

Sorry  I must have missed that.

Julie didn't though. 

There is a world of difference of the reaction of the Australian public to animal cruelty as opposed to making outbursts as a foreign minister against states like Russia and China knowing full well you have the "apparent backing" of the United States and hence can carry on (pretending really, to fool and distract the Australian public from the hopeless Abbott/Hockey LNP budget) in a delousional sense of purpose that you are the Winston Churchill of Australia in the current era.

 Bishop is like the kid in the playground picking on and abusing other children knowing full well that if there are any repercussions her older and much bigger brother will come to her rescue.

However if  I were Bishop it would be much wiser to keep my mouth shut lest there be consequences upon consequences down the track for short term Big Man syndrome and make a headline in the Murdoch media. But then don't worry Julie its only the Australian public who will cop the fall out.I thought Warren Truss excelled himself on Q&amp;A on Monday night. The guy is a veritable minister of extraordinary strengths.

 Did you see the way he handled himself. Straight out of the "The majority of Punters are all idiots and I can bedazzle them with my superior knowledge and intellect" LNP handbook. 

 I mean look at how this government according to Warren is bending over backwards to help the unemployed and the youth of Australia. The way Truss delineated all  of the LNP positive and most helpful policies for the young unemployed (like work for the Dole and 40 applications per month), the disadvantaged, the disabled and the vulnerable.

 Wow.  I was so impressed Warren. How did someone as  smart as you Warren get to become a minister and how  come the Australian community doesn't agree with yourself Warren and the very reasonable and targeted at those who can afford it Hockey Budget.

 It's beyond belief. It's unfathomable. Well its probably just a matter of sticking with it and the public will come to its senses and listen to how we in the LNP are there for all Australians. Not just the disadvantaged, the vulnerable and the poor.

As Tony Abbott so proudly proclaimed. "I will govern for all Australians"  Abbott will go down in Australian history as the great PM he truly is.Zing don't forget to add in the "EnvioFascists" It seems that anything that is an enemy or opposed to the Neo Conservative mantra happens to be Fascist this or Fascist that or Whatever. Has it ever occurred to you Zing that these labels that are given out so freely by the Neo Conservative Group Think are in themselves a Contradiction in Reality. 

Fascism is but just a little jig to the Right of the Neo Conservatives.

In fact one could ascertain that Australia is beholden to 'the Corporate Fascist agenda.ISIS is an outcome as a result of the Bush, Blair and Howard illegal invasion and occupation of Iraq. Without the former you  indeed would not have the latter.

The way it should be dealt with is that the West (the West is really a synonym for US policy) should not have interfered one iota. Mark my words. It will only ramp up the situation and in the process make Australia's backyard a much more fearful place.

ISIS and Iraq and the Middle East in general should be left alone to let its  own history sort out the situation. In other words if as the West propagandists have it that ISIS would take over all of Iraq and try to establish some sort of much quoted by both sides of the equation a "Caliphate" ( something that forever will remain as part of Eighth Century Arab Empire)  which incidently was a becon for the Arts and Sciences whilst Europe was a religious intolerant backward thinking entity), then let ISIS run its course. 

ISIS if  did establish some sort of political hegemony it would then have to govern. ISIS would then have to bridge the Sunni Shia divide. ISIS would have to try to establish some type of secret police force (something that is currently happening in Australia) to suppress dissent. Then ISIS would some how have to govern and I doubt very much if ISIS would be able to govern without resorting to a complete Police State status. ISIS would as a political institution become very unpopular with the populace (getting back to the Sunni Shia divide and then adding in Liberal Democratic principals that have gained enourmous popularity in the Middle East) and would more than likely spawn a very well organised opposition. Be it underground or not. Then the West could truly come in as a positive force if indeed it was really needed. .

The idea of throwing red herrings into the equation like the Kurds and Arab Christian minorities. Australia and the United States don't even recognise the Armenian Genocide officially. Let alone going out on a limb for the Kurds. Last I heard both Australia and the US listed Kurdish resistence fighters in Turkey as Terrorists. And then along comes ISIS. 

Not all of us will swallow the Western media deception and nationalist drum beating by politicians who use the very Orwellian principals on the Australian population as laid out by George Orwell in his writing. Orwell feared and tried his best to warn society against the very nature of the current Western political dynamic. We in the West are in one way or another living in and becoming more so part of George Orwell's nightmare.

Splitting hairs on Orwell and trying to paint Orwell's political truths and concepts into a corner because of some random letter is disingenuous.

OUB I detest ethnic cleansing in all its forms. I was merely pointing out that it is nothing short of opportunism for the Western media in conjunction with nationalistic notions of Western moral superiority ( a bad joke in itself if you consign the hundreds of thousands of Iraqi deaths and suffering  to so termed collateral damage by Bush, Blair and Howard).

 I believe that the current crop of Western politicians involved in this latest military fiasco in Iraq will no way meet any real objectives. The Kurds and the Arab Christian minorities are but mere pawns in the scheme of things. It was Bush, Blair and Howard who paved the way for ISIS in the first place with their illegal invasion and occupation of Iraq. They created the monster ISIS.

The concept that you can force a whole nation to do what you wish it to do at the point of a gun has seriously backfired on the West. A Pandora's box has been opened and as an Australian I believe we should step back from the situation and wait and see what unfolds. By rushing in and causing panic and mayhem amongst our citizens and the general othering of  Muslims in Australia and elsewhere (I don't fall for the false platitudes about Islam by senior Australian politicians and that's not counting the extreme nut jobs in politics currently in our Parliament) it will do this nation no good. 

Its time to take stock and rethink our foreign relations imperatives. Australia's demographic is rapidly changing and I would like to live in a society devoid of division and class as much as possible. The interests of this nation are supposed to be at the forefront of our leaders. Not the imperatives of Neo Imperialists of another nation. 

As Malcolm Fraser has articulated. We are only transfixed by American power and the American alliance because we are in the alliance. In other words because we are a Client State of the United States is really the only reason we need to rely on the United States. Ditch the US and make alliances with China and Indonesia. Maybe India but give up the idea of Pax Americana. Pax Americana is so Twentieth Century.









Failed Fascist States.

Pinochet's Chile.
Apartheid South Africa.
Franco's Spain.
Hitler's Germany
Mussolini's Italy.

Failed Totalitarian Regimes.

The Shah's Iran.
Stalin's USSR.

Is ISIS a Fascist State or is ISIS even Fascist?
I don't think it fits the bill. ISIS has yet to impose its economic agenda. A Fascist economic agenda always supports private and privatised Corporations. EG. all of the above mentioned failed Fascist States. 

Fascism is basically the next the move to the Right on from Neo Conservatism. In nearly all cases as with the more broadly defined Totalitarian States they have a rule of law arbitrarily imposed from above with no democratic processes or a sham Democratic process and have very strict National Security laws designed to obliterate any opposition/dissent through the application of Terror by Secret Police for want of a better word. A Fascist state is a Police State first and foremost. 

ISIS - I will have to wait and see before I can Label ISIS a Fascist ideology. I think the term "Fascist" is being bandied as an emotive exploitation of the truth of the matter.

ISIS has  a very narrow interpretation of Islam. ISIS is a direct result of the illegal invasion and occupation of Iraq by Bush, Blair and Howard. 

To  try and associate the Left with supporting ISIS and attempting to delegitimise the Left with recourse to a random letter in a newspaper is disingenuous. 

BTW Mussolini being Grandiose does define Fascism.frangipani
 Disagree. 
A broad spectrum of half truths and pure conjecture over more than a millennium does not relate very well to real events as they have unfolded since the more recent (in most peoples memory I might add) illegal invasion and occupation of Iraq by Bush, Blair and Howard. They created the vacuum that led to ISIS. Am I missing something here?

2 frangipani you have stated in more than one post on this page that ISIS are/have a Fascist ideology. = Wrong and False.
A Fabrication.Mawson. 
"The reason why we are in this mess today is because a certain US president (in company with a certain UK and Australian prime ministers) decided to launch military action in Iraq for dubious (and later found to be false) reasons."

That's a Fabrication. Don't you remember Bush explicitly stating that according to the intelligence that he received which undoubtably was completely reliable and above board.

"Saddam Hussein was getting Uranium from Africa"

Well that said it all for me GWB. I mean talk about pin point intelligence. And utter transparency. I mean Bush raised the bar on the real relationship Saddam Hussein had in creating Weapons of Mass Destruction.  Thereby what else could of our own great PM and Man of Steel, Deputy Sherriff in  J W Howard do?"if a party can't win the hearts and minds of voters then they won't get elected"

As shown in the last election that Abbott won there is no way in Hell he could of done it without the sustained attacks on Gillard over a Three year period leading up to the election by the Murdoch media, Stokes's media and the Shock Jocks. 

Every where you looked the average punter was subjected to ever increasing visceral attacks on the Rudd/Gillard/Rudd Labor governments. The Carbon Tax Lie was so embedded and the Stop the Boats mantra that any average punter was so subjected to the propaganda techniques voluntarily employed by the media on Abbotts behalf. When you have 80% upwards of the Fourth Estate doing your work for you and being nothing more than a mouthpiece for Conservatives and Conservative values knowing full well that the Conservative agenda is what satisfies the proprietors of said media outlets, then the contest is skewed very disproportionally in favour of the Conservative agenda's.

Unfortunately a vote for Conservatives is a vote for the continuing Corporatisation of Australia. A vote for Australia giving up its independence and liberties to the Corporate agenda. A vote for the Corporations to rip us off blind, mine the guts out of our land, pollute the skies, degrade and ruin the water table, control our agriculture and make it dependant on Corporate products, escalate the price of pharmacuticals and medicines by abolishing generic brands and the extension of patents, charging Aussies astronomical fees for entertainment like Game of Thrones and all the while making nothing but profit for the Greed and power of those who control the Corporations.

Ben the Lawyer

The TPP will make the majority of us nothing much better than the peasants of Medieval Europe or the Serfs of Tsarist Russia.

It is not the case that Australians are Stupid. More the case that Australians are Deceived. 

Deceived by Rat Cunning politicians of whom Abbott is the most proficient. Deceived by politicians who quite obviously do not have the interests of Australia, Australian citizens and more broadly speaking support the environmental destruction of the planet, the ever increasing wealth of the 1%, the increasing disparity between those at the top and the rest of the population, the introduction of Draconian laws in the name of National Security ( a measure tried and tested by the Pinochet regime which was heavily backed by the USA and of course by Margaret Thatcher very enthusiastically. Thatcher tried her utmost to divert Justice against Pinochet when the time came. Great person that Maggie eh?)

And of course the media proprietors who not only support the crazy anti humanity anti environmental status quo because it is in their interests to do so. 

The Corporations, the politicians and most of the Fourth Estate (who crow that they keep the politicians in check in the name of the citizens - Pot calling Kettle Black) are all part of the same Club.

I can only see one group trying to do the best by Society and that is The Greens.  But they are up against all of the above. 
Labor is Conservative Lite but at least they do have a bit of compassion and do help out the less fortunate.

Give me $Billions to stop Ebola any day as opposed to a visceral, dog whistling, nationalistic, war mongering, so termed "Humanitarian Intervention" where Australia is called upon to sacrifice more "Blood and Treasure" and stir up the risk of Terrorism on Australian soil to appease who and  whom. Who is the puppet master and who are the puppets. 


ISIS would never or have come into existence except for the exceptional ability of Bush, Blair and Howard to lead their respective nations into the Glorious Operation Iraqi Freedom. Now that wasn't an Illegal war by any chance?


Twitter activist campaigns maybe. But do you think like Mathewson that you can just dismiss them out of hand?
That if anyone objects to ongoing political government business they are barking up the wrong tree and should just take their medicine and lie down like a dog. History is dotted with just such movements which start from humble beginnings. Just wishing it to go away or by trying to defuse the situation as you see by employing propaganda will just not do the trick.PTL

As I am experiencing the Abbott LNP deceitful excuse for an Australian government that does nothing except support the wealthy Elites and Corporate agenda we are going forward to Orwell's  1984.Rio Tinto is in the transition phase as we speak of automating all the truck driving and other mechanised equipment currently and that was being used at its mine sites in Western Australia.

The FIFO will become extinct and the "mine" worker will then go to work at St Georges Terrace in the Perth CBD and operate the mechanisation from computer enhanced remote control rooms. Now how many staff and wages will that save and how much more profit and neglible time will have to be spent wasting time on managing a human workforce and chartering aircraft. 

A win win for the mining corporations again. The same mining corporations that are going out of their way to create so much prosperity for the nation of Australia and its peoples.

After watching Q&amp;A and other current commentary and opinion on the Ebola epidemic in Western Africa it is crystal clear (to use Abbott's limited vocadbury) that Australia needs to come to the fore and use more of its resources against the Ebola outbreak. 

The Abbott government has so far sent $18 million in aid and in doing so seeks to justify this as an adequate response. Medicines Sans Frontier rejects this financial assistance on the grounds that personal are more important and relevant to the fight against Ebola. The AMA rejects the Abbott government response and adds it weight by saying the Australian government should aid the many people who already wish to volunteer and fight the Ebola outbreak and that the Abbott government should send ADF personal and doctors and nurses. 

What the hell is $18million in comparison anyway with the $500 million for the first six months of the Glorified war against ISIS.

The fiction that the Abbott government cannot put ADF personal and doctors and nurses in "Harms Way" (I hate that form of Yank jargon) in the fight against Ebola but we can easily despatch the ADF into Iraq and against ISIS is treating the Australian public with Contempt or just using Orwellian techniques to subterfuge and fear monger the Australian public against an Ebola transmission happening in Australia. What was that statement that our Glorious health minister said the other week. That the Australian Health system is well prepared for any Ebola cases should they happen in Australia.

The fact/idea that the great and wonderous Abbott government has created a Budget Emergency then in the middle of that emergency has indulged Australia in a costly war against ISIS but cannot afford to help the poor but intends to punish the poor and vulnerable but doesn't dare encroach on the wealth of the rich or money grabbing environmentally destructive, climate change adding corporations.  Then finds another half a billion for security forces and then takes away our freedoms in the name of the State ( like Franco's Spain, Pinochet's Chile and Apartheid South Africa) and then when a real and tangible world wide emergency occurs like the Ebola outbreak in Western Africa resorts to Fear Mongering and the Too Hard Basket. 

If Ebola gets to Australia and Australia has done very little or nothing to stop the pandemic what then will our wise and great Abbott government and its Shrill Team Australia do then?






Joe Hockey is going to Beijing to protest the tariff that the Chinese Government has very foolishly added to the cost of coal imports. Hockey is going to stamp his feet, voice his superior opinions and puff ever so furiously and heavily on his Cigar.

 Now that should put the Chinese government in its place and they will surely acknowledge their ill thought out imported Coal Tariff because Cigar smoking Joe says so. 

Who could argue otherwise with that? I mean what are the Chinese thinking by investing more than ever in Renewables and looking after the air quality in Beijing and other mega Chinese cities?The writing is on the Wall for the Fossil Fuel and Mining industries more specifically Coal. No other source of energy pollutes and damages the environment, the ecology and ultimately (as in Beijing and other Chinese mega Cities) human health quite like good ole King Coal. 

I say good riddance to the last 100 years of government support for the fossil fuel industry and about time that governments started to support Renewables and invest in Renewables and supply infrastructure for Renewables just as it has done for Fossil Fuels over the last one hundred and fifty years plus.



Good on the ANU? A very timely good first step in the Australian political and social environment. There are things more valuable than a balance sheet. The sooner the politicians get out of the way and let society get on with the job of creating a more sustainable and environmentally friendly Renewable energy industry the better. 

The last thing standing between Clean Industry and Human Progress (not Regressive polluting and damaging energy markets) are the politicians. We need politicians in power who are prepared to do the "Lifting" and stand up to the Fossil Fuel energy markets and legislate their Corporate economic control of society as  a thing of the  past. We have had enough of Politician "Leaners" who are happy to oblige the Fossil Fuel industries.

Good on Stanford University in the good ole USA. and Good on the Rockefeller Foundation. and Good on the many more institutions and people of conscience and common  sense in joining in the demise of the Fossil Fuel industries.What happened is that the very very sensitive nature in the ranks of the Fossil Fuel industry that someone or some entity had the GAUL to actually offload some of its corporate shares. This in turn led to the savage and sustained attacks upon the ANU and displays the absolute determination of the Fossil Fuel corporations who by association have led to this selfish, self opinionated, ideological, look after my own well being and damn the rest, virtual bully and non thinking PM and his ministers and the Murdoch press and others to unleash an incredible barrage of abuse at the ANU. 

Their modus operandi is to set up a witch hunt that accuses the ANU of deliberate misappropriation of University funds which are supposedly exclusive of all other university funds linked to the taxpayers of Australia (how dare a public institution get tax payer dollars = oxy moron) and deliberately sets about sabotaging those funds by Divesting the shares of very dubious fossil fuel corporations. They are all screaming in concert that it is an outrage that such presumably tax payer funds exclusively are not used to maximise profit by remaining in said industries no matter what the ANU decides as a public institution on how to behave and invest on its own accord.

If there is so much concern about the role of Taxpayer dollars in this massive attack on the ANU by the Fossil Fuel corporations and their political apparatchiks and the persons who support and make money from investments in fossil fuel corporations then why not put it to the citizens of Australia. Lets see  what the citizens of this nation think about the ANU Divestment decision. None of these accusers has the right to question the integrity of the ANU on these grounds unless of course that they can prove that they have the overwhelming support of the Australian population. End of Story.Its a sensible and timely move by the ANU. The Divestment movement is just getting started but already Stanford University in the USA and the Rockefeller Foundation have previously divested their interests in fossil fuels. Rather Ironic that the Rockefeller Foundation have divested but I believe it is indeed a very clear sign from a foundation that originally made its money from Fossil Fuels has wisely realised that the Writing is on the Wall. Time to move on from the dominance of the Fossil Fuel industries.

 Fossil Fuels cause way more damage than any economic good that they now try to reaffirm. The time is past. We live in Post Modernism era. Fossil Fuels are a carry over of the Modernist Period. Why do you think all the Nay Sayers like the IPA and the LNP are coming out and defending the twisted agenda of the Fossil Fuel Oligarchy Corporate Agenda? The Fossil Fuel industry has come out All Guns Blazing because it well knows that with Divestment and re Investment on a scale that even starts to approach the stranglehold that the Fossil Fuel industry has held for Generations then the Renewable sector would not only make short work of the Fossil Fuel industry but also add many more jobs and economic advantages to more Australians (all the fossil fuel profits are going offshore from Australia) and persons world wide than the Fossil Fuel industry ever has.

 Couple that with a clean environment and costs of energy continuing to come down over time with Renewables then it is no wonder that the Fossil Fuel industry and its greed aparatchiks are going full bottle.  However this is but the beginning of a rear guard action. Well done ANU. 

Small minded defences by the Fossil Fuel industry that economics is at play here and that the ANU should maximise profits by supporting the Fossil Fuel industry smacks of PANIC in the ranks."that large business should just simply pay the full 30% out of their 'moral obligation' to society."

No of course not. Anyone in their right mind understands that large business (multi national Corporations) have zilch moral compass and place profit above all else. It is up to the government to legislate so that these Corporations pay their correct share of Tax (30%).

Add to that the repeal of the Deisal Fuel Rebate Schemes that mining corporations currently enjoy (a complete rip off of Australian Tax payers). Keep the  Diesal Fuel Rebate for those 
it was initially meant to help "The Agricultural Sector" and damn the rest.

Ben. I like the unofficial foot in mouth campaign style of the latest Hockey outburst of attempting to link the so termed "Humanitarian Intervention" and the nasty, mean, failed Hockey budget and then Abbott telling Hockey by no small means not to link the two as it will further damage the Bi Partinsanship with Labor on this latest military adventurism that presently Abbott can crow about with some impunity, saving the Greens.

Labor I think has been rather cleaver (something all politicians attempt to perfect) by aligning Bi - Partinsanship with Abbott on the Humanitarian Intervention as it has two distinct outcomes. One that the public will continue to support the government on this military adventure and that none of our aircraft end up shot down (very unlikely at present) and that real military objectives are successfully accomplished within a given time frame (I'll believe it when I see it).

or

 that the public become disillusioned with the whole Humanitarian Intervention as it drags on and the government through subterfuge introduces Mission Creep and there seems to be no real end in sight. That the whole thing becomes  an ongoing Stalemate and too much effort for too little reward is conceptualised by the public at large and the whole Humanitarian Intervention ( a war in any other terms) becomes an anathema to the public. 

There is only so much geeing up the public will buy from the media and it will wear really thin after about 12 to 18 months. Abbott is trying to position himself for a long haul as he probably realises ISIS won't be defeated overnight and is using Rat Cunning about the commitment or non commitment in his carefully scripted dialogue about committing ground forces but I believe without results and if there is even a little too much Blood and Treasure Sacrifice by Australia's commitment then the public will turn very rapidly against the whole military adventure. 

Labor can have it both ways and can very easily distance itself from Abbotts Humanitarian Intervention if indeed Abbott does up the ante and further commit Australia at a time of increasing Domestic pressures. Abbott will likely give Labor the excuse it needs to change tack.

Katter comes across as some sort of quintessential outback pioneering Australian politician who wears his heart on his sleeve for the person on the land. Katter does have some very real concerns which the Abbott government or even previous Labor governments have failed to address but most importantly the blatant hypocrisy and economic vandalism of this nation against our Primary producers so that the multinational mining corporations can exploit at merry our society and our natural resources and environment (pay negligent tax and make huge profits)with the full backing of the Abbott LNP government. Katter is correct on this front.

However with regards to Josh Thomas and Bob Katter on Q&amp;A last night on the subject of mental illness amongst GBLT, Katter proved himself just another politician who couldn't care less about people he refuses to acknowledge and hold out a hand to help because of ingrained prejudices which belong in the 1950's and 1960's . 

Josh Thomas in his comedic fashion did indeed show up Katter for the nong that he is. Josh did so in a very well considered way when other more militant GBLT persons on a political witch hunt would of made a slanging match of it with an overheated political point scoring outcome that those in the right wing establishment would rather have had happened. Full marks to Josh Thomas. Josh just proved/showed up just how inept our politicians really are.I have given up on Labor. The only thing that Labor stand for is that they are somewhat preferable to the LNP. Anyway for the preceding future and immediate past I will be voting for The Greens. Abbott is a disaster that is currently happening for Australia and Labor is too focussed on where it can stand in the polls and not rock the boat. Especially on this trumped up security issue which is well on the way to establishing an Orwellian Police State in Australia whose sole outcome is to protect corporations. The vey corporations that are currently ripping off the nation of Australia and the majority of its citizens..

Australia has already gained Pariah status thanks to its immigration detention policy and thinking that the United States will always back up Australia. Really. The US has a polity too and when it comes down to it the US polity will judge how they want to. Not for the sake of some outlier Client State like Australia which will surely use up its use by date.
