As a schoolboy I lived in a major port City in England that suffered great destruction and many lives lost. I walked to school each day passing a number of bombed houses and knew of a boy living close to me, who was killed in such an incident, I also collected shrapnel, which was pieces of the metal casings of bombs which had exploded and saw many unignited incendiary bombs lying in the streets.
Some years later RAF planes dropped many bombes on German cities, such as Dresden, Hamburg, Cologne and Berlin. At the time I felt good that WE were paying them back. It is only in the years following, that I thought about the children in Germany that experienced the same horrors that I had.
Since then we have had many many more repeats of the same horror story, Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan etc.
It seems that when OUR side causes the death and destruction it is called collateral damage and when THEIR side causes the death and destruction it is called a wicked crime. I feel sorrow for the relatives of the 298 people killed in the MH17 incident as I do for the many millions killed or injured in all the conflicts during my lifetime, however I am less inclined to put labels on those that directly or indirectly cause the death and destruction.
In a sense, as humans we are all responsible for the horrors of war, because we do not rule it out as a so-called solution to the problems we experience. Unless humans evolve to a higher level, that will not countenance violence as a problem solver, we will continue to see more examples of this senseless  suffering and destruction.
I'm sorry, but I can no longer see it as a "goodies and baddies" issue, but only as a deep deep failure within our collective genetic make up. 
I am already concerned about the reduced privacy I incur just by using the internet. I don't like giving the private sector the ability to track my viewing and spending habits, I feel it is offensive. I also do not wish to give government more access to my private concerns. If that makes me more vulnerable to being a victim of a terrorist, then so be it.
I also have memories of the hysteria involved in McCarthyism and even the ridiculous spying on individuals considered to be a threat, when ASIO was under the leadership of the paranoiac Colonel Spry. So no I don't trust our spy agencies of governments of the left or the right to behave differently than they have in the past, when given more powers. I am inclined to think that any employee of a spying agency is likely by the very nature of the job to be overly suspicious of the general populous.
This is just another instance of using a cost/benefit analysis to determine whether we should go down the path of handing more powers to our secret services. For me the costs are too high and the potential benefits are too low.
Of course we should all be frightened of what terrorists might do and the havoc they may cause.
Likewise with the road toll, which causes mayhem death and destruction.
I've got a good idea, let's link a bill to collect digital information to prevent death and injury with the inclusion of the banning of all cars to prevent death and injury.The problem with "strategic thinking" such as this analysis is that it is very narrowly conducted in the context of the Nation State, which in itself is a continuation of "our clan" "our tribe" "our kingdom" etc.
In one sense such thinking is only natural, because we do not yet have a concept of a "global humanity", in which the interests of the whole of our species is considered. In the context of Nation State thinking it is perfectly understandable that National Interests are practically the only consideration.
Humans have evolved largely throughout the world from the concept of "our clan" or "our village" being the only grouping we can trust and suspicion of all other humans. This has been accompanied by evolution of such concepts as "Law and Order" and the policing of such laws to enable people to feel relatively safe within the clan, tribe, kingdom or nation state.
At this stage of the evolution of humans it seems utopian to think that we can achieve that sense of Law and Order and trust on a global scale and I certainly don't think we are ready to achieve that within the lifetimes of my children or perhaps grandchildren. However I do think it is time to start the process of thinking about it and getting used to the concept, because the lessons of history over the last century shows us that nobody really "wins" wars any more. Furthermore the unintended consequences of all the wars fought over that period of time has punished vast numbers of humans in all parts of the world.
With the advanced weaponry available now, the use of which is on display in throughout the world (even without nuclear weaponry), should logically make warfare unthinkable and potentially able to lead to the extinction of our species, it is time to start the process of conscious evolvement of humans.
I don't care if it is considered utopian to think of a world without war and I readily conceive that it would be a long journey to achieve it, however I also believe that we humans will become yet another extinct species unless we start that journey.  
I agree with much you have written Brian. The one thing I have a problem with is what you may see as an alternative to "everybody is an expert".
I say this because I no longer believe the "experts". The economic experts didn't forecast the GFC, the military experts have not forecast the actual results of military engagements for most of my long lifetime and much of the time before that. The entry of all the large European nations into the first world war 100 years ago surely proves that we should not trust "the experts".
As for the "political experts", they seem to be more and more out of tough on both sides of the political spectrum
In my opinion the experts tend to follow "group think". This leaves us with the only option of trying to figure it out ourselves. Perhaps if we were to subject the "experts" to more scrutiny and questioning we might be able to get more useful information, but I still see the same economic "experts" on TV being treated with reverence by interviewers that do not hesitate to subject politicians to fierce questioning, even though the same economic "experts" failed to forecast the GST. 
I did read of a group of economic students from either Yale or Harvard, who walked out of and boycotted lectures, because the text books they were told to study had not been revised after the GFC. The only hopeful sign I have seen, even though I was by myself at the time, I cheered.Hi Brian I'll have to be careful I am so much in agreement with you, I'm afraid of engaging in "group think" myself, I presume two people can engage in "group think"?
I had a good mate who unfortunately died a couple of years ago, we would get together and shared notes. Funny thing is we could always pick a recession before it happened although neither of us could adequately explain why, we just knew the subtle signs that some things were out of kilter and we didn't trust the experts who tried to explain it all away. Only problem was we could never pick the timing well enough or we could have made a fortune short selling. He was a very successful businessman and a good bloke, proving to me that you didn't have to be a bastard to succeed in business.Originally a ten pound Pom (many many years ago), I used to cringe every time I heard a fellow Pom whingeing, I even went to some efforts to lose my (then) pommy accent so I wouldn't be confused with the whingers. 
Some years later I spent some time in the USA. On the way home sitting in the airport in San Francisco for quite some time, because our aircraft was delayed, I happened to notice a group of Aussies sitting quite close to me. I was tempted to move closer to them and join the conversation. Problem was as I got closer to them, I overheard their conversation. They had all spent some time in America and were on their way home. The topic of their conversation - whingeing about everything American. I slunk away, thinking that I'd been ashamed of the whingeing Poms and now I was feeling ashamed of the whingeing Aussies.
Afterwards I realised that it was quite natural of course to miss the things in your own country and to share that with a compatriot when you have the chance.
Now I feel of myself as a true blue Aussie, with roots in a very distant past in England. The other message is that under the skin, we are not so different after all.Hi Frank I hope my comment didn't imply that All Aussies spending time in the USA were whingers. I also appreciated my time in America and I know many others that had similar experiences to yours and mine.
I do think that sometimes the whingers (no matter their country of origin) are expressing their sense of homesickness and perhaps we should be more understanding of their feelings, though we may not appreciate their method of expressing it.
I have mostly had contact with Kiwis in New Zealand, where I was also treated very well, it seems that your experience has been different. I think the thing I have learned most in life is to be wary of all generalisations, or captured in a different way in the well known expression "all generalisations are false, including this one!"I note that Health is only 4th on the list of matters under discussion.
I wonder if this emphasis will change in the near future. There is a long term study underway in the USA looking at the long term effects of concussion on players in their life after football. Already there are some disturbing results coming to light about the incidence of dementia among retired footballers.
This could also have implications for other football codes around the world such as soccer (the effects of heading the ball), the rugby codes and AFL football, in which the ideal of physical contact (sometimes a euphemism for biffo) is a major part of the appeal.
If major problems are shown by long term studies of these sports, as I believe is likely, they will be very difficult to deal with in the rules of all of theses sports as these physical aspects are major attractions to both players and spectators.
There could very well be conflicts in dealing with potential long term effects of playing these sports and the attraction and spectacle of the gamesIt is true whogoesthere that people by and large can choose to damage their long term health for short term pleasure, however our workplaces are subject to health and safety requirements, which are seen as necessary. We apply heavy fines to organisations that do not keep the necessary health and safety environments.
The major sports are now businesses as well as entertainment providers and as such will be required to maintain adequate health and safety requirements.
The ASADA issues that have arisen in the past few years are also a likely indication of future trends. Did the players taking part in the injection routines really have a clear understanding of possible implications to their future health?
An analogy could also be drawn with workers in the asbestos industry, not all workers who were in contact with asbestos did contract asbestosis, however a significant number did and were not advised of the occupational hazards.
I enjoyed playing soccer and other sports in my youth and I do not wish to be a killjoy, however greater medical knowledge about cause and effects in all sorts of areas do generally lead to changes in most cases. My post is intended to draw attention to unintended consequences not to be a killjoy. 
I have some ambivalence in responding to your post Brian, I have always liked sport both as a player and as a spectator, however paid sport is at least as much an entertainment business these days as it is a pleasurable activity and that does make a difference.
Another thing which could make changes inevitable is the likelihood in the USA of very large legal cases and payouts to ex footballers, following research indicating increased likelihood of dementia in ex footballers. If that does occur, then it is likely to be followed in other countries all around the world, including Australia.
How much is paid sport a privileged career and how much another entertainment business is a moot point.Thanks for your comment Dave. As a sports follower myself (particularly of the various football codes), I hope that some minor rule changes and perhaps protective gear, will be sufficient to prevent too drastic rule changes which would alter all the codes beyond recognition.
On the other hand it seems to be a delicate balance between prevention of known causes of serious heath and safety issues and heavy handed regulation, also the instigation of major litigation inevitably has some negative effects and that is also on the cards. I think that whatever happens in America is likely to have an effect elsewhere in the sporting world. That seems to be the pattern in our increasingly inter-related world.
Time indeed will tell.The Government must be reeling in surprise at the response to this year's budget, because all they have done is to follow a well worn script.
1. Lambast the previous government for "creating a black hole", used by every new government since Fraser.
2. Institute a "horror" budget as their first budget "to fix the black hole.
3. Budget no 3, immediately before the next election is the time to bring in a "bribe the electorate" budget.
4. Excuse lies told by some such statement as "core and non-core promises.
All the above has been meekly accepted by the electorate for decades. What can have changed?
While politics has never been a "sporting contest", the sheer viciousness of politics over the past few years has taught the electorate not to trust, so we don't - both sides.
Perhaps the chickens are coming home to roost. Having 'woken up" the electorate, it's going to be hard to put it back to sleep. Perhaps that's a good thing, we needed at least a new script anyway, perhaps if we stay awake long enough we may even get some honesty from both of the major parties.
We have made it too easy for them in the pastSome may call it hypocrisy, but I prefer to look at it as a dichotomy. I understand that there is a very high proportion of Christians in the current government. I often think of the words of Jesus, the founder of the religion in the Sermon On The Mount and his frequent admonition to would be followers to "give away your wealth" or "It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to go to heaven"
Before people leap to the conclusion that I am some sort of "leftie", I consider myself to be a "small l liberal" or what used to be called a "wet".
The Wets were effectively purged from the Liberal Party in the 80s and consequently both the Liberal Party and the Labour Party lurched to the right. There have always been "swings of the pendulum" in politics usually decades long.
I think it is time for another swing of the pendulum. Bring back the Wets.
A read of Thomas Picketty's book is well worth while. He has analysed data over more than two centuries to show that for the period following the French Revolution in France and up to 1914 in England and other European countries wealth inequality inexorably increased and the consequences were detrimental to the social condition. In the period following the first world war until the 1970s the level of inequality was reduced considerably and the social conditions improved. Since the 1970s there has been a resumption of much wider gaps of wealth inequalities. I know Margaret Thatcher famously stated that "there is no such thing as society", but I think we ignore social conditions at our peril.
Come back Bob Menzies, your country needs you!I remember reading George Orwell's "1984", when I was just a young fellow. At the time I thought it was a good read, but a bit far fetched.
I now think that George would be even more dismayed if he saw our modern world. It's not only "big government" that's the problem, but perhaps even more "big corporate" and between them they have us by the short and curlys.
Loss of privacy has been enormous since I was a youngster and we seem to be helpless to prevent it without resort to some of the extreme tech-savvy ways hinted at on this forum, and even if used, I question whether they are likely to draw attention to the person using them, who could then be considered to be deviant for using privacy protecting methods.
Another issue which disturbs me just as much as loss of privacy (bad as that is) is the intense brain washing we are all subjected to on a routine basis via the marketing/advertising industry, using psychological methodology to bypass our rational brain functions.
We are so used to this now that we have normalised it as everyday, when it is in fact extreme manipulation and a form of thought control, again reminiscent of George Orwell's 1984.
I am old enough to remember a relatively innocent time before this was "normal". How did we let it happen and how can we reverse it, or is it all too late and should we just get used to the idea that we are controlled.
Current generations have no idea of the world that existed before modern technology destroyed our privacy and the devious use of psychology rendered our free will largely obsolete.
I'll be dead within a decade or two, but I fear that the game has been lost for future generations. How innocent we were, expecting the world would continue to be ever more enlightened. It didn't happen!Since homo sapiens is addicted to conflict anyway, it seems to me that trade sanctions are a much less damaging to the vast majority of ordinary human beings than is traditional warfare.
In that sense it seems to me that this may be a hopeful sign of human evolution. It can only be human evolution that could prevent our species from the self destruction, that currently seems so inevitable.
We have had 2000 years in which we have not learned to "love thy neighbour" or "turn the other cheek", so obviously we didn't want to hear that message. Perhaps he was just another utopian fool anyway, the realists always knew this didn't they. Unfortunately the realists also ensure that we never try any way other than that which has created so much misery thus far in our evolutionary journey 
Sadly Gordon there are lots of good ideas and theories that could improve the human condition, some of the left and some of the right. The only problem is that to work they need human co-operation and good will, qualities far too rare among we human beings.I think this whole concept is flawed My question is "The middle of What?".
I started voting at close to the beginning of the Menzies period of Government. If I look (in hindsight) for some mythical middle at that period, it actually becomes quite difficult. Firstly Menzies insisted quite adamantly on being a liberal not a conservative and that the party he founded was a liberal party not a conservative party. But you also need to look at economic factors and at social factors and clearly Menzies was a Keynesian and would be economically to the left of nearly all current economic policies. In social matters he was clearly a conservative (most of his contemporary society also was socially conservative by current standards) and would be considered far right by today's standards. So was Menzies to the left or the right or towards the middle? It depends!
You could also look at the Whitlam government and the Fraser government and the Hawke/Keating governments and particularly look at the individual members of those governments and they were obviously coalitions with members holding a variety of economic and social viewpoints.
Since the Liberal Party purged it's "Wet" faction, it has become more conservative economically but in social terms it is a more "broad church" with quite large divergences within it's ranks. It can be argued that the Labor Party has moved to the right economically, but again in social terms there are large divergences within it's ranks.
Then when you look at society in general, there are large differences between economic ideals held and social beliefs held, I would challenge anybody to find a "middle" and I think it is more profitable to try to find some sort of consensus that can be tolerated by most people than it is to look for some mythical "middle".
 

Through the years this has grown into a diabolical problem, that will cause problems if it is fixed and continue and magnify problems while it continues to exist.
Firstly I need to acknowledge that I have used negative gearing in the past and did not feel like I was rorting the system, while I was doing so, for a number of reasons. Firstly as a retired accountant I am accustomed to the idea that only NET profit is taxed in all businesses, not just the business of owning a property that is rented to a tenant. It is normal practice for a business person to borrow in order to finance the business and the interest paid is a normal expense of business. A second reason was that I needed to move from my house to rent in another area for combined work and private purposes and the negative gearing helped to pay my rent - I don't feel a bit guilty for that.
Then why do I say it is a diabolical problem? Because it has undoubtedly contributed to two real problems that Australia faces now or will face in the future. The first is the undoubted inflation (bubble) in property prices that we now have and will cause problems if property prices stay over priced and also will cause problems if prices come down to a sustainable level. In addition young people are being priced out of the housing market and that is a social problem now and in the future.
The second reason is one of distortion of the economy. Too much investment in property and insufficient in entrepreneurial businesses, which have a better multiplier effect in increasing general prosperity. In addition you have the problem that is referred to in the article, of interfering with the Reserve Bank's ability to use interest rate movements as a method of controlling the overall economy.
Peter the Lawyer is right that changing the law to exclude rental property would be very difficult to draft and enact, without downsides to other businesses.
In spite of the difficulties, I do think it is time to make changes because the longer they are delayed the worse will be the effect in the future. When we have the next major recession, which I believe is inevitable at some time in the future, perhaps precipitated by difficulties in the Chinese economy, a downward price shock in the property market, such as we experienced in the early 90's when property values declined by 20% to 30%, would seriously effect our banks left holding mortgages worth more than the current values of the properties - a re-run of the American property collapse. This would exacerbate any recession and could lead to a near collapse of the economy to rival what has happened in some European countries..
I would suggest changes such as follows: Firstly a grandfather condition, secondly limiting negative gearing to newly built properties and thirdly removing John Howards change to Capital Gains tax to return the taxable rate to 100%. I would also advocate that inflation indexation should be allowed at the CPI inflation rMany people love to have somebody to look down upon. It probably says more about them than it does about the people they are so disparaging about.
I have noticed over the past few years that we seem to have more and more disparaging so-called comedy programs, in which the sole claim to comedy is mocking the so-called bogans it's the same joke told over and over again. I wonder what that is saying about our "egalitarian" society, or even that wry sense of humour that was such a celebrated part of Australia. 
There has always been a strong strain of comedy, which relies on making fun of others, slapstick being a good example. I remember my late father saying to me that the best comedy was that which made fun of "us" not "them", in other words laughing at our own foibles. I think he was right.A very good friend of mine, now dead, once quoted to me the following expression "all generalisations are false, including this one". It has helped me in many ways to challenge my own thought processes and although it has made my thought processes more difficult, I believe it has helped me considerably.

"if we claim that there are no disability rorters, and then we see young chaps on disability pensions, fighting for ISIS in Iraq we tend to put ALL disability pensioners in the same category. We tend to lose trust and respect towards ALL disability pensioners. Which is WRONG. VERY WRONG."
Thelma the final words in your post talk about the attitudes you say that you hold being wrong. In view of this I am puzzled as to why you "tend to put all disability pensioners in the same category" and to "lose trust and respect towards all disability pensioners". By using the word "we", you include yourself in these attitudes and I am puzzled as to why you lose your ability to discriminate between genuine and non genuine claimants, to the extent that they all become rorters in your mind.
Further in your post you ask for rorters to be "separated" or "weeded out", that would be nice, but I wonder how this weeding out will be accomplished and if it would lead to some genuine claimants losing their claims, due to human error.
I too would like some simple answers to difficult questions, however I start from the assumption that while there will be rorters in any system, it is more likely that the "genuine" will likely outnumber The "non genuine". I may be wrong of course and may be fooled from time to time, but I feel better that my tax dollars go to a genuinely needy recipient than that needy recipient is denied help.
I agree with the idea of preferential voting, it's the particular form of preferential voting that I have a problem with. First of all I think it should be optional and secondly we should have an option to allocate only the number of preferences that we wish. The present system of preferential voting with it's insistence that we must allocate a preference to every candidate is as close to insane as a voting system that I can conceive.
At present we have no ability to NOT VOTE for any candidate or party that we do not wish to vote for, to be valid we must allocate a preference.
It cannot be beyond the abilities of the Electoral Commission to count less preferences than currently need to be counted.
I'm willing to bet that just one election, in which we had a choice to NOT ALLOCATE A PREFERENCE to either of the major parties, would shake up both of the majors into taking notice of the electors. At present they know that the votes will flow through to one of the two and thus they can perpetuate the duopoly.
Let us continue the tradition of compulsory voting, which at least keeps us coming to the ballot box, but make the allocation of preferences a genuine choice. It is a meaningless  choice, when we have a ballot paper containing the names of candidates, whom we have no wish to allocate a preference and yet we are forced to allocate a preference, by a stupid voting system.Many lessons came from the 20th century, which should enable human beings to chart a more effective and responsive journey through the troubled waters of international disagreements and diplomacy.
Within our nation states we generally have some degree of law and order, although not perfect (bad guys still do bad things), we have police forces which generally work reasonably well, but sometimes are corrupt. Within limits we have come a long way.
Internationally we have no equivalents, although idealists setting up the United Nations after the 2nd world war, thought we could start the journey towards such a future world.
To some extent we have not travelled very far from feudalism internationally, where the strong rule and the weak submit. It's not nice, but it is the reality.
In all the madness of the 20th century, one thing came out of it which was pretty useful, it was "mutually assured destruction" otherwise known as MAD. Without it we would probably have had a World War 3 even more savage and destructive than World Wars 1 and 2. It means that we escaped nuclear wars between major powers such as USA, USSR and China. Bad stuff still happened and all the major powers still bullied their neighbours, but we avoided the catastrophe.
Problem is it still left many minor conflicts throughout the world, which weren't restrained by MAD. Now when bad stuff happens throughout the world and bad things happen to good people very many people are outraged, including me. We want to "fix the problem", save all the good people from the baddies. But there is no international police force to do the work for us and little effective international law either.
It is a very uncomfortable position to be in to confront the fact that bad things are happening and that there may be bugger all that I/we can do about it without resorting to the so-called solutions, which caused enormous suffering in the 20th century and proved that even conventional wars are either unwinnable or worse that the problem we are trying to prevent.
That's where we are now and it's uncomfortable.
The solutions can only be that either we evolve as a species so that we become more empathetic and eschew violence or that we transpose the Nation State solution of effective law and policing to the global sphere, global law and global police.
I can just visualise many of you recoiling in horror at the idea of global law, global police and global government. However in the great scheme of things it is no more outrageous than the idea of the nation state having those sort of powers not many centuries ago.
Until we are able to either evolve, so that there is no longer a problem, or move to global security, we are stuck with a "damned if we do interfere" and "damned if we don't interfere", very uncomfortable, but I think realistic in many of the conflicts raging throughout the world at present and others that will inevitaAustralia is undoubtedly a high wage country, but it is also a high cost country. 
We are in trouble in terms of international competitiveness and job losses to other countries have been going on for some time now, but it is very likely to get worse with outsourcing of the professionals likely in the near future.
With the internet and modern communications, what was unthinkable is now thinkable. For instance much of the day to day work in many professions can now feasibly be carried out in Bangladesh or Mumbai (or any other city in the world with a lower cost structure.
This is already affecting some Accountants and medical tourism is on the rise. Much of the work that the legal profession does can easily be done in an office in some overseas city, as can a significant amount of engineering work, and even medical diagnosis will be able to be done remotely. The professions have been the strongest unions up to now, protecting their members, but many people obtaining professional qualifications in this country can just as easily be situated in an overseas country.
Protectionism is not going to protect us for very much longer.
How can we compete? Costs will need to come down significantly. Land costs, overhead costs including costs of banking, cost of utilities, legal costs, accounting costs, engineering etc. Sure it is already slowly reducing wages and this will continue, but it is about to affect the middle classes also. Business margins will probably also need to be reduced. We are simply not competitive.
This will be a very large shake up in this country and I don't think any sector of the community is prepared for it.
Our costs are too high and we are not prepared for the massive changes needed to bring them down. Being of the left or of the right will also not help us, our failed political discourse will be a major barrier to community cohesion.
Disclosure: I am a retired accountant and my profession will be affected as much as any other section of the community.  
I do know about a Floated Australian dollar and trade weighted index and how they work. The problems of a high Australian dollar are well known and a reduction in the value of the exchange rate does help us to become more competitive. It would be nice if that was the end of the story, simply deflate the currency. Many other nations going down this path have found that it is just not that simple. Argentina being a very good example. 
In the 19th century Argentina was considered to be equally placed with Australia to achieve a very high placed economic future. For various reasons Argentina needed to devalue it's currency - many times actually. While the economic situation of Argentina has certainly improved since then, it would be a brave person who would say that was a painless process for Argentina and to forecast the high hopes for the country's economic well being that were forecast in the 19th century.
A low dollar helps to make our sales more competitive, but also makes our imports more expensive, including hi-tech equipment needed to re-equip local industry. Also it means that overseas investors receive a lower return on their investments, which could give us a shortage of overseas capital investment and overseas loans expressed in the currency of the countries of lenders would require greater funds to repay.
Certainly a lowering of the exchange value of the Aussie dollar would be beneficial overall, but to present this as a simple solution is misleading.



I'm glad that we are not talking about simple solutions to complex problems.
I hope that we have the chance to gradually change to meet a problem that may not be as drastic as I may have portrayed it, but then again very often, when human societies need to change, they have a tendency to resist change until it is unavoidable, by which time change becomes more necessary and more drastic.
Changing from a high cost country to a low or even medium cost country would be a difficult process and the process would bear more heavily on some more than others. The political difficulties would make our present so-called emergency look tame. 
It is certainly not just about wages or even salaries but also profit margins, land values, house prices etc. The industrial revolution was a very traumatic experience for very many people and such change could be just as traumatic for many more people.
Perhaps we can muddle through, Australia is not called the "lucky country" for nothing. At my age I will probably be dead before the worst effects would hit, but my children and grandchildren would not.
The future is virtually impossible to predict and very often in human history the problems (and solutions) of the future turn out to be very different than those anticipated.
It just seems to me that we have become too focused on so-called left/right divisions, without thinking about what some of the other underlying changes that are happening could mean for this country that we share.There are two ways of profiting for a shareholder, dividends and capital growth. The reverse side of this for businesses is that the cheapest money they can find for expansion is retained shareholder profits, ie the amount of profits retained inside the company for future growth and not distributed to shareholders. A forward looking entrepreneurial company needs to balance these two needs.
It has often been said that a company, which returns a high proportion of it's funds to it's shareholders either through a high dividend policy or even more through "buy back" schemes, has run out of ideas for future profit making. If this is so, then we may be seeing a "lazy capital" period in Australia's capitalist/entrepreneurial system, which would bode ill for our economic health.
Part of the problem of Australia moving away from a country that "makes things" seems to me to be a sapping of the entrepreneurial spirit of the country, focussing instead on "rentier" type businesses or duopoly dominated industries, with lazy competition or extraction industries, which work for a while, but may leave a legacy of "depleted ideas" in other sectors of the economy.
Australia's history has shown that we can produce the innovators and entrepreneurs that make the economy tick, however we cannot just take this for granted. Are we seeing the beginnings of a malaise in our business sector, that matches the malaise in our political system. Is Australia becoming old and tired?
Is there a shortage of capital in Australia? or do we have a shortage of entrepreneurial get up and go?
That we have so many cash buy back schemes as well as high dividend regimes would point to Company management and boards with too few ideas about how to increase the wealth of the company.A depressingly accurate summary of our present political malaise, where the negative message is the immediate winner, but leaving the victor with a major problem to turn the tide from negative to positive.
What doesn't seem to be considered in this and similar articles is that this seems to be a current malaise in nearly all of the so-called Anglo-Saxon countries, not just Australia. We all seem to recognise that democracy is the least worst political system that has so far evolved, but the present malaise seems to be eerily similar to previous periods when the populous became disenchanted with a particular form of government and turned to the "Strong Man" form of government, which is even more disastrous. 
We seem to be obsessed with reporting of the Australian, UK and US politics, which are all showing signs of malaise, and hearing little political reporting of other countries which may be travelling better in so far as political health.
Could we have a little more critique of politics in countries such as Switzerland (which has a form of citizen initiated referendums), or of New Zealand or Canada, which have a similar background to us, or of the Scandinavian countries? Or are they all going through a similar stage of disillusionment?
Having lived for a long time now, it seems to me that the old saying that a people who forget their history are bound to repeat that history. God forgive us if we repeat the lessons of the first half of the 20th century.Thanks for your comments sdrawkcaB.
I've come to the same conclusion myself, but it's depressing. I enjoyed history at school, but I must admit it seemed very remote from me at the time. My generation had some unmistakeable lessons acted out before us, so it wasn't about some people who lived in the ancient world (before the internet and mobile phones).
I am also interested in how the rest of the world is travelling, without turning it into yet another left/right stouch. I realise that I left out Germany from my little list. I also left out many other countries and continents, but that was deliberate, most of them are still newbies still finding their way
We seem to get a little news from France and Italy, but mainly so that we can have a laugh at what we think are their dysfunctional ways.As I understand it from my reading



Firstly I want to state that I do not have ongoing conditions that require treatment for pain relief and have had very few occasions in my life where I have experienced pain of a nature that has needed treatment for pain relief.
Having said that, on a very few occasions where I have an experience that I considered to be severe pain, I can appreciate the feelings of a person with ongoing pain issues being distraught at the thoughts of being unable to relieve the pain.
I have read that each individual has a different level of experience of pain on a continuum from extreme agony at what some would consider to be mild pain to a low experience of pain that others would consider excruciating. If that is correct then I think it ill behoves any of us to try to sit in judgement of others who will go to any lengths to relieve their pain. I would also expect pain management to be a realm of medicine requiring a great deal of training and expertise.
As in so many areas of life, it seems that some people are very quick to be judgemental, while others are willing to accept the experience of others as being "real", I guess we would call it a capacity for empathy.










Thanks Professor, I think you said what I wanted to get across in a much better way than my own rambling post.
On another tack, it seems to me that there are some threads in this story that have relevance in the voluntary euthanasia debate. Some of us wanting to have the freedom to make choices about our own life (and death) and others that wish to control the way others live and die.I would argue that the Christian Churches have failed us because of their selected use of the 2000 year old book.
Practically the whole of the old testament bears witness not to a loving God, but a vindictive jealous God who put the rules of worshiping him way ahead of loving his followers. Furthermore he was represented as a God of only a small tribe in a small part of the world not making contact with any of the other inhabitants of the Earth's peoples.
Clearly this represented the viewpoint of the iron age tribe and is not believable as representing a loving God.
In the new testament, the so-called son is promoting a very different form of morality, with little emphasis on rules and more emphasis on an overarching morality about love, with parables such as "The Good Samaritan" and the sermon on the mount and many statements that the way to follow him was to forgo wealth and possessions.
Instead of promoting this vision of "the good society" the organised church concentrated on the "magical" aspects of the story, miracles, virgin birth, death and resurrection and that is the church we have inherited., with almost no emphasis on the message that was preached by this remarkable Rabbi.
No wonder it is such a mess.  
When did I last read the bible? A few months ago actually, right through from beginning to end (I didn't read all the who begot who bits). I also read the Bible (King James version) in the same manner a few years ago within the last decade.
Certainly the bible is a very complex (set of) books and is often contradictory in various places, so yes it can be read in some places as if the God of the Israelites is a loving God, however there are many other parts of the bible where it is obvious that this God is far from loving, in fact behaving with vicious retribution at some times.
As far as Jesus the Rabbi is concerned, or at least the stories told about him by others writing many years after his life and death, once again you rightly point out that there are inconsistencies in his messages. I agree that they are a lot more complex than taught in Sunday school.
What also seems to me to be quite apparent is that Jesus had a philosophy (or belief system), which was very different than that of the God of the old testament as a whole.
Going back to the old testament, in many places it is quite ambiguous about whether this God, who supposedly created this universe was just the God of a particular tribe, or was indeed the God of the whole of earth's populations. The God of the old testament did not reveal the details of the bible to the inhabitants of other places throughout the world, why do you think that might be.
I bow to your learning at theological college, however the bible has been interpreted and re-interpreted throughout the ages and if my understanding differs from yours, I think I am in quite good company.
I wish you well.Good to read this contribution from John Hewson, one of our more thoughtful ex politicians. As an electorate we seem to confuse a cunning politician with a good statesman and we get what we deserve.
In my long life I think I have never experienced a period where there is so much disillusionment and cynicism in the electorate as well as the political body itself, not only in this country, but also in so many other democratic countries throughout the world. It is worrying, because in previous times throughout history the alternative has so often been to turn to the "Strong Man". No matter how troubling this time is democracy is still preferable to it's alternatives.
It has been a long journey to get to this level of disillusionment. Some of the steps along the way (in my opinion) have been the politicisation of the public service, the falling away of some measure of by-partisanship over issues that were previously considered "too important for politics", and a greater degree of cynicism by politicians themselves.
I don't mean to imply that there was some mythical time in the past, when all was peace and love, politics has always been somewhat of a blood sport, however I have seen some of the previous limits breached, by both sides of politics and we are the worse for it.
What to do? I don't agree with Hewson's idea of an Independent Taxation Commission with powers to initiate taxation measures independent of parliament, but perhaps as a permanent advisory body much like the Productivity Commission may be a good idea. However more than that I think we need reform of the voting system and the introduction of citizen initiated referendums and plebiscites, to get the electorate more involved and having some more power over our politicians during the interim between elections.
We also need to do something about lobbyists influencing our politicians. Prevention of former politicians from joining lobby groups would be a start, but also a formalisation of all interactions between lobbyists and politicians, with statuary declarations of all interactions in the same manner as declarations of the financial interests of politicians are recorded.
There are plenty of other ideas in the community which also need to be considered. Space prevents further exploration now.I recent Drum contribution brought to attention that the sheer volume of superannuation funds in this country would mean that the funds may struggle to find investments in this country sufficient to ensure the returns needed. That would seem to indicate that our past position of welcoming overseas investment may no longer be an automatic response.Council voted to adopt a main street beautification proposal, which included the loss of about 3 parking spots in the main street to enable the planting of some shade trees.
Nearly everybody thought the proposal was a good one, except the retailers in the main street. A council election was due within a few months. The retailers quickly formed a "Retailers Association", although there was a long standing Business Association, which supported the plan and the retailers had never bothered to join.
At the next election a large group of new candidates announced their candidature. The new candidates swapped preferences amongst their own group in a way that ensured the preferences flowed to particular candidates in different wards. The election resulted in the defeat of a number of popular and hard working existing councillors, who had voted for the street beautification project. 
The new council voted to overturn the street beautification proposal.
Why am I relating this story? Because I think it illustrates how compulsory preferential voting can and does become a gerrymander of sorts. Compulsory preferential voting has for many years resulted in votes being funnelled down to the two major parties or coalitions, but it looks increasingly like the system is being "gamed" in the Senate elections to result in candidates with few first preferences ending up being elected.
The answer is retention of Compulsory voting, but allowing preferential voting to be voluntary and non-exhaustive.
I agree that the American system is on the nose, but our system in not perfect and can/should be improved.Alternatively, perhaps standard economics is a myth. When was the last time that you saw an economist trained in standard economics able to predict a recession or financial crisis.A good question Snake. I would think of it as the economic theories taught in major universities throughout the world.
I heard a good story recently that subsequently to the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), a new intake of students in one of the Ivy League universities in America, either Harvard or Yale, refused en mass to attend lectures, because neither the text books nor the syllabus had been revised since the GFC. I haven't tried to verify the story and it may be an urban myth, but I like it anyway.
Peter I agree with you that health care and education in this country is not poor, we do quite well in international comparisons in a results per dollar spent sense, although we are not at the top.
Your statement that "It's not a case of throwing more money at these things, because that has been tried and failed", is what I have a problem with.
Firstly "Throwing more money" is an emotive statement, which has the effect of seeming to exclude the possibility that SOME additional money well spent can have a beneficial effect. Secondly your broad statement that "bureaucrats are not very good at managing things" is so broad that it sounds like a propaganda bite. Sure there are bureaucrats that are not very good at managing things, just as there are many people in the private sector who are not very good at managing things. However there have been some examples of outstanding bureaucrats, who have done an outstanding job. Sir John Monash in his post-military career comes to mind as does Eric Ristrom and others who did outstanding jobs in the old Telecom, GPO, Gas &amp; Fuel etc, when we did have some well run publicly owned enterprises. I am very much in favour of private enterprise and believe that capitalism is a very necessary component of our society and economy, however it is a fact that we did have some examples of well run public enterprises and since privatisation a number of them have not been as well run as previously. I have seen many bureaucracies in major free enterprise corporate entities, that behave in much the same way as their counterparts in the public sector. 
In case you think that you can fit me into your "leftie" category and dismiss my comments, you would be wrong. I would classify myself as a "small l liberal", in the old liberal party I would be considered "wet", however there is not much place in the Liberal Party for "wets" these days, more's the pity.I just can't seem to sleep on aircraft flights.
The best flight I ever had was nearly 40 years ago San Francisco to Melbourne. Flight delayed about 2 hours, found out reason when Prince  Charles walked past us on to the flight, also going to Australia.
Once airborne the captain made an announcement apologising for the delay, he didn't mention Prince Charles but offered free champagne to passengers who would like one. I put my hand up of course and soon the steward arrived with a full bottle of champagne. I looked around to offer champagne to fellow passengers, but found all of the passengers near me were clutching their own bottle.
First stop was Honolulu and I remember the captain announcing that we were about to land in Honolulu. The next thing I heard was the captain again making an announcement that we were now leaving Honolulu. I had fallen into a deep sleep, had not got off the plane (nobody woke me up).
Amazingly that sleep had the effect of refreshing me and the rest of the flight went past well enough.
I have to say that bottle of champagne was the best travel companion I have ever had.Thanks again Alan for a good contribution.
I agree that investment in infrastructure should not be compulsory, however I think that there is a mismatch between the oversupply (and projected oversupply) of funds in Superannuation and chronic shortages in infrastructure. Surely a bit of lateral thinking could match oversupply of funds with more investment in needed infrastructure.
The Public/Private partnerships which are extensively used to fund State Government investment in infrastructure are goldmines for the Private participants, Macquarie Bank for instance earned much of it's reputation for being a millionaires factory with infrastructure funding. A good match of Super funds with well designed  and needed infrastructure should be able to be accomplished with good returns to the super funds and financing of the infrastructure at least as good value to the general public and probably better than our current over-costly infrastructure projects.
The value of capitalism is in innovation, however too much investment is devoted to "rentier" investing and high fee generating activities. 
One can also look at Australia's poor record with innovative new industries to replace old badly performing industries, this again cries out for a good match of investor funds and entrepreneurial innovation. 
We often read comments of over reliance on "big government", fair enough, but I think our private sector has become lazy and under-performing, therefore not fulfilling it's function. The actions need to match up with the rhetoric, otherwise we are going to fall short of our potential, much like Argentina did following the time in the 19th century, when Australia and Argentina were seen as bright stars of the future.
I have no objection to increased investment overseas by super funds, however there is still a major function to be performed in matching investment in this country with innovative projects, which perform the dual function of giving good returns to investors and providing good future industries and good infrastructure to Australia.
Alan's article did raise another issue for me. It seems to be an article of faith that we have a shortage of investment capital, perhaps we should review that concept as it looks like we will have an over-supply of investment capital, at least with the present structure of our economy. 
That can have more than one consequence, a reduction in the expected returns on investment in this country, a search for investments overseas, or an encouragement of innovators and entrepreneurs in this country.
A reduction in expected returns in Australia would be detrimental to superannuants and the economy as a whole.
Investment overseas brings with it the risk of currency fluctuations, in addition to probable increased risks in unknown economies.
Encouragement of our own innovators and entrepreneurs seems to me to be the better alternative. This would suggest that we should be making greater efforts to educate the current and future generations and greater investment in research and development and perhaps effort devoted to inspiring the younger generations to "reach for the sky". I have read that we may be raising the first generation with prospects less than their parents - hardly inspirational.
I'll put on my hopelessly idealistic hat and wish that both left and right can find ways that such a prospect can be encouraged, rather than engage in the (old) ideological warfare that seems to be our current obsession.I don't have a problem with preferential voting as such, I do have a problem with exhaustive and compulsory preferential voting, which is over complicated for the average voter and has the effect of filtering the votes through a number of iterations to one or the other of the major parties. To me that is not democratic it is anti democratic and it mitigates against reform and democratisation of the major parties and is therefore not in the interests of the general public.
I am more and more of the opinion that we need to encourage the formation of new parties and increase the competition to gain governing power, because the old parties have become corrupted in various ways. There is insufficient incentive for the major parties to reform themselves and they have become internally focussed assemblies of power brokers."Science by very nature should welcome the denialist view".
I am puzzled by your statement Other John. I understand scepticism, indeed I am a sceptic about many things, however denial seems to me to be a much more certain response and one which I would find very hard to justify. In the absence of a time traveller returned from the future, none of us can be certain what the climate will actually be in the future. The best thing that we can do is to make the best possible estimates about future climates having regard to our present knowledge.
I think this is an important issue, because people on both sides of this question seem to be speaking with absolute certainty, when (in my opinion) such certainty is impossible to legitimately claim, because we cannot absolutely know the future. 
I think the real argument should be on the lines of the familiar risk/gain analysis, such as I used to contribute to in my pre-retirement business life.  What are the possible risks, what are the possible gains, what weighting should we put on the possible risks and the possible gains in view of the likelihood and gravity of the risks and the likelihood and scope of the possible gains.
I have tried to do such an analysis based on my limited knowledge. On this basis I have taken into account the forecasts by many scientists of severe ecological damage, which will effect future inhabitants of this Earth and some also claim some economic benefits due to the well known results of innovation. On the possible gains side of taking no action, it seems to comprise of a better economic outlook for the Earth's inhabitants, which would likely improve standards of living throughout the world.
I am unable to quantify my simple risk/benefits analysis, or to apply appropriate weightings to the risks and the benefits but I feel sure that it could be readily done by people with more real knowledge than I have and that seems to me to be a more fruitful way of conducting this argument. The reality is that that none of us can have any absolute certainty about the outcome.Thank you Mathew for a very good contribution.
I have no doubt that MAD (mutually assured destruction) was the reason we did not have a third world war and nuclear weapons were not used.
I'm not sure whether this bears out Alfred Nobel's (initiator of the Nobel Peace prizes) idea that the way to make war unthinkable for humans is to make it so dreadful that no advantage could be gained by waging wars, but it sure worked between the nuclear armed nations.
While I don't think we will have a nuclear war between nuclear armed nations, unfortunately that has not stopped smaller non-nuclear wars in the period since the ending of the second world war.
I hope (perhaps without reasonable foundation) that someday human beings will realize that all warfare is madness and evolve beyond that madness to the sanity of understanding that Alfred Nobel's idea was correct, war is too dreadful to be contemplated by any sane human.While I can appreciate Chris Berg's argument that more regulation/taxation produces more efforts to overcome the effects of that regulation/taxation, I don't think that is the end of the debate. It is too simplistic to say we should have less regulation/taxation and the problem will be solved and we will not need the amount of lobbying, which now takes place and arguably distorts our democracies. The logical result of that argument is that no regulations and no taxation would result in no lobbying.
Human beings are imperfect and morality and ethics will not ensure that humans either agree on moral/ethical standards and practices or will maintain moral/ethical standards and practices even if they do agree. Laws and regulations are a second best solution, which humans have resorted to in a bid to overcome the deficiencies in ethical/moral behaviours. The fact that these laws and regulations are themselves imperfect and sometimes result in extraordinary efforts to nullify them is a further demonstration of the efforts humans will go to achieve their aims regardless of morality or ethics or perhaps because of disagreement about the what is moral or ethical.
Does that mean that we should just give up the effort to achieve agreement on ethical/moral behaviours or to give up the effort to impose laws and regulations even if not everybody agrees? I don't believe that a society can work in that way.
Laws and regulations are constantly changing and evolving, sometimes prompted by the so-called left (or progressives) and sometimes by the so-called right (or conservatives), sometimes in an attempt to achieve more equity and sometimes to achieve more law and order.
We live in an imperfect world inhabited by imperfect humans and that is the reality, which we are imperfectly trying to find ways of living in.
 
Of course I do not expect Government to solve all problems, that is ridiculous. Just as ridiculous is the idea that government has no place in enacting laws or regulations. I'm willing to bet that you agree with some of those laws or regulations and if others disagree with you, government will still be subject to some lobbying by some people or organisations.
This isn't a perfect world with perfect solutions.I know that lobbying and lobbyists have a bad name, because the association is of lobbying with shady organisations seeking shoddy deals, but people or associations lobby for good ethical reasons as well. I would lobby for anti-gun legislation for instance. 
I think it is better to make all lobbying transparent rather than trying to ban the practice.
The bigger problem is political donations, which I believe to be mostly connected with efforts to sway politicians to a favourable outlook for the donor."In the 1920s in the US and in 2012, the amount of the wealth owned by the wealthiest 1% didn't change".
According to Thomas Picketty in his book "Capital in the 21st Century", which relies  on extensive research conducted by him that statement is incorrect.
Thomas Picketty's research shows that after 1913 and up to 1945 an enormous amount of wealth was destroyed and as a result wealth inequality was reduced by a very large amount, due to the effects of the 1st world war and the depression combined, of which a large amount took place in the war.
The scale of wealth inequality did not begin to escalate until the late 1970's and has now reached about the same scale of inequality as that before the 1st world war.
From 1945 to the late 1970's the scale of inequality was at an historically low level.
You can argue whether levels of wealth inequality is a good or a bad thing, but your statement is misleading and does not serve your argument."In the 1920s in the US and in 2012, the amount of the wealth owned by the wealthiest 1% didn't change".
Peter I suggest you read Thomas Picketty's book "Capital in the 21st Century", based on very extensive research. I believe your statement is incorrect, although I haven't yet verified the particular data in the USA during the period you mentioned. However if you broaden the issue beyond the period you stated and take in the sub-divisions from 1913 to 1975 and 1975 to 2012, you will find a very different situation, even more telling, if you include the major countries of Western Europe (Britain, France and Germany) there have been tremendous shifts in the inequalities of wealth over the periods 1913 to 1975 and from 1975 to 2012.
I make no comment on whether wealth inequality is a good or a bad thing, but your reliance on the above statement does put your conclusions on very shaky grounds.My daughter aged 50 has recently had lap-band surgery, for reasons of concern over her future health. I support her decision and her reasoning, she wants to live a full and active life without obesity related health problems arising in the future.
I am overweight and have dieted and exercised in the past and significantly lost weight only to put the weight back on again, so I have some idea of how difficult it is to maintain weight loss. I understand that over 90% of people who diet and exercise to lose weight subsequently put back on the weight that they have lost. To those who say that it is only a matter of will power, I can honestly say "you have no idea".
In my now long life I have seen the growth of obesity affect populations all over the world in all places, which adopt the so-called western lifestyle. It is not just my memory of childhood, when there were far less overweight people on the street than is seen nowadays, but I only have to see newsreels of crowd scenes taken 50 or more years ago to see that there were far fewer people showing signs of being overweight.
It is true that people led lives which were much less sedentary in those days, but also there has been a revolution in our eating habits, that now includes a huge amount of factory produced foodstuffs, take a walk through your supermarket and take notice. I do exercise on a regular basis, using exercises which are suitable for my age and my muscular and skeletal health is pretty good, nevertheless I am significantly overweight. I do believe that the major reason for the epidemic in weight gain/obesity is due overwhelmingly to the dietary changes, which have taken place since I was a child.
While I agree that health reasons are sufficient to warrant our attention to the results of being overweight or obese, I deplore the very real stigma, which is so often applied to those people (particularly women), who do not have the idealised shape so prominent in glamorized pictures displayed in the media. We do a great disservice to very many very worthwhile people in our community who will never have that idealised shape. To me it represents how facile and immature much of the population has become.Since the so-called profession of economists is about as effective as the alchemists were before they learned the scientific method and morphed into scientists, I think you will be struggling to find an "outstanding" economist Oaktree. 
I have been around through a lot of recessions, downturns, financial crises and invariably they are not forecast by economists, except very rarely by a very small minority who don't follow the herd mentality and are usually pooh poohed by their fellow economists.
If economists are unable to forecast the results of their policies, why do we listen to them or put them on pedestals. I still see the economists who were unable to forecast the GFC being interviewed on TV by interviewers in the most deferential manner, the same interviewers regularly chew up politicians, but are unable to ask a decent penetrating question of the interviewee economist.

I have a somewhat different take on Jacqui Lambie. I doubt if I would have voted for her if she had been listed on my ballot paper and there is a lot of her positions that I would disagree with, but I am glad she is there in the Senate.
I arrived in Australia in 1950 as a ten pound pom. At that time there were a lot of Aussies like Jacqui, we used to call them "true blue" Aussies and they were said to be the salt of the earth, call a spade a bloody shovel and suffer no bullsh-t. Over the last 64 years I've watched as Australia has become more gentrified and middle class.
In those early days much of Australian Humour was centred on lampooning the people who were perceived as pretentious, middle class poms, or who were perceived as being snobs and some middle and upper class Aussies also perceived as being snobs and "up themselves". There are good things about the "middleclassification of Australia, which has taken place over those 64 years, but the downside (in my opinion) is that we have become a lot like those middle class snobs that we so despised, quite pretentious ourselves and spending much of our energy on keeping up with the Jones.
These days much of our humour is directed at ridiculing those who we now classify as "bogans", who are in my opinion the successors of the "true blue" Aussies. Check the number of TV comedy shows with "bogan" in the title - we are laughing at "them", but it is a different "them" than we used to laugh at. 
Change happens of course and it doesn't help to lament it, but I mourn the loss of the "true blue" Aussie and the birth of the newly named "bogan" that we can pour our scorn at.That is one possible explanation Jerry, I have always believed that the human capacity for stuff-up is much greater than the human capacity for conspiracy by a factor of 100 to 1.
One thing I have learned in my (now) long life is not to trust what economists say, even if they work for the Reserve Bank or any other illustrious organisation. In my life time I've seen lots of major economic downturns and the phenomenon of more than one or two economists being able to forecast a downturn is rarer than hens teeth, so why would I believe that they can accurately forecast the future now?
I think of the present profession of economists as being the equivalent to the alchemists who preceded their successors the scientists, who have much more reputable processes.At last an economist that I can have some respect for, not the usual breed that assume magical thinking will automatically solve any future problems. Sorry BUlldust, I needed to get that of my chest.
Seriously, it is about time we started another of those MATURE debates about the future of work and the future of our class/wealth divisions. The old "other jobs will arise to replace the old ones now destroyed" seems to me to be another bit of magical thinking. 
As a retired professional (accountant), I have in the past been too complacent when the so-called blue collar jobs were disappearing, being replaced by machines and/or overseas workers working for less. It will soon be the turn of the professional workers, accountants, lawyers, teachers, professors, engineers, even some medical professionals to be replaced by machines or lesser paid overseas professional workers.
We are sleep-walking into this new world without a clue about the enormous changes to come to our society and how those changes will change us and our society. I am an old man and unlikely to be too much affected, but my children and grandchildren and your children and grandchildren will certainly be affected and will need to invent new societies, new politics, new economics, probably new ethical thinking to deal with the changes.
The time to start thinking about the future is now.
You are right Maryanne, we will have to rethink how we receive the basic means of living - food, shelter etc. but also the vast majority of people do want to be contributing members of society and if we are going to replace working for wages and salaries in jobs that no longer exist, what form is that likely to take.
I don't mean this as just another dystopian exercise, it could also be another opportunity to re-think the meaningful life and perhaps to another leap in evolution. I am quite happy to admit that I have only vague ideas of a future society vastly different from the one that I grew up in, but my concern is that I see little evidence that people are even thinking about it and it is approaching rapidly. The lazy answer that the economists usually come up with is that new industries will arise or be invented. I call it magical thinking. I see comments likening the changes to come as the industrial revolution mark2. The industrial revolution mark1 destroyed many jobs, but also created many new ones, perhaps ir mark2 will do the same, but I wouldn't bet on it, this time there could be vastly more job destruction than job creation. Also there are questions of job satisfaction and of relative equality/inequality, perhaps life satisfaction rather than job satisfaction.
I'll have to hitch a ride with Dr Who in the Tardis and see how it all pans out - or perhaps not, I may not like the answer.
I like your optimism corsair72, at least I hope it is optimism and not just a blind belief in history repeating itself. Since we know about the pain and misery which accompanied the shift from agrarian to industrial society (as well as the benefits that occurred), do you think we will be able to look after the "losers" next time round, or will they just be leaners, whom we should not care about?I still like your optimism corsair72, it's your certainty that history will repeat itself that scares me. We can always learn from history, but as for it repeating itself in the same way, that is not how I read history, there is usually a specific twist to it that differs from the past.
As for the idea that the sacrifice of a couple of generations in the long march of history is ok, I again have some qualms. It's not only the sins of the fathers that carry on for 7 generations, it is also the misfortunes of the father that carry on for 7 generations (at least).
I certainly agree with you about smaller family sizes and population decrease in the longer run, however that will also have an economic effect in reducing the overall growth rate. You are correct about the reduction of family sizes in the long run, but we have still managed to increase the overall size of the human population of planet earth, so in that respect I hope that history does not repeat itself.
It is my belief that mankind needs to re-invent itself periodically, not just blindly follow history. Sometimes new problems require new solutions.I read Noel Pearson's tribute and was moved to tears sitting at my laptop. Thank you Noel, it shows your own generosity of spirit.
I note that so many comments about Whitlam and indeed the tumultuous times in which he presided are very divided, probably quite understandingly. My own feelings are mixed.
I lived through all of the Menzies years although I did not vote for the first few years of his prime ministership, because I was below the eligible age, and I admired him and his legacy. I think he was the right man at the right time. On the other hand the Liberal ascendency probably lasted too long, two party democracy gains it's legitimacy from the ability to change between the parties and 23 years was enough to stultify the Liberals and to ensure that Labour was unused to government, when it came into power and made many bad mistakes. For those people who pretend to like our two party democracy, but find it impossible to accept the legitimacy of the new government when change takes place, I say be careful of what you wish for, Australia would be governed worse  with a one party state.
Gough Whitlam's governing years were turbulent and upsetting for many people and that government's management of the country both economically and otherwise was often less than satisfactory. However the other side of the coin is that change was necessary and much of the change that took place in those tumultuous years has lasted and has benefitted our nation. I am a retired accountant and I take a keen interest in economics, so I don't wish to diminish it's importance, however I think that we do sometimes over-dramatize economic issues. History shows that deficits do get fixed in time, usually with great help from inflation and economies do recover from bad times. It seems that if we incur deficits for the purpose of conducting wars that is acceptable, but if we incur deficits for reasons such as Keynesian style management of the economy it is somehow a terribly worrying thing, even if the scale of the deficit is considerably less than that incurred during wartime. Menzies himself did not shrink from incurring deficits and we are a better nation for the fact that he did.
I can forgive both Menzies and Whitlam for the mistakes they both made, because they were (in my opinion) the giants of my lifetime of watching politics from the sidelines.
If we have the good fortune to again have such giants arise in our political sphere, expect them to make mistakes, but welcome the chance to have them lead our wonderful and resilient country.RobP I respect your opinion. For myself I welcomed the chance to see so many different aspects of comparisons between nations and was quite fascinated. It put many things in a different perspective than many of the statistics that we often see.
The only graph that I had difficulty in understanding was that of "perception of corruption", where Australia appears as head of the list. I don't know whether to be appalled that we have such a high perception of corruption or pleased that we have such a high perception of corruption. How does perception match up with reality?
Thanks for that Billo. I clicked on the link and it explained it as you said.
I also noted that we have gone down 4 points  (from 85 to 81) since 2012. Does that mean that we are perceived as being a little more corrupt than two years ago, or is it just one of those statistical blips that do occur?I asked Dr Who to tell me the truth about climate change and whether the present day climate scientists or the present day climate sceptics were right, in light of his knowledge gained from his time travel activities.
Disappointingly he refused to confirm or deny, but he did say to me that mankind was in the same situation as all previous generations in not knowing the future for certain. He suggested instead that we should do what business people always do in the face of uncertainty and conduct a risk/benefit analysis.
I thought this was a good idea and conducted my own risk/benefit analysis as follows:
Scenario 1: scientists wrong and deniers right. Risks entirely economic in that we would avoid increased costs and perhaps lose a small percentage of GDP growth. Benefits see above would achieve a small percentage of GDP growth, which would be beneficial to many people.
Scenario 2: scientist right and deniers wrong. Risks overwhelmingly to quality of life for future generations and perhaps also some economic loss of future economic growth be . Benefits see above would have significant effects on quality of life of future generations by avoiding major climate change generated problems and economic advantages or disadvantages could go either way.
Result of risk/benefit analysis: why would you not anticipate possible future disadvantageous change, that could have possible serious effects. If deniers are right and scientists are wrong future effects likely to be minor, if scientists are right and deniers are wrong future effects likely to severely disadvantageous to future generations.An alternative to military contribution (which won't solve anything anyway).
In the UN call for a resolution by all Security Council members for a conference to be held in Geneva inviting all the protagonists in the Middle East area to attend.
The conference to take place over one year (able to be extended by increments of one year) will have the task of re-drawing the boundaries in the Middle East, first arbitrarily drawn after the conclusion of the 1st world war by negotiated agreement.
The attendees can be the present countries of the region, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Irak, Iran, Saudi Arabia, but also non-countries including representatives of ISIL, Shia, Sunni, Kurds etc.
A cease fire to be called by the Security council, backed up by Guarantees by the 5 permanent members to enforce the cease fire.
As new boundaries are negotiated, populations in the region will have an opportunity to move to another area in the region, which reflects their ethnicity, religious beliefs etc. This would be much like the population movements which took place after the partition of India between India and the new country of Pakistan, but more orderly, being under the auspices of the UN Security council.
No permanent member of the Security Council, may take part in the conference, an independent President of the conference to be appointed by the United Nations being a national of any country except the 5 permanent members of the security council.
This conference would be expected to take as long as it takes (decades perhaps) to re-draw the middle east boundaries and no participant will be permitted to withdraw from the conference and commence hostilities. Peaceful co-existence in the area would be guaranteed by the 5 permanent members during the term of the conference.
I can anticipate the cries of this being totally unrealistic, to which I would reply "no more unrealistic than a military solution".
Nothing we have tried in the 70 years since the end of the 2nd world war has been successful, at least partially because all previous attempts have been attempts by outsider powerful nations to impose their solutions in the area. At least an attempt should be made to get the inhabitants of the area to negotiate face to face to achieve a workable solution to the problems of the area.
It may be pointed out that Israel has not been included. This is because I believe that this would stretch the plausibility of obtaining a resolution too far. However at the conclusion of the conference Israel would be invited to participate in an extension.Although he says nothing new, Tim Dunlop has nailed it!
We the people have lost control of the parties that run our system. A major part of it is the preferential system in the lower house, which acts as a funnel to channel the votes into one of the two major parties, no matter who we initially vote for. I think we need to retain compulsory voting, we don't want to go to the American or UK system, where committed minorities determine the outcome.
Get rid of "above the line" voting, it just reinforces the major parties and facilitates the "funnel", either bring in optional preferential voting or put one "above the line" box labelled "tick this box, if you do not wish to exercise preferential votes".
I ask all the warriors on this site and elsewhere to think about whether you are a part of the problem and not part of the solution. Being committed to one side of politics worked at one time, when the parties paid attention to their supporters, but I believe it does not do so any more. Throughout history there have always been people who are by nature more "conservative" or more "progressive". Whether you believe in a creator or in evolution, this indicates that the two sets of attitudes are beneficial to humankind and actually compliment each other. The "swing of the pendulum" also bears this out. In other words there is actually some wisdom in conservatism and also in progressivism and a regular flow between these two streams of thought or attitude can benefit the populace as a whole, while a society which is influenced by one side alone, eventually becomes sterile, as borne out by history.
I am not arguing against robust discussion, which is always needed, but against the "footballer supporter" follower, who emotionally backs one team and is unable to see the bigger game. You are a part of the problem!
If Jesus did not exist, then there was certainly a very enlightened person or group of people who had the idea that loving one another was a better option than hating one another.
The thing that puzzles me is that one of the strongest messages that comes out of the new testament is that love and flexibility are better ways to live than adherence to a group of religious laws that were laid down a considerable time before and yet the church founded by his followers many years later became an institution devoted to rule/law making.
I can argue that the Christian church is in fact not very Christian, in that it focusses on the supernatural and doctrinal aspects of the life of Jesus (whether he lived or not), rather than the messages of Jesus, which are mostly ignored.Thank you Sophie for your heart felt story. 
War is madness caused by people who are mad. Mad because humans ought to know by now that war does not solve any problems, merely creates new problems or prolongs existing ones. However the military mind continues to see a military solution to every problem, regardless of history.
MAD (mutually assured destruction) has certainly prevented a nuclear third world war from being undertaken by any of the protagonists, so you would think that the lesson may finally be learned by mankind, but no, we can still have smaller non nuclear wars. The problem is that the smaller non nuclear wars are still just as mad, however they affect people a long way away and we are not mutually assured of destruction. I wonder how many more millennia we need to go through before that message gets through.I am not a supporter of any organised religion, I believe they are all man made and serve the purposes of a priestly caste. Having said that I do believe that there are many activities available to human beings, which have great healing and soothing powers.
I do not pray as such, but I do meditate. I also get a great sense of peace and a sort of awe of something much bigger than me, when I go for a walk in the forest or look out from a high mountain over a majestic view, or listen to a great piece of music, or sometimes even a mawkish pop song or inded many other things.
If God is a "sky fairy" as I sometimes hear others describe Him, then I'm not a believer. I am also quite happy to accept that sometime over the next two decades I have a 90% chance of dying and the most likely thing that will happen is that everything will go on as normal for the people I leave behind and it will be just like the time before I was born for me.
Other than that I really do not have any idea of any "greater purpose in life", beyond the sense of beauty and mysticism aroused by my "walk in the forest". However I am grateful for having had the experience of my "walk in the forest" and the sense that I have derived from it of something far greater than me and my petty concerns. If other get that from prayer, then that's fine with me.Since when did we have to like everything (or everybody) that we love?
I can honestly say that I love Australia, but I don't  like or love every Australian or everything that every Australian does. Does anybody?Bad things happen in wars and no one nation is exempt from being perpetrators. I agree that for the sake of the whole world and Japan itself, it would be cleansing to have this history fully acknowledged and the full history of the war taught in Japanese schools.
Having said that, I have heard anecdotally of bad things being done in war by allied forces also, including Australian, which also are not acknowledged officially or in history taught to children.
It makes sense that bad things will occur in wars, they also happen in peacetime, when situations are not so ugly and there is reason to believe that some of these peacetime perpetrators will end up in the armed forces, when restraints are lessened. This is not to condone such behaviour, just stop pretending that it's only the enemy that do bad things.
Just to make things clear I have a beloved uncle who was a prisoner of war of the Japanese for four years and was badly treated. He is 102 years old and still alive living in an aged persons facility.As Winston Churchill famously said "Democracy is the worst form of government except for all the others that have been tried so far".
That pretty well sums up the problem in democratic countries around the western world at this time. We are sullenly disillusioned with what we have now, but the alternatives are worse. We are sullenly switched off from politics, because we don't trust the body politic, with pretty good reason. Yet the paradox is that the very act of switching off leaves the field only to those more committed people who we don't like, but are the only ones left interested.
Off course I have over-stated it, but I think there is a core of truth there.
How do we re-engage? How do we the people get the people we really want in politics, only by re-engaging. But that is a long, hard and thankless process as many who have tried it (in both sides of politics) and become disillusioned in the process.
Perhaps it will take a major economic/societal earthquake to get us to re-engage, I hope not, but fear so.
Many people can think of many ways in which improvements can be made to our political system, but I cannot think of any ways they will be implemented in our present apathetic mood and our present ice-blocked political landscape.
I'm not usually so pessimistic, I hope it's just that I got out of the wrong side of the bed this morning, but I fear not.
Point 1 - I agree.
Point 2 - Surely the same comment applies to Companies - the voting intentions of their shareholders is as diverse as the general electorate. If you are advocating that political donations be banned for both Unions and Companies, I think you have a point.
I've heard that learning another language is a great stimulus to the mind/brain. That and similar mental exercise seems to be beneficial in avoiding conditions such as Alzheimer's and maybe other mind/body dis-eases..The mind/body conundrum again!
The mind affects the body and the body affects the mind. How else do we explain issues such as "the placebo effect" or "psychosomatic issues" which have physical effects?
We need to get beyond these narrow concepts of what is a "disease". We can be confident that they all cause dis-ease.
Obviously physical issues can affect both mind and body and mental issues can affect both mind and body. If we label some dis-eases as diseases and others as mental illness that is just semantics and I believe it does not help.
In my long life I have seen medical, psychological, dietary fashions and fads come and go and I now take them all with a grain of salt. We are continually experiencing the de-bunking of previously accepted ideas only to see the replacement ideas themselves debunked the following decade or perhaps re-instated after being previously debunked. And we also see some new understandings arise which contradict previously held understandings. That's life we live now not in the future.
What I do believe is that a great many people are in a state of dis-ease, whether more or less than in previous times I do not know and I'm not sure anybody can know.
Did Roman soldiers suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorders, after returning from war? I suspect so, but cannot know. Will future discoveries in medicine and psychology make present beliefs redundant and perhaps laughable? Probably!
We have no alternative, but to act on the basis of our present state of knowledge, knowing that some of that knowledge may turn out to be incorrect or even just beliefs and not knowledge at all.
We no longer put people away in "loonie bins" and I think that is good. If we call a mind induced disorder a disease I'm not greatly fussed about it, let us just treat it as a serious dis-ease.Thanks Alan Kohler - a good start. However we need more detailed analysis .
We need to know more about the specific parts of UK USA and Japanese economies that are contributing to their better performance. In  USA and UK population is increasing due to immigration, has GDP increased by a factor more than population increase or has per capita GDP also increased? In Japan the population is decreasing. 
In all three countries specifically what parts of the economy have performed well enough to offset decreasing manufacturing, this could be important for our post manufacturing and post mining-boom economy.
Germany's economy has performed well at least partly because it has benefitted from the growth in manufacturing in China, South Korea and other East Asian countries, by supplying manufacturing equipment, are any other areas of the economy performing well. This is important for Australia to know, because we also have benefitted from the China/East Asia growth, which now seems to be waning.
I am not trying to be critical of Alan's post, which does open the door to more detailed analysis. At least in the public area there is precious little analysis (that goes beyond the surface) of what is happening in overseas economies, which perform better in some countries than in others.
There are many more questions that can be asked, but I'm not sure whether our economists are going below the surface to find out the drivers of economic performance throughout the world, or that our governments (of both persuasions) are being given this sort of information.
I think there is too much "magical thinking" by economists and both sides of politics consisting of grand theories of how economies grow. We know that the economics profession has limited input to human psychology and too much broad brush insight into economic drivers.
We need to know where to focus our attention in a post manufacturing/post mining boom world, the service sector is not sufficient for modern economies.A lot of confusion arises because commentators talk about growth as if it is a single thing. There is a distinction between growth arising from population growth and growth arising from productivity growth.
It would be much more useful if we could look at per capita growth (positive and negative) in GDP in various countries and per capita growth (positive and negative) in various sectors of economies here and elsewhere.
In Thomas Pikkety's book "Capital in the 2ist Century" he shows, by extensive research over three centuries, that productivity growth has averaged 0.8% in the period from 1700 to 2012, broken up into periods: 1700-1820 0.1%, 1820-1913 0.9% and 1913-2012 1.6%. Obviously there are differences between Europe, America, Africa and Asia, however the differences are not as significant on an annual basis as many people would have expected. The major differences in comparative wealth are due to the compounding effects of even quite small differentials.
When we see figures of "growth" bandied about such as 4%, 5%, 6% etc. these figures include a large component of population growth and can be quite misleading.
Different nations have seen growth spurts in their economic growth, but trend to an average over time. We can expect China's per capita growth to become closer to world average over a period of time, however China is now beginning a decline in population growth and that will also have an effect.
Does anybody in Australia (from either side of politics or from the economics profession) have any ideas about how we are going to replace reliance on China and our lost manufacturing industry beyond bland platitudes, if so I have seen no real discussion about this.  
Just a quick query Ben. Is an Australian citizen, born in Australia able to be prevented from returning to his/her country of birth, or are you speaking of foreign born passport holders. I always thought that unless citizenship is renounced one's country of birth was virtually a guarantee of ability to return.
"capital is a scarce resource"
I'm not sure that is true at this present time Sea Monster, it is one of those things that economists always say and are never questioned about. We have rivers of funds flowing into Superannuation Funds. Also much of our capital is going into real estate or that great casino the Stock Exchange. Rather than compare our R&amp;D expenditure with other countries, we should be looking at increasing R&amp;D expenditures to levels that are consistent with creating innovation and new industries to replace the mining industry golden goose, whose golden eggs are becoming smaller, and our lost manufacturing industry.
"There is no doubt in my mind that Australia is at a greater risk of a terrorist attack today than at any time this century. It is not the government which has raised the threat level to "high" for the first time since the system was introduced in 2003; it was raised by ASIO"
A security agency is by nature always going to find security issues. ASIO in the 1950's and1960s were continually finding "reds under the beds" threatening all sorts of dire consequences. Thankfully the paranoid and apparently alcoholic Dr Spry is no longer the head of ASIO, but we do take the methodology and workings of the organisation on trust, while being encouraged to lack trust in many of our fellow Australians. Perhaps it's all worth while, it's impossible to know. 
What is hard to know is the extent of any threat to our citizens and how we weigh up the dangers in comparison to other threats and dangers already a part of our lives. Are potential casualties more than say the annual road casualty rate, does anybody know? If we were to introduce draconian laws to counteract drunken drivers, some would claim we were becoming a "nanny state". I read that domestic violence is a killer of many innocent people including children, is this another area where we should restrict our freedoms for the sake of increased security. 
Perhaps Benjamin Franklin was right about security and freedom.
A clear message from North Korea to all the other nutters in the world. If you want to do bad things and remain safe from the world's policemen, get yourself some nuclear weapons. The world's policemen are well aware of MAD (mutually assured destruction) and will find some other baddies without nuclear weapons to attack.
Pakistan has nuclear weapons, helped by North Korea to develop them. Is it only a matter of time before another dysfunctional middle eastern state/caliphate gets them?A good article Chris Berg raising many interesting ideas necessarily incompletely explored. 
How will the war be financed? The same as all the wars of the 20th and 21st centuries, by inflation. The UK had a national debt at the end of WW2 of something like 100 times GDP. It was just about all paid within about 30 years, but repaid with money that was worth a fraction of the value of 1945 pounds, but you know that Chris.
It's not the cost of this enterprise that astounds me, but the sheer lunacy of trying to do again what has manifestly failed on so many previous attempts. But then again that is a good illustration of the "military mind" approach: all problems have a military solution and if the military solution hasn't worked yet it is only because we haven't applied it hard enough or long enough.
I read on this site and elsewhere a constant theme that "it's all a conspiracy". I'm sorry but I think stupidity trumps conspiracy nearly every time. The emperor can't be stupid, therefore he must be wearing clothes, even if we can't see them.
 
Another question Cyn: can we afford to NOT pay the house insurance, when funds are tight. Being in lockstep with every US adventure is an insurance policy for a future contingency, when we could be in trouble ourselves. That is the reason that we have a bi-partisan policy to jump to attention and shout "YES SIR!" whenever the US calls for volunteers or we think the US may call for volunteers.
Is there an alternative to paying the premium? Lots of other countries don't (NZ for example). There is a risk that after paying the premium for all these years, the Insurer won't pay up, when we need it, but it's a very risky world out there and perhaps it is more prudent to keep paying the insurance policy.In the world of international relations there is no fine print only national interests, and therefore there are no guarantees. The question is: are we better off with powerful allies or better off facing the big bad world on our own. The future cannot be foretold, so it is all a matter of the best estimates.
I do not think that the USA is the repository of all evil and we share many values, however the USA is going to look to it's own national interests if we ever need to look for their help. That's how the world is, no absolute guarantees, but allies can be very useful, when you need them. The real question will arise if the USA and China drift into serious conflict in the decades ahead, that will be a real test for relationships all round.
Australia is called the "lucky country" and maybe our luck will hold out and we won't be faced with decisions as difficult as that one, but all around the world for thousands of years small countries (in terms of population and power) have always had to live close to more powerful neighbours. These days proximity is measured differently and we live in relative proximity to both the USA and China.
I'm not clairvoyant and I cannot know the answers, what I would like is some intelligent discussion about real possibilities and real choices, knowing that there will be no guarantees.I call it paying the insurance premium Veganpuncher and as you say it has been our major security policy virtually since the foundation of the colony, with bipartisan support.
It is quite likely the best strategy that we have, however I'd like to see some good intellectual discussion about the policy and possible alternatives to it. 
History shows us that there are no failsafe security strategies for any nation over the very long haul, however many nations/societies have been "playing the game" for millennia and there is no harm in a mature consideration of all possible options. We do have a great deal invested in "our great and powerful friends" and perhaps it is the best strategy that we can have, however supporting our "great and powerful friends" does get us involved with wars, which seem to have little to do with our national interests except paying the policy.
The big test may arise sometime during the present century (probably after I am safely dead), if our "great and powerful trading partner" becomes a rival and in conflict with our "great and powerful friends".Molly B: If the reporting of abuse in the church is a recycling of "old cases", does that mean that there are no new cases being reported and if that is so does it also mean that there are no new cases happening or that cover ups are still being perpetrated.
I am not "hostile" to the Catholic Church or indeed any of the other organisations whose members have perpetrated sexual abuse, except to the extent that these abuses were covered up by other members of these organisations. Have cases of abuse suddenly stopped in all these organisations or are they still happening and still being covered up? Hopefully the former and not the latter, but how do we know?
The abuses which happened in all these organisations damaged many lives and I believe that they are now rightfully condemned, if belatedly. I would like to believe that such abuses no longer take place, but human nature being what it is, that may be unrealistic. It will be interesting to see whether any possible future cases of abuse are vigorously reported to the police by these organisations (including the Catholic Church), or whether the reputation of the organisation is once again placed ahead of the needs of the victims of abuse.
I'm sorry, but I am less concerned about condemnation of any of these organisations than I am about the effect of abuse on the victims, aren't you?"over the last 20 years the Catholic Church has instituted worlds-best-practice protocols for preventing such abuse, protecting and helping victims, and reporting, removing and punishing alleged ofenders, in full and total compliance with all the relevant laws and indeed going way beyond their requirements"
Ronk the above statement seems to me to be in contradiction of the evidence given to the Royal Commission, some of it televised. We have not yet seen any report from the Commission and will not for some time. In the meantime can you provide evidence for your statement?
I have no personal beef with the Catholic church, I received a good and "incident free" education from the Christian Brothers and am thankful for that. However I think it is a bold statement to make that the church was exemplary in "removing and punishing offenders", when the evidence seems to suggest that many of the offenders were "moved around" rather than removed.
The Catholic Church like other organisations is not monolithic, it contains many members who deserve the utmost respect for their exemplary behaviour, but also like other organisations it does contain (and has contained) members who have committed evil acts). Many of those evil acts are/were not only sinful in the eyes of the church, but also unlawful.
I'm sure that some "church bashers" have relished being given a reason to continue their bashing, however I think it is a mistake to try to defend the indefensible.I learned a long time ago that if there is a choice between conspiracy and stuff up, choose stuff up it's 1000 to 1 more likely. So far I think that it has proven to be pretty accurate. Even when there are conspirators, they are more than likely to stuff up.
One of the great archetypal stories of all time is "The Emperor has no clothes", which combines some conspiracy (the so-called tailors making the non-existent clothes) with a lot of stuff up (the herd followers who could "see" the non-existent clothes). A far more realistic depiction of human behaviour I believe.
I also make it a habit not to trust "the experts", the vast majority are herd followers and the "leader of the pack" is more than likely too full of his own puffed up importance to ever query his own inspired thoughts.
The above comments are directed towards all humans, whether followers of conservatism or socialism or liberalism or any other "ism", they are equally able to able to be herd followers and you will see many examples of the behaviour on this forum.
I am a sceptic by nature, but even scepticism can be a herd activity.
Have a fun filed day!"I think we need a significant period of refocusing on long term thinking."
I think you are absolutely on the money John in Brisbane. Short term political thinking, short term economic thinking and short term business thinking. All of the above are letting us down as a nation and I think we will pay dearly for it. I think the emphasis on political short termism is widely acknowledged, however I'm not so sure that business short termism is so well acknowledged. 
When Adam Smith wrote "the Wealth of Nations", the joint stock company was a fairly new innovation, Smith's ideas about "animal spirits" and the almost magical way in which the actions of the self centred business people ended up benefitting the whole of society were based on his understanding of entrepreneurial activities. He was not enamoured by the idea of the joint stock company, believing that entrepreneurs succeeded better because the risks of business were ever present in their minds. The ideas of stock exchanges, where the investors are quite remote from the business operations and of businesses being managed by extraordinarily well paid managers instead of the business owner/entrepreneur were foreign to him.
I believe that the growth of remote ownership and of managerialism has run counter to Smith's ideas and is a major reason why modern capitalism in Australia is not producing new growth industries to replace old failing industries. There is vitality in the small business sector, which is seldom seen in the major businesses both local and overseas owned. Too many large business entities conduct business in areas which lack much effective competition, duopolies etc, and also rentier style businesses. 
We need better government, but we also need better private enterprise. Many large companies are bureaucracies little different from government bureaucracies, with the emphasis on gaining the highest returns for the lowest risk. Of course that is a very attractive way of operating for business, but it does little in the way of creating innovation and new opportunities.
I see little or no intellectual questioning (or indeed economic questioning) of the way modern large businesses operate particularly global industries, instead we seem to be stuck on either government = bad and private enterprise = good or else big business is evil. Neither of these arguments will help us to achieve the good society that most of us want. 
As far as I am concerned Jan K Gleiman has just outlined a number of reasons why we should NOT be there. It's called MISSION CREEP and it happens every time. Why? Because the military mind sees a military solution to every problem and always argues that the reason that success hasn't been achieved is because we did not do it hard enough or long enough.
That was Hitler's raison d'etre and the American Generals after the failure in Vietnam. The military mind does not see that the military solution creates at least as many problems as it attempts to solve, it is simply unable to grasp the concept.
Unfortunately the military has an enormous sway over our politicians and that is why we keep repeating this madness.Thomas Pikkerty's book "Capital in the 21st century includes the following statement " When the rate of return on capital significantly exceeds the growth rate of the economy (as it did through much of history and is likely to be the case in the 21st century), then it logically follows that inherited wealth grows faster than output and income.
Try some calculations yourself, it bears up, with the caveat that we cannot forecast the growth rate of the economy yet. However since the 1970s the return on capital has exceeded the growth rate of the economy if you exclude inflation.
This means that the American Dream or the Australian Dream is unable to be fulfilled. What are the consequences of this? Do you foresee the major portion of the population quietly accepting a lesser role in society than those born with inherited wealth?
To make my position clear, I believe that this has nothing to do with conservatism or progressivism, in fact I think that a good balance in society between conservative and progressive forces in society will generally lead to a well functioning society. In other words (and in spite of the warriors on both sides in this forum), people of both persuasions contribute to our society with their viewpoints.
Having said that more mobility (in terms of wealth distribution rather that geographical) is much closer to the Aussie's idea of the good society than an immobile class or caste system.
My own view is that a well functioning capitalist society, supported by good governance is the best way we have found to achieve the good society, but an imbalanced society (in terms of wealth distribution) is a hindrance to achieving the good society as most of us envisage it to be.I guess the argument could be around the point at which redistributive policies become "punitive", sure we have lots of different opinions about this, but we already have redistributive policies including "middle class welfare".
That is a government's job to set the standard and you only have to read this forum to see that there are a wide variety of opinions.
Following the 2nd world war, government policies favoured some amount of redistribution and that was accompanied by a pretty large degree of GDP growth, with lots of ups and downs, but generally an increase in national wealth and I think it is beyond argument that it was accompanied by a quite large degree of "social mobility" as it is being termed here.That is the reason why most of us believe in equality of opportunity rather than absolute equality, or equality of outcome as you put it, which is probably unachievable and probably not desirable.
The Australian idea of the "fair go" is not precise, but I think most of us know what it means, even if we may argue about some of the components.I'm not so sanguine Alan Stephens. 
I believe this mess in the Middle East is still the unfinished business of the demise of the Byzantine Empire after the 1st World War. The West is unable to sort out the rights and wrongs of the inhabitants of that area of the globe and when we intervene, we have no track record of making things better.
It is deceptively easy to succumb to the urge to "rescue" the inhabitants of an area far away, who are enduring hellish conditions, but the track record suggests that the rescue is never the end of the story and usually leads to another crisis in a very few years.
One of the most important lessons that humans have learned was that in the latter half of the 20th century, when the doctrine of MAD (mutually assured destruction) became necessary in relationships between major powers in control of nuclear weapons. There were plenty of bad things happening in the USSR and China, but we were restrained by MAD from riding to the rescue. Surprise surprise in due course a lot of things (but not all) were sorted out without our intervention, over a long period of time. The Soviet Union collapsed due to internal problems and the Chinese learned to co-exist with capitalism. Not a perfect solution and we did not rescue all of the people who deserved to be rescued, but it was better than war as a way of "solving problems".
Unfortunately we haven't applied the lessons to "small wars", which don't involve weapons of mass destruction, which still happen and are a siren call for our intervention.
I hate to say it, but I think the lesson is quite clear, going to the rescue (in a military way) does not work.
I don't know how many millennia it will take for humankind to work out that small wars don't work either, but I am confident that there will not be a nuclear war, because of MAD.In earlier days the Commonwealth government retained more levers over economic management. I think it was under the Hawke/Keating regime that the government passed over control over interest rates to the Reserve Bank, but it was a bi-partisan issue, at some time earlier than that control over currency exchange rates were also relinquished by the Commonwealth government and tariffs were reduced (Whitlam I think).
These decisions have been lauded by the economics profession and seem to have become an "article of faith". It may be that the benefits of this divestment of power outweigh the loss of control by government over the economic levers.
I do remember budgets under the Menzies governments and later governments that tackled economic problems through a variety of fiscal and other levers.
I would like to see some discussion of the results of these changes. The central government (and treasury) has lost some control over it's management of the economy and I'm sure that there are some downside effects of this change.
I know that I am straying into the big government vs small government area and therefore inviting the ideological purists of left and right to vent their passions, but I do think we need to re-visit this area. 
I don't deny that freeing the economy from government control has produced many benefits, but we don't seem to be able even to talk about the downsides of less government power. 
It is interesting to see that other successful economies (Germany and USA) mentioned in Alan Kohler's article retain more control over significant fiscal/financial levers apparently with some success.
It may be na?ve of me, but I would like to see some measured discussion of these issues, without the ideological baggage that normally accompanies such discussion.Thanks for your reply Pocketful. I think I'm a bit too old to get out the musket and fight behind the ring of wagons. 
I am a bit weary of enquiries (and I don't trust experts), but I could make an exception for a review of economic policies since the 70's 80's.I am not at all surprised that the current opposition leader is in lockstep with the government on matters which concern our relationship to our "great and powerful ally". It's what we have always done.
What I would like to see is more community and intellectual discussion on the value of continuing that tradition versus taking a more independent stance, what you might call the New Zealand option.
It is pretty obvious that willingness to join in with any enterprise that our "great and powerful ally" supports is an insurance policy and we therefore "pay the premium" every time, whether the government is LNP or ALP. In this the parties are in lockstep.
I am not arguing that this policy is a bad policy, just that there does not seem to be any intelligent discussion about what an alternative policy could look like and what the cost/benefit analysis could be.
Our political parties are not going to lead on this issue, that should not prevent an intelligent questioning of the policy by the general public and by "the intelligentsia".
Methinks we are too willing to leave all questions about policies (in general) to the political arena, with public silence as far as contribution to the debates. Are we that immature?Thanks for you reply RobP. I can think of another ridiculous end of the spectrum "leave it to the experts". Unfortunately the experts all too often get it wrong.
The experts had no idea of the results of the 1st World War or it's continuation (called the 2nd World War), when they made their decisions about going to war.
I've never known the economic experts be able to predict recessions, depressions or even economic downturns. Think about any other area of "expertise", how often have you seen them wrongfooted?
Your response indicates a greater trust in the defence establishment than I am able to summon. I hope you are right, I fear you may not beI agree! A great deal of the learning that has taken place in the past two centuries about the workings of the human brain, the human mind and the human psyche has been misappropriated by the snake oil salesmen in both commerce and in politics.
We are all being manipulated constantly and there is a constant barrage from our TV screens and other media forms to the extent that we have had mass brain washing for many years now. I would go so far as to say that the very concept of "free will" is under attack.
Just to make it plain, I do not believe that this is a result of a conspiracy by some group or other, rather it is a result of rampant opportunism, by a great many people using information that was first discovered and researched in a bid to improve human lives to instead use that information to serve their own self interests by manipulation on a grand scale.
I think that Adam Smith was incorrect in his belief that the selfish interests of men produce  a "greater good" for the populace by "animal spirits". 
In other words we have separated ethics and morals from business, politics and (dare I say it) from the law, to our great cost.
I hope that we re-discover the importance of morals and ethics for the sake of my children and their (and our) descendants, as I have no faith that we will do so in the remainder of my lifetime. Again to make it clear I am not necessarily talking about religious beliefs, but rather beliefs in moral and ethical behaviour. If I am being too utopian, then humankind will deserve to go the way of other dominant life forms before us and become extinct.I have to disagree with you Burnsey, The same problems have arisen around the English-speaking world and most of them do not have compulsory voting. There the problem is to get people to the polling booths and the politicians voted into power by an under-represented populace are not a better group of politicians.
I wish you were right, we would be able to solve the problem more quickly and easily.
