It would be just a touch awkward if Putin was arrested at the G20, Pinochet-style.You'd think a few more spy satellites would be watching events in the Ukraine than a vast near empty ocean though JG.  I agree the operators have a reason to be discreet.I'd love to see him here.  A lot of people might have a few points of view they would like to exchange with him, if they could get close enough.Thanks Joe.  I suggest you cite your source so as others can get a feel for its veracity or follow it up.

Along with holidaymakers it seems a number of AIDS experts on their way to a conference in Melbourne lost their lives.Do you reckon Kiev might have been targeting one of those convoys of weaponry being delivered to separatists Ken?  Or are the separatists knocking up SAMs in their garages from recycled tractors?You have to wonder whether Malaysian Airlines can survive this.  I'm told they were already heavily discounting fares in an attempt to win back market share.  Saving fuel by taking this route might be a consequence of trying to counter the inevitable losses from discounting.  I am sure they would have weighed up the risks of taking this route at some stage.  Their bet may have cost them the house.

How vulnerable would Qantas's viability be to such an incident?  The decision to limit their foreign shareholder base increases those risks.

However you describe it the consequences are tragic for so many.  That Russia should absolve itself of all blame because it happened over Ukrainian territory is sickening and illustrative of the Putin mindset.Are you justifying the shooting down of a civilian airliner on the basis that it should not have been there?The Far Side?One of the aims of terrorist organisations is to provoke their enemy into killing the innocent with whom they surround themselves, thereby ensuring a steady flow of recruits.  There seems to be no endpoint in mind behind complete victory.  Years, decades, it doesn't matter to them.  The death of citizens is a thing to be celebrated.  There can be no growth or improvement in a terrorist state.  Poverty and hopelessness are the ideal fertilisers for terrorism.  They rejoice in the destruction of societies.

I have no respect for the Israelis.  They believe they can achieve their endpoints through overkill.  That simply plays into the terrorists' hands.   And they refuse to rein in their own provocateurs.  Enemies made in heaven.Statesmen would get results through diplomacy rather than through force I would have thought.  Putin relies on crude nationalism to curry favour with his people - totally cynical - what's a few tens of thousands of lives when it comes to Putin retaining power.  He doesn't pretend to negotiate to achieve his aims.  We've got better statesmen in our prisons.  Perhaps you approve of the Russian policies on gays as well, another example of rounding on a minority to win votes.

Do you reckon the Dutch had to be on their best behaviour to be allowed continuing access to the sites?  More likely Abbott had the least to lose in taking it up to the Russians and did so on behalf of other nations who needed favours from the neo-Soviets in other areas.  To me it is amazing to see any semblance of shame in the Russians.  Do you not believe that pressure was needed to get results from the Russians?

Your suggestion that our government should ignore the deaths of 37 of our citizens and residents and sit quietly awaiting tricked up results from a long delayed pretend inquiry shows how emotional you have become on the issue.

You say you greatly prefer Putin over Abbott.  Fair enough.  But could you tolerate living in Putin's Russia?  Would you abandon the rule of law for the corruption of the land you love?  Answer please.  I may be able to organise some contributions for your flight depending on your response.I'm pretty sure Putin has been practising low blows since his days in the KGB Craig.  Moderate your bet according.  But I'd definitely go up the pub to watch the bout.  I reckon Mark Riley would have been practising his sprints since his days putting feet in doors on A Current Affair (he may not have actually had that job, no matter how well suited).And what liberty would you be giving up?I disagree here Rusty.  Jews tend to identify more with the race than the religion I believe.  I work with a guy who identifies strongly as Jewish and is definitely atheistic.A good answer I think Baz.  Is it fair to suggest converts are generally slow to be accepted as Jews by those born into Jewish families?Perhaps I am missing your point.  Do you really imagine those stupid folk who choose to abuse Jews on sight give a rat's about that person's views on Israel.  Simply identifying someone as Jewish is all it takes to set these halfwits off.

I don't like Netanyahu but you can't be suggesting he should have ignored the murders of three young kids because some fool might suggest he was playing politics.  The prompt arrest of the mindless Israeli thugs who tortured and killed the Palestinian kid should have calmed that line of BS but apparently not.  I presume you think Hamas should have been left to fire rockets at Israeli civilians unmolested and that the use of cement supplied for humanitarian purposes to build numerous tunnels in preparation for terrorist attacks was quite okay by you as well.

Forget about reason when terrorists are involved.  I carry no brief for Israel but your limp post cries out to be exposed as rubbish.  That you pretend to be the bearer of truths is simply laughable.Talking about different things I think Ann.  I was referring to the Palestinian child who was burnt alive by a group of Israeli thugs.  You're talking about the Palestinian kid who was badly beaten by Israeli police or soldiers (I forget which).

I don't expect our Muslim citizens to have to apologise for every one of their number who is an embarrassment or worse.  Otherwise I'd have to apologise for every action of our politicians that was substandard - can't afford to retire and do that for the rest of my life yet.Or a tasty pie.There are a few elements of this story that do not sit right with me.

The obvious one is Clementine telling people around the world that they are incapable of making their own decisions and that she knows that they are being exploited.  Trust her.  That comes over as more than a touch patronising.  It is not only the women in developing countries that agree to these procedures, there was recently a story about an Australian couple using the services of a well-off American surrogate.  But here all surrogates are presumed to be dupes incapable of understanding the consequences of such an agreement.

Second the Thai birth mother is doing just a touch too much media for my liking.  She comes over as pleasant and well-meaning but why is she so willing to engage the media and involve her family?  The Australian public have been quite generous to baby Gammy.  Now it appears he will not need to undergo a dangerous and expensive heart operation.  I can't shake the feeling there may be an element of calculation behind Pattaramon's actions.  I do not begrudge her the money and presume she will follow through in her care of Gammy.  Just the same I won't rush to proclaim her a saint.  And she has brought about a situation where Thai authorities are cracking down on the 'industry' in an environment where popular feelings are inflamed.  Not the best environment for a considered reaction.

Yes I know Farnell is a convicted sex offender.  So do the WA authorities.  They are investigating the parents' suitability.  Can we please lay off 'convicted sex offender' stuff and let them do their work.  We do not know the full circumstances surrounding the offences, whether he has sought to reform, who was the driver in seeking a family etc but we are all rushing to judgment.  Give it a rest please.Sorry for any confusion Orion, didn't mean to reply to you.

Have I skipped to the end to quickly Clementine?  Your seeming adoption of Laurie Penny's views on wealthy white women is in line with your regular attempts at pricking the consciences of white middle-class Australia.  That you see yourself as a moral arbiter of our society is fine by me.  But if you cast our white middle-classes as exploiters of the brown poor you deny the brown poor the courtesy of imagining themselves capable of making their own decisions.  To me it seems the decision to have another baby, this time as a surrogate, is a rational decision for many women (a lot more rational than becoming an organ donor in the Philippines for example).  They are not necessarily the exploited in these relationships.  They can also hold the biological parents to ransom.

Obviously you read my post a little too quickly as well.  I merely stated my reservations about the young Thai woman's search for fame.  I did not make accusations but the possibility of a conflict of interests is obvious.

If you want to punish Farnell for his past that is up to you.  Personally I do not see the point in further adding to the pair's pain on the basis of tabloid-driven fury.There are huge red flags Noel.  Seems the story originated out of an ABC investigation but has been taken up enthusiastically by others.  The campaign does have a tabloid feel to it and I sometimes try to avoid getting carried along with the crowd.  Your last point is sensible.No point in alienating potential clients by talking about the possibility of innocents being murdered by people with no purpose in life beyond terrorism I suppose.  And of course that leaves the way open later to criticise the government of the day for not anticipating such disasters.  Another easy column to write.And yet...

No student of history I presume Germany's expansionist policies had created a tension that needed a pretext for release.  If the assassinations had not occurred the clash of empires would only have been delayed, not avoided.  The UK had its interests to preserve (justified or not), France had historical issues, Germany was looking to create a space for itself etc.  The pressures would have continued to build, almost tectonically.  It was a fight the players thought needed to be had.

Once Britain and its allies had won it would have been very hard to be gracious in victory.  It would have dishonoured their own war dead.  Granted those policies appear to have resulted in WWII but again putting the driver down to Hitler's humiliation seems a bit soft.  He was a hard arrogant man determined to seek power at any cost.  The nation's humiliation would have been a handy point to leverage off but if that had not been available he would have sought to use something else.  He would have been unlikely to succeed via another route but he would have used whatever tool coming to hand in his pursuit of power.  Many here like to blame religion for the ills of the world.  I see it as just another useful route to power for the ambitious.Could be worse Natasha, you could have been born Jewish.

I don't make light of the plight of Christians around the world but abominable things happen everywhere.  Most of them seem to be beyond the influence of western powers, let alone their control.  Mosul for example.  Would widespread publicity about the terrible situation of Christians there help them or hurt them do you think?  Bear in mind that there may not be a lot of strategic thinkers among ISIL or whatever they call themselves this week.  In the press today is a guy so smart he boasts of scamming a disability pension.  Immune to appeals to reason and commonsense, let alone compassion.  The Christians demise would only be hastened by arming them and presenting them as a threat.  I can't imagine any ME state ceding territory for a Christian equivalent of Israel, however traditional the faith may be in those countries.  

Do you have any suggestions or are you just hurt that others are not sharing your pain?  It is hard to see the tide of ethnic cleansing rising in much of the world turning.Against that there are a lot of working holiday folk that seem to find work pretty quickly Mark.  No great English required.  It wouldn't be the work you or I would have as an ambition but there is something in Abetz's suggestion that people take a crap job while they look for something more suitable.Two job applications a day is hard to justify.  A long term unemployed 30 something used to fax his CV in to us regularly to meet his job search requirements.  Not a lot of call for 30 something juniors these days.  He's stopped now.  Hopefully he found something rather than being blocked by a change in the requirements.  Then again he was a pain in the bum.Depends on the area I'm sure but my anecdotes go the other way.  A friend from China (not in that way) arrived in February and got a job in a bakery come coffee shop.  Disputes with other staff, left.  Two weeks and six interviews later working in another coffee shop come bakery.  A girl from Italy has taken her old job after being in Sydney a week.  Not the kind of work I would want to do for any length of time (job snob?) but enough to tide someone over until better opportunities presented themselves.

Not the ideal solution obviously but it gives the jobseeker some kind of momentum rather than inertia.  I've been there mate, my inertia was the killer.  No dole to spur me on either.  Not a boast.Official numbers are one thing TY, reality is another.  Youth unemployment is something else again.

I'm a  little sympathetic to the idea of a short sharp recession to adjust people's thinking on the value of our dollar.  Probably too hard to engineer though.You should read more of my stuff Patrick.  I can do much better than that.

The safe haven notion attaching to us is distorting the value of our dollar and making life difficult for our import-competing industries.  To the extent that this status has been bought by ever-increasing debt payable  by our taxpayers I have trouble seeing the value in making our politicians look successful and electable.  You will have your own views of course.Tim you do or you don't want things taken for  granted re-examined?  Does dressing them up as part of a social contract cut across your previous complaints about middle class welfare?  Are you seriously suggesting we should not reflect on where we are and how we got there?  Now you prefer us to be followers?

I can't take this piece seriously at all.  Tim as usual you take the argument that is most politically convenient.  You show no sign of caring about consistency, let alone principle.  For you to accuse others of acting with contempt is rather incongruous given the tone of your rather patronising writings on this site.  As usual, please try harder.Sufferers of porphyria would likely be weeded out of the political scene fairly quickly.  Probably not a bad thing.There is no right price for a cheap ass, they just keep whinging and whinging....Have to say I couldn't care less if the NSA wants to track my metadata.  I'm sure I could be embarrassed if my wanderings through the byways of the internet were published but that wouldn't happen.  So I a bit puzzled about why people are so upset about metadata.  You are who you are.  Why worry?Different things to worry about I suppose NGNL.  Drone strikes are down the bottom of my list.  Malevolent dictators in the past have preferred cheaper, more efficient options.

In truth it is increasingly a digital world.  I can't see us turning the trend around.  Outlawing foreign intelligence bodies information gathering might embarrass them when they are caught but embarrassment won't be enough of a sanction.  And perhaps that is a good thing - think about the consequences of vacating the field for the Chinese and Russians.  Showing my age I'm afraid.  One reason I am not too concerned about two decades out.

Feel free to disagree so politely any time.  I am concerned I am becoming increasingly reliant on Alpo for an argument.  And he hasn't had a new line for 2  years now.  (No offence Alpo).

FWIW I do agree the government should be responsible for the costs of the increased burden of its surveillance.  They should be required to put a value on the demands so that it can show the priority it puts on the surveillance in its budgets.I expect the police will feel obliged to investigate as they will otherwise be accused of favouring the elite.  The journo was apparently within her rights to record the conversation as one of the participants.  The subsequent publication of the contents of the device was in breach of the law however.  Probably on wrist slaps involved when it comprised of one ALP official playing the recording to a couple more but once it gets out into the public arena it deserves more attention.  Pretty sleazy to replay the data on what could plainly be seen as a journo's device but probably not illegal.  Destroying private property is another matter obviously.

Hopefully a source for the dissemination of the recording can be identified.  Labor people have denied it was them.  I can't see what would motivate Liberal people to do that though.  The only other people having access to the audio files were the lawyers as far as I can tell.  Would they be that stupid?I doubt they would need to listen to every conversation to ascertain ownership.  Probably theft would be too hard to establish but I don't pretend to know what the elements of the charge - could dealing with the device and its contents once ownership was established constitute theft?  Maybe not.  Destroying the property is a separate issue.  I don't have a problem with journos recording conversations to enhance the accuracy of their reporting.  I agree the idea of journos (or anyone) trusting politicians and their hangers-on is fraught with danger.What is your issue with journos recording conversations?  They are apparently entitled to do as much as long as they don't publish the contents of unauthorised recordings.  Recording the conversations allows for more accurate reporting, reducing the risks of misunderstanding and talking at cross purposes.  It is hard to see how a politician could complain about being quoted accurately, with or without attribution.I hadn't heard that arm of the argument I admit.I'm just going on part of an interview with an 'expert' whose name and qualification I missed on the ABC's breakfast program.  My view of the law is generally that anything that is not illegal is legal.  Sounds silly I know but claims of illegality need to be justified.  From the interview I took it that recording a conversation to which the recorder was a party is not illegal but the subsequent publication (by playing it back to a third party or more broadly) of an unauthorised recording did breach Victorian laws.  I don't pretend to have a view on the ethics of the situation.  The profession would have a variety of views I imagine.

Pollies coming to an organised interview would expect to be recorded.  They'd be silly if they didn't record the same conversation in case of a dispute later.  Perhaps they would prefer to have the wiggle room to deny the accuracy of the story offered by an unrecorded interview.  Against the public interest in allowing dishonesty I suppose but then again you'd risk a lot more stonewalling interviews that would bore consumers and manufacturers to death in no time.

Happy to concede your point about politicians having things to hide.  Discretion should be a big part of their job.  They can't go around blurting out everything they just heard (the Malaysians are so sensitive).

Have to say I was very annoyed by Jonathan Marshall's recording of Alan Jones at an event where he was asked not to record and subsequently publishing the contents.  There are plenty of reasons to dislike Jones (and I do) but that effort seemed to go beyond what was ethical.I understand your point of view Paul but for me the dividing line is publication rather than recording.  Just because something is recorded doesn't  mean the recording can be released.  I'm sure having that kind of loaded gun out there would worry a lot of politicians just the same.The shrapnel seems to have been too widespread for a bomb to be involved.  The blackbox data points to a missile as well.

I wouldn't be surprised if a Ukrainian jet was using MH17 as cover, thinking no Russian would be stupid enough to fire in the general vicinity.

You may want to examine your own character after those baseless accusations.Trouble is Laci you would be supporting the people with no ID and a plausible story over those sitting in camps for years.  Captain Emad in, Thu-Trang Tran out.

Does this sound like a sensible policy to you?In Malaysia it takes one term before all the reforming zeal is replaced by the profit motive.  Hope Jokowi  can last longer than that but can't help being cynical.You are confusing yourself Basic.  Mining is a very volatile industry.  The returns can vary substantially year to year.  The idea that 6% or 15% is an adequate return to induce major miners to commit billions of dollars in developing new mines and infrastructure in remote parts of the country over the course of say five years when countries such as Canada are happy to offer much more attractive tax regimes and a more business-friendly environment (unless you are BHP) is not well thought through.  I expect the miners would need a few good years to justify the expense and high degree of risk for such ventures.  The idea that the Commonwealth can suck all the juice out of the good years and leave the miners to survive as best they can through the much more frequent lean years needs further consideration on your part.When you acquire a bit more life experience fishy you will realise that just because a partisan journalist writes something in a blog it doesn't make it a fact.

BHP and Rio's expansion plans have been in place for many years.  They have now largely come to fruition.  They aren't mining more because prices have dropped, they are mining more because they built up production capacity and are now looking  to exploit their resources on a larger scale.  This will have an impact on prices but prices are the result, not the driver.

Fret not, mines are regularly put in care and maintenance mode when markets go soft.  The world keeps turning.

You fail to appreciate the time and planning that goes into developing and expanding new mines.  This process is not flicked on and off like a light switch.  When miners had a massive new tax dropped on them after they had made huge investments based on a different, less onerous tax regime it scared the hell out of them.  They reevaluated the mines they had in mind and largely stopped the early stage ones.  How many recommenced I don't know but I'm sure many would have backed off to see how things panned out over a number of years.

How can you not see that the government seizing a big chunk of revenues will affect the viability of a project?  True the MRRT was better than the mad RSPT but it changed the prospective future cash flows just the same.  To be fair the impact was uncertain but uncertainty is toxic in investment.

Please tell us what are normal profits when it comes to mining.  You seem to have no concept of the volatility of those profits.  We've had some good years as far as prices go but they follow on from decades of sub-economic returns.  Soon enough the downtrend in prices will reassert itself.  But you think you can justify theft from shareholders in the good times and ignore them in the tough times.

More likely responsible miners will look after their own rather than rely on fickle governments.  And many of the FIFO workers won't need to rush back to work or conform with government dictates.  Their skills will often find a use in building infrastructure or construction.  Best you don't pretend to care anyway.

Simply building more mines without consideration for the future will get a board of directors tipped out fairly quickly.  They are responsible to shareholders and generally take that seriously.  As for planning who is the genius in government that you think has a better grip on the future of the global industry than the people putting their capital on the line?

The wool industry got into trouble due to excessive intervention (price stabilisation schemes).  Yet you want more government intervention in the mining industry.  Inconsistent?

Reading articles is one thing, appreciating the weakness of the arguments another.  Apparently you just disagree with Harry's partisanship but can't see your own.I agree the NBN is doomed to fail.Nah mate.  I remember talking to a Telecom installer (whatever they were called) back in the eighties.  He was boasting that they spend a couple of hours doing connections for Telecom and then spend the rest of the day doing their own business - making connections for people willing to pay to get around the month's long Telecom backlog.  Caused by installers doing heir own work for most of the day no doubt.  It was a giant rorting machine dominated by unions.  They had to privatise it to make it efficient.That is one of the sillier parts of a rather naive piece from Mr Verrender RnB.  The reason that shares in the UK halves of the two dual listed companies are being bought back and not  those of the Australian entities is that the PLCs are cheaper than the Ltds.  The idea of buybacks is to boost the earnings per share of the remaining shares.  It would be irresponsible of directors to buy the expensive Ltd shares when there are cheaper shares on offer.

There is some formula that splits the earnings of the two groups between the two DLCs.  Adjustments are made to divert more earnings to the Ltd companies after these buybacks.

I can't explain why there is the price differential.  Part of it is to do with liquidity.  Perhaps there is more choice in mid-size miners on the UK market.  Perhaps the prominence of mining in our market means mining is better understood here or perhaps the Poms have a dimmer view of the outlook for mining.  Do what I do, make up your own excuse.C Moka I gather more recent generations of nuclear generators operate with sea water.  We have a bit of that.Don't agree with the last bit.  Existing mines would keep going I expect, we'd just see new investment dry up pretty quickly.  Actually it has already happened.Trevor you are a bit confused.  Buy a poor stockbroker a lunch one day and he will be happy to give you his or her version of reality.  It will be a bit closer to reality than Ian's version.  Perhaps Ian should be saving you the expense and buying that poor broker a lunch.  He could call it research and claim a tax deduction.$20 million doesn't sound like much to me when the RSPT looked set to loot billions from shareholders.  Do you reckon that might indicate the lunacy of the original idea?  You, know, making Australia's mining industry the second most highly taxed in the world, just to save Rudd and Swan the embarrassment of a string of deficits.

If you didn't like the MRRT blame Ms Gillard, the woman prepared to sacrifice what Labor saw as her country's interests in the hope of being re-elected.  No price was too high, so long as her success was guaranteed.

Funny, we have a 'progressive' blogger above complaining about the prospect of Singaporean developers building cheap homes here.  Perhaps you two could have a discussion.I can reassure you of one thing.  There is no way Labor would put its hand in the taxpayers pockets to reimburse the mining industry for any losses brought about by Labor policy or not.  It would be a case of victim blaming and 'you're on your own boys'.  You saw the 'greedy fat miners' BS Swan carried on with.  It would be uglier than that when miners went looking for a handout.You make a good point that should have been mentioned by Mr Verrender.  The Australian miners aren't looking to cannabalise each other.  It is every man for himself, against the world.  Rio and BHP have been very disciplined in much of their expansion (let's not mention Alcan).  They have been committed to finding and developing large low cost resources, leaving smaller ventures to smaller companies (on what are generally very generous terms).  They have been looking to play the long game.  With low costs they can operate profitably when others can't.  I gather Chinese iron ore costs in the vicinity of $80 a ton.  If the prices fall below that and stays there for any length of time those operations will either go out of business or be mothballed.  Rio and BHP can just keep doing what they are doing and pay taxes while they do it.  Fortescue should be okay at those levels despite their poorer grades, having put a big effort into paying down their debt.  The juniors may well find it more difficult.

It isn't private enterprise's job to care about the community.  Nor is it yours or mine.  We do what we do, we pay our taxes  and elect governments to manage those funds.  If you have the time and inclination your efforts at volunteering would be appreciated.  If you are interested have a look at what the BHP Foundation does.  I'd be surprised if Rio didn't have something similar.Sounds right to me James.  Perhaps Mr Verrender will develop that thought in his next article, even though people have been saying such things since the advent of the RSPT.  (He's got a history at Fairfax, still struggling to escape  that particular groupthink I expect).

Once miners start putting infrastructure into remote areas in Africa it will be a much more simple matter to develop new mines sharing that infrastructure.  There will be many cost advantages over Australian mines, balanced out by some higher costs and higher risks, depending on the country.  But hey, let's get Labor back to totally stuff up our mining industry and give our competitors the leg up they need to get started.I thought miners had to pay bonds to pay for the restoration of old mine sites up front, to save embarrassment later on.  No?  Huh, learn something new every day.Perhaps if we encourage mining here rather than destroying investor confidence with a new tax every year after they have invested their money the miners will keep coming here, doing business and generating taxes.  Then governments can more comfortably look after welfare.  Don't forget the proceeds from the mining taxes were earmarked for defined purposes.  Pensioners weren't on the list.  Mr Rudd and Ms Gillard would have thought kindly of them just the same I am sure.Why did you think that Nova?  You didn't believe Mr Swan did you?  The minerals were vested in the Crown as representative for each State when the States were still independent.  The Constitution did nothing to remove those rights.  The hippie concept that the minerals now belong to the people and that the legal system is silly won't get you very far.

If you don't buy assets off the States how will they be able to afford new infrastructure?  I guess if you feel strongly enough about the subject you can buy the assets and donate them back to the States with a proviso about not selling but frankly I can't see the point.Prices are a function of both supply and demand.  If supply is increasing faster than demand and you keep your prices steady you will have a vast stockpile of unsold minerals as fast as you can blink.  Gets quite expensive to fund pretty soon after that.The American telecom mess was a result of their competition policy leading to the break-up of AT&amp;T.  The ACCC is just as stupid IMO.Of course it is an obstructionist Senate JohnnoH.  How could it be anything else when the balance of power is held by a myriad of minor parties all intent on pulling stunts to raise their profiles with the voters.  These guys are mainly oncers with delusions.  They think their donkey vote driven success can be replicated from elsewhere on the ballot paper.  It won't happen.  But they are dragged along by their false hopes of the public falling in love with the numbskulls (Xenophon excepted).  They don't give a toss about good policy.  They only want populist policies.  Hopeless lot.The co-payment is capped at $70 a year isn't it econ?  And doctors can waive that, at a cost to them admittedly.

Know a lot of millionaire new mothers do you?

The only reason the problems are so obvious to you is that you are pumping them up so vigorously.Then again pockets you may want to reread Tim's piece for evidence of bitterness.  He prefers to refer to it as schadenfreude.  But obviously he wants to see the country's economic issues left unaddressed so as to benefit his parties of choice.  I am embarrassed for him, that he stands for nothing but politics.

I would like to see you actually put up something of substance now and again.  This above it all attitude gives the impression you don't stand for anything but feel superior to everyone.  Even though you put this out in a basically pleasant manner and come from what appears to be conservative positions it is starting to grate just a little.

Good luck.If you are going to ditch Labor's F35s Scott why not just junk the whole of the defence forces while we're at it?  Go down in history as a forward thinker.Hare-Clark, the wet dream of Australian left leaners.  Greens with the permanent balance of power.  Yes, let's all follow Tasmania down a fiscal drain.

Seems like Shorten is shaking the poison into the billabong now.  But of course you are looking in the opposite direction.How was the carbon tax sensible policy?  Recognise it for what it was, an attempt to buy votes through overcompensating the majority of the electorate.  If Labor had truly wanted to change behaviour it would have used the tax as a price signal to the consumers, made them appreciate the cost of energy profligacy.  But no, that would have cost Labor votes.  So instead they engaged in yet another round of gesture politics.  At least they fooled some of the voters eh Scott?

They haven't been able to achieve much due to Palmer and others' need to boost their profiles before the public.  Abhorrence?  You need a wider circle of friends, people outside the echo chamber.

If you think this lame attempt is hard right ideology, well, refer to paragraph 2.

I've actually been busy lately Scott.  And frankly the tone of the discussion (you are one of the milder folk here) has left me somewhat bored.  Why bother responding when people are so consistently full of it?Thanks Freddie.  It sticks in my gut to read all the comments from the left leaners about how tough this government is (as if!) when they try to wind back some of the middleclass welfare the left leaners complained about inheriting from Howard when they had the responsibility for the budget.  Now of course middleclass welfare is the guiding principle of the same left leaners.Give it a break Frank.  Didn't Hockey say the poorest people don't have cars or if they do they don't drive very far?  So why embroider the point?  Unless you think the poorest of our society can afford cars (or can afford to keep them?).  Perhaps you are suggesting the dole should be increased so that the poorest amongst us can afford to buy cars?  And the fuel tanks filled up for free so they can afford driving holidays?  I know, I'll ask my Big Issue lady where she parks her car while she's flogging her magazines until the maddies come out to play in the city.  That should settle the issue.

Please let us know when you get bored with this pathetic partisan politics.  Then I can take you a little more seriously.I saw the difference as between the poorest, the word Hockey is supposed to have used, and the temporarily inconvenienced.  If you have never had money and lived hand to mouth a car would be low on your list of priorities.  The additional excise on petrol is going to make next to no difference to anyone.  Why inflate this when there are other more important issues?If you are really struggling you can't afford registration and insurance, the most regressive taxes of them all.  I'm not poor but public transport is adequate for most of my purposes.  I used to feel owned by my car rather than the other way round.Cue spooky music.  Theme from The Twilight Zone perhaps?  Or something more contemporary.You'd think politicians would be clever enough to use someone else's phone if they are going to leak on it.  If they don't they probably aren't clever enough for the job.  If ASIO or other intelligence services were so stupid as to involve themselves in the political game they would find life very uncomfortable when the government changed.  The AFP might get involved but my guess is they'd be stonewalled by journos.They're pushing the barrow because intelligence services asked them to do so on the basis that they thought it was a good idea.  Frankly I haven't read any reasons why it isn't a good idea, unless you count hyperventilating.  The metadata is already out there and being accessed.  It seems people basically knew that already but when the issue is ventilated many decide to affect an attack of the vapours at the very idea.  It all seems rather ridiculous to me, unless you enjoy the employment of smelling salts.What change Graazt?  The metadata is already being collected.  Surely you aren't chewing your fingernails to the quick because it might be retained an extra 21 months?  Do we complain when phone tower dumps are used to ascertain whether a suspect was in the vicinity of a murder or of a body being dumped?  I don't remember that happening.  The retention of metadata may well be ineffective in stopping action by a terrorist but it would be useful in tracing back to his contacts in the lead up to the event.  This may well lead to further attacks being stymied.As far as I can tell the most fear affected people on here are those that are afraid of the government of the day doing wicked things with their metadata.  As for the rest consult Simavita.Nup, I'm happily atheistic.  My problem with Dr Nitschke is his constant promotion of death as a quick cure for life.  This fixation of his presents a danger to the vulnerable.I'm not outraged, I'm just appalled.

First because this provides proof positive that Senator Lambie offers nothing to the Senate in the form of thought, wit or intelligence and we're stuck with her for 6 years.

Second because she has obviously been reading my online profile, only modestly enhanced (I presume they measure wealth differently in Tasmania).  I will brook no stalkers Ms Lambie.  Leave my profile alone, I will not respond to your kisses let alone your pokes.  Enough!

On the plus side the good Senator is helping raise the profile of the BUP, indeed giving us a jolly good eyeful.  This will be quite useful in the upcoming cleansing double dissolution.  "Look over there ladies, Jacqui Lambie is after your modestly successful husband with the socks n jocks".  "Careful guys, if we vote PUP she'll keep coming north and we'll have to stop storing our socks where they keep us warm and toasty".  Then again Tasmanian voters might appreciate the months of relief they get by keeping her ungainfully employed.

I can't be too hypocritical here, I like to be regularly inappropriate.  But Lambie lacks a filter and just blurts out whatever spills out of her tiny mind.  She has displayed why she is incapable of adding anything to our body politic.  The sooner she blows herself up the better.  I readily admit I am entirely unsuited to a life in politics.  I can't understand why similar thoughts didn't occur to Senator Lambie many months ago.What, doesn't Question Time raise even the occasional half-smile?  Too harsh I think.  There are a lot of intelligent people in Parliament who I presume prefer to dumb down their messages to make them more digestible for the average voter.  I don't accuse Senator Lambie of dumbing down her messages however.  Do you blame Abbott for publicising the presumed product of his youthful explorations?  I would have thought he had no option but to respond, as icky as the details may have been.  I don't think Abbott could have successfully employed the poor memory defence.

Has anyone got any money on Palmer yet?  Probably fairly low odds.Have to agree, putting your foot in your mouth before shooting yourself in the foot shows a certain lack of experience.  Presumably she is having problems adjusting to her change in status and seems to have an inflated view of the importance of politicians in our society.  Hopefully she will settle down before we get even more intimate glimpses into her life and times.I don't like the idea of frequent referenda Bulldust.  Most of we voters are too lazy or too time poor to put serious consideration into the issues of the day, myself included.  It would be a matter of: -  Euthenasia?  Yeh, sounds good, the mother-in-law had a bad time of it.  Forget about the risks involved of people with money who feel they are a burden being coerced etc, just tick the box.

It would just open the process up too much for stupid populist politics.  Let the politicians do their work unaided.  That's what we pay them for.  And to have someone to blame when things turn out badly.I disagree WP.  The minor parties, including the Greens, are obsessed with self-publicity.  They don't seem to care about results so much as being seen to exercise power, to be important.  Unless of coures they are exacting revenge.

The BUP is a determined stunt machine.  Palmer can't even listen to expert advice without returning abuse.  Rather than cunning he and his lot are a waste of time, space and money.  Occasionally the Greens might say something sensible but they long ago frittered away their credibility as far as I am concerned and I would be unlikely to notice an outbreak of commonsense on their part.Wouldn't the Board quit at the first hint of trouble?  Who would want to put in the hard yards to turn the operation around?  You???  Should similar strict liability laws apply to you in your everyday life?Great, I'm borrowing from that bank!  There will be no one left to collect on my loan.So none of those smarmy politicians who were supposed to be regulating American banks and who encouraged stupid lending to people on welfare attract any blame?  You remember, those creepy people like Waxman and Barney Frank parading their virtue by abusing bankers and pretending none of it was their fault?

There is plenty of blame to spread around for the GFC.I wasn't trying to excuse the banks SM.  There's plenty of blame left over for them.  At the time it seemed the cheap cash would be around forever.  Remember all the talk of new paradigms, taken up even here?  It looked foolish from this distance and we didn't follow in the footsteps of the Americans and Europeans.  Didn't save us of course but imagine the problems we'd have had if we had.

I can't justify CEO pay rates.  Presumably they relate more to the size of the enterprise than the work performed.  Appalled shareholders should sell out.  Wouldn't leave a lot of investment opportunities open admittedly.Fair enough.  I'd be surprised if the bailout money was used for the purposes you mentioned - you'd be hard=pressed to make the linkage I suspect.  No doubt some banks made a meal of the situation, from memory others were required by the government to take cash so that the strugglers would not be discriminated against by the market (initially banks were reluctant to apply because of fears it would cause a run I think).If you're that keen go and open an account with the RBA.  I expect they still pay interest at the official rate so that is quite competitive.

As a taxpayer I don't want to pay extra taxes so that a government can set up an inefficient union-dominated bank so that it can buy the votes of the few.

I suspect you would have trouble defining what is risk and what is hedging risk if you tried to be too proscriptive.

The alternative to too big to fail is presumably to force banks to split into smaller entities.  Ensuring some will fail.  I really don't think that is a sensible solution.  Just because you read someone thinks something might be an issue one day it doesn't mean you have to take them seriously.I expect you'd end up with talented people thinking 'it's all too hard, I'll go and do something else for a while' and only the chancers would stick around, hoping to make a quick killing and get out before the music stopped.  Would that be sensible policy?The immediate thought when I heard reports of Murray's findings was that by going on about too big to fail he is trying to avoid being labelled a creature of the banks.  Consciously or not.  He was obliged to find a problem and this was the closest thing to.

To me it is always likely that politicians will bail out rather than stand aside.  They can portray themselves as being active.  Never mind that the institution got into trouble under their watch and they will be blamed no matter what their level of responsibility.  The people who make the loudest noise will dictate the course of action.  The politicians will hear the screams of depositors and other stakeholders over the low moans of the innocent taxpayers.  They will dress up their bailing as the noble thing to do, done at great personal cost etc while they participate in photo ops with a large ladle and a barrel of cash.  No hard feelings, that is what we will expect them to do.  Even those of us who are only taxpayers.  Just do something!

But this is an academic problem.  Our banks are required to carry excess capital on their balance sheets.  Lazy funds that cannot be put to proper work.  Countries around the world will require their own banks to meet these prudential standards.  But I gather our regulators interpret these requirements more strictly than others.  So I can't help feeling Murray is kidding us.

Also helping the majors is the fact that they hold good franchises.  There is a reward in it for opportunistic entrepreneurs if they can right a sinking ship.  Kerry Packer could have done very well out of helping Westpac out of its troubles if he hadn't been such a Packer.  He got set at very low prices.  Shareholders were punished by having their interests greatly diluted at cheap prices.

I hate the idea of differential tax regimes to handicap the majors and benefit the regionals.  Why would any sane regulator pay the regionals to continue to underperform the majors.  They need the spur of competition to merge and reduce their costs.  Instead we have a lot of puddles occupied by medium sized frogs with outsized egos.

I say do nothing.  Put pressure on failing institutions to merge or raise fresh capital if they get into real trouble.  Raising capital will not be so difficult immediately, the majors have hybrids on issue that will automatically convert into ordinary shares if the ratios get too low.  Adjust prudential requirements if the need arises.  But for goodness sake don't jump at shadows, especially imagined shadows.It would be rare for a professional politician to speak their feelings spontaneously.  All their messages are tailored to some degree.  Putin's messages (and actions) are tailored to boost nationalism in his country, his chosen path to electoral success.  And it works, he is apparently quite popular with his public, despite what his local opponents and virtually everyone else thinks of the despicable little rat (sorry, did I just betray my bias?).  I don't doubt that many parents whose children are just starting to explore the world and who favour the cheap flights would have had similar thoughts.  Just the same this tragedy plays in favour of shaky incumbents around the world.  That is not cynicism, that is simply a recognition of the reality of such tragedies.  They allow the incumbents to take the lead and express genuine emotions.  Mostly genuine anyway.  It is what we expect of our leaders, we'd be disappointed if they didn't speak out on our behalves.  Australia being a long way from Russia and with less close trade ties has the freedom to be more forthright about the loss of its citizens than those in Europe.  I believe Abbott and Bishop are performing well in this situation.There was a subsequent story to the effect that that BUK system was disabled by the Ukrainians before it was captured by the separatists.  There are a lot of stories requiring verification I concede.I'm happy to see some pressure put on the Russians to cooperate.  Their attempt to blame the Ukrainians because it was their territory, ignoring the separatists occupation was simply pathetic.  Did Putin's behaviour similarly appal you or are you selective in taking offence?  After all he didn't wait for evidence.

Why do you think the separatists are moving the evidence around?  Wouldn't innocent people be doing everything they can to preserve the scene?  Why are they stuffing around with flight recorders?  You want evidence?  There goes your evidence, or at least its evidentiary value is decreased.

Personally I would love to see Abbott and tough guy Putin go  ten rounds.Using a strict definition of 'pollution' we pollute by our very existence.  If you consider CO2 pollution it goes without saying.  Most would consider our waste products pollution (some see fertiliser).  We are constantly creating order and disorder.  Perhaps pollution?  As for visual pollution, well, I plead guilty in the hope of a lighter sentence.

There has to be some semblance of balance.  With the human population high and accelerating we can't achieve balance, no matter how fine our intentions.

Your post begs the question 'are you off the grid yet?'.  If the answer is no then I'd rather you not lecture people.  Or at least be racked with guilt every time you reach for the light switch, wondering if your action will create enough additional demand to cause a gas fired generator to kick in.Dumping sewage offshore doesn't change its polluting nature, it just removes it to a safeish distance.  Fixing the problems requires global agreement (highly unlikely) or some very tough decisions.  Australians as a group may be on one end of those solutions or the other.In answer to your question I am pretty sure that it was a bring your own loaves and fishes party.

As for the rest you do not appear to be responding to anything I have written.  I am happy to accept CO2 at some level constitutes pollution.  TY seems to suggest all CO2 is pollution.  Perhaps I am misreading him.  I see myself as more sceptical than denier but if you think denialist is insulting feel free to keep using the word and I will judge you accordingly.  I doubt I will ever get past my stupidity and I have no higher hopes for you.  Only a fool would believe ETSs work having seen the numerous failures of such schemes elsewhere.  That our ETS coincided with an economic downturn seems to have confused many.  But perhaps you were confused before then.  When have I advocated Direct Action?What's your logic there AR?  Why not support direct action as an interim measure if you wish to address rising emissions then switch to an ETS or whatever is your preferred course of action when it becomes politically possible (presuming the validity of the problem you see).  Unlike the Carbon Tax you will not see the program being used to buy votes.Direct Action is a crock?  Gees, don't tell Barack Obama that, you'll break his heart.  You'd be paying people with schemes to reduce emissions wouldn't you?  How can you say none of those schemes will have any effect on emissions?  Set out the proposals that you think will be ineffective or counterproductive by all means but to simply claim they will all be useless without giving reasons seems a bit hasty.  For mine the checks and balances of an ETS were pretty useless, especially the money we would send offshore to promote green schemes, like evicting farmers from their land.  But that's just me.

My cousin in Mosman surprised me a couple of years back.  Some of the locals were doing Green Army kind of stuff on a voluntary basis.  My cousin is not a committed green type.  Largely weeding the bush.  Pointless?  Maybe.  Can't see the harm in planting more trees selectively, apart from bushfire risks.  I would have thought some work for the dole folk would prefer to do that kind of work, seeing the improvements from their work.  No?

Everything is political I suppose.  Global warming itself can be seen in that light, a handy wedge issue.  Any ETS that overcompensates 70% of consumers comes over as political, a downpayment on votes.  How genuine the Coalition's belief is that DA will be a cheaper way of bringing about the targeted reduction in emissions I can't say - you are certainly entitled to be cynical (about any politician).

But how effective did you imagine the Carbon Tax to have been?  Despite being pitched at a high rate compared with global counterparts it wasn't anywhere near enough to justify investment in alternatives such as CCGT (?).  So it was more a cynical posture from my point of view, a vote buying exercise and a sad claim to being Global Leaders, people the rest of the world should look up to and follow.  Delusional.  The result of too many white meat lunches and too much earwax perhaps.

I dislike the PPL and other policies encouraging people to have kids.  That commitment should not be made on economic grounds IMO, whatever the calibre of the people involved (small joke).

From my point of view the beauty of DA is that it can be switched off at any time if it proves ineffective or a better alternative comes along.To be fair you don't have to be a Green to deeply distrust Glencore Custard.  They have a history and a convenient domicile.The truth?  I defend mining companies because I believe in equity and fairness.  My self-interest as a shareholder comes into it as well but is secondary.  Why should the Commonwealth be entitled to limit the royalties raised by the States when the ownership of those resources is vested in the States?  Why do people like you keep carping interminably about Big Miners and never once mention the shareholders whose interests they represent?  Who do you imagine would have built those mines and the supporting infrastructure if it wasn't for foreign capital?  How can anyone justify effectively nationalising 40% of our mining industry without compensation?  Do you think it is fair to levy a massive tax on investors years after they have expended huge amounts of money for a long term investment at huge risk?  Come back to me with answers to those and I will think up a few more for you.

If "the people" want a share of our resource wealth they should organise themselves with a few friends to find a patch of unexplored ground (or buy into an established prospect) and poor their savings into a large hole in the ground in the hope of a substantial return in years to come.  Or buy some shares in some of our miners (they'd welcome the support).  But please can they just stop whinging and expecting money for nothing?  Once you leave the family home you should be able to figure out that money for nothing is not the natural order of things.

I didn't like the PRRT but it was in line with oil and gas levies prevailing in other jurisdictions.  The RSPT would have been well in advance of taxes on mining anywhere (Norway is a different situation).  The MRRT is of course a joke, committing short-term cashflows to long-term programs.

As for foreigners dominating the registers of our major miners that may well be the case but I would prefer numbers from someone who actually understands what a nominee company does.  That is someone other than the Greens.Did I miss a Labor government somewhere outlawing the digging up of coal?  I thought they needed the money too much, to cover their enhanced lifestyles on the government benches, State and Federal.Hyperbole meet sarcasm.  Sarcasm, hyperbole.  I must have been much better attuned to the impact on investors of those two policies.  Obviously Rinehart never threatened to run away to Africa, she was simply pointing out that the global mining industry is competitive.  If you need proof of that check out how many potential projects Woodside has put on hold citing the high costs they face here.

The Greens want to win power in government.  The environment is just their vehicle for achieving that.  A few might prefer the lives of cave dwellers but I imagine they would soon be evicted from their prime real estate.  Even neanderthals have little tolerance for Greens.

I was spouting about the unfairness of intergenerational debt years ago.  That's what conservatives do.  No doubt the Coalition sought to bring Labor to account for breaking promises as Labor now seeks to hold the Coalition to account.  I have no problem with that, from either party.

I don't like the PPL and am not so happy with Direct Action.  If there is a result out of it well and good but I am dubious about a number of measures.So no student politician who benefited from a free university education courtesy of Whitlam should ever change policy even when that side of the budget blows out?  Get real.  I do remember being in a class in 75 or so when a mature age student tutoring pointed out the inequity of these snot-nosed kids getting free stuff at the expense of the community.  No one contradicted him.  And we probably all passed as a result.

Who is being denied a place at university because of their parents income?  HECS remains generous, despite the rises.  Yes it will be tougher to pay back but who is that actually deterring, beyond your imaginings?  It does seem repayment is optional for some.

I don't understand your last point.  The most obvious meaning is nonsensical so you must mean something else.How long did it take for Fortescue and Rio to get their production to those levels?  Did they get there with the help of mines commenced after the introduction of the MRRT?  If so, please name those mines.

Mining iron ore requires a long term investment with no control over prices.  To have a government come along and slap an enormous tax on the cashflows after the funds have been committed (in the billions of dollars) strikes me as disgraceful, especially when the promises of negotiation were abandoned by a cowardly Treasurer.There is no crisis but there is a situation that needs to be addressed sooner rather than later.  You seem to suggest we either pretend there is no problem or benchmark our situation against nations that have got themselves into a much more perilous situation.  That makes no sense to me.  It seems to be a purely political approach, aimed at defending Labor's performance in office and setting up a situation where the Coalition can be criticised for not meeting its aims because of the obstructionism of others.

Your suggestion that we do not need to worry about interest rates rising at some time in the future is foolish.  Governments around the world are praying for the onset of an inflationary environment so that they can shift the cost of their more stupid vote buying policies to their creditors.  Smells like fraud to me.I make no pretence of being an economist but I expect issuing cash to buy back bonds should have an inflationary effect due to the extra liquidity sloshing around in the economy.  It hasn't happened in America but there is a lot of cheap money leaking from the US and Europe into the Australian economy I gather, looking for a safer harbour.  The lack of confidence in those economies seems to be keeping a cap on inflation there, presumably as people are largely in saving mode rather than borrow and spend mode.  I have not observed the RBA managing our yield curve but I probably wouldn't know where to look.  I would have thought that our interest rates are more a captive of other economies due to the movement of capital here.  For me the question remains as to whether central banks will continue to maintain the confidence of the markets.  If that confidence fails the central banks will drown with the rest of us.I'm confused.  Are you an Australian admitting to being part of a stupid people or are you a non-Australian (unAustralian?) passing down such judgments from on high?  Either way what assurance do you have that you are smarter than the average voter?  Is it preferable to have voted in a government dominated and largely paid for by unions?  Did you complain about the 150 amendments to workplace laws by Labor.  All in favour of their sponsors?  Perhaps you think Australians are so stupid they won't notice the hypocrisy at the heart of your posts....To me it is honourable to advise people of the tax regime ruling the investment before they commit to spending billions of dollars in Australia, not after they have spent so much money for no return.  Taxation on the scale of the RSPT by sneak attack is, to me, dishonourable.

The politicians of the major parties are generally more concerned with providing a stable environment for investment.  Rudd however had a brain explosion, looking to pay for bankrupt policies through theft.  That greatly disturbed foreign investors and made Australia officially too hard for many of them for quite some time.  To suggest the Coalition members' only motivation must have been corruption is beyond pathetic.We need to raise income tax rates in my opinion, not stuff around with temporary levies.  But that is not a new tax, rather a rise in an existing tax.  $70 p.a. maximum on Medicare seems a bit out of proportion with 40% of all earnings over the 6% threshold, pre-interest, pre-corporate tax, pre-admin expense to me in that it is a bit light on.  Should we also do away with co-payments on the PBS?  I personally would not have brought in the Medicare co-payment without preparing the ground but it is hard to totally discount anecdotes of healthy time wasters who want a check-up every ten days.  If people vote against Abbott on that basis that is entirely reasonable.  (FWIW I did ask my doctor to stop bulk-billing me.  Wasn't expecting the $75 though).I remember a George Megalogenis blog spouting about the massive pipeline of future mining investments stretched out before us despite the MRRT.  They were mainly related to gas projects but he was insistent our future was assured.  And week by week after that the pipeline was whittled down as projects were cancelled.  The MRRT may well have been a minor part of those decisions but the taxation by ambush approach of Rudd and Swan would have had a more significant impact IMO.  As you suggest many people favouring the ALP will concentrate on the short term when it suits their argument, ignoring the longer term.  Ian is one of those who prefers to argue opportunistically.Why would anyone want to start a business then?  Why can't you serve yourself rather than expecting everyone else to run around looking after you?

Seriously some confuse themselves by referring to 'Business' as some kind of bogeyman.  They are just people trying to earn a living, with varying degrees of effort.  Rather than be satisfied expressing your jealousy at the success of some, while ignoring the failure of others, make an effort on your own behalf.I have no idea how many bloggers here know each other itman.  I no none.  Your comments are all we have to judge each other by.  Your original post suggested all business folk should be subservient to the needs of society, your second backs off from there.  Have I advocated for psycopathy and dysfunction?The Venezuela model?  Like it or not Australia has always been dependent on foreign capital to develop our resources.  Sure our governments can confiscate the earnings from those investments if it wants but the country will be seen as an unsafe place to invest for many years after that.  So where do we get capital to invest after that?  How many locals are prepared to invest vast sums over decades at high levels of risk?  The banks would be careful.  Doesn't sound like you are prepared to take a chance with your own money.  So who?I agree with your sentiments Peter.  Others have also remarked that in Australia there are too many journalists and not enough news.  As a result we get the noisy seagull and chip effect.Actually old 67 I think you are fighting on the other side, against the Green Army.  Wouldn't answer any knocks on the door after midnight if I were you.To be fair Davidson is regularly harsh on Coalition policies.  Has Sara ever been critical of a harebrained green scheme?Not just rude, also silly.  Did you read the bit about "Getting rid of commissions reduces the risk of any Australian being given advice that's motivated by an adviser's financial gain."?There's probably a lot in that Splod.  Then again you can argue Rudd's Labor did as much as they could to politicise the issue in the first place as a political wedge.  We'd still have an ETS if he had simply endorsed Howard's effort rather than insisting on a version with his name on it.

WT you cling to false hopes.  If Turnbull had one that vote by a small margin there would quickly have been another vote called.  That's what happens in leadership tussles, first you loosen the mortar and later you topple the destabilised leader.I don't disagree but you might have had a different story to tell if the knock on your door was from the boyfriend.  Well done just the same.  Living in an apartment the temptation is to try harder to preserve your privacy, more than if your neighbour was in a free-standing house.Depends what circles you are moving in I suppose Mohammad.  Perhaps if you are walking by a pub at night you will see such behaviour but in most circumstances brawlers will be looked down on.  Try it at work and generally you will be looking for a new job fairly soon.

No there is no purpose in beating up women, children, the elderly and animals.  I expect the driver would mostly be low self-esteem and a need to control some part of the world around them.  It is pathetic.  I can't imagine anyone cheering that on.

There is a real risk in intervening in a domestic situation on your own.  Even police report both parties in a domestic regularly turning on them when they try to sort out a fight.  It happens to the well-meaning pretty regularly too, I am sure.  Family dynamics can become quite warped.

Is it fair to suggest the more tightly we are pushed together the stronger our instinct becomes to detach ourselves from those around us, particularly those we do not know?

Sorry to hear about your sister.A very sad story.  I am glad the Yeos have seen something positive come out of such a tragic event.

Apart from intervening when abuse occurs I am in a quandary as to how our society can address this issue, beyond the use of criminal law.  From this side of the newspaper it is easy to imagine Mulvihill as some kind of alpha male control freak who saw himself as entitled to punish someone who would no longer bend to his will.  How can such madness be diverted?

It seems that we, men and women, reward entitled alpha male (and female?) behaviour.  Such behaviour demands attention and is often associated with self-centredness and a disregard for others.  Many women want to be associated with such men and reward them with their attention and sex.  So what would be the impetus for a change of such behaviour?  I can't see women flocking to cardigan-wearing, term deposit kind of guys, they don't offer that element of danger and excitement (some might).

Disclaimer - I do not own a cardigan and enjoy fixed interest in moderation.Yep people and their relationships are complicated.  I should apologise for such gross overgeneralisations and the alpha males I have insulted but I doubt they would be on here.

I work with a number of young guys, some of whom aspire to alpha male status.  They are by and large good kids but incredibly self-centred.  Not relationship material any time soon.  (The women they involve themselves with, short term transactions, do not come over as damaged, rather as self-assured young women.  Some strippers perhaps but none the weaker  for that).  I imagine Mulvihill in that light.  Add to that the fall in his status post-football and the impact on his feelings of self-worth and you'd have a pretty volatile mix.

You are right, cardigan wearers are not to be trusted.  Meek and mild can disappear very quickly when shy people gain  some confidence.  Perhaps The Goodies were right ("It's always the quiet ones" as they potted another gardener going about his business).  I suspect though that your kind and loving bad boys have short attention spans and may not be so kind and loving in the event of a relationship breakdown not initiated by them.

I guarantee my friend Sophie is much ruder than Wicked Campervans.  Time and place.

It does concern me that by suggesting women encourage or reward some bad behaviour I am flirting with victim-blaming.

Thank you for tackling the issue I see.Reasonable comments all.  I am groping to get to where I want to go.  Depends how and why the big, buff guy bulked up perhaps.  If he used steroids the risks are increased.  If he was struggling to overcome feelings of inadequacy the chances of domestic violence may well increase.You're confused Az.  As a conservative I pointed out Palmer was doing harm to the argument against the RSPT by spouting his BS.  I expressed the wish he would shut up while recognising his interests demanded he be allowed to speak.  He admitted to lying for goodness sake.  Who were these gullible conservatives soaking up his every word?  He couldn't even get preselected in Queensland by the party that had benefited so much from his largesse over so many years.

I don't mind you having a laugh but generally your posts are much more sensible.  Good luck.RH there is no way I would buy any government's pubic assets, you'd never know where they've been.  Ask any taxpayer.That social safety net has holes in it Graazt.  The further in debt we go the bigger the eventual holes.  You may like Australia as it is but that business model is unsustainable.  For mine it is better to make tough decisions now than tougher decisions when they are forced on us.If you accept that Trent (wait around, I may have a bridge for you) then you are endorsing Howard's tax cuts and middle class welfare.  The policies Rudd and Gillard spent their years decrying.  Labor has made no serious attempt to reverse these policies and must now be seen as having adopted them as their own.  Funny, eh?I too am  guilty of rushing to assume Thorpe's depression was linked to his denial of his sexuality.  It would be interesting to see how the rates of depression ranked when you compared the mental health of retired professional sportsmen and women with that of gays.That sounds eminently sensible Professor.  As with the writer my first instinct is that this is a non-story and I am reluctant to comment.  However (of course).  I thought I heard this morning that he came out to his parents weeks ago and that they were okay with it.  That is more consistent with religious concerns rather than concerns about sponsorships or what the man in the street might think.  There is some bravery in admitting to a pattern of lying.  I hope he may feel more at peace now and that this addresses the root causes of his depression.  It is sad that he was forced to address this issue as such a young man when he would have been so unsure of himself

That just leaves the question why oh why did he select a long distance girlfriend with the surname of Beard, particularly such an indiscreet one?There may well be justifications for Thorpe's previous pronouncements, chief among them 'none of your damn business' but lies are lies.  There's no point in dressing them up as something else because we are sympathetic to the person.  We all lie after all.  Far better to admit to our own lies and then provide the justification than to deny the lie I suggest.Dave's too harsh (Thorpe may well have spent some years confused, perhaps hoping for an end to his own doubts and a heterosexual family life) but Thorpe shouldn't have lied once he had a better understanding of himself.  Better to simply answer enquiries with questions "Why do your care about my sexuality?  Would it make any difference to your opinion of me either way?" etc.  Bit hard to expect that of a 16 year old though.I'm pretty sure Clinton's policies directing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to fund aged welfare recipients into the housing market played a part TY.  Those poor buggers had no chance of keeping up the payments when everything went south and no chance of refinancing.  Were they foolish?  Maybe.Then again Prabowo might enjoy recipes for beef, the commodity Australia peremptorily denied Indonesians and which led to the liquidation of their national herd, including breeding stock.  That was before Abbott of course.The label was a helpful summary of your post DR.  Thank you.

Now that you have informed us all of your unblemished morality and knowledge of the classics can you please give the rest of us some practical guidance.  How many unskilled adventurers can Australia take in one year?  How should we provide them with adequate housing, welfare and jobs?  What happens to our youth who will be displaced from that end of the job market?  What happens to refugees in camps around the world who are displaced by said adventurers?  What have you contributed personally on the issue, beyond providing us with a glimpse of what moral rectitude looks like and how useful it is?

I look forward to your response.  Because empty rhetoric is just annoying.Annie if they are brought onshore, where the airports are, David Manne and his like will have them before the courts for years.  Eventually a court will ignore the UNHCR guidelines and wave everyone through.  Easiest way for the judges to save themselves some bother, flick the problem back to the politicians.  Repeatedly.  Nothing constructive.  I regard our courts as having abrogated their responsibilities to the community through their actions.  I see the problem as demographic rather than individual.  I assume the courts have problems with such simple concepts.  We cannot solve the world's problems.  Happy to help out here and there but we cannot practically assume entire countries' problems as our own.  They must accept their own responsibilities.I am sure Ms Gillard would still be using the young and naive excuse at 36 TC.I understand your sentiment Mortan but it is way too early.  Abbott must persist to show that the Senate is unworkable in its current form (or not).  He needs to build up quite a few double dissolution triggers before he even thinks of calling an early election.  Then if people want to vote him out and vote in the same Labor party that is still incapable of coming to grips with why the voters turfed them comprehensively, as well as the odds and sods in the Senate then so be it.  They can rack up as much debt in pursuit of fairy dust as they want.  Let Labor, the Greens and their supporters' madness destroy their brand comprehensively.I very much doubt people smugglers get  to keep all of their ill-gotten gains.  A politician has expenses....To the best of my knowledge Soeharto did not leave politics as a poor man.  I don't think that people concerned about corruption would rush to embrace his former son-in-law.

For all its flaws Indonesians seem to like their democracy.  Prabowo wants to take it away from them, as well as the occasional cash benefits it offers.  I'd be very surprised if the same ruling families who were there under Soeharto weren't still in place now, you can't blame democracy for them.Be specific Dove.  Who on the crossbench do you take seriously?  I think Leyonhjelm, Day &amp; Xenophon have some idea of where they want to go on a lot of issues and should bring some thoughtful commentary to the party.  After that I'm scratching.  Wang has said he previously had no interest in politics, Lambie jumps around like a monkey on crack, Lazarus has gone shy, Muir will get his name ticked off the roll and not much more.  Where do you see value for the voter?I am not convinced.  If that was democracy in action we may as well place one-armed bandits in the polling booths as voting machines.  If three donkey votes come up you get six years of six-digit payouts, no work required beyond attending and voting.  Generous superannuation.  The system has been gamed.  Very few people voted for these lost souls.  Sure, a large proportion of the voters didn't want the majors but many fewer wanted the winners.

With Conroy the Labor voters would have been happy to get another reliable voter up.  They wouldn't care who it was.  How many non-major voters in Victoria are pleased Muir got up on a platform of barely thought out State issues?

I don't care too much who gets up (all right, I'm lying) but I want the people that get there to be have enough background knowledge and the capacity for work to come to grips with the issues.  Some of the current crop will not meet those expectations I believe.  I am not delighted to have Xenophon in the Senate but I can respect some of his points of view.  Lambie not so much.Amateur or not there seem to be a few people there that are out of their depth.  Ricky Muir needs more than propping up, he needs to be carried.  Jacqui Lambie seems to be struggling with a brain deficit.  Don't know about the Brick with Eyes - I thought he was intelligent but now he's signed up with Palmer.  I'll just have to wait until he and Wang speak up to get a better feeling for whether they are going to offer anything useful.  Best I don't get started on the Greens but at least they have some kind of structure to them that allows them to help their stragglers keep up.

My problem with such a disparate lot is that they will rely on stunts to keep their names before the public and damn the consequences.  The Greens suffer from the same attention deficit issues, resulting in Rhiannon acting to sabotage our trade with  the Middle East for a few headlines.Yep, just my first impressions.  But I didn't describe them as desparate, just pointing out their differences (Word for the Day!).Disdain for women?  Abbott wasn't at the CFMEU dinner where a number of Labor politicians thought certain jokes about Peta Credlin where unexceptional.  He wasn't laughing about Credlin's fertility issues.

The Coalition is not in a minority government.  No need to lie to Wilkie for his support, no need to buy off Oakeshott and Windsor.  If the Senate chooses to make Australia ungovernable the electorate will make its views known at the ballot box.

Given your ties to Labor I would be looking to reform them before criticising others if I was you.  Get them in a fit state to govern before praying for an early election.It is a genuine shame that you put the ascendance of your preferred political party so far above the welfare of the nation.  If you are intending to put the ALP up as an example of truth and honesty in action please do so selectively, lest people laugh at you.The Chinese investors who think some of their money has gone missing may have a different opinion I suppose.  That could upset a few of Palmer's machinations if the courts get involved.  Might be more sensible to keep some distance from Palmer if that turns out to be the case.  Perhaps Turnbull might want to be the conduit???Not sure about that being completely correct Jimmy.  Perhaps I'm being a bit elitist but to me an entertainer is one who works the same field repeatedly, churning out reproductions of old material without offering anything new.  People that work the leagues clubs would generally be entertainers.  For mine artists would be trying to extend themselves, at the least mixing in new stuff with the old.  I'm sure there would be crossovers, artists can retire to entertaining, entertainers can start to explore their craft, but for the most part I would separate artists and entertainers, unless I was trying to flatter or annoy.  Too picky?I really doubt that.  More likely it creates a buyers' market.  They could name their price.I prefer the contrary views of many of the posters here.  Sophie's position comes over as overemotional and just a bit silly.

I have no doubt many sex offenders are on a power trip.  Harris appears to be one of them.  His gifts are more dubious than Sophie suggests I expect.  But 'every' girl being groped is not an exaggeration???  Don't throw away your credibility so lightly Sophie, get an editor to look over your work.

The cult of celebrity may well have made predation much easier.  Not sure what to do about that.  In more cases the objects of mass affection are the willing prey rather than the predators.  Asking to sight birth certificates or other ID would be rude I expect.  Not asking for such leaves them open to having their lives trashed decades later.  This does not appear to be Harris's situation however.  He has been found guilty of acts that were predatory in nature.

I find your calls for constant vigilance on pedophilia a little disturbing.  For some years I have avoided contact with children because of the prevailing climate of suspicion.  Where previously it was easy to exchange a joke with some kid in the company of a parent and looking a bit left out now it is de rigeur to pretend they do not exist.  This is sad for our society.

Now you tell me it is impossible to feel sorry for a foolish old man, someone who may have even told himself he was doing no harm, whose life has been ruined by the exposure of his previous acts, at the same time as I feel sorry for the victims of child abuse.  Rubbish.  I know Harris's public persona and feel some connection with him from my own childhood.  That does not lessen my sympathy for victims, even though I do not know them.

Removing Harris's works from viewing at least temporarily is probably the correct thing to do, out of sympathy for the victims.  Is it hung in major galleries?  That would surprise me.  If it was then removing it from display would also be a sensible precaution against simpleminded vandals such as those who desecrated Savile's memorial.

The idea of destroying Harris's output is ridiculous.  Would you remove the work of a pedophile plumber?  What message would that send, that you are below normal intelligence?  The courts will reflect the population's disapproval of Harris's crimes.  People parading their own personal feelings on the issues may not be entirely trustworthy themselves.  But indulge yourself if you feel like it.

Bear in mind previous generations' moral panic over homosexuality.  Would anyone now endorse the destruction of the masterpieces of gay artists, had it occurred?  I doubt it.  The artist and his works are separate.Alge I am really curious as to exactly when the Labor meme flipped over from "We're in a terrible mess and it's all Howard's fault" to "Problem?  What problem?".  Is it fair to date this back to Stephen Koukoulas's efforts do you think?Relax Alge, not in your post.  It is a more general question.  It was striking to see Alpo following your line the other week and being immediately followed by another response to the same poster getting stuck into Howard for all the problems of the economy - tax cuts, structural problems etc.  It seems to have been a recent change of direction justifying obstruction of Coalition policies.  Have you not noticed this?We really need more currencies, not fewer.  Let different regions have their own currencies so that they can move in line with their regional economies.  Think how much better off Tasmania would be with apple shaped coins - they'd be devalued and undercut mainland States' businesses, as well as ruin the enamel of expensive-looking cars.  WA would pay a price for its minerals boom but that would facilitate a more natural redistribution of wealth with less Federal government intervention.  Do you imagine they wouldn't like to boast about the strength of their own currency?  (Bloody West Australians).  California could have its own currency, perhaps borrowing from the nickname of the Canadian dollar.  Etc.  It would facilitate more rapid capital flows to struggling regional economies.  And reduce dishonest practices by Federal governments in manipulating their currencies.Yank I think we'd have a carbon tax in some form if Gillard's tax wasn't seen to have been illegitimate.  I don't think Labor argued their case properly and they went against election promises that they would re-examine the case towards 2013, after the citizens committee etc brought about consensus.  I thought Wong was weak in promoting the cause.  She never tried to present the science or work to garner support beyond her side of politics.  That may not have been her fault, she may have needed more support from her party machine.  But for me it just seemed a policy that wasn't wanted by the electorate was foisted on us without proper preparation.  Blaming it on the Greens was simple expedience and seen as such.  Forget about 'there will be no carbon tax...'  that was just the topper.  The carbon tax was all about wedge politics and Labor's egotism - "World Leaders!".  The fact that they raised money that they thought they could use to buy votes by overcompensation was another attractant for them.

Not trying to be partisan.  Abbott should learn the lesson from Labor's problems over this type of legislating.  But I am sure he will not.I'd be more impressed if you tried to put up a theory of the relationships between the potential causes rather than just make assertions JB.  Not trying to pick on you but there seem to be a lot of people unpacking articles of faith and calling them science.  I note my friend Malcolm sticks to the safety of the thicket in relying on (mild) insults rather than explain his own thinking.If you are suggesting politics wasn't the driver for Labor in becoming World Leaders in introducing our carbon tax I would have to disagree.  Rudd made the issue a political football and Labor have used it as such ever since.  For reasons I have tried to put to The Yank above I saw Labor's efforts as lazy policy.  If they were unable to carry the voters with them they have only themselves to blame.Hee hee, an experiment to see how gullible arts students were?  Not too many arts departments could afford those people's castoffs and not too many students could fit into Mother Teresa's cardies.

To be fair Gary Glitter's music was of its day, not built to be a durable manufacture.  He is now busily, bitterly trashing the shreds of his brand.  It would be hard to associate yourself with his strange anger in the name of nostalgia.  I confess that I am distracted by your different tastes in music (not being rude, I am no believer in One True Music!) and I can only imagine the LostProphets allusion.If we use Hitler as a benchmark for evil his artwork of dubious quality is being traded reasonably regularly.  It seems the only thing they have to offer is their association with the former dictator.  They seem to trade around the $10,000 mark.

Sorry Mr Godwin.  Had to be mentioned.  I wasn't arguing.I probably shouldn't comment off such a low knowledge base but I will.

Rolf Harris has always been apart from the mainstream.  Throughout his public life he has played the role of the annoying uncle whose false jollity has made him someone to avoid at family gatherings.  He has not courted fashion, he has been his own man.  He has always been an entertainer rather than an artist, whether with paint, voice or building materials.  There was a cleverness about his simple performances but I got no perception of depth.  That is not to deny his talents (I lack the metrics to judge art beyond what appeals to me).  For his art to have a market value after his disgrace it needs to be strong enough to stand on its own, to speak for itself.  Could Picasso have done anything in his lifetime to destroy the power of Guernica?  I don't think so.  I doubt Harris had the expertise or ideas to breath such life into his work.  So it will likely die with him.

I am not trying to be dismissive of Harris.  Anyone who works in the arts and makes a comfortable living will be forced to make compromises I suppose.  But I don't presume Harris had the initial talents and ideas to compromise - he was just an entertainer trying to make a living.  Good luck to him.

I sometimes channel surfed over his art programs.  There was no denying his generosity of spirit and no huge display of ego.  He was apparently happy to be thought of as merely human.  I leave it for others to comment on his technical expertise, I cannot judge.

Glad I wasn't on the jury.  The defence counsel managed to muddy the waters just enough for me, having had views on his eccentricities.

It seems to be the practice for people found guilty of nefarious crimes to be addressed once as Mr then forever after by their surnames.  It is interesting to see the number of posters here using variations of Harris's first name.

Could these convictions be the making of Harris as an artist?  Can we expect a Black Period, with  his work imbued with the values of bitterness and remorse?  Probably not.  This will be the end of his public life I expect, whatever the results of the sentencing and appeal.  One of Jimmy Saville's incidental victims?Do sports stars get away with more?  I wouldn't have thought so, not these days.  If you or I had enjoyed a drunken indiscretion in similar circumstances there'd be no market for the photos (I hope).  We'd be much less likely to do the rounds of social media and the celebrity-chewing tabloids.

Carney has likely lost his livelihood because of this.  Do you think this prank deserves such amplification and the consequences about to rain down on him (continuing with the liquid imagery)?I don't think you will succeed in outraging too many here today Lauren.  But I doubt Todd was engaged in watersports for fun and satisfaction.  That would imply a level of sophistication that I think may be beyond him for a few years yet.

I am disappointed Cronulla is letting him go.  He won them a rare match on Friday and has skills in him not yet extinguished by a regular diet of beer.  I can't believe any parent would hold Todd up as a role model for their kids.  His value as fair as parents go is as an example - "if you don't stop drinking and inking you'll end up peeing in your face like Todd and then no one will want to kiss you".  His value is in being an amiable idiot.

Yep all professional sportsmen are at risk of falling victim to too much spare cash and spare time.  The need to pull outrageous stunts to amuse their similarly overburdened mates must be extreme.  I would class Todd's act as stupid but harmless.  You will no doubt be deluged (bring a raincoat) by readers sharing their recollections of former Indian PM Morarji Desai's morning repast of a healthy glass of urine, rich in melatonin (I think).  Perhaps he had already given up on his dream of a career playing league in first grade by then but the practice seems to have done him little harm.  Did he leave potential untapped?  We will never know.

But back to Todd, a much superior halfback.  He has not demeaned anyone but himself.  Yes he may have left the floor more slippery underfoot but I doubt he has increased any cleaner's workload.  No one was intimidated.  I expect he amused one person at least.  He did not seek to broadcast his efforts at saving water that would otherwise have been required for washing and flushing.  Nor is there any evidence that he inhaled.

I concede Cronulla has had issues with its culture in the past and that heavy restrictions would have been placed on Todd when they signed him but I hope they will reconsider the decision that could well ruin a young idiot's life.  Can someone please start a petition?I can't see the Greens' decision on excise as anything but political bony one.  They will do their best to make the Abbott government unworkable, no matter what the consequences for the country.  Fewer roads equals more congestion, a lot more idling engines and an exponential increase in pollution.  An own goal on the environment and a really bad look for the Greens.

There was a period when the Greens under Brown voted against all but two Howard laws or abstained from voting.  This is reminiscent of that period of mindless obstructionism.  It is a high risk game.  If they don't succeed in damaging Abbott et al they will shoot their feet into a memory.  I see them as silly little people, self-obsessed self-aggrandisers.  I'll be glad to see the back of them.Labor (2006) and the Coalition (Fraser, Abbott) have taken obstructionist courses before but never to the extent of the Greens.  The majors see the need to be positive on some issues or risk damaging their electoral stocks.  Perhaps the Greens can rely on no one taking them seriously.It is a conundrum Dove.  To wean people off their cars would require a massive investment to bring public transport up to scratch.  It could never be economic in Australia's spread out cities so how do you justify ongoing subsidisation?  Perhaps light rail could be utilised more.  That shouldn't need as big a spend but seems to be slow and better suited to local trips.  Longer term it might make sense to tax petrol at higher rates and drive the demand for smaller more fuel efficient vehicles.  My limited imagination can't see electric cars coming to dominate give the toxicity of the elements required for batteries and the environmental damage in mining them (emission intensive!).  Similar issues with sourcing the power from photovoltaics.  Such policies would need the agreement of all sides of politics.  Can't see that happening unless we see other nations taking steps in those directions first, given the cost of development and our lower economies of scale.  I have mentioned before I rely on my legs and public transport.Ideology is not what propels the Greens.  It is all about promoting themselves and their party.  The excise decision makes no sense in terms of conservation and pollution.  Poorer roads lead to more emissions from idling motors.I can't imagine getting up early to get a slap at the Greens if that reassures you.  It's more like you are walking down the street and a $5 note is gently being blown towards you.  You bend down, pick it up and put it in your pocket.  You smile, even though you know $5 won't buy you anything more than a newspaper or a cup of coffee these days.

You should be just as annoyed by the Greens' regurgitation of tired, debunked and inaccurate factoids if you were sincere.  It seems though you hold them dear.  It is this constant denial of reality by the Greens that invites their persecution.  I find their conceit that economics is irrelevant when it conflicts with Green ideology particularly egregious.  It is not their mistakes that annoy me so much as their weak attempts at sophistry and spin.  Of course people are going to want to respond to such wilful misrepresentation of the truth as they perceive it.  They rely on the ignorance of the young for their survival.  You can't just let them get away with their fibs.

I do believe the Greens have deserted the high moral ground  in the hope of stealing territory through cynical manoeuvring.  Fair enough, others do it too.  But they can't take exception when others see them trying to keep a foot in each camp and point out the ridiculousness of their situation.

Look, I am doubly blessed today.  I'll split this $5 with you.  We can go windowshopping for cake, just in case another windfall tomorrow bridges the gap in our cake budget.I'm sure Mr Medcraft's Labor connections were fairly helpful in 2011 when he was appointed to head up ASIC by Ms Gillard's government.  But you can't blame ASIC for cronyism on that account, that was a government decision.I am curious as to where you would prefer to live Charles.  And what is keeping you here.I'd be shocked if China stepped in.  There is no immediate threat to them, they are not concerned about how other governments treat their citizens and it would go against their propaganda about not invading neighbours (dubious I know).  For China to involve themselves would be to tacitly legitimise other countries passing judgment on the Chinese government's internal workings and human rights abuses.

A practical problem would be that as soon as China crossed the border into DPRK there would be a flood of North Korean civilians trying to go the other way, partly to avoid the conflict and partly to improve their economic circumstances.  China has invested a lot of time and money deporting North Koreans from China back to their homeland, in full knowledge of the consequences for those people.  China simply doesn't care.  Human rights are very low on their list of priorities, unless someone criticises their practices.

The Americans would be insane to intervene.  That would likely provoke the Chinese to intervene on the North Korean side to protect their own borders.  And there would be a real risk of nuclear attack on South Korea and Japan, as well as the likelihood of the North Koreans destroying dams situated close to Seoul to cause as much damage as possible.  I can't see the Americans having any stomach for the fight either, unless their allies are attacked or placed under serious threat.

I'm afraid the only practical solution is for the North Koreans to sort out their own problems.  I can't see civilians rising up.  It will have to come from the army, if enough generals can organise a coup before they are purged and executed.  I don't assume that a military dictatorship would be much of an improvement though.  Perhaps the country needs to collapse to be reborn.Would it not be fairer to make the mother responsible for the consequences of her alcohol abuse?I don't understand your comment.  How could people not understand the damage alcohol and other substance abuses do to many remote communities?  The media cover the issue extensively.  People must similarly know the dangers of excessive drinking in pregnancy.  Or are you suggesting aboriginal women are incapable of understanding the issues?  Be careful who you make those suggestions to.

I have long ago given up pointing out the obvious to people (you're an exception).  For the most part they either ignore or take offence when you suggest they are doing the wrong thing.  So on their heads be it.  Don't expect me to pay more for my limited intake of alcohol because others refuse to address their own issues.  Nothing to do with self-righteousness (have you looked in a mirror lately?).  Jailing people won't change behaviours, however criminal I might regard these actions.  Somehow you seem to be the one exuding an air of superiority Nhoj.  Not sure why, you aren't making any useful suggestions.I am not telling you anything in saying the Commonwealth can make laws with respect to Aboriginals under the Constitution.  And they can basically fund anything they want.  Maybe even chaplains.  Should they fund only the 30% though?  It would be hard to justify excluding the 70%, although the writers do not show their presumed concern for them.  

Yet again we see a situation where people are trying to escalate their special causes up the ladder of priorities.  I don't have a problem with this but I would like to see some acknowledgment of the limits of public funding now and then.  In my own suburb there is a woman in a wheelchair who is agitating to have a lift up to the train platform.  Fair enough.  Such things weren't thought of in 1898.  But it is a hilly suburb and few disabled people live there, probably a consequence of the hills.  There are lifts on stations each side of this station.  The agitator gets vouchers for half price cab fares.  The minister is going to address the community next week.  Would the minister come to deliver bad news?  I very much doubt it.  NSW taxpayers will stump up maybe a million and a minister will get her photo in the newspapers.  I would have thought this case is not a priority.  Rosie's case would be more of a priority in her State but whether such a facility deserves priority over other causes I can't say.I suggest you search the ABC site for the story as reported on one of their current affairs programs.  Rosie was at real risk for reasons I posted in my reply to Terry (not published).  She was tolerated for a while then, used, then driven off with violence.  My impression was that her life was at risk.  I would like to know how the facilities preferred by the writers differ from prison.  I am not sure concentrating people with mental health issues in the one place would be beneficial to them.  That is not my judgment, that is more a question left unanswered.

Nor am I convinced your apparent preference for prohibition is a better solution.  I am happy to leave it up to individual communities to make those decisions, even knowing that those decisions are only partially successful.

I don't mind your sarcasm but suggest you get a better idea of who the people posting on this site are before making your assumptions.  They make you look a bit silly.I am curious as to how closely PUP voters follow the news, male and female.  Surely he exposed his character to the world long before he was voted in?  Must be a Queensland thing.He was sharing the stage with Al Gore.  That will ensure everyone's prejudices are reinforced.I would normally lean that way as well Steve - let him speak and let the audience show a culturally appropriate appreciation at the end of it (BYO stones).  It would be interesting to me to hear Mr Badar expand on his views on the Caliphate, the place of the Shi'a in that Caliphate, how he would deal with his problem with women, what to do with people who have different views on the value of religion etc.  The kind of ideas that might prove fatal if he took the wrong line in the Caliphate he so hungers for, his best chance to achieve the domination he has so far proved unworthy for.

But going by his previous blogs here Uthman is not interested in genuine debate.  He is a provocateur with no respect for the West.  I believe his aim would be to stir up outrage, to widen the divide between communities, not to engage in open and honest discourse.  If he is an intellectual he is an intellectual of the stone throwing variety.  Nothing the law can do will stop him trying to stir up trouble in his own community.  That community is not receptive to outside criticism of the ideas of Uthman, it would only strengthen wrong thinking and feelings of persecution.

If people want to listen to him I have no objection (psst, ASIO, over there.  And check out that guy in the front row).  I just don't see the point in gifting an audience to a man who uses the idea of murdering women and young men to overcome social embarrassment as a marketing tool.That is a reasonable POV.  I just don't see any good coming from giving this guy a wider audience so that he can outrage them.  Imagine what Alan Jones and the rest of the shock jocks would do with his performance.  Why give them the opportunity to ramp up yet more division?People have their own lives to live.  Why should they have to justify or apologise every time a trouble maker decided to have some fun?  Do you want each community leader to be forced to respond each time an ******** decided to cause outrage or would a round half-dozen suit your purposes?  The same half-dozen each time or a revolving roster?

Every person is responsible for his own idiocy.  Otherwise I would not know who to apologise to for various politicians of my ethnicity.  Besides why should these leaders make themselves a target for radicals or expend their credibility with their communities trying to appease you?

More often silence signifies 'I wish people would just go away and stop bothering me'.Have the Festival's promoters cynically used Badar's reputation to market their enterprise I wonder?  What changed their minds otherwise?How seriously do you take a draft document leaked by someone with an agenda sjack?  You don't know who prepared the draft or what the agenda of the leaker is but you are happy to embrace it as something on the verge of being ticked off by a gullible government.  There are public servants that pore over these things sjack.  Pretty much the same people that worked with the previous government.  They are not going to suddenly take leave of their senses and toss drafts back over the desk, saying"I trust you, I'm sure it's all right".

Get serious.As I tried to say to Kerrie no one trusts their governments.  Where is the deregulation coming from in the banking sector?  I keep mentioning Basel III.  That is continuing to tighten regulation of banks around the world (sorry Kenj, that polite reply was blocked).  Granted you wouldn't know that from reading this story but that is the fact.  Yes people blame the repeal of the Glass Steagal Act for playing a part in the GFC but many of its measures are being reintroduced.  I agree with you, every month I am reminded the GFC is ongoing.  It used make me break out in a hollow laugh when earnest bloggers assured us Wayne Swan saved us from the GFC.

The government doesn't have plans yet, they are still negotiating.  It might all come to nothing.  That may well be the best outcome.  But to try and cause fear and loathing to stop even explanatory talks seems ridiculous to me.(Hint:  they don't want to undermine those protections.  Don't believe the tripe.  Or even the hype).You don't think shareholders, directors and governments would have become a little more risk averse since the GFC?  I can't imagine a CEO taking a large-scale takeover to his Board for approval any time soon.  There may well incentives to grow the business as you say but who would be prepared to fund it, even if it was approved?  For one thing very few major international banks have raised enough capital to meet their tougher prudential requirements, let alone raise mad money.

Please don't ignore the role of US politicians in loosening the regulation of their banking system and encouraging the repeated use of the Greenspan put to keep the economy booming and save their worthless political hides.  The same people who were happy to grandstand by bringing naughty bankers into the Senate and giving them a jolly hard time.Hmm, why do they need secrecy?  Let me think.  Could it be  because of the rank political pointscoring we see here?  The disregard for the national interest we see exhibited by the Lee Rhiannons of the world in seeking to further her political interests with complette disregard for the risk of doing harm to the nation?  Could that be it?

Seriously wait until there is something more concrete put together so you have an idea of what can be gained and at what cost.  Then go for your life.  But to negotiate all this stuff in public gives free rein to all the people with agenda to scaremonger and act out their primal fears, making the chances of fully exploring potentially beneficial reforms impossible.Pesky democracy will have its say at the ballot box.  One of the considerations, a very minor one I suspect, will be the treaties the government of the day has signed off on.  If you have some contributions to make to the discussion based on your reading of the draft have your say.  I doubt I would have the knowledge to make a useful contribution, not that ignorance usually bothers me.  Personally I doubt any of the contributions would be much chop, having read through the comments here.  It just seems to be another venue for political barracking.Oh my goodness.  How will it help the locals to encourage more competition in our market?  What doors are left to fling open for foreign competitors?  What new avenues for rorting will foreign banks suddenly find opening up for them?  If we are so susceptible to transfer pricing why have foreign banks abandoned us post-GFC in an  attempt to consolidate in their home countries?  Wouldn't they cut their struggling operations first?

You are obviously an intelligent man John.  Ask yourself why you are so eager to lap up such flimsy material?  I just can't believe so many here are accepting Patricia's claims at face value rather than thinking for themselves.  Our banks were amongst the world's most highly capitalised pre-GFC.  Now they are required to carry probably 70% more capital on their balance sheets.  Foreign banks are working their way in the same direction.  That means a lot of lazy capital, as well as reduced risk from that direction.  Whatever the next great fiscal collapse I doubt it will occur again from the same direction.  Not next time anyway.The whole issue is just another beat up AGB.  Basel III ensures banks around the world must meet higher prudential standards, whatever the writer pretends.  Foreign banks are struggling to meet the new requirements.  They were here in numbers pre-GFC but fled soon after.  There is nothing to stop them coming back.  When they were here they attacked different sectors of the market.  Come 2007/08 they quickly left and lost a lot of money in the process.  The idea that they can simply re-enter the market and do with it as they will ignores history and reality.

You are right, consumers should welcome increased competition.  But because the Abbott government is involved in the negotiations this is suddenly a terrible thing.  I find it all somewhat laughable.  I agree with you on the trade-off bit.Happy to see the Parliament debate the completed agreement then take it or leave it.  But selective wikileaks should be ignored in the meantime.I just don't see how you could conduct extensive multilateral negotiations, going through chapter and verse with many countries, reach an acceptable agreement then call them all back together and tell them Mr Shorten says we can go ahead if we change this, this and this.  We would be laughed at.

Wikileaks can be manipulated to portray false scenarios and paint dark conspiracies.  I can't take them seriously.Oh for goodness sake.  Year in and year out the brave bloggers on The Drum have attempted to push our major banks over at every opportunity and sink the metaphorical slipper.  Now some proposal is made that might introduce more competition into our banking market and the bank haters turn to water.  All of a sudden they turn into reflexive protectionists.  67% of the respondents to The Drum's recent poll want to stop the nasty foreigners invading our market.  Honestly, how ridiculous.  If it was a Labor proposal the numbers would be the other way.

Why are the talks "secret" Patricia?  To try and avoid loopiness and political point scoring I imagine.  The kind of stuff at the core of your article.  Has there been any suggestion Basel III be overturned?  Of course not.  So where will this deregulation you overregulators so fear creep in?  What barriers will fall if your TISA comes into operation?  Surely foreign banks are as welcome now as they were before the GFC?  Did their presence bring down our own banks?  A ridiculous proposition.  Our majors were impacted by liquidity issues brought on by counterparty risk but that was not a consequence of foreign banks operating here.

As far as I am aware the four pillars does not prevent any one of the majors from being taken over.  It won't happen.  Our banks are amongst the most expensive globally at the moment.  Foreign banks are for the most part still struggling to meet even their easier Basel III requirements.  Can anyone imagine them raising cash for a foreign adventure, particularly one that might require their local subsidiaries to meet our tougher requirements?  If they wanted to expand they could buy much cheaper banks in their own backyards for a lot less and with lower levels of risk.  But there are a lot of banks on offer overseas at the moment and few takers.  Even our cashed up banks avoid them.

I gather the drafting of FOFA was of the brutalist school.  Overkill not elegance.  As a result uncertainty was increased rather than reduced.  But feel free to scaremonger on the subject and pretend all protections will be removed.  It just makes you look silly is all.

Ultimately the threat to our major banks is more likely to come from the evolving rats and mice of the banking world likely to attempt to disaggregate the banking market and make off with the pieces via the internet.  The Googles and Paypals and even the Ozforexes of the world.  Your concerns about brick and mortar banks come over as simple fearmongering to press your own agenda.  Forget about looking over there.  Look over here instead.See paragraph 2 Mitor.  Can you imagine trying to conduct multilateral talks in the open, with all the interested parties, sane and insane, perched on your shoulder having an input?  A recipe for a nasty headache and an early night.  The other participants would have their own domestic audiences to appease.  There would need to be numerous options explored before agreements could be reached, if we give you that we would need to have this, on and on.  But people with political axes to grind would not want any point conceded, no matter what was on offer.  Political opponents too often would rather damage was done to the nation rather than see a government claim a victory.  Not trying to be partisan here, all sides do it.There is no treatment for loopiness that I am aware of Ken, if that is what you are referring to.  Do you really care if people, even governments, have secrets?  Or are you quite happy to have the intimate facts of your life open to all?

If international banks want to trade in that end of the market that is up to them and their regulators.  In the US at least some of their banks are proscribed from trading in such instruments I gather.  Glass Steagal measures are being reintroduced.  Local banks largely avoided them.  NAB got caught up somewhat but from memory that was some kind of collateral deal rather than a profit-making endeavour.  If international banks fall over through ineptitude there will be consequences for counterparties but they should be manageable - banks back off from further exposure when they read the signals.  If you insist on placing your savings with Cayman Island banks no one is going to stop you.  I don't know why you would do it unless you were chasing above market returns and damn the risk.  When was the last time a depositor in an Australian bank lost money in the way you describe?  (Pyramid wasn't a bank).

I share your discomfort re quantitative easing measures around the globe.  I won't be keeping my savings in RMB, if that reassures you.No suggestions from me.  I am glad major media organisations have pulled their people out.  If that creates a news vacuum that draws in freelancers that is unfortunate but it is hard to see how we/they could ban the publishing of freelancers' work once they are in place.  They would be at least marginally more reliable than the participants.

So what drives the freelancers?  Are battlegrounds the only place they can make money?  Is it the hope of becoming famous and creating a career after that?  Is it vainglory and a need to be recognised?  Are they driven or foolhardy?  I mean no disrespect, they do valuable work.  But kidnapping is the only chance for many terrorists and those around terrorists to make a hell of a lot of money and its seems impossible to protect people in those circumstances.  There have been reports of some people who are plainly clueless putting themselves and those around them at risk.

What can we do?  Change channels or read a book?  Educate our children better???  I have no idea.I wish you the blessings of Russian democratic values one day Dubious.  Not here of course, I'd much prefer our substandard democratic values, but you deserve the best.Johnno I am pretty sure the profitable part of Qantas is exactly that, a half-price, no frills, no service BYO airline.  Don't bother turning up late.

How many people actually support our national carrier financially?  Not so many, at least not before Malaysian had its problems.  Are you ex-Qantas staff by any chance?

How is getting rid of Joyce going to fix the problems caused by a strong dollar, a high wage structure and government-subsidised competitors?  What changes would you like to see his successor bring in?Whereas socialism achieves incompetence and failure by looking after its mates.Not so much racist as annoying.  Apparently 'might be' is the acceptable standard of proof for today's eager young academic.From the opposite side of the political fence I share your dislike of Palmer.  But you are correct in pointing out Palmer's tanty was directed at the Chinese government and its state-owned enterprises, not Chinese people at large.  Presumably the Chinese press are just as happy to misinterpret remarks to appeal to their readership as our own.My friend I do not know any aboriginals.  I don't get the chance to discriminate against them, even if I wanted to.  When I did drive cabs I once picked up a young aboriginal firebrand (in those days).  He would not talk to me.  I was not upset.  (How are you these days Gary?).  Others I met I reacted to positively and negatively, just as I would every other passenger.  If they were drunks I probably reacted negatively, just the same as any other passenger.  That is as it should be, people being judged on how they present themselves rather than their skin colour.  Unless you disagree?

You can't give yourself brownie points.  Here, give them to me.This is a very unconvincing piece of writing.  As many have written the most likely cause of the coffee shop incident is that the recently arrived owner was airing his own prejudices rather than an assessment of the mindset of the inner city clientele, more likely to be eager to show their liberal tendencies, given the younger age and mixed cultures on offer.  Unless perhaps it was an early opener coffee shop.

The Malaysian student anecdote doesn't ring true I'm afraid.  I am not doubting those were her impressions but I am not sure they were well-founded.  It would have been helpful to hear what her experiences were and with whom she had interacted rather than just her judgment.  There is a large Malaysian Chinese community here and among the people I mix with racism is not an issue they raise.  Could the young lady's sensitivity be what led her to creative writing?  An introspective bent?  The need for secrecy seems odd at least.  From this distance I suspect other issues are at play.  FWIW I do empathise with her.

My own impression is that racism is most prevalent amongst those feeling disempowered.  I remember driving cabs in the eighties.  A fare was a fare in those days and I was grateful for them.  One day I picked up a couple of Aboriginal labourers in the rain.  Talking to one of them he said that Greek and Italian cabbies wouldn't pick up Aboriginals.  How true that was I can't say, it was just a comment made.  It did occur that people struggling to establish themselves in a new society might often try to do so by keeping their foot on the head of those below them on the ladder.  When people become more secure of their place in the world they are more relaxed about differences.  Happy for others to express a different point of view here.

I also believe personality plays a large part in how others react to us.  If we are shrinking violets we are easy prey for those who feel the need to impress others.  If we are more magnetic and people want to be around us it wouldn't matter how we looked, we would rarely be subjected to racism.

Similarly people who call each other idiots etc on these pages are displaying their own insecurities.Not sure about the KKK.  As I understand it Queensland has had some very odd extremist groups taking root there in the past, out in the regions.  Or perhaps that was people trying to paint a picture.The city is a collection of communities each with their own distinctive cultures.  You can't extrapolate from one area to the rest.  I am curious how you figure out whether people are reacting to your race rather than you personally?Are you an Australian toot?  I'm sure lots of friendly stockbrokers would be delighted to jam your email inbox with offers.  Some of them might even make money.Many companies don't have a use for the extra funds (thanks for the offer).  To issue more shares to just put the money on deposit would destroy value rather than add to it.  Just stick the money on deposit and look at buying them on market at a time of your choosing rather than at fixed times of the year beyond your control.  Saves on record-keeping as well.You do have the option of selling shares to take up your entitlement.  Not much use for small shareholders (myself included) but sometimes it works out well when the discount is big enough.  It eventually worked out well post the GFC, though the losses incurred in selling shares to take up more would have dragged on tax receipts for quite a few years.That sounds much more sensible to me.  Large companies have no trouble raising funds at reasonable discounts on the sharemarket if they come up with a good investment proposition.  Holding extra cash in case they might want to buy something one day would worsen a company's reported earnings rather than enhance them.  Not good for an incentivised CEO.I really don't think there are a lot of investment opportunities for corporates at the moment.  At some stage there will be a lot of mergers and acquisitions starting to occur but with the economy still misfiring I just don't see the incentive to rush in.  For reasons I mentioned in my reply to hobbit.  Consumers are still cautious with their money.  Until that shows signs of turning around why would corporates want to invest in new capacity?  So if companies aren't investing it is better to return the cash to shareholders and improve their ratios.  I'm sure you're right in suggesting low interest rates play a part in that decision but companies will still be marked down for having too much debt on their books.

Remember too that a lot of capital was raised by companies during the GFC to shore up balance sheets.  Now that the worst of it is over and investors are gaining more confidence (despite my best efforts) a lot of that now excess capital is being returned in the form of dividends and returns of capital.  Foreign investors don't benefit directly from buybacks that use franking credits as the lure - are you referring to on-market buybacks?  Foreign investors are more likely to just sell on the stock exchange and repatriate their funds when they see a better opportunity elsewhere.I wish you a safe journey Neil.  No, for some reason I don't understand I still put a value on my life and I wouldn't want to put it within easy reach of a lunatic (not you obviously).  (Politely) is your mission consistent with sanity?

Good luck just the same.Havasay if you want to be taken seriously don't quote union-, Labor- or Green-sponsored research from Essential Media as evidence of anything.Come on John, give reality a big warm hug for a change.  Show it that you care.

Tax cuts don't need to be permanent.  They can be reversed.  Howard and Costello would have been better able to do that given their track records but evidently the thought never occurred to Rudd or Swan.  The latter were already (2006/07) periodically muttering about how excess funds should be returned to taxpayers.  I don't doubt that they were just covering both bases but you cannot ignore the political risk of building up a big warchest in the good times - you just provide you political opponents with an armoury of slings and arrows with which to attack you.  Plus Labor could have - would have - made grand plans to piddle such money away, confident that new money would continue to fall from the skies forever.  Do you think they could have bought a few more votes with those promises?  I think so.

I agree cheap foreign money was largely responsible for the global boom and that that spilled over into Australia.  Remember all the talk of 'new paradigms'?  Does that sound vaguely Ruddian to you?

I fail to understand why you think governments should retain businesses forever.  They don't run them very well and they get an unfair advantage over privately owned businesses in the form of very cheap interest rates.  You remember of course that you don't like cheap money.  In the past government owned enterprises were held hostage by unions and became semi-welfare organisations.  Sit down and think whether you want competition in the economy or an economy dominated by governments.  I prefer the former.

I remember reports of the States loving federalism under Howard.  Rather than being starved of funds they had to backstroke to stay afloat in all the liquidity.  Seriously, COAG was a happy place.

Didn't Rudd give a tax cut in the shadow of the GFC Costello had warned Labor about?  The later tax cuts went to the top income group because the lower income groups were already paying so little tax.  Lower income brackets were showered with middle class welfare measures instead.  You know all this already, why try and distort the facts to confuse those easily led?

Beasley had already spent his allocation of credibility by that stage.  It is probably a bit dangerous to accuse others of arguing from self-interest, those kinds of claim are readily turned around for the most part.WHTF at the time I thought it was foolish to use borrowed money to keep the economy racing along at boom time pace.  Nothing to do with hindsight.  I believed it would be more effective to stimulate when the economy had settled.  We pay politicians to make considered decisions, we don't pay them to panic and exhaust their/our magazines trying kill shadows.  The stimulus measures were poorly targeted.  The resulting debt will weigh on us for a decade at least (more likely two).  It saved Labor the political embarrassment of a recession but at great cost, even to your children.Hah.  Have a word with John51 above, he accused Howard of not hoarding enough money Dazza.  Interest rates rose in 2007 because Glenn Stevens panicked about the CPI rising above his target range, due to high prices for some goods such as petrol and bananas (cyclone).  Neither of those prices were responsive to higher interest rates.  It was a really stupid decision by Stevens, one that his predecessor MacFarlane would not have made IMO.I will finish reading the article later Danny but the RBA only controls monetary policy.  The government of the day has control over fiscal policy.  The RBA often employs monetary policy to redress issues it has with the government's fiscal policy, raising rates to mop up government excesses.Stiglitz is a joke for mine.  He is praising Rudd etc for implementing the same policies he recommended to the Americans.  They worked better here because of our debt-free starting point, not because Swan or Rudd had a clue.  The idiocy of our adoption of the roof insulation measures put together by the Americans for their more extreme climate should be obvious to all.  Not trying to be provocative Reinhard, I was deeply unimpressed by Stiglitz in his public performances here recently.

Sorry to pick nits but we did not have a recession, not technically.  But by laying in as much debt as we have we have all the material needed for a recession soon enough.  That may not be a terrible thing, other than politically.It has been a very ugly process.  I doubt the penalty offered would have been so light if authorities could have proved illegal substances were injected.  They offered a penalty so light that it had to be accepted.  So the authorities can claim scalps but in truth they have only trimmed mullets in hand.  Perhaps the process was tainted from the start by Clare and Lundy's blackest day in sport stunt.  This looks like it compromised the investigation before it could get properly underway.  Customs confiscating Gallen's phone just gave the whole process a farcical look.  Not that it will happen but the authorities owe the Sharks a deep apology for the harassment of players and staff over more than a season.  Clubs that are better resourced were barely troubled."Distort events and lie to the public".  Replace lie with mislead and I am pretty sure every politician will see that as his duty.  We all understand that surely?If the gap is widening as you say I wonder whether this is a reaction to the GFC?  The natural response would be to rein in spending and accumulate in case things worsen again.  In happier economic times the urge to spend becomes stronger, in the expectation that the good times will continue to roll on.  When the money stops moving around everyone  suffers but the poorest would be more sensitive to economic pain.It was odd that the press repeatedly referred to Zimmerman as a white Peruvian, referring to his mixed parentage.  For reasons I haven't figured out folk with some African heritage are only referred to as black.  Obama identifies as black and is seen in that light.  Not trying to make a point but it was odd that Zimmerman's heritage was given such prominence.  To fit the meme I suppose.Another logic fail Graeme.  You are happy to pass judgment in the absence of all the evidence.  You seem to be afflicted with a hatred of conservatives.Can you imagine the consequences of levying capital gains tax on homes?  People that had lived in their homes for a decade or two would be liable for very large CGT payments if they ever sold up to move.  They wouldn't downsize, they'd stay in the family home until they were carried out.  That would freeze up the property market.  The biggest impact would be on the middle classes, people whose  main asset is their home.  As for starving people with a home and few other assets I don't think that is in line with community expectations.  And you accuse the Coalition of wanting to scalp the elderly!

Are you a renter by any chance?I'd rather own my own home and be able to live off my superannuation and other savings Realist.  I never want to have to go cap in hand to Centrelink if I can avoid it.  Taking a pension would be an admission of failure as far as I am concerned.  Older people with low super balances may not be able to afford pride though.I agree governments don't see retirement housing as a priority and even if they did the States don't have the cash to make a sustained investment.  As for investors obviously no profit = who cares.  

But what would your franchise be worth?  My guess is not much.  If you have governments not having any skin in the game apart from the responsibility to regulate you can bet they'd regulate good and hard.  Very hard to make a commercial proposition out of the investment when you have governments breathing down your neck all day and night.  Therefore no new investment.

Perhaps government would be better employed researching what is available and helping people make the best decision of the options open to them.  I think one of the smaller trustee companies already does something useful along those lines, Equity Trustees Ltd from memory.  Might even be for minimal or no cost (all right, that might be wishful thinking).I wish you well Trev, it is a stressful process.  I wouldn't rush into the move if you enjoy living where you do and can manage okay but make the move while you are still able-bodied and better able to handle the transition.  Might be hard to adjust to after living in a large home just the same, even though some of them seem fairly pleasant.  Could free you up for more travel if that is your wont.

I have some sympathy for the operators I confess.  I remember one fairly large diversified group got out of the business having had difficulties with residents who had little to do apart from wander around and suggest improvements.  Not that they would pay for them.  The phrase champagne tastes and beer budgets was employed.  Dealing with a lot of older people, many of whom are losing the plot but resistant to transitioning to another phase of care must be tough work.Pardon my cynicism Taff++ but I think you are confusing the role of a journalist with that of someone more interested in bringing about reform.  The principal role of a journalist is to write something interesting in a deploring tone and then get a cheque for that night's booze and cigarettes.  Actually helping fix a problem could prove disastrous for their personal economy.

But I do appreciate your attempts at being constructive, for what that is worth.Very few kids would have the money or think that is the best option for their savings.  On a practical level the co-ownership would lead to the kids being taxed as investors, potentially jeopardise the parents' pensions, remove a lot of the discounts on rates and utilities available to senior citizens.  Better to get a loan from the kids and give them a mortgage perhaps???  Might be something people would want sensible advice on anyway.

If retirement village operators were making out like bandits there would be a lot more competition in the sector I suggest.  If you are that distrustful you may need to make your own arrangements.Kim Jong Un.  Clive Palmer.  Sumo suits.  Now.  Name your ticket price.  There will be no losers in the viewing and non-viewing public.  All proceeds to go to famine relief in North Korea.  I'll take 10% of your 10%.Hmm.  EHG Corporation.  Is that the same financial behemoth that was suspended from trading on the ASX in 2008 and has been struggling to raise funds to get relisted ever since?  Yes Louis Schurmann must be making a fortune out of EHG.  Let's punish EHG.

If it is any consolation to you Michael if the North Korean reserves of rare earth minerals are large and of high quality their exploitation would likely quickly destroy the balance of supply and demand for those minerals leading to a plunge in prices.

I detest the lunatic fringe that is Kim Jong Un's haircut, the man himself and his entire regime as much as the next man.  But what is your proposal?  Exile?  Gaol for the people looking at the feasibility of the project?  Why blame Abbott for this situation?  It just makes you look like a tawdry politician bent on using any cheap debating point that comes to hand.  Not quite down to Mr Palmer's level but you're down on one knee.

I feel for the North Koreans but the remedy is in the hands of their people and their army.  Any hamfisted intervention by outsiders is much more likely than not to unite people and army behind despot.  How many North Korean lives would you be prepared to sacrifice to save them?  How many South Korean lives would you be prepared to see sacrificed when the lunatic and his cohort destroy dams and lob missiles at them?  How many Australian lives?

Ultimately the poor buggers are on their own as far as I can see.  Oh, and they've got you of course.  Adjust your helmet, fix bayonets, that's right, off you go.  We're right behind you.

Empty posturing.If students are being targeted for donations with cash as the incentive those reunions must be just a touch awkward.  Admitting the motivation was the $10 a throw (Miowarra's quote) rather than the betterment of mankind would shame sensitive souls such as myself.  But rest easy, not many Oxfam clients would be keen to meet the donors of their fine apparel either.  I do doubt that many donors would be preoccupied about the fate of their gift.  I agree some donors should be avoided and some offspring.  Many of us lose the plot along the way.  How effective would the screening of donors be I wonder?You're probably right.  But I see mandatory sentencing as a response to sentencing that is not responsive to community demands.  Politicians are seen as responsible for light sentences and are to an extent blamed for them.  So they remove some of the discretion available to the judiciary when it comes to sentencing.

Is mandatory sentencing too harsh?  Quite often it is.  (Sorry, going all Rudd on you with the Q &amp; A).  Voter outrage is often short-term and fickle.  Is there another way to get the judiciary to change long-standing methods of calculating sentences in the light of changing circumstances?  Can't think of any.  Judges would take their independence as a point of honour and I expect some would take delight in annoying an outraged community.  And I suspect just a few would have massive egos.Kieran Loveridge.  Not my idea of an anecdote though.Probably not.  I expect Hawke is still doing business with Chinese partners.  Plus it couldn't be relaxing having to stare at your food all night in case Clive decided to share.  Yours, not his.Food fight!  Bob's too busy making money.Mac's that was a popular view at the time.  I think it had something to do with exposure to the housing market.  I don't really believe it.  Almost everyone had to raise cash at that time, I can't see why St George's loyal shareholders would have refused to chip in in a capital raising.  They did get a good deal from Westpac.  Kelly did not initiate the deal, I presume WBC had it in mind before they hired her.

We probably do give too much credit (and blame) to CEOs.  One cynic yesterday claimed all an Australian bank CEO needed to do to succeed was keep their hands in their pockets and not spend shareholders' funds on any acquisitions.  Might be true I suppose.  At least with the new guy he will have pockets to usefully employ.  Women rarely seem to have such useful pockets.  Maybe that is one of the reasons why boards are wary of them....I hadn't realised he was quite so short.  Seems to explain a lot about his behaviour.  I am sure there are at least 4 larger identical looking matryoshka dolls around and only one or two smaller ones.  Probably not in or offshore of Brisbane though.Might be more useful and more fun crashing it into Mars.  Any water could prove useful.  And those damn Martians are really getting on my....

You would only use any minerals to build craft to further your journey into space I'm sure.If you pay for performance I expect the fundie will take higher risk options on the basis that heads I win tails you lose.  I'd prefer more competitive pressure on fees and fewer fees for outperformance.  I believe the situation with private equity funds in the US a few years back was that management ended up with the lion's share of the earnings and investors got bugger all.  I don't know whether that was a feature of their market at the time or a trend but I fear a trend.  I dislike performance fees either way.You would be amazed as to the extent inertia rules in such situations Alpo.  In a previous life I was involved with unclaimed moneys held by a trustee company.  A fund manager went out of business leaving super funds and others to be wound up.  They couldn't get a lot of their investors to make the effort to shift their funds.  Even when the moneys were handed over to the trustees and earning little or no money people a lot of people could not get off their bums and make the changes required.  One was a SA politician.  Not one I had heard of.  Contacted him about an amount probably closer to 100k.  I don't know whether it was six months or more than a year before he made the necessary arrangements but it was a long time.  It wasn't difficult, he just couldn't organise himself to make the effort (let's not get political and mention his preferred party but you would have voted for him if he stood in your seat).  Perhaps people just don't have a sense of ownership of superannuation as they do with the investments they make themselves, I don't know.

I agree there should be a compulsory levy but not at 12%.  At least not early in people's lives when they have a mortgage and kids and experiences to be lived.There are some very well-paid fundies who don't seem to be earning their money David.  Excites jealousies.I disagree.  It's my money, I can invest it where I like.  The compulsory nature of the saving has nothing to do with ownership.

If you want to support biotechs and techs do so by all means.  Typically these are high risk.  Very few go through from discovery to paying a dividend.  To make any money out of them you need to (a) continually average down through repeated capital raisings over the years, (b) trade them on a short term basis or (c) wait until success is as close to assured as possible (then they fall at the final hurdle far too often).  None of these courses of action seem to be consistent with the aims of superannuation.

If I want to saturate the walls around me well and good but in most cases it would defeat the purpose of saving for my years of decay.We should all be free to make our own choices.  Sounds like a cash fund would suit you best.  Not for me thanks.The All Ords is 20.7% below its close on 1/11/07.  That was an artificial high though, we were pushed up by overseas fund inflows looking to escape their domestic fears.  The accumulation index (allows for dividends paid etc) is up 7.5%.  If you took up the issues all the way through you are probably doing pretty well now but not well enough to compensate for the stress (so little hair.....).  I agree that is you get towards retirement safety should become a much greater consideration and more exposure to cash and fixed interest is sensible.  Don't chase yield too hard just the same.

I agree with Rob to the extent that a fear the after-effects of QE will be a long-lasting drag on the US and global economy.  It would have been better to let the worst happen and recover from there rather than drag it out over decades.  But that would be political suicide.  They would much prefer to spend taxpayers' money being seen to be doing something, even if counterproductive over the long term, rather than be accused of being useless and punted.There's a lot to disagree with here Alan.

The overcapitalisation of our share market is an issue of concern, when prices are pushed up to too high a price and also when a population bulge retires around the same time and there is a heavy liquidation of financial assets.  But perhaps this concern is overstated.  Capital is perhaps like water, always seeking its own level.  If valuations in Australia become stretched the water will either flow to other markets or overseas companies will come here for a good deep drink, either through primary or secondary listings.  Also local companies can use relatively cheap capital to expand overseas.  We do have quite a few local companies that are essentially foreign businesses and doing well in other markets - Amcor, BHP, Brambles, Rio Tinto and many more.  These are often underappreciated in the local markets.  Amcor has done well in recent months but that has mainly been on the back of foreign investors who think an unfranked 4% yield and exposure to emerging markets is a good deal.  But that is not the point of your article.

Another way that local capital will find an outlet is via listed investment companies that invest in overseas companies.  They will continue to seek out fresh capital to grow their businesses and consequently management fees.  Magellan has done well in the last year or two, Platinum did well before that.  There have been a number of recent entrants into this space, including PM Capital, Ashok Jacob's Ellerston and even Perpetual is starting up a fund to catch the splashback of disappointed Medibank applications and will invest a substantial portion of those moneys in foreign stocks.  Templeton Global has been around forever.  SMSFs wishing to diversify should look at some exposure to these types of investments.  But they can forget about dividend returns on the scale of local companies, they won't be available for the most part.  All involve an added level of risk via exposure to currency movements.  If people don't like paying ongoing fees a number of these LICs invest in the same companies, particularly major overseas banks.  A large investment could be hedged for currency at a cost.

Your suggestion that fund managers should be looking for consistent returns of 10 or even 15% is silly.  Imagine the risks you would be taking to attain that consistently.  Buying carefully and selling carefully, fine.  But for even good buy there is a bad sale.  Who are these bunnies that you imagine will consistently buy at the top and sell at the bottom?  They'd go out of business pretty quickly wouldn't they?  The successful manager would so quickly be deluged with funds to invest that it would walk with a waddle and move the earth every time it took a step.  Outperformance would become near impossible.  Consistency has been deemed more important, hence the promotion of balanced funds.You complain about index huggers.  Mandates are quickly lost by fundies who move away from the herd and have a bad quarter or two.  (Interesting to see how Perpetual's IPO goes, they don't expect to hold any major banks).  If people want exposure to smaller companies or niche markets there are plenty of LICs which would welcome a larger share registry.  Some will do well despite the higher fees they charge, others will disappear beneath the waves and be gobbled up by their rivals with cannibalistic tendencies.  ETFs seem to be an expanding part of our market.  The fees should be relatively low.  That may well be a major part of our market in years to come.  Skilling up advisers to be able to make good recommendations on these securities will be a continuing issue though.  This seems to be more an issue of asset allocation rather than research and there will be some bad results.

But the idea that politicians should be directing the flow of capital is foolishness on the scale of a Lagarde.  Get government out of the way.  By all means have them look at ways to reduce barriers but don't give them any further responsibility beyond that.  They don't have the skills and nor do the public servants advising them.  Leave those with an appetite for risk to find the way.  Let them explore the peaks and pitfalls unmolested by politicians.  Those that entrust them with funds should be well-informed but the risks beyond that belong to them.

Your piece seems to be yet another example of hand-wringing for reward, an effort to fill white space which then reduces the illumination.I don't doubt you are right Reinhard.  No doubt their taxes are quite small and none of them required Australia to go first.  The idea that Australia could lead by example AND that others would follow in our footsteps always struck me as a peculiarly Ruddian fantasy.  I would prefer to see what China actually does rather than trust them to act on what appear to be genuine good intentions.  Good intentions all too often get lost along the byways, sacrificed to more immediate needs.Presumably they have run out of limp celery.I don't see the Greens as ideologists Ann.  They are more like nimbies on steroids.  It surprises me somewhat that the Greens haven't embraced the Stockholm agenda to be honest.  They love to meddle.  Perhaps there are too many sex workers voting in inner-city seats where the Greens have their best chance.You are trying to make a difficult argument.  You assume that sex workers are victims and don't exploit their clients.  Many sex workers do not choose to see themselves in that light.  But the Swedes cannot accept that, or some of the vocal ones at any rate.  Why should people pay more heed to the vocal ones than people at the coal face of the sex industry?  Are sex workers to be infantilised and ignored?

There is money changing hands.  If there isn't then there is no 'free access to women's bodies'.  Why do you mention children?  A poor attempt at a straw person.  Sexual exploitation of children is and will remain illegal.  Are clients better positioned economically than the women they engage?  Often not.  Are men always left undamaged and women damaged?  Perhaps damaged women are more often damaged before they enter the industry.  It is hard to see sex work unwinding the damage I will grant you.

You skip over the reasons why men pay for sex.  There are many.  Often the payoff is a sense of intimacy and connection rather than an orgasm.  You want to deny these men this outlet because they are exploiters?  Gets tricky.  If they could have this kind of an interaction without payment I expect they would prefer to save their money.  Too often the clients are already damaged.  But the Swedes would like to persecute them just the same.  You would open the door to situations where clients can be threatened by sex workers (and their minders) who may not always be pure of heart.  Desperate men are more likely to overreact, inexcusable though that might be.  I honestly believe a legal sex industry is less open to violence and exploitation.  If you believe prostitution can be eliminated through legislation you are swimming against the tide of history.

Spare some time to give us your thoughts on women who pay for sex.  Exploiters or exploited?  Are they empowered or disempowered?No.  There would have been no deterrence in processing folks onshore when our courts refuse to apply UNHCR standards in determining who is a refugee.  You would end up with accelerating numbers and misery for all.Not arguing with you but you do see quite a few overweight people walking the streets with fast food and sugary drinks in hand.  Not suggesting this is the rule, just pointing out you can make guesses about some overweight people's eating habits based on such observations.True enough.  The obese stand out.  The linkage is an assumption.Compulsions, addictions, not a great distance between the two I suggest.I'd be very surprised if the banks didn't fund both sides of politics Harvey.  Many major corporates see supporting democracy as a duty and split their payments roughly equally between the Coalition and Labor.  No doubt there are elements of self-interest and self-defence behind the theory.  Hard to see the banks getting a lot of value for their contributions to democracy, every scoundrel of a politician makes great play of using them as whipping boys.  And you lap it up.Yes and no.  Labor did a lot of groundwork for the  FTA and deserve some credit which I am sure Abbott will be happy to repeat.  If only to take some of the politics out of the issue.  I'd be surprised if all Labor MPs and senators could maintain a disciplined approach, they wouldn't be able to leave politics out of it (nor would some Coalition politicians).  There is a sizable rump in the left that do not believe in free trade and a lot of protectionists on the right who will only want the benefits that accrue to their electorates and will bitch long and hard about the rest (I imagine Bob Katter is resting his vocal chords right now in preparation).  I don't know that Labor will have to prompt the usual suspects to howl at the moon if an FTA is reached - any change is automatically argued to be negative and, dare I say it, neoliberal by people who struggle with economics.  The commentary on The Drum will be overwhelmingly negative I expect.So if failure is inevitable why are the regulators bothering them to carry more capital on their balance sheets?

Remind me again when the last privately owned Australian bank failed.Five years to early?  Bad call.  A lot of money was made in the interim.I gather the risk weighting of home loans is quite low so banks don't need to hold as much capital against those loans.  Risk weightings would be assigned by the regulators I presume.  Can't blame the banks for that if it is beyond their control......We stop women (and men I hasten to add) from drinking and driving.  The only reason we wouldn't enact laws to restrict pregnant women from drinking is that they would be unenforceable.  Plus the odd sip at various stages of pregnancy would not do any harm.

But your apparently libertarian disregard for the harm to others disturbs me.  FAS is a terrible problem, one that doesn't just affect one generation but extends through multiple generations.  Sufferers are themselves predisposed to alcoholism and unlikely to be able to care for their offspring adequately.  Society is left to try and sweep up the pieces of shattered lives.  In turn society must have a say.  I would be very surprised if the situation with the Colt  family did not arise from alcoholism.  That you can be so blas? about the size of the issue and champion the rights of the grossly irresponsible over the multiple victims just makes me shake my head.  If it helps you sharpen your thinking about half the victims will be women one day, women you would normally be expected to have sympathy for.  Not the boys of course.

If people are unable to give up drinking, male or female, they should give serious consideration to birth control, perhaps even something as severe as depo provera or reversible surgery.  There are enough damaged people in our society, people who had no say in their birth.  Children are not pets, not adornments, not there to make inadequate lives complete.  Get real.Trevor Abbott must have looked around to see if he'd accidentally turned up at a football grand final, any code.  It didn't read well but to me it suggested a crowd in celebratory mood rather than one in mourning.  Which was a good thing.  Gough had got to the stage where, well, the final stage.  He'd lived a life worth living and had nothing left to achieve.  So a celebration was in order I think.

The other thing that read as funny was the distress over seating.  I thought 'what has become of the angry young men of the 70s?  Have they all now all graduated to being cranky old buggers?'  But I imagine many old bodies need comfortable seating and perhaps ready access to bathrooms.  Sounds like it was a good day.  Had a couple of friends who attended.  One got inside, one did not.Come on Ann, today's topic is mature conversation.  I'm sure we'll get back to the usual sarcasm and snippiness tomorrow.  Keith appeared to be talking about a more gradual transition avoiding some of the bad outcomes many aboriginal communities have been visited with.  Do you have an alternative suggestion?  Personally I don't think a slower transition would have arrived at a different place.  Most of us can only learn life lessons from our own experiences.  I gather Jacobean England was devastated by the introduction of newly invented gin in the 17th century.  At least 30 years of drunkenness and death (might have been 3 generations).  And they were already seasoned drinkers.  What chance did Aboriginals have when introduced to grog?  Close to none.Grog has killed a lot of people before their time Ann.  I'd be surprised if it hadn't impacted on the average lifespan of outback Aboriginals.  I replied to you because you generally give me a hard time and because of the tone of your many comments here today.  You have a lot of intelligent things to say.  You can afford to ease back a bit.  Good for the blood pressure too.Many happy returns for yesterday barsnax.  From this distance there are no visible signs of a hangover.Have to agree with the lefties here Nabiru, that was a pretty graceless comment.  I'm sure Pearson has had it made abundantly clear that he does not speak for all the indigenous of his state, let alone his country.  I would encourage him to put his ideas into the mix just the same, he has a range of experiences most voters would have been able to avoid and ideas on how to improve things.  I suggest you make counterarguments where you disagree rather than simply throw in a few insults.  What are you doing that is not simply furthering your own agenda?I gather every PM since Hawke has been booed when they attended football grand finals.  I take Stalga's point that it might not happen in Rugby Union but I don't know.  Yesterday's event wasn't a funeral though, it was more a celebration.I am convinced that when Abbott leaves the political stage people whose every reflex is partisan, you always come over as particularly so Kitty, will say something along the lines of 'oh well, he wasn't as bad as I thought he was going to be'.  If they are honest.  To me he actually seems to have reined in his partisanship somewhat, to the point of not taking all the cheap political points on offer.  He (again) seems to be actually trying to achieve results rather than be diverted by endless head kicking.  You can argue strongly that he is not doing a good job of it but given you only have one gear Kitty only your fellow travellers will listen to you.  Perhaps you can try being a little more even handed at times?  I note there is no equivalent of John McTernan in Abbott's office.  That can only be a good thing.It would be an immense job to rewrite the tax code.  Abbott certainly couldn't do it nor could any living man or woman.  The best you can hope for is fiddling around the edges, changing the reliance on inefficient taxes to more efficient taxes.  We can't even discuss the GST without politics grabbing hold of it and using it as a weapon.

Super profits taxes are generally poorly thought out.  The RSPT was particularly stupid in my view.  40% of pre-tax and pre-interest earnings above 6% return was iniquitous.  Everyone should pay some tax.  Ask M. Hollande how his 75% marginal rate is going.  Don't borrow ideas from that clown.  If you are talking about the mining industry you could wave goodbye to new investment.  The ATO is always working on loopholes.  Trouble is black letter law always seems to allow for new loopholes.  Some suggest a fuzzier style of drafting may help (I don't pretend to know).  I'd rather the benefits of negative gearing be quarantined, that should see off a lot of the more adventurous investors.  Too often though negative gearing is an unfortunate outcome rather than an intended result.  By all means have another look at super.  As I said above everyone should pay tax.  But I don't believe super was intended to cure all retirement ills, not everyone would be in a position to fund their retirements.  Tax it too hard and you'll end up with a lot more deciding to enjoy their lives then go on the pension.  Bracket creep is the only means the more cowardly politicians have to get the budget back into surplus.  (Clears throat, Swan, excuse me).  Missing your point on excise.  Indexation maintains the percentage doesn't it?  How many other countries have ad valorem taxes lower than ours?I agree it would take a bigger man than Shorten to rise above such petty politicking.  I'm sure you could substitute the names of most MPs and Senators for that of Shorten if that cheers you up.

I do recall people asking the Coalition to put up their policies throughout most of their opposition days.  And Rudd kept his hidden until it was too late to have them evaluated before that.  It would be rather hard to weep for Shorten nowThat is the stuff of politics.  When things get really bad we will likely see some lasting reforms but until then business as usual.  Why are you surprised?Make up your mind.  Neoliberal or extreme right?That's a retirement job, not one for someone who has more to contribute to his community.  And he might even be a friend of Tony Abbott's....No, the A-G isn't planning and executing raids, nor has he tested the plastic content of swords seized in raids.  It might be Keenan's responsibility to explain re those matters but it is unlikely left-leaning bloggers would believe a word any minister said (you know what they're like).Yes you've got to be cynical if you want to blog.  Might be talking about different things though, I was just referring to the raid.Absurd is a bit strong, there is a bit more to this piece than the standard Barns article.  I agree though that it beggars belief that Barns would prefer Colvin and Gaughan not to add anything to the public debate, let the lies stand unchallenged, leave the commentariat's claim that the 800 man raid were a pointless overkill go unchallenged.

I didn't hear the Colvin interview.  I can't recall Gaughan advocating on Q&amp;A.  I could see the sense in having him there to add comments on operational matters rather than leave the audience to blather on in a state of ignorance.  He avoided answering on behalf of politicians when some questions were put to him.  Without reading the transcript I can't remember him advocating anything.  Are people making stuff up?

I admit to being annoyed by the regular sight of Ken Henry holding up Wayne Swan at press conferences so as to save Swan from embarrassment.  That was not the case on Q&amp;A.  Brandis was well-prepared and gave credible answers to his numerous cranky critics (whether you agreed with him or not).  This went against my expectations.  Brandis usually comes over as pedantic, pompous and ill-disciplined.  On Monday night he managed to present well, even reining in the pomposity.  The critics did not impress me I must say.The changes in security legislation have received bipartisan support have they not?It would be unusual for a politician to give riding orders to the police Reinhard.  Do you have any evidence or are you happy to shoot on suspicion?Do you reckon they could investigate Alexander Downer over East Timor and Kevin Rudd over Indonesia as a package deal?

Going by East Timor's decision to sack a good part of its judiciary because they came to a decision on tax that annoyed their politicians I can see some logic in keeping a close eye on those politicians.  I can't imagine Woodside ever being silly enough to subject their massively expensive Sunrise operations to the jurisdiction of such cowboys.  But I don't pretend to understand the bugging operation.Politicians may well have referred the matter to police or ASIO for investigation but they couldn't make recommendations beyond that I believe.  Even if Brandis did make a referral ASIO or whoever have to make up their own minds and wear the opprobrium if they get it wrong or are seen to be acting in a partisan manner.  It would probably be awkward for Brandis to sign warrants if he made a referral.  I suspect if politicians had been involved it wouldn't have been him.  That is only my gut talking I admit.I presume ASIO et al are only granted new powers when they make the case for those changes John.  It would be odd if they then rejected the politicians' offer.  For the most part the changes have been agreed to by both the majors with little in the way of politicking involved.  So Labor do not appear to share your fears about the Great Horned Abbott and Brandis with the tail.  But feel free to carry on politicking yourself.The Coalition managed to get Slipper charged from opposition?  My, my, my, my, my.It is the natural consequence of the switch to digital Dove.  Trails everywhere.  Campaign for the reintroduction of analogue if you like, or even more payphones, but most will ignore you and continue to leave their tracks in the electronic snow for the sake of convenience.  I am entirely relaxed about it.  As for illegal downloaders I can't even pretend to be sympathetic.What future totalitarian government is going to pay the slightest bit of attention to any curbs we place on our laws now Harvey?  Too bad I give away any books I buy and don't keep any records (though the proximity to birthdays may provide a clue).It would have been much harder to identify the train bombers without CCTV, it would have been even more difficult to identify their connections with further delays.Are Germans still required to carry their ID with them everywhere they go?  My impression was that German police were rather keen on truncheon work.  Is that unfair graazt, Blax?Why the hell would you care about running and scurrying inge?  No offence but your life simply can't be that interesting.  Can it?I'm pretty sure my dirty little secrets are nothing out of the ordinary, the kind of things security professionals would skip through rather than take an interest in, let alone disseminate.  Until they learn to read my mind I should be fine.  I would advise you to stay out of politics if you are easily embarrassed.  And even if you aren't.  Much more fun to commentate via a few blogs.Spare us your condescension.  There would be no pin ups of Abbott in the IPA's offices unless there is a dartboard in close proximity.  IPA, DLP, different philosophies, different outcomes thought desirable.  If you are going to take the time to come here to insult conservatives take the time to spellcheck (redneck, Joyce's, Middle East, manna for a start).I wouldn't have anything to say worth encrypting thanks all the same.  I doubt many here would.  Hopefully the relevant authorities will be given the keys to cracking the encryption rather than leaving terrorists and paedophiles unmolested.  What say you?To tell you the truth I don't think there's any improvement left in me.  Ah me.

I have libertarian sympathies but perhaps my imagination is too limited.  To me the whole issue is yet another beat up by the politically motivated (not you, you may have been pushed over by the wave of sentiment.  Never mind).I suppose all governments must be treated like compost and turned over regularly.  A bit of sunlight, a bit of air, stops the stench of corruption from becoming overpowering.

Labor in NSW was very close to paralysed.  It kept announcing new infrastructure then rejigging and reannouncing pretty much the same infrastructure with very little useful occurring.  At the end it was pretty much a mercy killing.I'm pretty sure Labor likes to portray itself as infrastructure friendly as well Monty.  Business doesn't get to keep all the benefits of better infrastructure, they tend to get competed away to the benefit of their consumers.From over the border Napthine does not show evidence of a lot of gravitas but appears amiable enough.  He presumably would not be Premier if the last election hadn't been so close and the A-grade idiot Shaw had not been able to exert such pressure on his party.

Are Labor and Andrews still stained by the release of The Age journo's interview with Baillieu and the subsequent destruction of her device or has that blown over now?  It isn't often dirty tricks blow back on the ALP.  Usually they blow up in the Coalition's face when they try them.I get that every man and woman wants the sensation of flying.  Even as kids on a scooter on a slope the sensation of effortless movement, the sight of the world rushing by, the sensation of wind on skin we enjoyed the experience as an approximation of flight.  Some need to keep those shots of adrenaline coming throughout their lives, no other drug will do it for them.

But for me the self-indulgence of wasting huge amounts of resources, money just being the means of exchange, for a few minutes of weightlessness is carrying things too far.  Why the hell are we encouraging Branson to punch holes in the ozone layer for this crap?  I am sorry for the test pilot but there is no real emotional response.  He loved what he was doing or he would have found something else.  There are worse ways to die.

I will never watch a tightrope walker in my life.  Damned showponies.  I'd rather not fulfil their need to be noticed.They got my $10 as well leafy.  What are the odds of drawing two eight year olds in the Sweep?  Auditors!  Auditors!!!The pro-totalitarian left have shown quite a high tolerance for the slaughter of the innocents over the last century or so.  The Communists fighting the fascists in Spain were at the same time happy to describe Orwell's socialist confreres as proxies of the Nationalists and murder them on that basis.  Probably Hollande's views are closer to Orwell's than most world leaders.  Quite an enthusiastic wager of war in France's former colonies.  Little point in building infrastructure in Iraq when it will only torn up by those who would see the West as occupiers.Hmm, anti-big business, anti-bourgeois and anti-capitalist.  Yep, nothing socialist about that Mr Bothered.

The Nazis and the socialists came out of the same gene pool.  Philosophy had little to do with it once the associations formed, it was all about power and control.  It seems to me a good parallel is Jabhat al-Nusra and ISIL.  Both spawned via Al Qaeda, both Sunni, both believers in a caliphate, both willing enemies in a struggle for power.

The Nazis changed their approach to big business when they needed their help but they were born as socialists.  Check out the histories of Gregor and Otto Strasser.  Both were prominent in the Nazi Party in the early years until they rivalled Hitler for prominence in the Party and were killed.Noah's Ark has made it quite plain he is okay with ethnic cleansing.  The obvious implication is that he does not regard the murder of thousands and the use of rape as a military tactic as any reason for intervention.  The death of cultures?  So what.

ISIL recruits misfits.  I cannot see those misfits ever being interested in building anything.  They are more interested in glory and theft.  Should they establish themselves in Iraq they would use that as a base for further insurrections.  The Saudis are rightly concerned.I haven't read Wigan Pier.  Wiki mentions him attending meetings at Communist Party branches around that time (mid-30s), as well as meetings put on by Mosley's lot.  Animal Farm was post war, well after his experiences in Spain where he was aligned with the Trots who were subject to attacks from the Stalinists.  He comes over as always his own man.  I can't really imagine him subjecting himself to the views of a hierarchical structure as the Commies then were (let's stay historical).  I gather he was more than a nominal Anglican throughout his life, perhaps more interested in the theatre than a commitment to any god.  Doesn't fit my image of a committed Communist to be honest.What idiot would expend his electoral capital on pursuing the cause of the States?  As Mungo would be fully aware it is impossible to make big changes to a policy like the GST where there are so many parties happy to take the populist approach for short term electoral advantage.  If it is going to be changed there has to be some sort of consensus first.  If it isn't going to be changed so be it.There are many more possibilities.  How about dubious about AGW, willing to keep to previous commitments to international partners and think an ETS is an expensive and poorly targeted option?  I don't know if the Coalition can meet there 5% target through direct action.  If they can't it seems like an easy policy to walk away from.  Have to say I am less than impressed by the ads from promoters of renewables schemes lamenting the change of policy.  They come over as rent-seekers par excellence, totally convinced that the nation owes them a living no questions asked.  No need to be competitive, just give them more money.

Your second para goes a long way off road.I imagine the idea of writing a blog is to write something that will provoke a response from readers.  Writing something simplistic or just dumb will succeed in provoking a bigger response.  Credibility, so what?I doubt you have chosen the right site for this piece Lydia.  Middle-aged guys seem to predominate here.  Can't imagine  many of them pestering women on the streets.

For sure a stream of unwanted comments would make most women feel harassed.  Happy to assume any compliments from me would be unwelcome so I don't do it.  If a joke occurs to me I'm not shy about sharing it with a bypasser (generally turns out to be a woman strangely enough) but made in such a way that it is clear no response is expected.  I rarely seem to worry people.  If they want to ignore such amiability so be it.  I might be embarrassed but there is no point expecting anything from strangers.  No accusations of twisting underwear, just an assumption that the non-responder is insecure or uncomfortable or.... whatever.The Spirit intro did sound too close.  LZ would be in real trouble going by the Australian ruling against Men at Work.  Hard to imagine US Courts being more relaxed.

On News Breakfast they mentioned Led Zeppelin and Spirit toured together at some stage.  Could Randy C have taught Page the riff?  Could there have been a gentleman's agreement and maybe even cash changing hands?  It seems odd that such obvious similarities would have been ignored by Randy C during his long lifetime (musicianly speaking).  Someone after his death wants to cash in - how can band members claim though?  Were they credited as the songwriters?  Is there a lawyer funding this?  Great publicity if they are planning a comeback.

For all that I expect Randy's parents may have greatly prolonged his time on this earth by dissuading him from touring with Hendrix.Very few of us get what we deserve Ann.  In many cases this is a fortunate thing.  Mostly it comes down to what we can afford and what we regard as our priorities.  Home ownership is a high priority for some and of no interest to others (especially perpetual travellers).  A long term relationship may well change those priorities.  I suggest women will more often be the beneficiaries of such an arrangement as far as home ownership goes.It seems like the security legislation was gone over fairly closely in committee where it was largely treated as a bipartisan effort.  Labor was always going to contest the direct action program.  It was unlikely they would ever try to be constructive on the legislation.  Not much point dragging it out.The evidence is mounting that the majority of terrorists are extremely stupid.It would be impossible to negotiate sensibly on any serious policy if you had the peanut gallery interjecting from both sides of the discussion.  Compromises could not be discussed without a half-smart chorus baying.  You'll get your turn to have a say.  Try some patience.Wasn't this legislation initiated during Ms Gillard's time as PM?  I can only assume you ran the bottlebrush through the ears when Abbott became PM.I agree with you MT.  But Abbott wasn't a politician at university, Spurr isn't a politician, Abbott Jnr still isn't a politician.  Various smart alecs thought they were fair game.  If you call one a beat up it is hard to distinguish the other cases.Fair comment Terry.  I trust you did not concoct reasons to visit Melbourne and that those trips were organised by others for work-related purposes.

I would be happy to see both sets of leakers of the private emails identified and, if appropriate, prosecuted.

The contents of both sets of emails cast Spurr and Peris in a very poor light.  No doubt the uni will be investigating whether Spurr's expressed views carry over to real life and reflect on his ability to carry out his work in an impartial and fair way.  To demand professionalism of a poet seems incongruous.

Peris's emails raise the question whether she can impartially and fairly represent all Territorians.  That is something for preselectors and voters to decide.  I agree her libido-driven comments are not a matter for public discussion and also agree it seems she has not misused taxpayer funds.  I hope she gave the relevant authorities providing the funding a heads up on her friendship when she passed the hat around - they may well feel aggrieved if she did not.  But it seems there was a successful outcome for all involved.Have you ever been so impartial Rhonda?  I can't recall it if you have.  Even here you use your yardstick to belabourAbbott around the head, though he has nothing to do with Peris's problems.Deliberately ambiguous?  Do you mean you can never agree with the writer ever again or do you mean you're with him all the way?Peris suggests it was part of a matrimonial dispute.Terry Barnes is a rightie as far as I can tell.  So am I.  Unless you want to be a non-Iranian morality policeman I don't see this as a major issue, just as I thought the lefties' attempts at beating up previous incidents involving conservatives were no big deal.  Remember all the frothing by The Yank and others about how Abbott's alleged wall punch showed his true character and damned him forever?  It was all BS.  So why seek to prosecute Peris here?  She seems to have been foolish, who hasn't?  Leave it to the preselectors and NT voters to sort out.  I think she only has a three year term to turn around impressions people may have of her.My impression, for what it is worth, is that the idea of politicians having a sex life tends to get people excited (eg the Qld politician whose old fella had a drinking problem that his girlfriend chose to share with the world.  No one's business.  End of career).  If such a story is combined with even a hint of abuse of public moneys stand back, the blue touchpaper has been ignited.

Of course the private stuff reflects on Peris.  Whether it reflects on her ability to do the job is another issue.  Probably not.  Her abilities and vulnerabilities should have been apparent when she was made the captain's pick - a leaked email would have little bearing on that.  You could argue that they showed difficulties in separating public money from private purposes but that is less than clear-cut.  But you are in no better position to reflect on Spurr's suitability.

I agree there does not appear to have been an assertion Peris is shown to be unfit for office.  Readers are apparently left to draw their own conclusions, or at least enjoy being titillated by reading of other's embarrassments.  But nastiness and vindictiveness have always had a place in politics.  If you decry it here you should be less judgmental when it involves people from your non-preferred side of politics.  And particularly their daughters."Blackmailing" sounds like an embroidering of the situation.  I agree it was ugly.  Do the NT News and Peris have a history of tangling?  If the emails are manufactured the Senator will be visiting her lawyers and there will likely be a fat payout.  I suspect the lawyers will be undisturbed.Pre or post NDIS, Gonski, any other unfunded policies?From memory private health insurance was fairly popular then, maybe 40% or 50% take up?????  Members of my family had it all the way through, even an aunt on a low income.  You should be able to get some details fairly easily, unless you are as lazy as me.

Labor thought it could restrict doctors' earnings and force them into bulk billing alone.  Then be miserly in letting the bulk billing fees lag costs.  When that failed it makes you wonder whether the effort and expense were worthwhile.  When I claim I get back bugger all of the costs, less than 30% if it involves a specialist.  I'd rather keep the 1.5% and pay the lot without all the BS of claiming involved.  Not that I am pushing for its abolition but I believe the benefits of Medicare are overhyped.I'd be pressing Shorten for a statement on whether he would promise to reverse the indexation should Labor win government.  He won't, even though a regulation would be easier to reverse than legislation.My recollection was that the freeze was in response to a spike in petrol prices.  GST on top of the excise was more an insult than a cause of the fury.  Meanwhile most fines and penalties rise in line with inflation.  All seems a bit silly.In line with inflation though.  Not a big deal.Sorry Newnorcia, I don't know whether I am not allowed to agree with you or whether I am unable to mention Megawati's influence over Widodo's government or reflect adversely on Megawati's claims to superior abilities.  I appreciate the post just the same.Australia has a different mindset I suppose.  In today's news: -

A woman who shouted threats against the prime minister during question time has been escorted from parliament's lower house.
   Jan Olson was removed from the public gallery by security guards on Tuesday after shouting "and we're coming after you!" in the chamber.

It seems plain some Australian women lack the sense of decorum required for a life in politics.  You wouldn't see that kind of carry on in Indonesia.Wow, name calling.  Perhaps you and Clive Palmer could have a mature debate.

The poor (who that encompasses I have no idea) buy televisions and on occasions chocolate biscuits, both of which accrued sales taxes at the luxury rate (40%?).  How was that efficient?So I take it you are arguing that the profit share accruing to corporates in 1980 was far too small and this needed to be redressed?  That is not a new theory.  In tough times such as those we were going through back then, partly as a result of Whitlam's weak policies and wages explosion, profits are put under severe pressure.  To argue that social justice demands profits and shareholders must always be sacrificed is foolish.  You would kill off investment and that would kill off jobs.  But hey, the good news is we would all be poor together!I agree US-based multinationals have avoided paying Australian taxes (and everyone else's) for years, long before Abbott became LOTO.  But how is that relevant to your arguments?  The problem is one that requires cooperation at an international level, no sensible commentator claims Australia can combat the problem of sourcing the revenues from overseas by itself.

So why are they paying 22% do you reckon?  Could it be accumulated losses?  Could it be accelerated depreciation?  Could they be paying tax offshore?  Could it be anything else?  Why not do some investigation instead of using lazy smears?  That is what politicians do.  And unions seeking to distract the gullible from a damaging Royal Commission.

Westfield Corp uses a stapled security arrangement.  There is a share and presumably a couple of units in different trusts tied together and sold as one unit.  The company would do development work and pay taxes.  The property trusts would be largely passive investors in property and pay little tax.  The company would pay dividends with franking reflecting Australian taxes paid.  The property trusts would pay unfranked distributions - the investors would get no franking credits but other legal allowances are passed through (ask your accountant).  Franking compensates for what would otherwise be double taxation of profits.  Distributions of rent and interest attract full taxation.

What nasty truths, what scared children?  When you have a little more experience in life and a little more education you will learn to look at unionists' (and everyone else') claims a little more closely.

Only a fool would claim our taxation system is perfect as it is.  I am not that straw man.  If you work you are likely a shareholder indirectly if not directly, through superannuation.  Fund managers source a major chunk of their funds from superannuation, whether you choose to acknowledge it or not.  I call BS on your 95%, you wouldn't have a clue.

Whitlam's wage explosion happened because he would not stand up to the unions.  Unions these days are nowhere near as bloody-minded as those of years gone by if that gives you an idea of the scale of the problem.  Sure inflation was a major problem and I don't blame Whitlam alone - Fraser was too timid to address the issues when he came to office.  But the major breakout came in the Whitlam years.  People were much more likely to go hungry if they lost their jobs.  Given your bias against business that would have been a consequence of your preferred policies.  Unlike you I don't need to consult Wikipedia and Mungo MacCallum to learn about the Whitlam years, I was there.

Fear?  You are afraid to even think about the consequences of your empty mouthings.  Mate.There has to be some kind of balance AD.  Claims for fairness can't always be one-sided, can't always come from the one direction.  Selecting the starting point most advantageous to your argument detracts from the value of your argument.

I prefer a biblical saying, all is vanity and chasing after wind.  Those who pursue wisdom or honour or wealth or even fame, all end up falling prey to vanity.  We argue our points of view on these pages, selectively arguing our points, seeking to diminish others, all vanity.  Acknowledge it and move on.

It was a different society in the fifties and different again in the seventies.  Values evolve.  We have become a more mobile and consequently less secure society since.  Internationally things remain in a state of flux as well, with more wealth being reallocated to Asia.  We must adjust either our situation or our expectations as a result.  Feel free to pass that all off as an expression of vanity.  Or faux profundity.  I won't mind.Would you feel more comfortable with "Labor obstructionism"?You're wrong about the government not having the power to increase the GST Cathy.  Whether or not that is a provision of the legislation it is not entrenched constitutionally and the government of the day could bring in an increase whenever it wanted.  Politically though the Federal Government would be mad to self-harm in doing so unless they wanted to keep part of the proceeds for their own purposes - if the States want the benefit they must accept the pain that goes with it.  It is hard to see that happening given the differing political cycles of the States.  The Victorians are in a run-up to their election and Napthine was very quick to speak out against an increase because the opposition would have immediately made political hay if he hadn't.  When the Victorians have got their election out of the way and the incoming government is in the mood to be sensible there will be another State government facing the same electoral barb wire wearing lightweight trousers.I was convinced Ms Gillard was trying to engineer a situation where the States would be forced to increase GST to balance their budgets during her time as PM.  Several times she demanded they give up a portion of their GST to meet the costs of her programs.  

I'm sure branch members talk about a lot of things.  I doubt Liberal politicians listen to their branch members any more closely than Labor politicians listen to theirs, if that cheers you up.I wouldn't feel uncomfortable with a 12% rate.  Leave the States feeling a little bit hungry so that they don't start getting creative with new programs.  Keep them thinking about how best to allocate sparse funds.  I acknowledge your point about our indirect taxes being on the low side compared to other nations but if the GST is going to continue to go to the States I don't see any point in raising it too far.  Most likely the Feds will recoup a good chunk of the increase through reduced grants to the States anyway.  Increasing the GST will reduce the amount of money bouncing around the economy and will act as a substantial brake on growth.Sleepy did you doze through Wayne Swan's efforts at class warfare as Treasurer?  Don't you remember his well-considered debating points about greedy fat miners?Thanks Stephen.  I agree no government should go unexamined.  Some questions for you, as a former adviser of Ms Gillard in her time as PM: -

How much of the increased spending under Abbott is due to unfunded programs such as the NDIS and disclaimed "Gonski" reforms that Labor introduced late in their time in office?  Didn't Labor do everything they could to ensure electorally unpopular programs could not be repealed by the Coalition without wasting more taxpayers' funds?  Did you discuss with the PM the idea of forcing the States to raise the GST so that her government could fund its health and other policies by appropriating large proportions of the States' GST revenues?

In short how clean are your hands?  To me this just looks like yet another of your regular attempts at political mischief-making.  You know it would be electoral suicide for Abbott to move on GST without support from the States.  You know that every Labor opposition would ignore the question of whether an increase was in the best interests of the country as a whole and play pure politics with the issue as you seek to do here.  You appear to have no shame about using innuendo and smear to advance your chosen party's electoral prospects.  Is it time you stopped promoting yourself as an economist and adopted the title of apparatchik?Weren't these policies being worked up in the Gillard years TY?  Hardly seems like a spur of the moment grab for power by an unpopular Abbott government to me.  All seems fairly bipartisan.  BTW I venture to suggest ISIL might be more than a tad racist themselves.So we should all sit quietly and trust our inherent niceness will save us from any embarrassment?  Because nasty things never happen to good people right?  Ignore all that stuff that happens to innocent people elsewhere, none of our business if people want to go around beheading and raping, is that your attitude?  Let ISIL build a base from which to launch their mad ideas on an unwilling world undisturbed?

Greybags you have repeatedly shown yourself to be incapable of independent thought.  You simply wait to be told what the conservative parties advocate and then oppose those policies.I presume you didn't mean that to reflect unkindly on EG Whitlam but I don't think you helped his cause.  Whitlam is said to have spent years arguing for his programs in community fora.  Rudd arrived with a couple of handfuls of strings attached to thought bubbles so light he couldn't go outside on a windy day.  Neither were good at managing their ministries I will grant you.  Rudd simply ignored his ministers but Whitlam was unable to exert that level of control.  I thought Rudd had some charisma though.  He was more of a user of people than Whitlam but he was able to charm the bulk of the electorate for a couple of years.  Both used self-deprecating humour nicely but had enormous egos just the same.  I can't think of any program that Rudd will be remembered for in the years to come, at least not any successful program.  For all his issues Whitlam has some tombstones to be proud of, family law and Medicare among them.Just the same it would be interesting to read Mungo's thoughts from 9/04/2013.  Sadly not available on this website.Fair enough.  Teach them a lesson, regulate financial planners out of existence.  Or really punish them and leave your money in the bank.  No wait, take all your money out of the bank, borrow some more and buy a property to rent out.

Come to think of it the bank has you surrounded.  The only solution I can see is for you to spend all your money as soon as you get it.  No credit cards mind you.Fine, have my shares.  The market capitalisation is around $128 billion.  I'd probably want a 20% premium for control.  What government services would you like to give up to pay for one and a half NBNs?  What other assets would you like the government to sell off to make your dreams come true?  I'm telling you now, I won't take leaves as currency, not again.I disagree.  The Australian government has limited resources and must choose its fights.  Boy Scouts don't catch an interstate flight just so that they can help old ladies cross the road in downtown Sydney.

Australia has very few historical ties with Africa outside of being members of the Commonwealth with some.  European countries have those historical ties, having colonised the continent.  America has ties with Liberia, having colonised the country.  Those ties remain post the colonial era.  They are considerably closer geographically.  I cannot see why Australia should volunteer to help every state in trouble around the globe.  If individuals want to go or send money I applaud them but Australia is stretched in many ways.  To claim stinginess is pathetic.  Who would respond to such a stupid slur?

We have taken on some responsibilities in Iraq.  We were engaged in a war there and feel some responsibility for the aftermath.  How many European nations sent their people to the South Pacific when civil strife broke out in the Solomons or East Timor?  The Portuguese went to ET (late), anyone else?  Who were the most generous donors when  Aceh was hit by the devastating tsunami?  Not the Europeans.

This is a pathetic attempt at a guilt trip.  Peddle it somewhere else please.Hang on while I change into my cape and underwear gear Ann.  With my superhearing I will be able to hear cries for help all around the globe.  I can devote my every waking moment to saving the world's poor and downtrodden.  Or I can let others more fortunately placed do some of the work for me.  That way I can get the occasional spot of sleep.

Seriously how many of the world's trouble spots should we be involved in?  What problems do you imagine Australia can solve?  It can't even fix its domestic problems but you choose to follow the Labor line and demand we scatter our forces even further.  It makes no sense.  I can only presume a bleeding heart is a personal vanity of yours or you are beating the political drum.  Feel free to disagree with me as I disagree with the writer but try and make a coherent case when you do it.100 workers eh?  How many coalminers?  Any sympathy left over for them and the regional centres put under stress?

The RET is an invention of governments.  Anyone who relies on governments for consistent policies is setting himself up for a fall.  Governments' priorities change as quickly as the wind direction.  Dr Hewson please fund your vanity projects from your own pocket.Another thoughtful contribution thanks Frang.  But after having real bullets flying around in the vicinity of the parliament I imagine a metaphorical firefight would be the preferred option.  Is this the second apparent terrorist victim this week in Canada or the third?

Sad for the victim.  Presume a reservist guarding a war memorial would not be issued bullets.For some reason you make me think of a review of the movie The Aristocrats Malcolm.  It involved multiple comedians retelling a joke which was extremely transgressive, ticking off every topic in the dirty jokebook chapter headings.  Didn't see the movie but I gather it was more a comedians in joke - each tried to top each other in being as disgusting as possible.  From memory it was often a joke on the audience - the joke ran on and on deeper and deeper into the depths of human depravity.  Gradually the broad smiles drained from the audiences' faces and the laughter stopped.  The punchline  must have been a relief.

Spurr sounds like he was going for transgressive.  A pity we can't get anyone to go public with whether his attempts elicited laughter or embarrassment.It's an issue we can all relate to I suppose.  A garden-sized embarrassment, one which people who use emails every day can imagine having visited on them.  I made an offhanded comment about compliance the other day.  Someone forwarded it on to compliance, no malice intended.  Now I am flagged as evil.  No those aren't brown socks I am wearing, I am wading in it.Were those details released as part of Ashby's sexual harassment claim?  Hard to see how those could be excluded from the public domain barring a suppression order.I work for a private firm.  Our emails are monitored.  Porny stuff gets flagged, people get pulled up for inappropriately relaxed intra-office stuff, the MD picks through emails for jokes he can forward on etc.  There is no right to privacy.  In some industries phone calls are recorded for regulators and management to review.  You'd need to use a laptop to avoid scrutiny here, or be extremely boring.Happy to agree.  The Greens have stolen the body while it is still warm.  Whitlam has not even been buried.  That the Greens would do this now, while family and friends are still grieving, shows again their political autism.  No empathy for others, just the usual cheap tricks.  Whitlam was a man of ambition.  He would not have got on board with a bunch of fantasists and chancers.I was a recipient of  a free education.  Grateful for it but it was a political decision by a previous generation.  No doubt a large proportion of boomers voted for Labor and their policy but I wasn't of voting age.  I didn't try and justify the policy when challenged on it but I wasn't in a position to refuse the privilege.  Probably wasted on me I confess.There would have been no ad taken out without the Green stripe.  It wasn't a tribute to Whitlam, it was a promotion of The Greens.The Greens fit neatly within Whitlam's witticism 'only the impotent are pure'.  In the real world politicians have to balance competing interests.  In the unreal world there are the Greens.  Lopping the heads off the tallest poppies does not help the rest of the crop grow enough to compensate.In the mainstream of politics I would like to see the competing interests spelt out more so that the public can appreciate the conflicts and talk around them.  A recipe for a talkfest I suppose.  For mine my enemies the Greens come to a position internally and then they deny the validity of any alternative point of view.  Funny that there is no room for colours, even greens, in such a black and white world.  Over the years they have come to antagonise my immune system if they get any closer than a room away.  Insufferable!Fair points.  More secure politicians seem to be relaxed about admitting the validity of counterpoints and justifying their choices (don't ask me for examples, I can't think of any).  Sometimes you will see some divergences from the parties' positions on minor issues, or justifications coming from different bases.  Perhaps the greens get less individual exposure so any differences they may have are not apparent to me but my impression is they are more straitjacketed in their appearances and positions (and rightly so).

War has traditionally been subject to the government of the day's dictates using the proxy of the GG.  I gather the opposition are briefed and consulted on major issues.  There  would be no point in debating such moves in Parliament and opening up the floor to the Greens for grandstanding - they can do that anywhere and they would never have anything constructive to contribute.  They are driven by their need to occupy a spotlight rather than develop sensible policies in the dark.It is interesting you chose to make this a political post rather take the opportunity to pay tribute to someone I imagine you admired Malcolm.  Conservatives generally have a different view on what should and should not be a personal responsibility.  No doubt costs play a part.  Wars whatever.  Menzies whatever.

I wish Gough's family, friends and admirers well on a no doubt difficult day.Today is not the day for those arguments Pinkie, that was all I was trying to convey.He certainly made politics interesting Olive.  He stirred passions in a way that drew parallels with Thatcher, another change agent.  He gave the levers of power a good hard yank just to test out the limits of their flexibility.  As much as I disagreed with him I don't see that he left any great ill-will, for all his pomposities and arrogances.  I join Walter and you in wishing him a long rest and am glad his ailments and discomforts are behind him.  I truly hope there will be no celebrations of this sad event as there were with Thatcher.There is a discussion to be had Doc.  Maybe not here.  There was a lot of bitterness at the time but that has almost entirely dissipated.  Part of it would be Gough's ability to laugh at himself and be genuinely funny.  Part of it may be that the voters had a strong say in his departure.  Probably his attempts at redistribution have come to be accepted over time.  Thatcher had a sense of humour but was more sparing with it and presumably less relaxed about using it against herself.  She only gained power due to the difficulties the country was going through.  Gough came in after the party had been going for a while.  You could say Thatcher was forced to apply fiscal discipline to revive a failing economy, though those relying on the welfare state and protectionism saw themselves as victims.  Her party dealt with her rather than the electorate.  Both had years of declining health before their demise.  The contrasting reactions interest me.

Whitlam knew what he wanted to achieve and was unable to accommodate the changes our economy was undergoing.  He was an experienced politician and made the calculations of an experienced politician.  They would have been in regular conflict with what was best for the nation.  That is not to condemn him, all politicians must have a mind to politics to have any kind of success and longevity.  East Timor will be an issue for Whitlam's hagiographers.  You can argue he was doing the right thing by Australia in abandoning a potential basket case to the Indonesians, as West Papua had been abandoned previously.  But it was not the act of an idealist.  He had a full palette of greys in his character, a common trait amongst humans.Gough had a lot of ideas and some of them were quite good.  Buying back the mining industry would have been a folly.  Governments make poor miners.  They would be hostage to the unions, they would not invest to meet future demands having competing demands for taxpayer funds, they are hopeless managers.  Can you imagine the little mates they would have appointed to run major businesses?

The wages explosion under Whitlam caused the damage, not any deficit.  If big business was his enemy that was the reason.   Profits tanked, inflation got really ugly, the feeling was that the lunatics had taken over the asylum.  That may well have been grossly unfair but too much change too quickly will bring a reaction (ask John Howard and mention WorkChoices).Yep.  In 1977.Oops, 1974.Reread your post.  Whitlam, a hero of so many on the left, has died and rather than celebrate his life you choose to carry on with the usual day in day out diatribe you pump into this site.  To me that looks like small minded.I can't remember Fraser privatising anything.  Reform wasn't really his thing.

PS  I smiled.  Shorten has as many economic credentials as that self-evaluated fiscal conservative Kevin Rudd.  For him to claim he could turn around the budget more quickly than the Coalition ignored his obstructionism and displayed an impressive level of hubris/BS.  He deserved to be laughed at.Sadly California hit the skids during Arnie's time as Governor.  What could he do, become an economic rationalist in a State that didn't want economic rationalism?  Expecting other States to export power to CA so that they didn't generate the associated emissions shows the inherent dishonesty of green purism.Just for once give us better alternatives rather than simply telling us how intelligent you are APOW.  Should we send in the army, or at least those that aren't committed elsewhere?  Bear in mind that two trained nurses in the US have caught the disease from a patient in an environment where they were alert to the risks.  Rather than simply call other bloggers drivellers add something.I gather the whole of the USA has 220 beds to deal with this level of disease Dave.  Maybe Europe has more but how many more?  If those facilities are stretched I don't imagine Australians would get an equal priority, they would rightly favour their own.  Temporary facilities might do the job reasonably well but European weather going into winter would require a reasonably high build standard.  Spain has already seen a nurse infected with ebola on their soil.  It has to make them more cautious.

I simply don't believe we have the resources available to make a significant assault on the disease.  We are not a major nation whatever politicians tell us.  We cannot be involved in every crisis.  If private citizens want to go I wish them well but if I was benevolent dictator I would not be instructing anyone to take on the risks involved and I would require those that went to undergo a month in isolation when they returned.  This tragedy is happening in Europe's backyard and in countries formerly colonised by them.  They should take on the responsibility.  If the disease makes it to the South Pacific then Australia will carry the burden involved.Do we have hospital ships John?  I haven't heard of them.  Are their facilities adequate to deal with such a dangerous disease?  Do we sink it/them when the crisis has passed or just give it/them a jolly good scrub down?Threatened Putin?  Are you serious?What could we add to a campaign by the US or Europe to deal with an outbreak of the disease on their soil?  Nothing?Mankell no one is stopping you or Ms Plibersek going to Liberia and thereabouts and doing your best.  It is a decision for you.  I am sure an NGO can be found to help out with your expenses.  Or are you (and Ms Plibersek) simply posturing?There are a number of outfits working on a vaccine, including CSL.  Others have tried using the antibodies harvested from people who have recovered.  All very experimental at this time.  Should they be successful (Duncan died despite a high standard of care) I expect it will take time to ramp up production to meet the level of demand out there.

Unfortunately this is a disease largely confined to some of the poorest nations in Africa.  The only funding for such research comes from NGOs and governments. Barring evolving into a more contagious disease it is unlikely to ever be a situation attracting biotechs needing a commercial return to stay in business.  So it has been neglected until this latest flare-up.  Like it or not that is the reality.Think back to East Timor Tom.  The Americans contributed very little.  The Portuguese were johnnies come lately.  It was in Australia's (and New Zealand's) sphere of influence and we made the largest contribution to the peacekeeping efforts.  It is not a new idea, though it might be new to you.It might be more helpful to the rest of us if you pointed out where Zing was wrong Diogenes.  Make a point rather than offer us assurances.  Get a debate going.  Good luck.It is unlikely to be a comfort to anyone but a commentator recently said that people become confused in the morning and are dead the next day.  There is some mercy in a quick resolution in the final stages.  Must be very distressing for all involved just the same.Excellent, good on Labor.  Now tell us who they would send and how they would deal with those sent who contracted the disease.  Sometimes adopting a posture for effect simply isn't enough.Whose feet Reinhard?  Presumably not yours or mine - you have a young family?  Would it matter that those sent hadn't signed up for that type of risk?  What could Australia add to the efforts that demands our presence?  Was Plibersek  simply waffling to impress the faithful?Forgive my lack of intellect Nina but I am unconvinced.  Too often unions have a parasitic relationship with those they were set up to help rather than a symbiotic one.  How many of them are on the side of the workers and how many are set up in conflict with workers and business I cannot say.  It is not a thought that seems to bother the progressive side of politics.Macquarie is said to be a conglomeration of 6 businesses.  They do not own any airports to my knowledge but they do manage some infrastructure funds which may well have interests some airports (not Sydney's, Sydney Airport bought out the management rights and is now independent).  Australian banks meet quite high standards in terms of capital on their books, not that you would get that impression from Ian's piece of writing.  Murray's Inquiry is looking at applying even higher standards on our major banks than those set  out under the fairly rigorous Basel III requirements.  That will increase their costs or close off some borrowing opportunities for potential home buyers (lost opportunities for the banks).

The reason for the government's action was not to bail out our banks.  There are huge counterparty risks in banking.  If your bank deals with another bank which cannot meet its obligations the effects are drastic.  I don't believe any bank could carry enough capital to cope if their counterpart banks failed, at least not if they wanted to remain commercial in more orderly markets.  The government gave a guarantee, that is all.  It received fees for a number of those guarantees.  It was not required to make any payments under those guarantees.  It did not take up shares in any banks as happened elsewhere.  The fees were pure profit to the government.  With those guarantees foreign banks were happy to deal with Australian banks, seeing the counterparty risk as much diminished.  It was a short term panic with no ongoing risks.

Yep, I like managements pushing to extract higher profits on behalf of shareholders, although managements take a healthy  share for themselves.  There is always room for improvement.  Most banks have old software and numerous poorly integrated systems.  The internet opens the door for further improvements.  It also opens the door for an increasing number of competitors, including  foreign banks as well as internet giants.  To sit still is to die.  Returns must be high enough to compensate for the higher risk than that faced by investors whose greatest joy in life is to look at a rising bank balance.

Bear in mind Ian is always grouching about the banks (overdue credit cards?).  If you don't trust the banks do something else with your money or borrow more from them and hope they fall over.  Whatever you do if you have savings you face risks.  For mine Ian is grossly overstating the risks of our banks.  Otherwise I would sell my shares.Options 1 and 2 involve defrauding the people that lent you money.  Option 3 requires governments to more or less balance their budgets.  How is the latter the least equitable?If you are that nervous set up an account with the RBA.  There is no need for a new government owned bank, the RBA already offers you the service you want.  Ask for a chequebook facility and impress your friends.  Presumably they won't lend you money but you are only talking about the risk to depositors I think.  Didn't we have this conversation previously?I may have misled you Ingenuous.  The RBA's website suggests retail clients can't open accounts with them (not a commercial bank).  But I have seen people writing cheques on their accounts with the RBA.  Perhaps they were former employees?

I didn't have a problem with the guarantees.  The crisis at that time was more a liquidity event (probably incorrectly described) than an issue with levels of capital held on their balance sheets.  The Australian banks went into the crisis carrying more equity on their balance sheets than they were required to by regulators (8% v 6%?) but for a brief time banks were terrified of lending to their counterparties.  The guarantees when they came eased those fears.  In contrast the UK banks I think only needed 3% in capital reserves.  I don't recall government cash flowing into the banks here.   In the US and UK there were massive rescue operations required.  Not here.  To let our banks fail and then leave the government responsible for picking up the pieces would have been incredibly stupid in those circumstances.

You don't seem to remember how inefficient the CBA was prior to its privatisation.  To give a government bank a monopoly would ensure the problems were not only revisited but multiplied.  Competition would come from elsewhere.  Or would you stop that too?  Do you really imagine any politician would want to take responsibility for running such a large enterprise?  Do you think our public service is well-placed to perform such a role, especially with oversight/interference from politicians?  How many agenda would be foisted on the hapless politicians by supplicants?  Simply too many conflicts for it to work.  You would cure an imagined problem by inflicting an incurable one.I disagree on the last bit.  Foreign fighters dominate ISIL, there's nothing civil about the conflict.  These guys are largely recruited from the criminal classes and are essentially bandits.  I agree they have brought Sunni tribal leaders on side but am dubious about the solidity of their support.  I expect that once ISIL are brought back to the pack and lose their dominance a lot of their temporary supporters will turn on them and return their brutality.Selective outrage as ever TY.  As you would be aware Spurr was not engaged by the government.Don't know Tristan.  The government appointed 2 people, they employed people who may well have employed people.  I am happy to presume the government didn't vet the people down the line.I haven't followed the story.  I don't have any issue with the Uni investigating and, if warranted, disciplining the guy for being an idiot.  I've never heard the word 'chinkipoos' before this and I have difficulty accepting it was meant to be used as an insult but if others see it differently so be it.

I am puzzled about the bit about there being no decent case for privacy invasion here.  Sure the Uni is entitled to scan his emails but the person who leaked this material to the New Matilda seems to be in gross breach of his terms of employment.  Have I missed part of the story here?Please explain the subsidies comment.  I don't like the Greens version on the subject.Did you look at their website?Is there any media outlet in Australia that makes unbiased assessments of the claims coming from all sides of AGW debate?  I can't think of any.So does that mean every outlandish claim in respect of AGW should automatically get a tick?  Promise me you will not take up a career in science.They're not talking about inventing windows are they Big M?  Cause they might be a bit late on that development.Pyne &amp; Briggs are both South Australians.  Santos is a sensitive subject for them I expect.  Can't imagine why Hockey would care.  Empathetic too much?Would that be Indonesian coal Doc?  As you would be aware Australian black coals have a much lower sulphur content than Chinese coals.  The move may well be as much a bargaining point in the free trade agreements talks as a protectionist measure.  It is an anti-environment measure as far as boosting the reliance on Chinese coal goes.  You don't need me to point out the hypocrisy of the Chinese, here and whenever their interests are put at risk.  The Chinese public will soon get tired of choking to death I imagine.Dave from memory in the SMH Ian whatshisname justified the decision based on where he believed the demand for fossil fuels would be 30 to 40 years out.  Just silly.  A lot of things will happen in that time period.  To predict a steady or sharp decline in prices throughout that period, well, he wouldn't even get a job application with ABARE considered.  And they are terrible at predicting commodity prices.  Bear in mind this affected 1% of ANU's investment portfolio, i.e. neither here nor there.  But they chose to grandstand on the decision.  Such hubris is truly amusing.  I don't wonder it resulted in some ridicule.It is very odd that so many bothered to comment on such a small move by a small institution.  As Richard says it is open to every investor to set its own criteria for investing.  The market reflects the sum of those decisions.  There are numerous ethical fund managers making (better informed?) decisions along these lines every day.  Why would anyone care?  Many of them make a reasonable return, they don't need exposure to resources to do that.

Just the same I would like to see Ian Young make concrete decisions on reducing the ANU's emissions before spouting about it.  Stop using emissions heavy steel in their buildings and vehicles.   Insist on strict adherence to a no-car policy for all staff members.  Ban air conditioning and artificial light.  It goes without saying there would be no need for fossil fuel powered vehicles, including public transport.  Bamboo framed bicycles should be available to all.  Excellent for cooling off on the hot Canberra days and warming up on the cooler Canberra nights.  When I see such moves coming about I will join the  writer in applauding Ian Young's visionary decision-making.  Until then I think I may as well stick to the position that he is a grandstanding hypocrite.  But a nice one I am sure.

PS  Just because Lord Stern expresses the opinion that there has been a market failure it isn't necessarily so.  True he has more money and a larger profile than most of the public but that does not make him an oracle.  If the public puts a different value on oxygen at this point of time than Stern that is just a market at work.  To proclaim a market failure smacks of sour grapes.By all means give us your definition of a fair go Dave.  AJ's position seems reasonable to me, biased or not.  What would you like to see done?  More redistribution?  Make the case.  And no repeating yourself.Do you see yourself as rich or poor Alpo?  I presume with a massive social conscience like yours you can only be poor, having given away your worldly goods and donned sackcloth and ashes (is that still appropriate workwear?).  Or are you only interested in giving away other people's money and preserving your own?  What are your criteria for being among the deserving poor, beyond wanting what other people own?Dave there are good reasons to re-evaluate a tax system where capital gains are treated as generously as they are in the USA and here.  As far as I am aware that is Buffett's position rather than redistribution of existing wealth.  I am quite happy for that debate to take place.  But fatuous talk about the rich adds nothing.

Buffett also prefers to give away the vast bulk of his vast wealth to good causes rather than pass it down to his children.  There is a lot to be said for that as well - too much money unearned can distort the values of the recipients and ruin lives.  Not all will lose their way but many will.  If they don't their kids may not be so immune to the effects of money.  But that is and should be a personal choice, not the right of the Alpos of this world to impose on others.

Unchecked inequality?  Who is going to rule on the limits of inequality?  What if the inequality is as a result of addictions?  Keep feeding their addictions?  Are you suggesting social mobility as a result of unchecked inequality is an issue in Australia?  If you are I would have to disagree.  Many people from underprivileged backgrounds can and do earn great wealth in this country.  They get on what is for you the wrong side of the inequality equation.  You want to stop them succeeding, drag them back to the pack?  I do not understand such thinking.  The greater risk to the nation's stability is the creation of an underclass.  For me that is more likely to come from unchecked immigration from those who will struggle to integrate or those who are unwilling to integrate.  I also see problems with Labor's overstimulus of our economy putting us in a position where eventually there will need to be long-term fiscal disciplines imposed.

In my own case I am earning less than Alpo (last year anyway), donating to charities and paying taxes.  I am quite comfortable.  I have no interest in taking off others.  I have made my bed and lie in it quite comfortably.  What is your position?  How much more tax would you like to pay to redress the inequalities you see?  Why not make charitable donations to make up the shortfall?  No claiming the tax deductions of course....Aren't they more inclined to a sustainable economy than Labor?Ah yes, I remember those 'They started it!' arguments.  Never got me very far in kindergarten, despite the logic seeming so compelling.  I presume the fallout is once 'they started it' similar behaviour back and forth is justified forever.  Or until we grow up.All PMs cop personal abuse Margaret.  It is part of the job.  Either Gillard allowed herself to be distracted by such or  she sought to use such attacks as a deflection from other shortcomings.  I believe it was the latter.I'm sure lots of restaurateurs make stupid jokes on all sorts of subjects Jerry.  He was also guilty of plagiarism in adapting a Clinton joke.  Gutter?  Maybe.  Most of us are guilty of similarly stupid comments which are meant for a very small audience.  Not you?

At Home with Julia was grating television for me.  Not all ideas work out as well as envisioned.  Don't overlook the work of generations of ABC comedians attempting to make Howard appear as ridiculous as possible, including Gillies, Biggins and Scott (I think).  And Hawke copped similar treatment.  You can call it satire if you like but for me that diminishes the art.  Too much of it was puerile, little cleverness was involved.  So why is the sin worse when visited on Gillard?  How would/will Abbott stop similar treatment if someone deems it potentially good television?That's not how I see it.  I made no comment on Gillard's externals - that would have been easy and cheap.  I saw her trading on the privileges normally extended to women.  The regular cries of sexism looked to me to be a deflection from valid criticism of her performance, not genuine but confected.  I don't see Credlin resorting to the same lines.  It is hard to imagine her being tougher than Gillard.  Presumably she can afford to ignore most of the nasty stuff because she doesn't have to face the voters (issues about artificial insemination and related comments apparently did hurt her).

I suggest successful people of both sexes are going to cop all sorts of cruel and unwarranted comments form the less successful and the ambitious.  You only have to look at the commentary on this site to see examples.  You may choose to identify some comments as sexist and ignore the rest.  Personally I find that a lazy approach.  If we attack politicians on a personal level rather than laying into their poorly thought through policies (plenty of targets available from every party in parliament) that says more about us than them.  I am sure I can be labelled as an hypocrite for saying it but that doesn't make me wrong (here).Does the name John McTernan ring any bells with you?  He was a great confecter of accusations of sexism, in his work for Ms Gillard and previously in his work for the Labour Party in the UK.  Didn't feature much in Question Time.  Not sure if he even wore a tie, let alone a blue one.Don't ask me chapter and verse, I'm afraid my brain doesn't work like that.  You seem to be overlooking the ludicrous blue ties speech though.  Gillard didn't need to work the theme day after day, all she needed to do was set the scene and let the workers take it up.  And they did with relish, from the front bench through the media and into the blogs, all pushing the theme that Abbott hated women and was therefore unelectable.  The misogyny speech was seen as pathetic by many who understood Gillard's desperate search for distraction.  Defending the awful Slipper was only part of it.  The examples she used were either stretched or trivial.  That people could take seriously the act of looking at a watch to remind the speaker of the time limits on debate as a sexist act (time limits apply to all) shows the depths to which the twittering classes were happy to descend.Barry Humphreys is reputed to be a conservative.  We have to make a few allowances for Green Room relaxation methods.

I think Rinehart's body shape (and Amanda Vanstone's and Christine Nixon's and Joe Hockey pre-op and.....) is what made her a widely accepted target of ridicule.  Obesity was identified as a target in kindergarten and that seems to have stayed with most of us through our lives.  It seems we can make fat jokes long after ethnicity, sex, sexual orientation were made off limits as far as polite humour goes.  Looked at in that light it makes little sense.I don't believe Gillard had the intellectual wherewithal for the top job and I don't think Bishop does either.  Gillard failed in a difficult portfolio, Health, and asked to switch elsewhere.  She had the first option on the Treasury as Rudd's Deputy but left it for Swan, claiming it was a factional deal.  Instead she chose Education, a fairly soft and fluffy portfolio at the Federal level.  Her choices did not prepare her for her role as PM.

Bishop failed in an economic portfolio (was it Finance?).  She was switched to the soft and fluffy role as shadow Foreign Minister.  Much of that job is bipartisan.  The FM gets to strike heroic poses while ineffectually defending Australia from nasty comments flung in our general direction.  This is not a job to steel a politician for the rough and tumble of the top job.  This was the preferred ministry for the soft and fluffy Andrew Peacock, if you need any more convincing.

No need to resort to sexism as an excuse for Ms Gillard's poor fist at the job.  She just wasn't very good in that job.  She had gifts that made her very useful in other roles where meanness was a prerequisite.  Bishop presents well and is no doubt intelligent and well-trained but can be discounted as a potential leader because she has not succeeded at tough jobs in the past.  I do not imply men in general will do better.  I struggle to see any convincing potential leaders in Federal Parliament, from any party.  And I would fall far short of most of them.  Damn my critical eye.Could it be to subtly influence the production to put out a healthier message?  Could the women who would otherwise be rolling fat cigars on their upper thighs now be rolling e-cigarettes?For mine Rudd's small target tactics in 2007 delegitimised him.  He had no agenda beyond establishing enough points of difference for enough people to be able to justify a change of party.  Once he won government the search for an agenda accelerated with inquiry after inquiry.  In the end they simply appropriated what they could from the Greens.  Naturally that was entirely half-baked.  When Rudd was removed from the microphone Gillard had little to work with beyond tidying up Rudd's appropriated agenda into something people could safely ignore.  Plus a few things in education.  It doesn't appear that Abbott learnt anything from Rudd's experience.  In my opinion.I appreciate your perspective anon.  My situation is different.  I see myself adrift.  I can't say I am depressed but unsettled doesn't quite cover it.  I am underachieving (by a long way) and way too easily distracted.  An example is my frequent overblogging.  I would actually welcome a diagnosis, even one that was inaccurate.  It would give me a starting point at least, and a motive to address longstanding issues.  But things aren't nearly that bad.  So I drift.Syria did not object when the US and its allies attacked areas in Syria controlled by ISIL.  They appeared to accept that this was no longer de facto Syrian territory.I am finding publication increasingly difficult as well TT.Haven't read about it but I presume you are not just yolking Egg.  Banks frequently write-off things to tidy up the books and adopt a worst case scenario.  I imagine it keeps the quibbling analysts a bit quieter.  Down the track they generally recover of good chunk of the write-offs.  Seems to peak when a new CEO comes in - set a new baseline when the predecessor can be blamed.  Happens in politics as well I suppose.I agree the IMF would only report on Australia as an afterthought.  We are more an appendix to the Chinese economy I think.  Low population, problems relatively insignificant globally.  I doubt they bother doing any real work on us, probably more rebadging Treasury numbers.

But the fall in the dollar will put upwards pressure on inflation I think.  The local import-competing industries will have more scope to increase their prices, overseas markets will present more opportunities if locals aren't happy with new prices (in some cases).  Wages are always fairly sticky and hard to adjust downwards, even if Abbott had the courage to reintroduce some of the flexibility Labor took out of the system (he doesn't).

Unfortunately I share your pessimism.  Could be an age thing I suppose.  Labor's obduracy on the subject of budget repair contributes though.  We look to be starting down a long tough road with a heavy backpack.Apologies TY, if my earlier post makes it), misread your point on inflation.Depends how they evolve I imagine anote.  In its current form ebola virus is only contagious late in the piece.  Western medicine should be able to deal with it comfortably enough should it arrive in Australia.  If it takes on a more contagious form that will put a real stretch on resources.  As long as ISIL is content tooling around in deserts and small towns dreaming of a caliphate (or a Blessed Revolution as Mr Badar prefers) it is not a threat on a global scale.  If however it is able to secure a base from which to operate undisturbed the contagion could be truly damaging on a global scale.I understand the US military is a generous sponsor of the biotech industry, particularly in areas like wound healing and tropical diseases.  The Australian military does not have the resources for such ventures and has a more traditional focus.  Can't see them having any particular expertise to deal with ebola, especially on a continent where we have traditionally had little or no involvement.  Nor can I see the point of involving our forces in every conflict or disaster when they occur far away.  Horses for courses yet again.I'm not sure what you are reading into my post Rhonda.  Why is our military the most appropriate body to deal with ebola should it arrive here?  Are you sure you're not just a bit bored?The survivability of ebola is considerably higher than 10%.  Have I missed your point?  Simple measures like keeping hydration up seem to have positive outcomes for many.  It is too early to write off vaccines for ebola.  Given the number of strains of the disease the risk of the virus evolving further appears to be high and is a matter of real concern.  But please get rid of that horrible hat.  It doesn't improve your look.My impression is that the more you give people the less grateful they are and the more entitled they feel.  Gerard I would place you in that category, along with a lot of other people who feel society hasn't given them everything they deserve.  I don't think there is a cure for that level of discontentment beyond time and achieving a level of maturity.I am guessing you are not a member of Falun Gong and own a complete set of internal organs.

I confess though to being puzzled by the demonstrations.  Surely HK residents didn't believe China would allow the election of a local leader who saw it as their job to oppose Chinese government edicts?  However genuine the original parties to the democracy agreement might have been no one could imagine those misty eyes would not clear up in the clear light of day.  I largely agree it is not our business and even if we considered it such we have little or no influence on the course of events.  Best to just urge moderation and leave it alone.Pinkie do you really believe we could have any influence on what China does in HK?  Or elsewhere for that matter?  I don't know why my other post disappeared but the reality is China will pay more attention to the damage they will do to the HK economy by imposing their own dictatorial legal system on HK and destroying it as a financial centre than they would ever pay to posturing Australian politicians playing to their domestic audience.  You might be impressed by such silliness, I am not.I dislike Katter as much as you Alge but am happy to agree with that comment.  The attack was a diversion from a serious topic.  No doubt it made Thomas and the questioner feel like heroes but for me a least it was a waste of several minutes and the opportunity to deal with further equally valid questions.  To what end?  People already have firm ideas on Katter's limitations.You've just burnt your nomination for International Citizenship of the Year Ben.  It would be lunacy to unleash these criminals to murder and rape the civilian populations of other countries.

Passport does not equal citizenship.  A passport is not an automatic right for every citizen.  Cancelling a passport makes international travel much more difficult.  Whether it prevents the return to Australia I don't pretend to know.  Any such return would be well-flagged though.Think more speculate less.  Which hero's name is on everyone's lips for raising the threat level?  Would you have expected a different action if Labor was in power?  Is that sand warm enough for your head?To me as the article sets out the legislation the issue is not so much about reversing the burden of proof (any old excuse from the tourist will do to start off with, an extremely light burden) but more about removing the right to silence.  I do not have a problem with that aspect on the basis of this story.  But I don't have the kind of tendencies that would attract the attention of authorities.A pointless post.  Add something useful.  Point out what freedoms you want reintroduced.  If you want more people coming to Australia as Ben does tell us how many and how you would hope to accommodate them.  Argue for tax increases or diversion of funds from less worthy recipients by all means.  But to simply describe others as deluded without telling us why you believe you are an exception is pretty bloody silly.  No offence intended.In the past there have been worthwhile news and current affairs programs on commercial television.  Not sure whether they were an indulgence in better times or whether they were uncommercial due to being crowded out by the ABC / having to share a limited market with the ABC.  I expect that if the ABC disappeared tomorrow there might be a bit more effort placed in intelligent journalism on the commercial stations.  I quite like the business program on Nine at 10 am on Sundays.  Hard to do much with that timeslot though.  Not a great fan of the presenter though.

Medic that presenter hasn't been heard of since.  A pity, one (bad) lapse and she is gone.Fidanza I like Tony Jones and respect his intelligence but can't avoid the impression his intervention too regularly cuts off conservative points of view and steers the discussion in his preferred directions.  Three conservative voices wouldn't much matter when the moderation is so immoderate IMO.  I don't count the PUPs as conservative voices, they are more the voices of ill-considered ratbaggery.Terry the iron ore market is in an oversupply situation and likely to remain so I expect.  We need China or India to ramp up demand before we start to see iron ore prices revive and I am dubious the Chinese will start building homes and infrastructure on the scale needed to deal with all the extra supply coming onto the market.  The cycles in minerals can be very long, maybe 50 years, going by the previous downtrend when the Japanese (mainly) did over our producers year after year.

Allowing for my pessimism I still think it is grossly inequitable for the Federal government to introduce new taxes to take all the cream of the few good years in the cycle that will justify the massive expense and risks involved.  It isn't 'miners' that pay the MRRT, they are just a proxy for myriad shareholders, probably even you (mostly likely through a balanced superannuation fund).  The minerals were never owned by the Commonwealth so I regard the RSPT and MRRT as basically theft.  You no doubt see things differently.I agree with AE Darren.  If you are prepared to take the chance that Medibank Private will be a good investment have a look at it, otherwise leave it alone.  I have pre-registered my interest but at this stage no one can say if it will be a good deal or not, no details have been released.  I suspect there are a lot of costs that can be cut out of the company's operations and it has a good market share so I think it is worth having a look at it.  There are a lot of risks involved as well.  Hopefully these will be priced in.  The institutional investors will put pressure on the government to sell the shares as cheaply as they can.  It seems if all the institutional investors say a privatisation is overpriced that is a good signal to buy (Aurizon, Healthscope although the latter wasn't a sale by a government).

The government is trying to get the best price it can and is hoping to sell into a strong market.  Fair enough, they are acting as responsible custodians of taxpayers' moneys.  The process is a long one and they can't time it with any precision.  If you are buying for the long term price should not be so important.  If you are a trader you must consider things in a stronger light, up close.  I would suggest you preregister.  It costs nothing and does not commit you to follow up.  When you get the prospectus you should have time to read and consider.  Get advice.  If you feel more comfortable with property or money in the bank go that way.  If you are happy with the risks and rewards offered by the sharemarket hedge your risks by diversifying.  I like shares.  I buy over the long term (in theory), gradually building up my holdings.  Lessens the risk of putting too much money in at the peaks.Sharemarket = not for you.

The market accommodates all investors with their diverse perspectives, needs and timeframes.  The traders are vastly outnumbered by long term investors.  Pump and dump is not a big feature of our market.  Not at the moment anyway.Dartboards regularly do quite well in a competition against analysts Caff.  So what?  You either accept the level of risk in the hope of greater rewards or you do not.  If every company was an Enron there would quickly be no sharemarket.  If you invest solely in one company or one sector of the market you are choosing a high risk option.

I am not proselytising for shares.  Use your own judgment and don't do anything that will compromise your sleeping patterns.Greg is just displaying his classic anti-Liberal values.What  should we do James?  It is all very well establishing ourselves as keepers of the high moral ground but what practical measures would you advocate we take?  Presumably we wouldn't be declaring war.  Should we stop exports of raw materials and declare economic war perhaps, driving our miners into bankruptcy in the process?You could be right.  This might just be the opportunity Mr Rudd needs to establish his usefulness as an honest broker in international affairs.  And if Tony Abbott won't stump up for one extra flight to get Mr Rudd there I do believe I would put my hand in my pocket to help out.  At a very reasonable rate of interest too.Ah but has Labor's stance lost them your support?

Not trying to be provocative but I can't see how people can simply avert their eyes from such ugly events and claim the moral high ground.  Thousands already dead, forcible rape, an attempt to wipe out cultures and cleanse ethnicity but we should just sit quietly and say nothing?  If we let these lunatics create their own Afghanistan civilisation will pay a massive price.Reread your original post TY.  I was gently pointing out your small error.  Unless you have something in writing showing you had the ALP's support at some stage rather than the other way around.

We have zero connection with the Congo.  Yep, if someone wants UN intervention I'd be happy to see Australia participate but we have no chance of achieving anything on our own.  If you leave the Middle East to sort out their problems unaided you are inviting ISIL to complete their ethnic cleansing until the borderlines between Shia and Sunni are well-defined and highly inflamed.  The Iraqis couldn't trust the strong Saudi army to depart their territory once invited in.  The Syrians are under siege.  The Iranians will assist the current lot of Iraqis but once their influence is established there'd be no getting rid of them.  The Kurds have no friends, you'd happily sacrifice them.  There are a myriad of minor states but they wouldn't be much more than nuisances.  So who are your prospective Middle Eastern heroes that will step in and preserve the minorities while putting ISIL back in an appropriately sized box?  Can't be the Israelis.The problem there Cyn is that the Sunni tribes were seduced over to the light side by the Americans when Al Qaeda was the threat.  Then the Shia dominated Iraqi government effectively betrayed them.  The tribal leaders were quickly despatched by ISIL (according to a Lateline interview) so they are beyond influence.  I expect the tribes will need to see ISIL being put under extreme pressure before they would contemplate switching sides again.  ISIL won't concentrate their forces to such an extent that they would make a target of themselves, given their vulnerability to attack from the air.Bill Gunn ordered the Fitzgerald Inquiry that investigated Queensland corruption during the Bjelke-Petersen era.  Gunn was Joh's deputy.  He got the inquiry underway while Joh was out of the State.  I imagine Joh was a bit peeved.

I can't remember any ALP politician doing anything similar.  Can you help me out here?

Didn't the Greens' Jamie Parker have a controversial start to his life in politics?They can inquire into anything they like I suppose.  I can't imagine members of the Queensland government offering themselves up for cross-examination by Jabba the Hutt and friends, they are a sovereign government in their own right.  I imagine they will block their public servants from appearing in the three ring tent as well.

Abbott's lot would be silly to engage in tit for tat.  If Labor thinks illegalities and corruption have occurred they will be able to examine it at the State level when next they get a turn.Are you talking about Newman et al breaking Queensland laws or Federal laws?  Can't really see the AFP having jurisdiction to investigate breaches of State laws, or the resources.  The Feds can't tell Queensland police what to do.  It all seems a pointless political exercise.  Your post enforces that impression - you only want to get at your perceived political enemies, beyond that you don't seem to care.Perhaps the people who subscribed for the bonds made it conditional on them being subject to American laws and jurisdiction, rather than Argentinian law.  For understandable reasons.  The Argentinians don't appear to be big on the idea of the rule of law.

I suppose one or other of us could actually look it up.  Bags not me.Nicely written Paul.  I am happy to ladle large dollops of blame on to the heads of voters.  Most of us refuse to contemplate that there are no easy answers to many of the problems we face and vote against those prepared to deal out tough love rather than a quick hit that will leave us feeling lousy in the morning.  In that environment how can politicians be honest?  Any good they seek to do must be done by stealth.  And any evil of course.I am a regular viewer of Lateline.  It is silly to deny Tony Jones is biased.  He too regularly lets his enthusiasms get in the way of his objectivity.  Never mind, the program is still very much worth the effort, particularly when the main interview involves people with insights into things happening beyond our shores.

It is not the task of the ABC to balance out biases elsewhere.  The ABC is mandated to be balanced in its presentation in its own right.

FWIW I assume the ABC management is trying to embarrass the government into giving it more funds by threatening to axe their flagship current affairs program.  The ease with which Lateline access top line interview subjects indicates they are respected internationally as well as locally (not by Billy perhaps).  It smacks of the ABS directing resources away from obtaining reliable unemployment stats to embarrass the Rudd government.
