As Western Australia now shares the construction of the Square Kilometre Array (SKA), state of the art global radio telescope with South Africa, maybe Telstra could think about investment in integration, cooperation &amp; collaboration between the two continents with super speed/high capacity coaxial cable to transmit mega &amp; meta data on e health, e education, e conferencing, internet services, media program sharing, scientific data analysis, development of photonic signalling etc.

The US &amp; China see Africa as the continent of emerging opportunities for developing new markets; commercialising &amp; expanding their own domestic industries in collaboration with the African nations to the mutual benefit of both. Why not Australia when we are in the communication box seat without really knowing it? In terms of cost benefit analysis the NBN fibre to the premises would reach a new positive level, maybe even a realisation that it is a necessity!
Much of the current goodwill between Egypt &amp; Israel occurred after the Camp David Accord in 1978 when Israel gave back all of the Sinai Peninsula it had won during the Arab Israel 6 day War of 1967, together with artefacts &amp; antiquities discovered during its 11 years of occupation. The same generosity of spirit needs to now be directed  towards the Palestinians to help them create their own viable state. Gaza is one of the most densely populated areas on earth; a pressure cooker of humanity which creates its own epicentre of conflict. Egypt, Israel &amp; the Hamas government in Gaza have a significant interest in the stability of the Sinai Peninsula &amp; a common interest &amp; stake in countering the rise of extreme Palestinian Salafi jihadi groups which have broken away from Hamas &amp; joined with other terrorist jihadi  like Al Qaeda  &amp; extreme elements of the Muslim Brotherhood. The 3rd UN shelter in just under a week has incurred missile strikes with civilian casualties, hospitals are stretched to the limit &amp; yet Israel receives unprecedented  Egyptian support in its military offensive against Hamas militants. Continual bombardment of Gaza by Israel plays into the hands of opportunist Palestinian Salafi extremists who play on hatred, despair &amp; the suffering of the innocent.


Does the solution to the conflict between Israelis, Palestinians &amp; Egyptians actually lie in the creation of a new hybrid state: a United State of Sinai ( excised from the Sinai desert) where Israelis, Egyptians, Palestinians &amp; minorities coexist in a state of equality irrespective of religious background  ethnicity, or race ; where non sectarian government (25% Israeli, 25% Egyptian, 25% Palestinian &amp; 25% Other with say at least 30% representation by women) helps bring stability to the region &amp; with it the realisation of a Palestinian state accompanied by an increase in shared productivity, competitiveness &amp; lifestyle improvement for all in the region. 


Where Egypt supplies the land, Israel provides the technology &amp; industry to make the desert  bloom &amp; the economy to thrive, Palestinians &amp; Egyptians initially the bulk of the labour &amp; the international community provides access to finance &amp; capital. A new hybrid state which shares its borders with Gaza, Israel &amp; Egypt with access to the Mediterranean sea with a mini Suez canal, stretching along its upper border with Gaza &amp; a section of Israel, providing not only added security against terrorism but commercial functionality in the form of trade &amp; the supply of desalinated water to agriculture, industry &amp; households. A symbol of how cooperation, co ordination, collaboration &amp; applied innovative planning can expand liveable space, sustainable economic opportunities &amp; relieve congestion for the peoples of the region.
In Australia &amp; around the world you can apply the same geopolitical lessons &amp; associated frustrations of the current turmoil in Gaza &amp; Eastern Ukraine with its corollary: the obvious need of governments for cooperation, co ordination &amp; collaboration with a greater understanding of the need of their people for a better lifestyle, job diversification &amp; security coupled with a willingness of governments to  look to the future &amp; not the past for vision &amp; creativity. You start with a clean slate &amp; without the baggage of ideology, perceived past wrongs, anecdotes &amp; stereotypes &amp; a preparedness to talk &amp; discuss....where practical common sense &amp;  practical learned intuition based on the integration, interconnection &amp; interrelationship of economic, social  &amp; environmental imperatives rules.

In Australia Coalition politicians make excuses for abandoning industry based on lack of labour &amp; capital efficiency, the inability to engage economies of scale, the small size of the domestic market &amp; achieving the best value for money; while on their watch we are seeing the demise of blue collar manufacturing in Australia.... jobs are not created by ideology generalisations... where are their practical, specific &amp; diversified job opportunities to be created in Australia!...as quoted by the CEO of the Defence Teaming Centre: We can put on our banana republic T shirts, learn how to pick fruit, dig ore out of the ground &amp; serve drinks to wealthy tourists.

For starters, I would suggest we put an end to massive planned thermal coal mines in QLD &amp; in their place produce the cheapest high quality steel slab in the world by value adding 3 fold; through economies of scale, efficiencies in mining &amp; production, the utilization of state of the art technologies associated with high grade iron ore, coking coal &amp; gas; in the process creating large scale global carbon credits with an ETS, raw steel &amp; further value add product  for export &amp; local manufacture in collaboration  with Japanese company Nomura Securities, with diversified secure job opportunities, national rail infrastructure in northern Australia ( WA,NT,QLD) as a catalyst for northern Australia sustainable development (combined economic, social &amp; environmental pluses): the privately funded, EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang. In turn you supply the cheapest high grade quality steel in the world to Australian ship builders, working in collaboration with South Korean &amp; Japanese companies to produce defence ships &amp; submarines, together with large floating steel platforms for a privately funded floating international airport off Port Botany, Sydney &amp; an eco satellite city of the future at Badgerys Creek ( the current site for a 2nd Sydney International airport) utilizing federal government owned land.


While the Russians, Americans &amp; Europeans are blaming one another could the demise of  Malaysian flight  MH17 in reality be stranger than fiction: a covert operation by Russian Islamic  Chechen rebels, ISIS Islamic extremists working with disaffected Islamic Tartar minorities in Crimea  &amp; East Ukraine who in turn are working as part of a disorganised pro Russian militia to create international turmoil. To date the US will only assert that the Malaysian airline that crashed in Ukraine  was brought down by a missile from the separatist controlled area, more likely by accident. My guess is that the real perpetrators  will not be publicly identified or found for a comprehensive set of reasons: reasons of national security, saving face on the part of the Russians in losing control of a destructive weapons system, the length of time elapsed in gathering definitive/uncompromised evidence, international relations &amp; airline viability.


Aviation experts say that thankfully the 298 passengers &amp; crew on Flight MH17 would have been instantly killed by fragments exploding from a SAM 300 missile just outside the plane followed by a sudden loss in barometric pressure rendering passengers &amp; crew unconscious. Could there have been a barometric bomb onboard that speeded up the process of disintegration &amp; disseminated evidence over an area of up to 50 sq km....so that without definitive evidence Russia will be blamed. Aviation authorities will no doubt be matching bodies of the deceased with seating arrangements with aircraft parts &amp; pieces for signs of both implosive &amp; outward explosive effects. Depending on findings it could prompt questions like: Have airline crews &amp; ground staff been infiltrated by cells of Islamic extremists? Has falling airline profitability &amp; the need to be competitive with cheaper prices led to dangerous cost cutting; reaching a point where compromise on safety with fewer checks &amp; with shorter more riskier air routes designed to save on fuel? Have passenger documents been checked against a list of lost or stolen passports?


 With the Gaza/Israel conflict a solution for peace could lie in the creation of a new non sectarian hybrid state in Sinai which benefits Egyptians, Palestinians &amp; Israelis as a united whole. In Syria we need to know publicly what is required for Russia to replace the Assad government with a new non sectarian, united, publicly elected government in Syria. Iraq needs to replace its leader with a new Prime Minister ( no time for new elections) who is prepared to unite &amp; represent the people of Iraq &amp; their welfare as a whole (without religious, ethnic or racial divides).  Eastern Ukraine &amp; Crimea probably need a period of autonomous government with Russia &amp; Ukraine sitting down peacefully to discuss how practically all sides can benefit from cooperation, coordination &amp; collaboration...where all are winners!


A year after the introduction of the carbon tax on 1 july 2012 the Bureau of Statistics reported that consumer prices rose by only 2.3 per cent  after seasonal adjustment. In Tasmania its hydro power meant that the carbon tax had no impact on inflation...petrol prices actually fell nationwide by 3.3 per cent because of a high Australian dollar &amp; did not soar as Tony Abbott had predicted under a carbon tax. Like the Minerals Resource Rent Tax the Coalition like to scaremonger on the Carbon tax &amp; not deal with the real causes of cost of living pressures like the draconian negative impact on the poor &amp; middle class of targeted cuts to expenditure in their Federal Budget &amp; external international influences beyond our control.


In Clive Palmers Federal seat of Fairfax major electricity supplier AGL in July 2014 indicated to customers that electricity bills would rise by around $4.60 per week but do not worry because in future electricity bills would be adjusted to the repeal of the carbon tax...they take with one hand &amp; give with the other &amp; then have the audacity to say that consumers can expect to save between 20 &amp; 50 cents each day with repeal of the carbon tax. You can achieve that same result with simple energy efficiencies ( like not leaving lights &amp; power switches on unnecessarily). Solar voltaic power, a projected fall in networking costs, together with a slower expansion of poles &amp; wires, a reversion back to coal fired power stations ( because oversupply &amp; falling demand internationally for thermal coal equates to lower domestic prices while dwindling gas supplies due to higher international demand will make domestic gas more expensive) will be responsible for lower electricity prices; not repeal of the carbon tax. Claims by Tony Abbott that gas prices will fall by 7 per cent are but a transitory sugar fix....there is no national plan in the medium to long term to bring down the price of gas for both households &amp; industry! 


There has been too much emphasis on much or how little revenue the carbon tax &amp; MRRT raises &amp; too little on the expenditure side; that is now changing with Clive Palmer &amp; PUP demanding that many expenditure items remain....which will become more evident in the process of repealing the MRRT.

When the MRRT Mining Tax was introduced on 1 July 2012 the coverage of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax was expanded to cover oil &amp; gas production on mainland Australia. The MRRT is calculated separately for each mining project interest, according to the formula:

MRRT equals A times ( B minus C) minus D minus E......where:
?	MRRT equals tax liability which cannot be less than nil
?	A equals MRRT rate measured by the equation 30 percent times (1 minus Extraction factor). On 1 July 2012 the extraction factor was calculated at 25 percent giving an effective tax rate of 22.5 per cent
?	B equals mining profits....a factor of both commodity prices and sales volume production
?	C equals MRRT allowances 
?	D equals low profit offset of $75m. You earn less than $75m on a project you do not incur MRRT liability.
?	E equals rehabilitation offsets.
Consistent polling suggests that a majority of Australians believe that mining companies (predominantly 83 per cent foreign owned) should pay a profits based rent tax on mining resources...they are finite; once gone there are no more profits.


Effectively under the MRRT as each mining project goes forward into the production stage &amp; efficiencies in production are made ( eg use of robotics with less workers) the effective tax rate in the MRRT formula goes up &amp; so does MRRT tax revenue. The greater the sales volume of production then the greater the propensity to generate profits denoted by B. If commodity prices go up for iron ore and coal, assisted by a rise in the $US against the  $Australian, then we are well into super profit territory and a substantially higher MRRT revenue to the government. The longer a mining project exists then C in the MRRT formula reduces, adding to higher MRRT revenue.


Unless you are government wedded to the financial interests of big business &amp; big miners it is not in the national interest to repeal the MRRT.





The Senate cross benchers should seriously consider the ramifications of repealing the carbon tax without a positive ETS in its place ( currently between $6 to $8  per tonne in the EU)....a minimum $20 a tonne for the Coalition Direct Action Alternative. Australia could link initially with New Zealand which currently has a floating price ETS of under $3 a tonne down from $25 a tonne when first introduced...it has achieved 74 per cent renewable energy as part of total energy supply by buying cheap imported carbon credits. Large carbon credits would be generated locally in Australia with the proposed, privately funded, $45B Project Iron Boomerang.
We would not be ignoring calls from solar experts like Danny Kennedy who moved to  California in 2006, to form solar company Solar Reserve because of a lack of support in Australia, going onto pioneer a technology that combines mass scale solar power generation with storage allowing energy from the sun to be used 24 hours a day.....in his words Australia would not be going the way of the DODO &amp; missing out on the biggest opportunity of the 21st  century if we continue to favour coal power ( air pollution is killing 7 million people a year according to WHO).


Projections by the Department of Employment estimate, under a global economy in recovery mode from the GFC, that Australia will create around 838,000 new jobs but few with blue collars.  Part of the visit by Japanese PM Shinzo Abe to Australia this week will be to the Pilbara in WA...a reflection of the importance of steel to the Japanese economy.


The ship building industry in Australia is warning of a looming...valley of death..in the defence ship building industry. It does not help when Defence Minister David Johnston excludes Australian  ship builders from tendering for 2 new supply ships &amp; Japan potentially taking the lion share of over $30B in developing a new submarine fleet, expected to be operational up to 2070. As a replacement for the Collins class  the Japanese Soryu class  displays a world best conventional submarine technology &amp; it would be beneficial for Australian Defence to have access to that technology but do not underestimate the loss of flow on to Australian high tech manufacturing if submarines were built in Japan just because it is a budget saving. Interoperability is important but Japan does not want to give away its military secrets, just as Australia does not. Collaboration is important with Japan but to create an effective submarine in operation up to 2070 you need to be versatile &amp; draw from technical resources of other long term allies who share your same values eg US with superior computerised weapons capability; not just stealth, range, size, propulsion mode that Japan offers. There is always the need for a capacity for constant maintenance domestically.

If you had an innovative &amp; technologically driven government that really believed that promotion of scientific endeavour, enhanced education &amp; high skills &amp; training matched with commensurate infrastructure, was the way to go forward for Australia, we would have Japanese PM Shinzo Abe not talking in the main about collaboration in defence (eg. submarines) but also the privately funded EWLP Project Iron Boomerang collaborating in partnership with the Japanese Nomura Research Institute ( the SMART Materials Concept) to produce the cheapest high quality steel slab in the world &amp; exporting to countries around the world ( not a dependence on China); further value adding in partnership with Australian manufacturing companies ( automobile spare parts, military components, building construction materials  &amp; infrastructure components for both export &amp; domestic consumption).


Our government should be talking to Shinzo Abe about developing a high tech eco satellite city at Badgerys Creek; incorporating scientific commercialisation, medical R&amp;D, robotics, 3D &amp;4D printing, advanced military technology &amp; clean &amp; green industry in an environment that offers affordable housing, a quality family lifestyle &amp; natural environment with a diversity of job opportunities. In turn our government should be talking about building a state of the art, privately funded, International world first , floating airport out to sea from Port Botany (Sydney)....an area of competence where Japan are again world leaders in technology but for functional design we could look to US company Gensler for inspiration re the proposed London Britannia Airport.


The Government is prepared to spend billions on 58 more F35 Joint Strike Fighters at a cost of $12B...with numerous unresolved flaws &amp; doubts about air superiority &amp; not it would appear be prepared to assist our ship building industry to build its capacity &amp; technical abilities. The Labor government when in power worked with Australian major banks to assist INCAT Tasmania with low interest loans to build in demand world class ferries ( carrying up to 1,500 passengers), high speed, wave piercing catamarans....they could do the same in collaboration with Japan &amp; Korea to upgrade ship building technology with assistance of the cheapest high quality steel in the world &amp; with new opportunities like floating platforms. 
What is needed is holistic capitalism tailored to individual countries &amp; not neo liberal capitalism; in Australia more centred on promoting Australian technology, education &amp; infrastructure development designed to interrelate, interconnect &amp; integrate with environmental, social &amp; economic positives &amp; imperatives.


I am surprised the neo liberals have not cottoned on to shale oil &amp; gas production in Central Australia....in pure monetary &amp; hip pocket terms it could solve all their problems, fulfil their ideological dogma agenda &amp; guarantee government for decades.


In January of 2013 Australian firm Linc Energy said that it had uncovered a large shale oil &amp; gas deposit in the Arckaringa Basin of Central Australia worth potentially US$21 trillion....Australia could become fossil fuel energy self sufficient &amp; become one of the worlds biggest oil exporters on a par with Saudi Arabia; BUT like the planned massive thermal coal mines in QLD, development becomes a threat to water quality &amp; the Great Australian Artesian Basin, in turn future agricultural production &amp; to efforts to address man made climate change. The problem is that the reserves are deep &amp; remote &amp; how it can be tapped or profitably produced is in question. 


Central Australia is developing as the new applied theatre of political ideology. On the other side of the resource equation you have the potential for large scale geothermal &amp; solar thermal electricity production (renewable energy). How much is enough: do we succumb to GREED &amp; unsupervised DEREGULATION the precursors of the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), where the environment &amp; social values (ethics) lose out or do we embark on a new paradigm of evolutionary holistic capitalism? Do you take just enough oil &amp; gas to sustainably meet domestic demand, lower energy costs &amp; make Australian industry internationally competitive ? Do you exempt energy production in Central Australia from the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax if used for domestic purposes?


Realistically it is only the predominantly foreign owned international mining &amp; energy giants , cashed up with both access to cheap money &amp;  to state of the art fracking technology... eg. US companies who have a new technology called the OCTOPUS where 2,000 acres of shale can be tapped from one single drill pad on just seven acres of land...that have the potential to commercialise.  BUT would they be another Xstrata  who pay minimal tax to the Australian government &amp; repatriate the vast bulk of profit, whilst potentially damaging the environment beyond repair?

 
To Green advocates of the Renewable Energy Target &amp; those who want it dismantled.  

This is just another attempt by climate sceptics in the Federal Coalition Government to put up roadblocks to any format of a global Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS).

Alcoa actually makes money from the carbon tax &amp; the Renewable Energy Target, predominantly from operations in WA which utilize gas powered electricity &amp; not highly polluting greenhouse gas emissions generated from brown coal.

When the Point Henry smelter closed the company said that the carbon tax played no role in the decision. Alcoa incurred a carbon tax liability for 2012 to 2013 of $137m, but received 94.5 per cent free permits for heavy emitters ( based on the industry average) which meant that it only had to pay 5.5 per cent  or around $7.5m of the tax  liability. It actually had $53m in carbon credits which left a profit of $46m.

You do not have to go overseas to China to see the impacts to health when coal burns; the impacts to health &amp; economic disruption were evident in Victoria when in Morwell on Feb 9, 2014 the Hazelwood brown coal mine ignited, the result of bushfires, taking multiple weeks to extinguish.
 
The cost of electricity in NSW &amp; Tasmania has also fallen in 2014 not because of the carbon tax &amp; a regressive Renewable Energy Target but through reductions in network costs , less money spent on poles &amp; wires &amp; a reduction in demand during peak loading due to households installing solar voltaic panels, together with the addition of wind power to the grid.

In Europe industrial power users in Germany will pay 35 per cent less for their electricity than those in France ( the country with nuclear power) &amp; Holland....  Aluminium giant Norsk Hydro will invest 130m euro in a new production line in Germany. Dutch aluminium firm Aldel went into bankruptcy at the end of 2013 wanting access to the German electricity grid....as the use of solar &amp; wind energy expands so does heavy industry in Germany putting to bed fears that there would be a move to other countries of manufacturing  industry where there is a lesser commitment to addressing climate change.

Overseas we learn of the use of steel beams with timber laminates in building construction; of steel being combined with other metal products like aluminium. In Australia we have the privately funded EWLP Project Iron Boomerang potentially producing the cheapest steel slab in the world if only we could extract a bit of innovation &amp; vision from the vast bulk of our politicians. Co generation electricity from the heat emitted from the production of steel could in fact be used in the production of aluminium....all about efficient use of resources (generating carbon credit offsets with an ETS &amp; operating alongside a genuine Renewable Energy Target).
A happy little debunker,

The cost of energy like in Germany is coming down in Tasmania. Why would countries that do the right thing by the environment not restrict or place tariffs on imports or penalise countries that do the opposite ...we are seeing that now with restrictions based on certified sustainable timber products, on conditions of banks providing investment funding &amp; in marketing of products in Europe...there is a growing international trend for green &amp; clean.

When Tasmania exploits its large reserves of geothermal energy there will be an excess of electricity which will be fed into the Victorian grid....international carbon credits would also be generated for Tasmania under an EU or more expansive ETS.

For a large user of electricity like the aluminium industry that should be good news in a state like Tasmania. It may come as a strange outcome to some, in a purely business sense, but having a reputation for being clean &amp; green can generate substantial profits.
The extraction &amp; sale of thermal coal in Australia as a source of energy is rapidly reaching a point of not being economically viable. I believe Clive Palmer can see the writing on the wall when it comes to the very real potential demise of his Waratah China First thermal coal project...both China &amp; India are planning much greater use of solar voltaic &amp; other renewable sources of energy like wind &amp; the sleeper, ocean wave generated power ( Carnegie energy in Australia on the brink of a major breakthrough on commercial viability).
Clive Palmer is  having problems with his Chinese partners, not only with his thermal coal investments in QLD but with his iron ore assets in WA, further exacerbated by current conflict &amp; disagreements with the Newman LNP QLD state government.


I believe that Clive Palmer is an astute businessman who believes in value adding Australian mining resources....we now know  he believes that climate change is real, that it is man made, does not support the Coalition Direct Action solution, believes in the Renewable Energy Target, is against both abolition of the Climate Change Authority &amp;  the Clean Energy Finance Corporation....he should look at putting his financial backing &amp; support to the privately funded EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang to produce the cheapest high quality slab steel in the world for export &amp; local manufacture; in the process generating massive global carbon credits that could be utilised working with an Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to encourage large scale renewable energy projects like large scale solar thermal  &amp; geothermal electricity generation in Central Australia, to supply not only Australia but near neighbours Indonesia. Project Iron Boomerang not only provides the catalyst for Northern Australia sustainable economic development, it also links with industry development in the South &amp; value adds domestic iron ore, coking coal &amp; gas 3 fold in the production phase alone ( an 8% addition to Australian GDP). You can bring carbon capture, storage &amp; utilization into play to generate further global carbon credits.

 Australia currently has no discernible national energy policy...major cuts to oil supply from the Middle East &amp; the roads of the 20 first century become a parking lot....we should be providing economic incentives for domestic consumption to develop oil &amp; gas supplies in the Cooper Basin of Central Australia where there are already gas pipeline infrastructure linkages....continued

According to analysts RepuTex the cost of  Direct Action would be TRIPLE an emissions trading scheme: between 2013 to 2017 under current baselines the government would pay around $20 per tonne of carbon dioxide reduced ($40 if stricter baselines were set) as against $6 to $9 per tonne of CO2 under an EU Emissions Trading Scheme ( ETS)....Direct Action in fact is more likely to see carbon emissions rise &amp; not reduce by 13% by 2020 for Australia.

To take advantage of potential massive global carbon credits to a future Australian enhanced  economic scenario Clive Palmer should abandon his zero ETS amendment to a repeal of the Carbon Tax &amp; link a positive ETS to that of the European Union.
foolking, 

Re: Abbot Point

For specific detail web search EWLP. Ships would only be one third the size of bulk ore coal carriers , exporting value added contained steel slab &amp; returning not empty but with manufactured imported products.


Dredging would be at a minimum &amp; any dredging spoil could be deposited on land. Carbon capture, storage &amp; utilization could eliminate carbon &amp; pollution emissions that endanger the Great Barrier Reef. Act locally &amp; think globally....CO2 emissions &amp; carbon pollution do not recognise international boundaries; if you can dramatically impact the output of international ZOMBIE highly polluting &amp; price inefficient steel mills by eliminating them &amp; in the process earn global carbon credits, then it is a big win economically, socially &amp; environmentally on a global stage.


The spin off for Australia is that with state of the art steel production technology,  production efficiency gains, economies of scale &amp; with world best competitive resource production &amp; quality resources we can initially increase our GDP by 8 per cent &amp; in the process pay for extra required expenditure on health &amp; education with a greater propensity to maintain a  budget surplus. One major spin off is that up to 20,000 new houses would be provided....no fly in or fly out...&amp; there would be more stable &amp; diversified job opportunities unlike hot &amp; cold iron ore &amp; coal basic resource employment. You produce the cheapest quality indispensable steel irrespective of whether commodity prices are high or low. 
Greg, you have already in previous blogs, with factual presentation &amp; analysis, debunked the need for both ideological qualitative &amp; quantitative Federal Coalition cuts to welfare, health, higher education &amp; wages, which through a privatisation agenda lead to greater inequality; good to see you bring it altogether with US comparisons &amp; outcomes....the model being copied.

The top 1 per cent of income earners in Australia in 2010  may account for 9.17 per cent of all income but in terms of wealth it was recently reported that the richest people in Australia own more in assets than the bottom 60 per cent of the population. No wonder, whatever way you look at it,  the majority of Australians feel they are being dealt a disproportionate share of the burden in addressing  trumped up austerity measures in the Coalition May 2014 Federal Budget.

Does Australia really have a budget and debt emergency to warrant such measures in order to enforce extreme right wing ideology on how to manage the economy? In the EU there is a rigid application of a rule requiring that budget deficits not exceed 3 per cent. The French Socialist President Francois Hollande &amp; Italian popular new President Prime Minister Matteo Renzi are currently lashing out at the budget rule, saying it is hampering growth particularly in areas of investment &amp; employment. Australia at the peak of the GFC in the financial year 2010/11 had a budget deficit to GDP of 4.2%; falling in 2011/12 to 3.4%; falling again in2012/13  to 2.9% &amp; in 2013/14 a projected 1.2%.....hardly what you would call a budget emergency &amp; vindication for record  infrastructure spending ( greater than all previous  governments combined): in areas of disaster relief; school funding of new halls, libraries, classrooms, libraries; the NBN fibre to the premises etc.

In May 2013 Gross Federal Government Debt to GDP was 20.48% ( between 11 to 12 per cent if measured in net terms) compared to gross debt of 80 per cent for Germany &amp; the US. Government debt levels were low even when compared to other AAA rated countries like Canada. Both Moody?s &amp; Standard &amp; Poor?s international credit rating agencies made reference to a demonstrated commitment by the Labor government to prudent fiscal policy...hardly what you would call a debt emergency!

Only recently John Edwards, a member of the RBA board, on ABC Lateline said: Australia needed a new narrative of opportunity rather than one of gloom &amp; doom. He said if you look closely at the next 5 to 6 years of Coalition budget projections, balancing the budget bottom line &amp; achieving a surplus is provided mostly by  increased income revenue....&amp; I might add not to draconian  cuts to expenditure that primarily target the poor &amp; middle classes; they will not have to contend with $170billion in lost tax revenue of the previous 5 to 6 years as a consequence of the GFC.

John Edwards went onto say that education &amp; skills training were the keys to repairing the budget &amp; that the Coalition Federal Government should adopt the Gonski education reforms to bring the ? of students who performed badly in international education subject comparison test scores up to the level of  the ? that did perform well. Where does the money come from? I would suggest the proposed privately funded EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang which would value add iron ore, coking coal &amp; gas 3 fold, in the process producing the cheapest high grade quality slab steel in the world for both export &amp; local manufacture....Assisting Australia in transition. When the Coalition refer to the Labor budget mess they are predominantly referring to a growing  gap in  the ability to provide funding as against projected  expenditure beyond the budget forward estimates ( a lot can happen over a 10 year period)....it is estimated EWLP Project Iron Boomerang would add 8 per cent to GDP in the first phase alone (simple web search &amp; look at the media section).

Boosting medical research, you do not need to introduce the GP co payment of $7 ( probably the first of many increases) : look for greater general efficiencies by all means but do not sell Medibank Private; instead achieve efficiency gains by combining management functions with the new National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) &amp; redirect dividends to the government of close to $500million annually  into medical research. To  aid the commercialisation of scientific R&amp;D / innovation, set up a joint pooling fund with the RBA , borrowing a further $12 billion from international financial markets utilising  the federal AAA international credit rating ....to further minimise borrowing costs  park money with the RBA. Revenue generated by the RBA &amp; percentage returns on commercialised science help build the fund, pay off interest &amp; principal.
It is better to not take away what are perceived as entitlements but rather to change the conditions pertaining to those entitlements.

Full independent retiree couples need at least $ 1 million in income generating assets in order to maintain a comfortable lifestyle &amp; not be reliant on the pension system; the vast bulk of baby boomers will not achieve that target even if they downsize their house &amp; most investors feel they are entitled to franked dividends from share holdings as a hedge against cost of living pressures &amp; share capital losses incurred over the period of the GFC. Many of the top 200 companies avoided adding to their debt during the GFC by issuing new share capital in order to pay down debt &amp; expand....diluting existing share investments &amp; returns over that period; only now returning to a state of normalcy by buying back shares &amp; raising dividends.

One solution to increased domestic business &amp; infrastructure investment would be to mandate 10 per cent of additional superannuation investment over &amp; above compulsory contributions to go into these areas if contributors are to receive current tax concessions eg. part of a detailed plan for Northern Australia development, investments in commercial green energy efficient buildings, renewables, communication &amp; transport infrastructure, new business innovation opportunities etc.....backed by the CSIRO, Infrastructure Australia &amp; rigorous cost benefit analysis by industry &amp; the commercial sector.

This could be supplemented by:

1)raising the Federal government loan to the Reserve Bank of Australia to $20billion &amp; forming a joint RBA &amp; commercial CSIRO investment fund in perpetuity; the principal established with a mix of currently, varying term, low interest government bonds with repayment of interest &amp; principal through RBA revenue generation &amp; the royalty proceeds from commercialised CSIRO assisted business innovation investments. 

2) not privatising government owned medical insurance provider Medibank Private but rather incorporating the management functions of the National Disability Insurance Scheme, to generate substantial combined efficiency savings &amp; dividends into a National Medical Research Fund rather than federal general government revenue, to better aid  in medical breakthroughs &amp; their commercialisation.
I would not write off Clive Palmers chances at the next QLD state election or his continued influence in the Federal Senate! Labor, the Greens &amp; Clive Palmer all agree that Australias  debt &amp; budget deficit problems can be solved on the revenue side &amp; not the expenditure side....herein lies the answer to the challenge by the Coalition: what is your alternative?  The sustainable growth &amp; revenue potential of Northern Australia was not factored into Treasury &amp; Coalition 10 year forward estimates on revenue generation.... the privately funded EWLP $45 billion Project Iron Boomerang alone could provide a major comparative advantage to Australian manufacturing by producing the cheapest high quality value add steel slab in the world; boosting GDP by an estimated 8 per cent in the first stage alone, while generating major carbon credits that could work in tandem with an Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). Only last week the ABC presented a series of reports on the development potential of northern Australia; impressive but super impressive if you include Project Iron Boomerang!...but are the politicians really addressing the concerns &amp; aspirations of the people?

It was not that long ago that Agriculture Minister Barnaby Joyce was expressing concern of a potential takeover of mining giant Rio Tinto ( existing 70% foreign owned 30% Australian) by a China state owned enterprise....little wonder Barnaby Joyce was more circumspect in criticism of Clive Palmers outburst on Q&amp;A. The Nationals are more sceptical about foreign investment limits &amp; the benefits of Free Trade Agreements to their constituents than their Liberal partners. I cannot remember the federal Coalition while in opposition complaining about China state owned companies not being allowed to tender for construction of the NBN for security reasons.

Like Clive Palmer I do not want to see the values of this country destroyed in Health &amp; Education to name just two for an American clone version of the user pays &amp; the end of entitlement, irrespective of peoples  circumstances...where the big multinationals dominate government &amp; the rich get richer at the expense of the poor; decades of achieved social, workplace &amp; community gains down the drain, with a yawning inequality gap.... searing divisions in opportunity &amp; lifestyle, that  eventually leads to rebellion eg Israel/ Palestine, Syria, Iraq. This budget is indeed like a half dead mouse, the people do not want it, &amp; according to the Treasurer &amp; Finance Minister we no longer have a budget emergency, just like Clive Palmer &amp; the majority of respected economic commentators have been saying all along. A litany of broken election promises by the Coalition.... &amp; Clive Palmer is referred to as a terrorist when we have been lied to!

The Coalition are systematically destroying Australian manufacturing industry from car manufacturing to defence.....makes it easier to negotiate dubious  exploitable free trade agreements with South Korea, China, Japan...they talk of support for new high tech industry but cut overall science research; they are prepared to selloff or lease viable government assets ( receiving a better price by sacrificing the environment &amp; real action on climate change eg a lack of support for Renewable technologies which are growth industries in Asia) to build roads to help mainly foreign investors who will have bought out our ports to export the only physical product left ( raw material resources such as mining &amp; agriculture which will likewise be majority foreign owned). National superannuation needs obvious reform with greater incentives to invest in national infrastructure &amp; industry. 

 When the White Paper on Northern Australia Development comes out toward the end of the year I do not expect a detailed map or plan of specific &amp; practical viable  economically sustainable options which are  interrelated, integrated, interconnected specifics like the full jig saw picture...like how road ,rail,  communication resources match with the limitations of natural resources; where industry facilitates collaborative enterprise between domestic &amp; overseas investors &amp; not simply who offers the most money to government for uncontrolled exploitation...more likely a mishmash of viable opportunities or individual jig saw pieces which give a vague sense of the achievable &amp; does not excite the public &amp; local industry to Australias  future potential.
 
Clive Palmer is accused of being unpredictable &amp; creating red herrings like a  fabricated CIA/ Greens conspiracy against him to divert scrutiny by the media of Coalition policy, but it is when he gets angry that elements of truth surface: he has an intimate knowledge of northern Australia &amp; how big business &amp; the QLD &amp;WA state governments operate ; he is literally at the coal face in his assessment of the financial viability of his major international competitors in thermal coal in QLD &amp; iron ore in WA &amp; despite his misgivings with his Chinese financial partner Citic &amp; QLD Premier Campbell Newman, just maybe he is concerned that both Labor &amp; the Coalition, unduly influenced by party factions &amp; lobby groups, actually lack the practical policy parameters &amp; vision to drive sustainable economic recovery for Australians without selling out to foreign interests &amp; multinationals. 



Gordon, 

Just a few extra quotes you might like to take into consideration:

When the solution is simple, God is answering....Albert Einstein

Focus 90 per cent of your time on solutions and only 10 per cent of your time on problems...Anthony J D?Angelo

Good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them....Anonymous

Impossible only means that you have not found the solution yet....Anonymous
Gordon, 

Just a few extra quotes you might like to take into consideration:

When the solution is simple, God is answering....Albert Einstein

Focus 90 per cent of your time on solutions and only 10 per cent of your time on problems...Anthony J D?Angelo

Good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them....Anonymous

Impossible only means that you have not found the solution yet....Anonymous
Gordon, 

Just a few extra quotes you might like to take into consideration:

When the solution is simple, God is answering....Albert Einstein

Focus 90 per cent of your time on solutions and only 10 per cent of your time on problems...Anthony J D?Angelo

Good management is the art of making problems so interesting and their solutions so constructive that everyone wants to get to work and deal with them....Anonymous

Impossible only means that you have not found the solution yet....Anonymous
The great bulk of electricity price increases over the last seven years has been the ability of power &amp; energy company providers &amp; distributors ( government &amp; privately owned) to more than cover their networking, poles &amp; wires expansion &amp; maintenance costs in the face of declining public demand &amp; uptake of solar voltaic in homes &amp; businesses.... oversupply of electricity brought about by an increase in renewable energy input  &amp; a fall off in infrastructure expansion will lead to falling electricity prices. Coalition governments have a narrow window of opportunity ( to hide the real facts to voters on electricity price increases) in repealing the carbon tax, abolishing or reducing the Renewable Energy Target &amp; setting Australia on course for an intensive carbon reliant dependence against the international trend while empowering even greater influence of the giant multi nationals....it is the only way Coalition  governments can make the public case by maintaining high asset value to justifiably see a  selloff or lease of fossil fuel based government assets in energy &amp; power to fund their new infrastructure &amp; privatisation ideology agenda. There is a more viable alternative that operates in the national interest on multiple fronts: the privately funded, EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang which potentially offers major economic, social &amp; environmental benefits to Australia as a whole ( directly &amp; indirectly)...not individual states in isolation....a quick web search for detail!


Whether a major catalyst for sustainable economic development of northern Australia linking with southern Australia, greater diversified job opportunities; major rail infrastructure linking manufacturing, agriculture, pastoral industry, tourism; an alternative to massive thermal coal development QLD in favour of value adding 3 fold iron ore, coking coal &amp; gas to produce the lowest cost high quality steel slab in the world ( export &amp; domestic use) with the potential to protect the Great Barrier Reef (with carbon capture, storage &amp; utilisation, contained product in ships one third the size of bulk carriers)  &amp; to open up the potential for a circular national electricity grid ( QLD, NT, SA, VIC,ACT, NSW) which is supplied by a massive renewable energy hub in central Australia. Over supply of energy does not become a problem when it can be cabled to Indonesia; whether global resource prices for inputs to steel making are high or low Australian product would always be in demand because of comparative advantage, economies of scale, state of the art efficiencies &amp; multi national collaboration.


Australia does not have an expenditure problem but rather a revenue problem &amp; the lack of an overarching narrative that requires creativity &amp; imagination from our leaders.
 







Unlike Australian PM Tony Abbott who believes in growth for the sake of growth... &amp; the burning of coal is good for humanity, Chinese President Xi Jinping is conscious of the imperative of addressing man made climate change &amp; he recognises the central role that the burning of coal plays in hampering the transformation of the Chinese economy, now set on a path of sustainable economic growth ...this comes with economic, social  and environmental pluses. The very fact that polluting industry in Beijing was closed down during the recent APEC conference to reveal blue skies to the Chinese people  and the world at large is testament to the fact that President Xi Jinping is serious on the issue of fossil fuel abatement ...there is no going back!  There is currently before the Economics Committee on Northern Australia Development the privately funded EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang that has the potential to produce tens of thousands of diversified jobs; value add coking coal , iron ore and gas 3 fold in the first production phase alone ( estimated to add 8 per cent to GDP ), produce massive carbon credits with a far more efficient global ETS in comparison to the Coalition DIRECT ACTION PLAN. China  along with steel producing nations around the world can phase out ZOMBIE highly polluting steel production and Australia can export globally the cheapest high quality steel slab in the world...A WIN WIN particularly if in addition to demonstrated economic efficiencies and protections for the Great Barrier Reef, Australia uses carbon capture, storage and utilization ( pollution does not recognise international boundaries). Australia and the world does not need massive new thermal coal mines in QLD to promote an oxymoron of sustainable thermal coal based economic growth.


Chinese President Xi Jinping in visiting Tasmania ( with an emphasis on clean and green) will complete his observations and assessments on how Chinese investment in Australian resources (  can optimise returns to China...he is after all a patriot and has already visited all other Australian states and territories. While Tony Abbott and the Coalition are trying their best to destroy manufacturing and the renewable energy industry the Tasmanian government have done a deal with China to set up wind farms utilizing Chinese manufactured product. It is just a matter of time before China obtains a controlling interest in our state of the art, base power wave technology which promises to be a renewable global energy game changer for countries surrounded by or with access to major oceans. Mining magnate Gina Rinehart is setting up in partnership with China to be the dominant player in Australian dairy exports to China. 

Unlike the Australian Labor Party the Coalition in the main, with exceptions like MH17 and the ISIS threat to national security, are reactionary rather than pro active. In the words of former Prime Minister John Howard: CONTEXT IS EVERYTHING. 

The US and China have not only agreed on ambitious greenhouse emissions targets ( referred to by the Republicans as a war on coal) but in addition cooperation and collaboration in a range of other important global policy areas. The Coalition spin doctors are working overtime on catch up.

Federal Environment Minister Greg Hunt just today was talking up the governments credentials on the management of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park: dredging fill will no longer be deposited in the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and it will be legislated; yet initial approval by the federal government was given to do precisely that at Abbot Point in QLD on a massive scale. In context how much pressure was imposed behind the scenes by UNESCO and now the impact of agreements between the US and China? You can refer to the past but you cannot change the facts of the past in context of present proposed action....you cannot spin the excuse that QLD governments have always done this.

Marine Park boundary extensions around Australia introduced by the former Labor government....encouragement to US President Barack Obama to do the same with seas surrounding Hawaii...would be retained by the Coalition BUT the catch spin context that usage would be redefined ( to hide the fact that this is not ME TO).

The real option to massive thermal coal exports and dredging at Abbot Point is the privately funded EWLP $45billion Project Iron Boomerang ( a simple web search of media section) with ships one third the size as bulk coal carriers, far less dredging required, more profitable value added steel slab ( the cheapest high quality in the world irrespective of whether commodity prices are high or low), massive global carbon credits with a global ETS... increased further with carbon capture and storage...together with diversified job opportunities. 

As with Environment Minister Greg Hunt, Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop is also in catch up spin on the support for a global agreement on ambitious greenhouse emission reduction targets BUT put in historical context and based on the facts of past actions this does not compute.
Taxpayers now certainly do need protection given the current Federal Coalition governments moves to water down greater financial regulation introduced by the former Labor government together with moves to defer increases in the rate of national superannuation increases.

There is a disturbing nexus of about 80 per cent of gross foreign debt and 75 per cent of net foreign debt accounting for almost all of our foreign liabilities sitting on one side of the 1st Tier 4 pillar major bank balance sheets (borrowings)  and on the other side of the ledger their assets predominantly lending to households vulnerable to a rise in mortgage interest rates ( already at a record low), the prospect of higher unemployment and even greater control of the financial sector, namely through superannuation management funds.

The major political parties do not like to talk about net foreign debt which for the sake of simplicity represents the total of all Australian government and private foreign debt minus what foreigners owe us. In December 2009 Gross foreign debt stood at $1,219 billion,  net foreign debt stood at $648billion  and Foreigners owed us $571billion....only 10 per cent of the net foreign debt was owed by the government and the vast bulk of what Foreigners owed us was through Australian superannuation investments overseas ( now becoming under greater influence of the major Australian banks). 

We are faced with the prospect of a Free Trade Agreement between Australia and China where our major banks and service industries are given greater access to the Chinese market at the expense of Australian business through reduced tariffs in key industry areas but limited or not reciprocated by China, while China is given access to $1 billion direct investments in resource areas of comparative advantage without a proper cost benefit analysis by the Foreign Investment Review Board. Of course there will be the odd industry sweetener as a mark of the deal being all encompassing! If the Australian banks make investment blunders in China who do you think will carry the can....Australian Taxpayers! Net foreign debt does not show the full impact of private debt: total household debt was $1.84 trillion in December 2013 ( financed from overseas and domestic savings). The Coalition government may keep a rein on government borrowing re government debt but achieved by transferring liability to the private sector and greater direct foreign investment which will now include China. Where is their articulated game plan for sustainable economic development(economic, social, environmental) apart from selling off government and national assets of significance to the national interest?
All the eloquent words in the world will not disguise the fact that the current neoliberal, extreme right, Abbott Coalition government has a demonstrable political ideology agenda that is  setting Australia with intensive pace on a path aimed at dismantling reforms ( economic, social and environmental) that are the nemeses of what Gough Whitlam stood for and progressive society stands for today....no better summed up by contrasting public receptions for Julia Gillard and Tony Abbott at the Sydney Town Hall Memorial for Gough Whitlam.


Aboriginal people are cognizant of the importance of maintaining the integrity of country, it is about time the rest of Australia climbed onboard ....let the land tell you what you can and cannot do and not simply how you can exploit to the point of destruction for material gain and you will find a new paradigm of holistic capitalism will evolve. In my opinion we need a new state of the art media centre at parliament house that fully utilizes digital technologies with interactive large screens to paint a practical narrative for sustainable economic management and resource optimization; an all encompassing visual narrative accompanied by written and verbal explanation, put together like a jig saw puzzle to explain in simple detail the complexity of the whole ( ie the BIG PICTURE); not just graphic displays for historical data comparison but transparent coloured map overlays to scale representing areas of competing resource usage that clearly show what natural resources &amp; key areas of biodiversity need to be preserved, limits to population growth, land utilisation potential, feasibility of transport &amp; communication infrastructure etc when related to the whole ( constraints &amp; opportunities). Match with economic policy and practical strategy comparisons of the various political parties and you will find who offers the best comprehensive vision for Australia?s future.

A price signal is infinitely superior but only if the proper parameters are in place, economic, social and environmental for the optimisation of resources. The free market left to its own devices would not have solved the Murray/Darling basin dilemma because economic greed would have triumphed over common sense.

Was the BER the failure it was made out to be?... or... Was it the failure of the current neoliberal capitalist system of smaller government? Economist Joseph Stiglitz commented in 2010 that the governments stimulus package, including the BER, was well designed by international standards and some waste was inevitable. Most projects had been delivered successfully according to Taskforce head, Brad Orgill, with only 3 per cent of schools submitting complaints: Primary schools provided with new and refurbished class rooms, libraries and halls $14.2B; Science and Language Centres in Secondary schools provided with new and refurbished science laboratories and language learning centres $821.8m; National School Pride program resulted in new and refurbished covered learning areas, shade structures, sporting facilities $1.28B etc.

The free market could not compensate for the fact that state government public works departments had been cut back or disbanded over the past 2 decades leaving states with very few industry professionals...hitting quality, lack of good teachers, low completion rates for apprenticeships resulting  in systemic shoddy workmanship, deficiencies in building certification standards to deficiencies in project management. 

Premier catamaran ferry builder, INCAT in Tasmania, holder of a number of Trans Atlantic records for ships, obtained a competitive low interest loan from a major Australian bank because they had detailed plans for expenditure and the Federal Labor government was prepared to give a  guarantee of financial backing based on those plans.  Here in lies the template for industry assistance. As in the example of the Textile Clothing and Footwear plan you do not dole out cash to large corporations before any action is taken, without any guarantee of success nor do you abandon on promises of $500m to the automobile industry directly and water down a transition package of $150m indirectly to the automotive spare parts sector and leave  them high and dry. A $20m grant for diversification will only allow the purchase of new equipment and would not help many suppliers already struggling with the sectors downturn. The Federal government have had 6 months to send in a team of experts to visit the 140 companies that supply the automotive industry, assess their strengths and weaknesses, devise tailored business investment plans that network in collaboration with other businesses in the industry and organisations of innovation and R&amp;D like the CSIRO...look at Belgian 3D printer Materialise.

On 1 July,2012 carbon pricing, introduced by the Gillard Labor government became effective. In October, 2012 the Australian Energy Market Operator showed that carbon emissions intensity had fallen in just 4 months by an average 7.6 per cent nationally....carbon pricing was working. How about the Opposition asking the Coalition for Quarterly carbon emissions intensity figures? 


The Labor government had intended to reduce imposts of carbon pricing on business through a range of tax changes, offsets and business supports . The Coalition in opposition rejected cuts to company tax rate and now in government have rescinded a number of small to medium enterprise (SME) business initiatives. The Coalition have also cut innovation and R&amp;D funding by 43 per cent and redirected funding away from SME?s to areas of supposed comparative advantage where big business benefits.



Most businesses were not required to directly pay a carbon price, therefore no additional compliance activity like paper work for the Goods and Services Tax (GST). The Labor government had planned to spend $240m over 3 years for improving SME energy efficiency, lowering business costs and promoting sustainable growth ( not growth for the sake of growth like the Coalition)....And it did show signs of success.


Carbon pricing may have forced less competitive business to pass on indirect costs associated with fuel, electricity, business travel, freight and waste removal when the $A was above parity with $US (a combination of overseas quantitative easing, interest rates around zero and cheap money looking for the highest risk free return... finding a home)  but a 6 monthly hike in indexation of petrol excise duty introduced by the Coalition will have a far greater negative impact over time on business and household cost of living ( a hell of a lot more than the 40 cent fuel cost increase per week to households with its introduction). The impact on addressing climate change will be negative because the increased revenue from petrol excise will be spent on road infrastructure with subsequent increases in fossil fuel pollution....&amp; not in areas of transport like the very fast train between Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney and Brisbane.


Of the total revenue generated under carbon pricing, to the government, 50 per cent went to compensating households (around $10 a week ) for any increase in the cost of living. The Coalition when coming to government in September, 2013 rebadged the tax cuts and increases in family benefits or social security as their own initiative, but in effect reversed in their May, 2014 Federal Budget.


The rest of the revenue raised through carbon pricing was reinvested into clean energy technology and renewable energy projects, like the push by Australian company Carnegie Wave Energy Limited to harness profitable base load renewable energy through wave power.

tonyM,

The RET is still in place and the carbon tax rescinded only recently, so where are the quarter of a million projected job losses?

The 10 per cent of carbon tax being given to the United Nations was a red herring raised by Julie Bishop back on March 3, 2011 well in advance of final details of the carbon tax implementation on 1July, 2012...it did not happen! The Murdoch Press would have blown it up into a major issue....they did not!tonyM, 

In addition to my first reply why do we need to subsidise fossil fuels worldwide annually to the tune of USD $550billion ?On the 19th of May, 2014 a report in the Financial Review , based on a Fairfax/Nielsen poll, suggested that more voters backed keeping the carbon and mining taxes than supported an increase in  fuel excise indexation or raising the GST.  Most supported the deficit levy ...a 2 percentage point increase in the tax rate for just 3 years on incomes over $180,000 ...estimated revenue $3.1B (&amp; respondents probably would have liked it to be permanent). The 6 monthly indexation of the fuel levy was opposed by 72 percent of respondents. The $80B slashing in the schools and hospitals funding to the states over the next decade was seen by respondents in the poll as a ploy to unite the states in calling for an increase in  the rate and or base of the GST.

A new tax convention between the states, territories and federal government with an increase in the rate or base of the GST; where fresh food, education, rent and some types of financial services are currently exempt could: 


1)Impact negatively on government revenue generated from major export industries education, tourism in general and growing health tourism in particular if the GST base was increased and the rate increased. There is no guarantee that the $A will not again go above parity with the $US. Under the Tourism  2020 Plan the value of tourism to GDP is projected to be around $A140B ( currently 25 percent domestic and 75 percent overseas). Education ranks 3rd after iron ore and gas as our biggest export earners followed by tourism.


2)A rise in the GST rate is a spending disincentive to consumers which effects business and business would be looking to a payroll tax or company tax reduction and consumers would purchase more foreign products over the internet. If the GST base was not broadened then business would be looking to produce exempt products and services. 


3)In a Drum blog just this week entitled: Why is Abbott considering a GST hike?,  Stephen Koukoulus makes the salient point that Federal government revenue would be rising to a healthy 24.9 percent of GDP  in 2017/2018 ( some 2 to 3 percent of GDP higher than the revenue take under the previous Labor Government). Let us not forget that the former Labor government were deprived of $170B in lost tax revenue over 6 years because of the full impact of the GFC. With a pre GFC the Howard government had more revenue than it knew what to do with under the current GST and a healthy global economy.




correction: 25 percent domestic should read 75 percent and 75 percent overseas should read 25 percentWe may at some point in time down the track need to revise the GST tax take base and rate but not now: 

1)Given the importance of tourism to the Australian economy why not build major infrastructure state of the art national travel centres in all the capital cities, where all the states and territories act, as now, independently but are imbedded in a large scale national architectural concept, on prime government owned land and put to tender on a long term.. lease to private enterprise which extends with revenue generating attractions and service facilities ( cafeteria, restaurants, display rooms, digital and static presentations, theatres, display areas, private advertising, promotion of sporting and cultural events and natural attractions etc.) Made part of an international design competition and promotion of the Arts and Sciences.


2)I would not be surprised if the Coalition Direct Action Plan will cost around $20 a tonne to save on carbon pollution instead of around $5 a tonne currently under the European ETS. The privately funded EWLP $45 B Project Iron Boomerang which value adds coking coal, iron ore and gas, would produce the lowest priced and most competitive steel slab in the world. This project would eliminate the need for major expansion of thermal coal in QLD, providing a superior option which better provides protection to the Great Barrier Reef with carbon capture storage and utilisation , ships one third the size of bulk carriers and far less dredging, massive global carbon credits if an ETS were in place,  whilst  estimated to add 8 per cent to GDP in the initial production phase at the very time the states and territories are forced to deal with $80B in education and health cuts by the federal government. Major spinoffs for manufacturing, housing, agriculture, rail transport, potential domestic gas supply linking with all existing gas pipe infrastructure, tourism ...in short diversified industry and long term employment. You grow the economy sustainably you grow tax revenue without the need for a GST adjustment.



3)Look at a second international airport alternative for Sydney, not at Badgerys Creek but out to sea off Port Botany, with a floating airport concept similar to the London Britannia International floating airport ( a simple web search) but instead of tunnels using a range of water based and air transport (fast sea going catamarans that can carry up to 1500 people at a time in comfort...INCAT Tasmania, additional Helicopter Landing Dock Ships). The Federal government owns the land at Badgerys Creek so work with the Japanese and industry to build a high tech satellite City of the Future and with Japan and South Korea a privately funded floating airport off Port Botany.


4)If indexing of petrol excise is here to stay, then link with very fast rail between Brisbane &amp; Melbourne....cost recently revised from $114B to $63B.


Of the total revenue generated under carbon pricing, to the government, 50 per cent went to compensating households (around $10 a week ) for any increase in the cost of living. The Coalition when coming to government in September, 2013 rebadged the tax cuts and increases in family benefits or social security as their own initiative but in effect was reversed in their May, 2014 Federal Budget.

The rest of the revenue raised through carbon pricing was reinvested into clean energy technology and renewable energy projects, like the push by Australian company Carnegie Wave Energy Limited to harness profitable base load renewable energy through wave power.

In April, 2012 just prior to national carbon pricing in July, 2012 when the Newman LNP state government came to power in QLD it immediately axed along with a number of state run climate schemes the ClimateSmart Home Service. This program was touted to save residents up to $480 a year on their electricity bills; for a cost of $50 households would receive to the value of $400 compact fluorescent light globes, water and power saving shower heads, an installed wireless power monitor, a household power assessment by an electrician and a set of four stand by eliminators with a remote control. Cost to the government $5m to service 100,000 households. As you state ,Greg, after the abolition of  national carbon pricing electricity prices in Brisbane actually increased in the  September quarter of 2014 (and also annually ) by 3.4 per cent and I add despite solar electricity rebates for households being reduced &amp; Queenslands biggest power generator reverting back from gas to coal fired. Prior to the 10th of July, 2012 the Solar Bonus Scheme in QLD rewarded households and businesses a rebate of 44cents per kWh feed in tariff for electricity generated for eligible solar voltaic (PV) systems and exported to the QLD electricity grid. On the 10th July, 2012 this was reduced to a feed in tariff of 8cents a kWh for new installations but expired on the 30th June,2014. In the September Qtr 2014 I can only guess and say it is closer to zero.

If the uptake of solar power by households is hurting Australias electricity generators (more supply and less demand) then maybe they should be looking at the bigger picture: a circular electricity grid encompassing VIC, ACT, NSW, QLD, NT and SA with the privately funded EWLP $45 B Project Iron Boomerang as the catalyst and exporting electricity surpluses, guaranteed with large scale thermal solar  and geothermal in Central Australia, to Indonesia (GDP $US 2.554 trillion 2014 up 53 per cent when compared to 2008) suffering from a deforestation problem.





Peter of Melbourne,

Yes, I do believe that the destruction of the worlds carbon sinks have something to do with not only an increase in global Co2 emissions in the atmosphere but unlike you important considerations that are not mutually exclusive like impact of burning fossil fuels on health costs, visible pollution that impacts on economic productivity and the quality of life of all inhabitants on this planet ( on land and in the oceans) now and in future generations.

Australia and Indonesia export far more in the way of fossil fuels (coal and gas) than they consume to the heavy polluters that you refer to....we are a bigger part of the problem than you make out. It is hypocritical of Labor to sit on the fence in terms of massive coal exports and say we need real action on climate change. The privately funded EWLP $45B Project Iron Boomerang ( a simple web search) would generate massive global carbon credits if it were part of a global ETS because of economies of scale, state of the art steel making facilities, innovation efficiencies and high quality raw materials to produce the best quality &amp; most competitive steel slab in the world; adding 8 per cent to GDP in the initial production phase alone. Zombie, highly polluting, steel mills around the world would become uncompetitive because governments could not afford to maintain subsidies based on inefficiency...hence a large impact on Co2 emissions. We can bridge Australias two speed economy without massively boosting thermal coal exports which , Peter of Melbourne, you ignore.

 The big carbon polluters China, the US and India see a brighter economic future with less burning of fossil fuels and are acting accordingly...let us see what transpires in 2015 and how Australia reacts, more than likely heading in the opposite direction because under the current government there is no vision for sustainable economic growth. By sustainable I mean combined demonstrative social, economic and environmental pluses in each policy action.
Obviously, the rest of the revenue raised through carbon pricing was not reinvested into clean energy technology. The ABC censor is trying to make me look like an idiot. Maybe the first part which is self explanatory in a total context was perceived to be too challenging to government sensibilities;  I was not even using bad language or vilification, just considered factual argument! You get the government you deserve....so much for free speech!What would the Coalition government do now if the price of oil quadrupled over 4 months and inflation skyrocketed into double digit figures like over the Whitlam period of government; given that under the Whitlam government Australia did not go into Recession but the UK and US government did &amp; Australia outperformed its peers. Maybe IS in a final act of retaliation and defiance on Western society will destroy Middle East oil supplies as against a new cartel in 1973 pushing up oil prices...with the same impact. Would we see a backflip on renewable energy policy and a preparedness to accept loan finance for infrastructure projects from wherever it might come? 

Greg, as you say: a nightmare scenario for policy makers.....Raise rates to dampen inflation and you exacerbate unemployment....Try to fix the jobs crisis and you fuel inflation.

It is generally recognised among economists that it is OK to borrow money if it is used for national infrastructure projects. Treasurer Joe Hockey borrowed $9B to top up Reserve Bank of Australia cash reserves. Back in the period of the Whitlam government the Minister for Minerals and Energy, Rex Connor, tried to raise $4B from Middle East Arab financiers to build a national gas pipeline owned fully by the government, the electrification of interstate railways and a uranium enrichment plant. Rex Connor saw enormous potential for Australia to develop its considerable minerals and energy resources in a way that retained Australian control over them...in the same way that Norway exercises control over its oil and gas resources (part government / part private) with the formation of a national sovereign fund. Very handy if you are on the inside and you are negotiating a Resource Super Profits Tax (RSPT) or a Mining Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) in the case of Australia.

In the 1970?s our major power broker institutions tended to be more insular, conservative and protective rather than progressive....would not dream of borrowing from anyone other than UK, European and US banks/ financiers and certainly not from Middle East Arab financiers  who offered lower interest rates. The Whitlam government out of institutional frustration in trying to raise loan money for infrastructure funding circumvented the Loan Council, Treasury and conventional loan sources (US, UK and Europe) in what was to be known as the Khemlani  Loans Affair.....unfortunately Labor hired a procrastinating  intermediary, Khemlani, who was prepared to sell his story to the media and was as a consequence a major contributing factor in the dismissal of the Whitlam government. You can see why former Treasurer Stone is critical of the Whitlam government &amp; why rumours of CIA involvement in the Whitlam government dismissal are rife.

 It beggars the question: what if the Middle East loan raising had been successful?

Correction: with true deference Greg should read IanWhat would the Coalition government do now if the price of oil quadrupled over 4 months and inflation skyrocketed into double digit figures like over the Whitlam period of government; given that under the Whitlam government Australia did not go into Recession but the UK and US government did &amp; Australia outperformed its peers. Maybe IS in a final act of retaliation and defiance on Western society will destroy Middle East oil supplies as against a new cartel in 1973 pushing up oil prices...with the same impact. Would we see a backflip on renewable energy policy and a preparedness to accept loan finance for infrastructure projects from wherever it might come? 

Ian, as you say: a nightmare scenario for policy makers.....Raise rates to dampen inflation and you exacerbate unemployment....Try to fix the jobs crisis and you fuel inflation.

It is generally recognised among economists that it is OK to borrow money if it is used for national infrastructure projects. Treasurer Joe Hockey borrowed $9B to top up Reserve Bank of Australia cash reserves. Back in the period of the Whitlam government the Minister for Minerals and Energy, Rex Connor, tried to raise $4B from Middle East Arab financiers to build a national gas pipeline owned fully by the government, the electrification of interstate railways and a uranium enrichment plant. Rex Connor saw enormous potential for Australia to develop its considerable minerals and energy resources in a way that retained Australian control over them...in the same way that Norway exercises control over its oil and gas resources (part government / part private) with the formation of a national sovereign fund. Very handy if you are on the inside and you are negotiating a Resource Super Profits Tax (RSPT) or a Mining Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) in the case of Australia.

In the 1970?s our major power broker institutions tended to be more insular, conservative and protective rather than progressive....would not dream of borrowing from anyone other than UK, European and US banks/ financiers and certainly not from Middle East Arab financiers  who offered lower interest rates. The Whitlam government out of institutional frustration in trying to raise loan money for infrastructure funding circumvented the Loan Council, Treasury and conventional loan sources (US, UK and Europe) in what was to be known as the Khemlani  Loans Affair.....unfortunately Labor hired a procrastinating  intermediary, Khemlani, who was prepared to sell his story to the media and was as a consequence a major contributing factor in the dismissal of the Whitlam government. You can see why former Treasurer Stone is critical of the Whitlam government &amp; why rumours of CIA involvement in the Whitlam government dismissal are rife.

 It beggars the question: what if the Middle East loan raising had been successful?

Continued.....If commodity prices go up for iron ore and coal, assisted by a rise in the $US against the  $Australian, then we are well into super profit territory and a substantially higher MRRT revenue to the government. The longer a mining project exists then C in the MRRT formula reduces, adding to higher MRRT revenue. 

Australia needs a major infrastructure bridging project that extends from Port Hedland WA  across northern Australia to Abbot Point QLD: the internationally PRIVATELY funded EWLP $45B Project Iron Boomerang, that vertically integrates iron ore with metallurgical coal (coking coal) &amp; gas to produce the cheapest high quality slab steel in the world...exported to the world (not just China) together with a cost input advantage to domestic steel manufacturing businesses &amp; horizontally integrates with tourism, agriculture &amp; a variety of other industry. I can think of no better catalyst that bridges northern Australia with a new 3300 km multi- purpose, double track standard gauge rail addition to the Australian rail network with the added boost to industry diversification. Guess what no thermal coal required!

A project which introduces the SMART Materials Concept: which will consolidate supply chains &amp; logistics, as well as iron/steel production &amp; provide productivity gains through operations efficiencies; deliver improved cost efficiency, reduced carbon emissions, improved resource management/ consumption sustainability &amp; value added production; materials which are mined, made, produced, transported with low energy, low environmental impact....a simple web search. What is stopping the go ahead? Ask the QLD state government &amp; the Federal Labor &amp; Coalition  Parties for they all know about it! If you can produce the cheapest high quality slab steel in the world based on the best quality raw materials &amp; production processes it does not matter whether you are dealing with LOW or HIGH COMMODITY PRICES you have the capacity to produce the cheapest steel with access to a world market. You generate major global carbon credits for reinvestment in Australia on clean &amp; green energy projects working in conjunction with a global Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS)....EWLP Project Iron Boomerang a quick web search (look at media section for added detail). 

If we are looking at  massive job losses in the multiple thousands if coal &amp; iron ore prices drop substantially further, even if only temporarily, a bridging internationally recognised new PRIVATELY FUNDED Infrastructure Project that provides economic , social &amp; environmental advantages, generating 35,000 temporary &amp; permanent jobs &amp; a commitment to new housing should be given media &amp; REAL political consideration!










Greg,

I agree with your thrust of argument &amp; counter argument built on the nexus between the burning of coal &amp; climate change but Tony Abbott should be economically challenged in the eyes of the voter &amp; not ignored.  Multi- national miners like BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto &amp; Xstrata who basically look at their bottom profit line &amp; return to shareholders &amp; not the national interest should be brought to account....this is evident in the miners strategy of flooding the market with increasing record volume output through economies of scale &amp; production efficiencies ( automated equipment, less workers &amp; capital infrastructure paid for by expiring concessions under the Mining Resource Rent Tax), which helps push down commodity prices &amp; helps eliminate both domestic &amp; overseas competition; in turn governments, state &amp; federal, suffer from a downturn in tax revenue. Competition eliminated &amp; commodity prices again rise (supply &amp; demand) &amp; guess what no more MRRT. 

When the MRRT Mining Tax was introduced on 1 July 2012 the coverage of the Petroleum Resource Rent Tax was expanded to cover oil &amp; gas production on mainland Australia. The MRRT is calculated separately for each mining project interest, according to the formula:

MRRT equals A times ( B minus C) minus D minus E......where:

?MRRT equals tax liability which cannot be less than nil

?A equals MRRT rate measured by the equation 30 percent times (1 minus Extraction factor). On 1 July 2012 the extraction factor was calculated at 25 percent giving an effective tax rate of 22.5 per cent

?B equals mining profits....a factor of both commodity prices and sales volume production

?C equals MRRT allowances
 
?D equals low profit offset of $75m. You earn less than $75m on a project you do not incur MRRT liability.

?E equals rehabilitation offsets.

Consistent polling suggests that a majority of Australians believe that mining companies (predominantly 83 per cent foreign owned) should pay a profits based rent tax on mining resources...they are finite; once gone there are no more profits.

Effectively under the MRRT as each mining project goes forward into the production stage &amp; efficiencies in production are made ( eg use of robotics with less workers) the effective tax rate in the MRRT formula goes up &amp; so does MRRT tax revenue. The greater the sales volume of production then the greater the propensity to generate profits denoted by B. 






Oxfam says that Ebola could be the humanitarian disaster of our generation; they have called for more troops, funding &amp; medical staff to be sent directly to West Africa to address the outbreak at its source. It has been reported that cases of Ebola  infection could reach 1 million globally by 2015 if not properly addressed....&amp; too little is done too late.


I would put more faith in the prognostications of international health/aid organisations &amp; individuals working at the coal face of the West Africa Ebola Crisis , &amp; comply with their advice &amp; solutions,    than the restricted vision of Coalition politicians in Australia. In calls  on the government by Deputy Labor Opposition Leader Tanya Plibersek to do more Federal Health Minister Peter Dutton talks about using a proportion of the recently announced government industry innovation &amp; research funding (already  modest in total at around $400,000) to help fund private blood supply product company CSL  to find ways through research of controlling the Ebola virus....a number of vaccines globally are already in the testing phase.   It smacks of their response to the GFC...one step behind rather than one step ahead ( reactionary rather than forward thinking)...an obsession with a surplus budget no matter what!


Australia needs to look outside the square &amp; employ lateral thinking: the construction of preventative self contained, modular, mobile  infectious disease units with independent life support systems &amp; control facilities that can integrate &amp; fit together seamlessly in the cargo bays of the Australian air force C 17 A Globemaster 3 heavy transport planes....transportable to overseas countries (eg. like in West Africa) &amp; land based hospitals where necessary on return to Australia or elsewhere in conjunction with backup smaller life support bed pods as a second line of defence. The future could see humans &amp; robots working together.


Australia has the engineering, materials &amp; design capability to build the Deepsea Challenger ( built in , Sydney, Australia by Acheron Project Pty Ltd: the first single person deep sea submersible capable of manned exploration of the full depths of the ocean....film maker James Cameron &amp; the sub descended 35,787 feet on the Mariana Trench in 2012. We have globally recognised expertise in infectious disease project management &amp; infrastructure design requirements.


Why not portable medical self containment life support modules that can be designed, constructed &amp; firmly secured as roll on roll off cargo on the Australian air force  C 17 A Globemaster 3 heavy transport planes; accompanied by volunteer medical, logistics &amp; defence personnel to West Africa &amp; beyond further down the track eg a potential influenza pandemic! If we were at war prototypes could be built within weeks. If we are looking at the security of Australian overseas involvementrenae, 

A lot of unsubstantiated generalisation but no substance, no tangible alternatives &amp; no Plan B.....let us see what transpires in 2015 &amp; why!

To sum up your diatribe with the corollary: The road to heaven is paved with bad intentions....does not pass the logic test.US Secretary of State John Kerry called today for resumption of the Israeli &amp; Palestinian peace process saying dialogue is vital to combat Islamic State extremism. He went on to say it is imperative that we find a way to create two states that can live together side by side, two peoples, with both of their aspirations being respected. Turkey another major part of the puzzle to degrade &amp; eventually eliminate Islamic State is adamant that the removal of Syrian President Basher al Assad needs to be part of the solution if they are to commit ground forces to Syria.


 New Zealand have been appointed a seat on the UN Security Council starting in January 2015. We have seen both PM Tony Abbott &amp; Foreign Minister Julie Bishop make full use of Australia?s seat on the UN Security Council to push for united action for resolution of both the demise of Malaysian flight MH17  &amp; action against IS.....the same forum can give Australia an opportunity window to put forward independent peaceful solutions that offer social cohesion both at home &amp; in the Middle East. We need to build on unity:


Much of the current goodwill between Egypt &amp; Israel occurred after the Camp David Accord in 1978 when Israel gave back all of the Sinai Peninsula it had won during the Arab Israel 6 day War of 1967, together with artefacts &amp; antiquities discovered during its 11 years of occupation. The same generosity of spirit needs to now be directed  towards the Palestinians to help them create their own viable state. Gaza is one of the most densely populated areas on earth; a pressure cooker of humanity which creates its own epicentre of conflict. Egypt, Israel &amp; the Hamas government in Gaza have a significant interest in the stability of the Sinai Peninsula &amp; a common interest &amp; stake in countering the rise of extreme Palestinian Salafi jihadi groups which have broken away from Hamas &amp; joined with other terrorist jihadi  like Al Qaeda, IS  &amp; extreme elements of the Muslim Brotherhood. Repeated bombardment of Gaza by Israel plays into the hands of opportunist Palestinian Salafi extremists who play on hatred, despair &amp; the suffering of the innocent.

Does the solution to the conflict between Israelis, Palestinians &amp; Egyptians actually lie in the creation of a new hybrid state: a United State of Sinai ( set aside from the Sinai desert) where Israelis, Egyptians, Palestinians &amp; minorities coexist in a state of equality irrespective of religious background  ethnicity, or race ; where non sectarian government (25% Israeli, 25% Egyptian, 25% Palestinian &amp; 25% Other with say at least 30% representation by women) helps bring stability to the region &amp; with it the realisation of a Palestinian state accompanied by an increase in shared productivity, competitiveness &amp; lifestyle improvement for all in the region....continued 
The Australian National University (ANU) .... ranked among the top 100 universities in the world...located in Canberra, was recently voted by an OECD study of  34 members as the best place in the world to live. The study was based on 9 measures of well being: access to broadband, education, income, jobs, environment, health, safety, housing &amp; civil engagement which were all equally weighted.


Education was however criticised by the OECD and Australia ranked 25 out of 34 member countries behind Chile, Hungary &amp; Slovenia primarily because of concerning inequalities in education across the country; areas of inequality that the Gonski recommendations on education reform would address but ignored by the Coalition.


ANU epitomises civil engagement as does the globally recognised Stanford School of Business in the US. Both, along with the philanthropic organisation of the Rockefeller family, along with a coalition of hundreds of other institutions have announced $50 B in divestments from the fossil fuel industry, aimed at addressing man made climate change. Stanford has the top ranking of the business schools globally that offer students the best career prospects ( ranked no.1 for last 3 years).....90 per cent of students have jobs 3 months after graduation. To attend Stanford you have to either have very rich parents or be academically brilliant enough to win a scholarship, for it costs around $99,000 for annual cost of tuition &amp; other expenses for students who live on campus, graduating with an average student loan debt of $80,000. In return you have access to quality  companies, mentorships &amp; business networking &amp; you begin with a starting salary of $126,000. Is this the funding model that Australian Universities should aspire to under Coalition education strategy or is it that demonstrable, overall comprehensive lifestyle &amp; practical, practised, affordable quality be  the ultimate attraction globally for tertiary institutions like ANU?


Trend unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory is the lowest in the nation. Canberra accounts for about 2 out of every 5 public servants (state &amp; federal). The great bulk of federal government public service job cuts (16,500) are still to impact the ACT economy over the next 2 years. China &amp; Japan are interested in  investing in a fast  train connection between Sydney &amp; Melbourne via Canberra despite a lack of commitment by the Federal government. China is interested in large scale sustainable &amp; integrated property development around Canberra promoted by a forward looking Labor ACT government that promotes jobs, not destroys them!

The OECD average spent on R&amp;D is 3 per cent of GDP. If Australia was to emulate, that would be $45B based on GDP of $1.5trillion. To put into context the Coalition are currently planning to spend $484m, the first major economic policy since the May 2014 budget and about 44 per cent less than Labor for similar programs. The Business Council of Australia, representing Australia?s top 200 companies have strongly influenced the current government business policy: the emphasis has been directed toward agribusiness, mining technology, energy, oil &amp; gas, advanced manufacturing &amp; medical technology....clean &amp; green will be an afterthought. In essence there is no real plan...far too little emphasis &amp; funding to inject new ideas, people &amp; vigour into our scientific research centres in universities , CSIRO &amp; industry while bucking the free market &amp; picking winners &amp; lacking investment in broad knowledge based industry that provides researchers with alternatives in their career paths.

An alternative:

1)	Raise the Federal government $9 billion loan to the Reserve Bank of Australia to $20billion &amp; form a joint RBA &amp; commercial CSIRO, University &amp; Industry  investment fund in perpetuity; the principal established with a mix of currently, varying term, low interest government bonds with repayment of interest &amp; principal through RBA revenue generation &amp; the royalty proceeds from commercialised CSIRO &amp; University R&amp;D assisted business innovation investments, like in better less costly &amp; affordable houses &amp; eco friendly, non toxic &amp; energy saving building materials that could be used not only locally but also exported.

2)	 Not privatise government owned medical insurance provider Medibank Private for a capital windfall  generation predominantly earmarked for road infrastructure investment but rather incorporate the management functions of the National Disability Insurance Scheme, to generate substantial combined efficiency savings &amp; dividends into a National Medical Research Fund rather than federal general government revenue, to better aid  in medical breakthroughs &amp; their commercialisation....monies that could be used now &amp; not in 2020 under the Coalition GP co payment. In the financial year 2012/2013 Medibank Private paid the Federal government $450m in dividends....money that could be used in part to establish Research Medical Centres as part of eco satellite city development.




Wayne Swan may have been wrong with his budget surplus prediction for the financial year 2012/13 for good reason; who would have countenanced ongoing global economic volatility/recession &amp; the dramatic record loss of profit by international mining giants BHP Billiton &amp; Rio Tinto! Treasury projections would have been  similar to IMF International growth projections of 5.4 per cent in 2010 &amp; not radically falling to a figure now of 3.3 per cent for 2014. Pre GFC, with a high degree of certainty, you could surmise that: when the US dollar goes up, gold goes down; when stocks go down, gold goes up; when oil goes up, gold goes down.....not any more, such is the complexity of the world economy as it currently stands.

The Federal Coalition budget projection of revenue for the financial year 2014/15 relies heavily on the price of iron ore being around $100 a tonne, currently around $80 a tonne. The big international iron ore miners BHP Billiton &amp; Rio Tinto produce record volume output year after year, creating global oversupply with less Australian labour &amp; more use of robotics which in turn pushes down global prices; Australian junior miners find it hard to be competitive at $80 a tonne, many will potentially go to the wall if price remains at this level &amp; many regional communities will be devastated....where is the common sense logic! When competition is eliminated , the price of iron goes up while volume production of the big players continues to rise &amp; where is the MRRT? Why is Australia not value adding coking coal &amp; iron ore through economies of scale with business best practice &amp; efficiencies producing the cheapest high quality steel slab in the world( irrespective of whether commodity prices are high or low) for both export globally &amp; local manufacture: the privately funded EWLP $ 45B Project Iron Boomerang. The Senate Inquiry into the operations of the QLD state government could be very enlightening!

Like the Australian federal budget the US budget deficit  has been a corrosive &amp; destabilising issue in the hands of the neo conservatives ( leading to government shutdowns in the US). Republicans are now silent because Washington is on track to record a budget deficit for 2014 of around $US 500 billion; more than 26 per cent below 2013 &amp; the smallest federal deficit since 2008
Quantitative easing will not stop in  October 2014....there will simply be no more increases in the money supply via this measure...ownly a gradual reversal. Wall Street rallied strongly today on comments  the US Federal Reserve will keep interest rates near zero for longer than anticipated; making a major stock market correction less likely. One major reason for a large stock market correction would be the imminent threat of the $US losing it reserve currency status...no chance, the currency is appreciating &amp; not depreciating.

Rising exports &amp; overseas investment income have narrowed the current account deficit &amp; a rising $US over recent months is encouraging a return of overseas investments to the US (safe haven status in troubling times).

Growth in employment in the US continues to be above expectations....hitting a 6 year low...unlike Australia which the IMF forecasts to be above 6 per cent in 2014 &amp; 2015.  IMF economic growth forecasts for the US are rising from 2.2 per cent in 2014 to 3.1 per cent in 2015. Unlike Australia there is a renaissance in manufacturing &amp; not a demise. Unlike Australia the US is a country that prides itself on the promotion of R&amp;D, innovation, diversified industry &amp; a propensity to take calculated investment risks for economic success. The US has now added 3D printing with 4D in the pipeline, rapidly expanded its domestic energy mix &amp; with it lower energy prices &amp; independence from a reliance on Middle East oil.....Australia has seen the closure of oil refineries with no national plan for local gas supply to industry &amp; the domestic market.....economic policy strategy has taken a backseat to political machinations/hyperbole &amp; as a result our share market will continue to underperform compared to US &amp; the odds of Australia facing recession are far greater than the US irrespective of perceived economic fundamentals.


           
Correction: hitting a 6 year low should read hitting a 6 year low in unemployment...unlike unemployment in Australia
