Who cares John.  It doesn't matter. WHat happened in past occasions is of no relevance in determining what happens in this case.

WOuld you say that a muderer should be let off because 40 years ago a murderer in a slightly similar case didn';t get a stiff sentence?  Of course not. We are talking absolutes here not comparatives.  Time to start talking like an adult, John and not a silly child in the playgoround who keeps on whining 'it's not fair' when he can't understand simple logic.What a silly comment. It doesn't matter what happened in those past ocasions.  The actions then do not mean that this action by the Ukranian separtists should be treated with any less disdain.I agree with everything you say, but Russia is veering LEFT towards nationalism and bigotry, because the veer is based on government power.  Statism is always left-wing, be it fascist, socialit or communist.Isn't interesting how people compare the US which saved the world in the WWII and has given more than any nation in histroy to the rest of the world is evil whilst we have to be nice about Russia which has been thoroughly evil since 1917. Go take youi equivalence and stick it up your jumper.

May I ask why the the editorial of the New York Times is at all relevant?
The NYT is a infamous left-wing rag of no merit.  if I want to know what people are thinking I ask them, not some hack journalist.I keep reading the same old arguments here again and again.  Yet mostly people, especially those who dislike the Government's policy, seem to shy away from the central issues and worry about tangential matters of little importance.

The propositions are simple.

On the one side you have the 'refugee advocates.' They beleive that evryone who claims asylum is automatically a refugee and must be allowed to stay in Australia at least until their refugee status is detemined. 

On the other side are those, like me who consider that the vast majority of the asylum seekers are economic migrants, who come to Australia because they kinow it is a rich country with lots of welfare. In that case the boats have to be stopped. 

There is no need to discuss international treaties, refugee conventions or whether an asylum seeker is an illegal entrant. Neither is there any need to discuss compassion.  I'm sure that people on both sides of the argument are just as compassionate as each other.  The realsists just save their compassion for real refugees. The argument is one of whether these people really are refugees or not. and whether if we are lax the trickle will turn into a flood of those who are definiteley not refugees.I thought the  Hiuman Rights Commission's brief was to look after the rights of Australians, not foreigners.

I call on the Government to sack this Triggs woman immediately.  As Senator Brandis pointed out this leftist body cares nothing for real civil rights only the government enforced  huamn rights which are in fact trammels on freedom.  Down with the Human Rights Commission.No. The recession we had to have occurred after the Keating had been treasurer for 6 years. Interest rates were then at high levels for a much more lengthy period than they had been in the early 80s.  The continued very high for a few years.Zing

I think that in fact the ALP started cutting too before they lost government.  And the luvvies hated those cuts.  But of course they didin't moan as loud as they are moaning now.

I don't even know if the ALP really threw money at the poor. Other than the $900 payment most of the money they spent was wasted on school halls or on middle class welfare. The lives of the truly disadvantaged weren't improved at all in 6 years of Labor Government. It is a well known fact that Labor always bleats on about helping the disadvantaged, but that such people always do better under the Coalition because the economy as a whole does better.Explain to me how the lower classes have been screwed over?

It spunds to me as if you are repating a mantra that has no real basis in fact.

I will be paying thousands more in tax over the next few years to support the 'lower classes.' I don't mind supporting them, but I do mind them whinging about how hard done by they are.It seems that most people now have seen through the climate change myth and realised that it is no use ruioning the economy and letting governments have massive powers over our lives to fix problem that really can't be fixed. 

Sinistra delenda estPeter

 the thing is that the left always bleat on aboout 'community' but for some reason can't stick with the community when it counts.  They hate nationalism too much to be real members of the community.  It is a strange paradox because they worship at the shrine of big government and are always conflating "Australai" with its government. yet as soon as anyone worries about Australia as a nation the left get upset.So was the government supposed to not use the seat on the security council?  WHat a silly comment.  We probably could have done everything we did without the seat. Mal;aysia and the Netherlands aren't on the council either.Projecting a bit aren't you.

What is it with labor hacks that they are so inane and stupid.

They all want the Big Leader.  They all want togovernment to do everything for us and reduce the rich to penury.  Envy is such  a hard taskmaster, R Supwood. Life is so much better when you leave all that left-wing hatred and stupidity behind and graduate to a conservative way of thinking.Paul

There are few errors there.

Firstly is the error of hyperbole and exagreation.  Show us where the Budget hurts the poor and helps the rich. After all, the rich have to pay more tax now.

Secondly, I think you will find that it was the vote counting system that caused the Senate ruction, not the voters.  WHen people with tiny percentages of the primary vote all clubbed together to swap preferences  under the ridiclous proportional sytem I don't think you can really say that the outcome is really what the voters expected. In any case, the convention has always been that the Party with the majority in the Lower House is allowed to have its main policies go through.  The ALP are always lucky in that the ghastly Greens will usualy vote with them in the Senate.  I don't know if the voters realsie hthat the Greens are not really independent.Sorry Le Mec

But this strange idea that somewhere out there is a breed of wonder beings who will govern every aspect of our lives in a way with every one can agree is a fantasy.

The politicians we have now are no better or worse than those in the past.  The problem is that over the past 40 years the media and the politicians have colluded to make themselves more important than they should be.

Australia needs to reduce its government in size drastically, cut government spending to the bone and force politicians to stick to the duties to which only governments can do, like keeping the peace supplying infrastructure and defending our borders and keeping markets protected. and strongI think you mean the Fraser years, not the Howard years. The Howard years were 1996 to 2007. The Fraser years were 1975 to 1983."Progressives" are not thinkers, or even thhikerers, they are feelers. They so often suggest a course of action because it'feels right' or because  it is 'fair' not because they have reasoned it out.How have the poor been adversely affected by the government?  I think it's all in your mind and in the mind of the left-wing commentariat who are always crying over the mythical 'poor.'

Any review of the statistics shows that a great many low income earners are people at the start of their working lives or people who have temporarily stopped working. The 'poor' are not a static mass as the left would have you believe. Of course if we had left-wing policies in place then the poor would become a staic mass, because left-wing policies always end up huting those who they are supposed to help.  The classic example of that is aboriginal policy where both sides of politics for too long believed in the left wing ideas that meant that aborigines were actively discouraged from improving their lot and instead treated as a separate species. So even though billions wer sp[ent, the plight of Aborigines went backwards.I think your attack on gbe was a little harsh.

There are times when nuance and complexity are required in life. However, there are other times when Occam's razor is the implement that is needed.  My experience is that those of a statist/leftist disposition always call for nuance when a simple approach is necessary and always get all manichean when a more complex understanding of the ciumstances is required.  I suppose the left-wing purpose says the same thing in reverse about the rightist.

The fact is that gbe has a good point. Many of those who are complaining loudly about the Budget would be complaining no matter what Joe Hockey had done, because Joe isn't on their side. Secondly, the budget is not all that austere, but the leftists (taking aan very black and white approach) have cried out that it is on the basis I suppose that any cuts are bad cuts that will lead to more cuts later on.How do you read that stupid question into APM's very sensible post?

I sometimes wonder whether refugee advocates can actually understand simple concpets.  The red mist just seems to come down and they start believing that anyone who doesn't toe their line must have evil motives. 

No one deserves being killed, but then again they are negligent if they put themselves in a situation where they endanger themselves.  You wouldn't get into a pool full of sharks. Similalrly, you wouldn't get yourself amonsgt a riot where racist Iranians are taunting armed guards.ABsolutely correct Brian.

I say we should all stop thinking that somehow governments and politics can solve all our problems.I agree that in retrospect the previous government does deserve kudos for getting the seat on the Security Council.  However, I also believe that the previous Opposition was justified in pointing out the folly of spending so much money on the matter. You see, the last government was so adept at spending money that it needed to be castigated at every opportunity.Lehan

Your post gets a wee bit confused toward the end.  maybe you could expand.

As to Labor leaders,  from my perspective they have all been nasty pieces of work who have done plenty of bastard acts.  Rudd clearly was not menatlly up to the job. He was in fact a bad man that somehow fooled a lot of the voters into think he was good. 

I have know quite a few people who say that until they were in Tony Abbott's presence they thought him odd and not human, but as soon as they met him they realised what a genuine person he is.
I think yo will find that Labor loves big business, whilst the Liberals actually love all business.

You see the ALP dream is to have big business, big unions and big government running the country between them.  Big business is far more pliable and will give the unions what they want because it can be passed on to the rest of us in higher prices.  The ALP likes the idea that it only has to talk to a small number of people to keep the whole of the country under the thumb. Of course in the meantime under labor the standard of living of the majority of Australians deteriorates whilst the union thugs have their noses in the troughand the academic lefties get lots of lovely lolly to undertake useless studies or sit on useless qangos.No one is naming the tragedy anything.  In fact it isn't even a tragedy, it's an attrocity. WHat is being given a name is the operation mounted by the Gopvernment to get the bodies back. it is standard procedure in government or business to name projects. Your confusion obviously stems from your hatred of the PM and Conservatism. Bigotry is never enlightening.When I see the word 'ethical' I am always on my guard. Mostly, because the speaker ususally confuses the word ethical with the word moral, and secondly because the 'ethics' concerned are the sill left wing kind with no philosophic underpinning whatsoever.  Rather the left's ethics are all about what 'feels right' not what is right.

The facts of life are conservative. The moral basis of life is also conservative. So when a non-conservtive talks of ethics, you can be that he or she is really just talking politics, because for such people politics is everything and morals are really nothing.For aspiring people, actuallyYou don't seriously think that trade with China depends on such things?  China has a history of making silly remarks.  It's the way they do diplomacy. They were not antagonised by the PM's behaviour.

You really do need to take off the blinkers.  If that's the best you can do to slur the PM, then I suspect you will do him more good than harm.

Islam is not a race.  Nobody fears Islam, they depise it, hate it or ignore it. A phobia is nothing to be ashamed about anyway, should I be villified because I suffer from claustrophobia?

Therefore, all in all, being prejudiced against a religion is fine (a lot of our left wing friends are extremely prejudiced against Christianity).  A person can change religion.  However, anti-semitism is not just a prejudice against the jewish religion but a prejudice against a race.  

Therefore it follows that 'islamophobia' if it exists at all is not the equivalent of anti-semitism.The best thing you can teach your children is that what they need is an income not a job. A job may be the way they earn that income, but it isn't the only way an income can be earned.

The children who miss out on a good life in the future will be those who are led to believe that economic life is only about getting a job. It is actually about adding value. This means that you can create your own job iof you know how to help an employer/client make or save money. 

10 years ago I worked out that a large law firm wasn't offering a certain service.  They didn't even know that the service existed in the form that I pitched it to them.  I explained to them how I could leverage off their client base to earn them moie money. I offerred to undertake 6 months as a trial where I would get paid a percentage of the fees I billed as well as a small retainer.  The trial was a success, and I was made a partner of the firm and so secured a very good income.

I could have just gone to that firm with my CV and asked them whether they had a 'job.' The answer would have been 'no.' Until I explained what I could do for them, they didn't know there was a space for me.



The fact that the migrants got the work proves NA's point. The only concluison is that they aren't stealing the jobs, they are getting them because they have a better work ethic and do well in interviews.

In case you didn't know, one of the requirements of a 457 visa is that the empolyee is paid at market rates.But there is no proof that they are all desperate people fleeing from their homelands. After all they have thrown away their identity documents and we only have their unsubstantiated word to go on that they were in danger in their homelands.I agree with you Mitor.  The government should not fund private schools.  It should therefore cut income tax by the same amount that it funds private schools.  They should also give all parents of private school children a tax rebate equal to the portion of their taxes that go to public education from the Commonwealth.  Why should I pay for your children's education if you don't want to pay for mine?

And don't give me that stuff about I can afford it and you can't.  I don't care. That is irrelevant. If you want me to pay for your children's education, then you better ask me nicely and stiop pretending that there is some mo9ral imperative for me to do so, because there isn't.  The moral imperative is that you stop using the government to steal from me.Aint it funny that wehn the ALPmproposed far worse 'reforms' the luvvies here were all in favour on reducing freedom.  But now the Coalition is proposing ssimilar policies, the luvvies are all up in arms.

Could it be that you ALP supporters support your side rather than a principle?ANd just because it's racism doesn't mean that it is bad or immoral.

The problem is that good sterotypes are not immo0ral or bad.

Too many ppeople are paranoid about racism.  It is not as rife or as evil as those who constantly worry about it think it is.  And far too often people seem to hunt really hard to find racism, especially when they are losing an argument.Equality and fairness are the weasel words the left uses when it wants bludgers to get more from the productive.

Have you ever thought that the women who earnt more also paid a lot more tax?Actuallu Mitor it your post is a great example of the politics of envy.  The policyu's aim is to compensate for loss of earnings.  Therefore those with greater earnings get compensated more.  You chose to look at it from the rabid lefty perspective of 'rich people get more' A classic case of class based envy.The thing about anti-offensive language laws is that they regulate behaviour not speech.

I would have thought any lawyer would understand that. 

Thus the offensive language in question is in fact a deed not speech at all.  This is the same with defamation or incitement too violence.

Section 18C is such an abomination because it is not objective in its terms and seeks to censor thoughts and speech, not actions.

But unfortunately Australians have become so ignorant that they somehow think that thelaw is there to regulate every little bit of our lives.

The fact that Mike Carlton had to resign for anti-semitism should show that sec18C is unnecessary.A friend was complaining the other day about her broadband. She said that if the NBN was in place everything would be wonderful.

She is also looking for a new place to live.  I asked here whether she was going to buy a mansion in Point Piper near Malclm Turnbull.  When she raised her eyebrows at the question I explained to her that the real argument about the NBN was the same as the real argument about her property purchase, i.e. cost and benefit.

So whilst it is true a mansion Point Piper is better than a house in an ordinary suburb, the point is that most of us can only afford the latter.  It is the same with the NBN. So whilst the experts tell us how good an NBN can be, the one thing they don't mention is the cost, because they are not experts on that.  Nor are they experts on building the network; they are IT experts.How do you know that the business model in question is Rupert's?  And even if it were, how do yuo know that it is corrupt?  Is every business model you don't like corrupt?

Why not just enjoy your VPN and stop sneering.

BTW, if you use your VPN to file share  you are still breaching copyright.  If you use it to get around geoblocking, I would argue that you are not acting illegally.It's not Rupert Murdoch, but the creators of the programs who want to enforce the copyright.You can't remove negative gearing.  What you want to remove is the deduction claimed by the person who is negative gearing a loan. In other words you want to stop people from claiming a deduction of a loss from one income earning activity against another.

If you use the wrong terminology, how can we expect to take your argument seriously?  Your call for 'an end to negative gearing' becomes a mantra that is devoid of any true meaning.I agree with the author that this idea of the good Senator's is not practicable or wise.

I would add that the bureaucracy and legislative complexity that would surround any removal of super to use for house purchasing would also be burdensome.

But more importantly, I think we see here the effect that Government interference in markets can have. A little tinker here and some 'reform' there and before you know it the market is completely distorted.  The luvvies then start telling how horrible things are for the 'poor' and 'disadvantaged.' This leads to more government interference.  Yet somehow the 'poor' and 'disadvantaged' are still there and worse off than before.

The good intentions of the left are not enough.

"Unions want a fair wage for work. If the work is worth doing, it's worth paying for."

But who says what's fair?No it doesn't have to change.  People aren't in business just to satisfy the needs of those whom it doesn't employ.  Once again if you forced employers to train people you would be acting on anecdotal evidence.  The Keating government tried it with a training levy, but it was a miserable failur, because they had to apply to all industries and some industries (eg truck drivers) don't need on going  training .Can you really be that naive?

WHy should I take a lower profit margin unless it can be seen that I will get a higher cpaital gain or profit in the future.  Also why do you assume that everyone who is an employer is in the top 1% of earners.

You really have to stop thinking in the us vs them manner.Current 457 visa application rules state that an employer has to pay Australian market salary rates to workers on a 457. They are required to provide evidence of both market rates and proof of an offer to the applicant.You reveal in your very humorous way, the problem that too many ALP supporters have.  They think of 'applications' for existing jobs.

Let me explain to you how jobs are created.  Firstly an employer will be doing well an decide that more people are needed.  Or maybe a staff member has left and needs to be replaced.  But thirdly there is employee initiated jobs.  A smart worker checks out the filed in which he or she wants to work and does some research on the employers. he or she then works out how to presuade the employer that ther is more profit to be made by hiring a new employee.Maybe the poor little souls will need counselling.  My God, whatever happened to the days when people had some backbone and learned to thrive and learn from adversity?  If you try to shield people from anything bad, then you infantilise them.I've never suffered adversity in my life, of course. If I ever became disabled obviously I would be deserving of my pension or probably I would make some kind of new job for myself as a wheelchair jockey.

I'm just so resilient. It's hard looking down on the rest of you, I get a neck ache.What amuses me is that Mr Jericho goes on and on about evidence, but fails to give us any evidence for his theory that the Government's policy is based on anecdotes.  His assertion that the government is basing its policy on anecdotes is in itself an anecdote.
See, when I'm wrong in a debate, I just start making stuff up.

It's quite good because as you can see, I've actually snared a couple of fish who are replying to me like I've contributed something of value.

Obviously it doesn't matter how many lies I tell as long as my viewpoint wins out in the end. That's the Tony Abbott Way(copyright pending).You do of course realise that politicians don't actually have time to sit around and think up policies.  They employ public servantand advisers to do that.To all of you out there who are unemployed as an employer I would offer some advice. You are not looking for a job so much as looking for income.  Secondly, you have to show empathy for the employer.  from what I can see here on the Drum too many 'progressive' people have stuck with the us and them mentality when it comes to employers.  If you meet an employer, you have to think of why it is he or she would want to hire you.  I'll give you a hint.  The employer wants to make a profit. So your intitial task is to do some research about the employer's business. Find out whether you can assist them to make more profit by giving them your services.

A lot of the time, the employer will know when an extra person is needed.  But the secret for you is that you will often have to persuade the employer that someone is needed.  You need to sell yourself.

Sending out 100 CVs is OK, but it doesn't show much initiative really.  Employers are just like anybody else, they will buy something if they are given a good argument to do so.Well, my experience was that the ones who were plodding 'give-me-a-job-cos-you-give-jobs-to-people were never honest and fair, but slack and not very bright. The ones who sold themselves and thought about my needs as well as their own are now bosses themseves because they turned out to be keen and motivated to do a good job.

Typical lefty comment yours: workers have to know their place keep being good little socialist tools and hate the boss.  Where is this vaunted empathy and co-operation that the lefties here and everywhere else are always going on about.

It stands to reason that a lot of the time you have to create your own opportunities in life and not wait for them to fall into your lap.  We need to encourage our people to think past the us vs them mentalilty that Labor and the unions have created.It's not about being a good salesman, but about being empathetic with what an employer might want.  Too many employees have no idea of what a business needs or that the boss has to make a profit.  

I don't see that you can't send out CVs to some people whilst you are doing your research on other targets.

But you really do have know what iit is you are selling.  It isn't just your labour, but the opportunity for your employer to make a profit out of your services.rob

It was probably because the international backpackers are only going to have to do it for a short time.

When they go back to their own countries thay will look for something more permanent.Typical Labor luvvie response from you Skeptic, and frankly not worthy of you. 

There was nothing in Lorenzo's post that showed that he was meaning to throw calumnies at all unemployed people. Yet you chose to take it that way.  But that the Labor/left way isn't it, use crude emotional responses when someone questions one of your shibboleths.  Don't use reason, use the childish call to emotion.  This is usually done by accusing the other person of 'hating' someone. That in itself is instructive of the playground mentality of the left.  "Hate' is a word that children use as an automatic descriptor of their feelings when they are upset.  Adults usually realise that ascribing hatred to others is really a silly exercise. "Hate" is therefore a word grown-ups use seldom, and only in really apposite circumstances.No the author was not suggesting that at all.DOn't worry, when the economy picks up in the next two years the unemployment figures will fall.

BTW, it's not only the $255 you get on the dole, but other government assistance for health and rent too.Harry doesn't patently despise anyone.

It's you lefties who read emotion into everything.  Why are you so sure that those ith whom you disagree are evil or hate-filled or lacking in empathy?  Are you projecting?

Harry was merely being a bit sarcastic at the the fact that he believes that the requirement is to apply for 4 jobs a week.I'd like to see the unemployed given the chance to form co-ops and non-profits that would help them to find jobs for each other. 

Let's face it, in the commercial world, most opportunities arise through networking with friends and colleagues, not through making applications to those whom you do not know. 

I don't think that the government really should be concerned with how well a person does or whether the emp0loyer is right or anythung to do with the future of the contract. Governments don't do such things well. They inevitably put too many regulations in place in an effort to standardise things. That leads to bureaucracy rather then freedom.

Let the market decide.  it will do it a lot better than the government can.And why is your question relevant?Do people do unpaid hours to keep their jobs?

I doubt it.  For a start most white collar people are paid a salary, not a wage. So their payment cuts across the whole year, including leave.  It is not hourly. They usuallt work more hours because they know that is the way to promotion and later success in life, not to keep their jobs.

I get the impression that so many people here on the Labor side seem to think that a person does the same job throughout their working life, presumably for a boss in a factory or some other such workplace. In realioty a lot of people actually progress from beginners to senior management or to ownership of buisinesses. SOme are self employed. The point is that very few people remain at the same income level for years, yet that is what ALP supporters here seem to think.

Your post is so sad because it is so cliched and wrong.

Governments don't create jobs other than public service positions.  The baest they can do is provide the stability that allows private industry to expnad.  This increases employment.  But the key point is private industry expanding.  What we need is for our children to be told that getting a 'job' is OK, but creating wealth is better.  What we are all after is income, not a job.

So there are no proper jobs.

I suspect that too many people cannot adapt well to change (so-called progressives are in fact ver conservative in this regard).  They want an easy life. Their idea of heaven seems to be a job for life where they can just go along every day and be told what to do, whilst bitching about the boss and doing as little work as possible for the highest possible pay. Fortunately such jobs are becoming fewer, because they don't add value.

Beautifully put!

A government that is big enough to give you everything you want is big enough to take everything you have.

If is simply left wing policies that created most of the mess we are in now. They certainly created the underclass through welfare dependency. When the media and the politicans realised some time in the 70s that politics is a soap opera that sells papers, they encouraged us all to think that somehow government was here to take over society and make things easier for us all. The problem with that of course is that bureaucracy makes things harder for us in afar more sinister way. We have become the servants of the state in the eyes of the left, rather than the state being our servant.My problem is this.  Are you suggesting that the dole should just be paid to anyone who is unemployed with no requirement ot look for work?If you are a consultant, then you should no that success is not about getting a 'job.' You have to be able to make someone some money.  get out there and offer your services direct to clients. Set up your own firm. Or find a few others like yourself and do it.  Stop think in terms of employment and start thinking commercially, in terlm of income.

My wife did that 10 years ago and now earns $180K a year in her own consulting business.You point out an interesting fact that welfare has killed off community spiriit.

The left keep talking about the 'vulrnerable' but it is left-wing thinking that makes these people vulnerable.  if you are told by caring-sharing bleeding hearts that you are vulnerable, of cousre you will feel vulnerable.No the fundamental issue is that we have been too lazy for too long and too many of us think in terms of jobs rather than of income. More people need to be entrepeneurialrtaher than just expecting someone else to provide it all for them whether that be the government or some long suffering employer.A tiny percentage of people live in remote areas. That is why they are rmote.  We cannot run government policy based on all the possible variable in circumstance so as to cover 2 or 3 people in outer Kumbucta West.  That is why government is such a blunt instrument that should not be used at all in most cases.  The market, on the other hand can adappt to an infinite set of variabilities.So you just think that the government should hand out money to anyone who says they need it?  That seems to be the tenor of tyour argument. That and this weird idea that the Liberal party hates poor people. 

Maybe the fact is that the Liberlas actually live in the real world and the poor are not living in that world at all.  They are being kept poor by the ALP and its friends who don't really want the poor to change, because then they mightn't vopte for their union masters any more.  In fact that is what has happened over the years.  Abbout  1 in 3 voters supported Labor in the last election with their primary votes. Evn now Labor can;'t get over 40%.  In Hawke's day they could get over 45% without much problem.I think the problem here is that by requiring government action we entrenching a societal norm that is wrong.  Governments and all the pundits keep thinking of 'jobs' as the only salvation for people.

They are thus asking the wrong question.

People don't need jobs, they need an income. Yet so many people don't seem to realise this simple fact.

If people were taught as children that having a 'job' is not the only way to keeep yourself, they might actually get ahead far more quickly in life.  

The most important thing to learn is that you have to know how to make money for someone as well as yourself. You have to make think commercially. For example, there qas a qualified accountant here a while back.  He could have have gone to as many local accountants as he could and got them to use him on a part time basis. Then ech of them could charge him out to clients at more than they pay him.  He gets paid and the accountants make more in fees than they can without him. Everybody wins.  In the lexicon of the pundits, you could argue that a job is therby created where none existed before.

The accountant could then develop a business in hiring out others, and so on and so forth.I think you will find that the ALP stacked the Tribunal to achieve that rsult.  How do you prove you are genuine refugee when you have no passport?  The Tribunal just believes anybody.  Hardly a rigorous process.Thus spake the folk-marxist.

We do not oppress anyone.  We do each work to achieve wellbeing and wordly goods.  

I think you, like so many others forget about the worst human sin, the one that has cause more death and destruction than racism, sexism, homophobia and religion combined: envy.  The desire to take what others have is far worse than greed, in fact it is probably the real greed.
You were not a refugee.  You were a migrant.

There is no such thiong as an economic refugee.

I think you have hit the nail on the head.

Just about anywhere in the World is a good place to live if you are well off. 

A lot of people have told me that Adelaide and Hobart are really good if you are moderately well-off because you can live close to the City but ave a large property.

Maybe it's because our building unions are so corrupt and drive up costs so high, that builders have decided to get cheaper (and better labour).  However, I doubt whether these people are 'chinese nationals.' They probably are actually just Asutralian immigrants.Logical fallacies won't help your argument, whatever it is.

Look up 'tu quoqe' and 'ad hominem' if you wish to know where you went wrong.  Also the legal profession usually gets attacked as corrupt by those who aren't bright enough to understand what the law actually is there to do.I think you may need to think more about the meaning of equality.  Economic equality would be a disaster, because it would mean government enforcing equality of outcome.  There are plenty examples in history as to why thyis is a bad idea.

But if you are talking about econmic inequality and corruption, then ZA would be miles ahead of Australia. 

Of course there is a lot of stupidity in Australia, but no more than anywhere else in the world.Isn't it interesting then, that under John Howard everybody's standard of living rose and absolute poverty became almost negligible?

The fact is that the rich did get richer in both countries due to free market reforms (BTW Labor did it here too under Hawke and Keating), but then so did the poor. 

If you insist on using relative measurements of course, you will miss the real point, and you will demostrate that concern for the poor is not your real concern but envy of the rich.I think it's great that the AAA has issued a list of demands and has decided to work in the athletes' interests.

But then the writer lost me with the drivel at the end of the article.

We are talking about elite athletes here.  They can pay for their own integrity body and for a whole lot of other things.  They should get levies from their members for ALL their activities.

No more taxpayer funds for elite sports!Have you noticed that the miners actually ahave to pay royalties to extract the minerals that only they can exttract?

The wealth in question is not Australia's it i is the States' wealth.  They get handsomely paid for it.

Don't listen to the doom mongers.ers.Several issues stand out in your post.  Firstly, education and health are really State reponsibilities. Secondly, since when hads is been proved that increasing education spending actually imporoves education.  In fact Austrlai's education performance went backwards under Labopr Governments, State and federal, that were always telling us how much more they were spending.  


Can you understand that the minerals are owned by the States?  Did that simple fact pass you by?  Answer that before you start abusing people over irrelvancies.Noah

I bet you work as little as possible for the most amount possible.  Most of us do. So what moral imperative is there for mining companies to do anything else?

It's funny how people who class themselves as 'progressive' always act as they like whilst insisting that others act 'ethically' or 'morally.'  What is 'ethical' or 'moral' in this context is of course politically determined by the 'progressives' themselves for their own benefit.

I have no problem with people being out for their own benefit, What I find appalling is the crude justifications they give for doing it.Non-dequiturs don't actually help you to prove your case, they just make you look like you are incapable of reasoned argument, which I know you are not.  try harder.  The fact that WA lost its AAA credit rating has nothing to do with whether it owns the minerals in WA.It is you who misunderstand. Governments don't have to listen to media campaigns. They can and do have the power to ignore what the governed say.  It is up to the government to set the taxes, not the taxpayers.

it is therefore entirely the last government's fault that the mining tax was emasculated.Once we let a government becoome the richest in the world is it serving us or are we serving it?

Funny how you worry about nationalism in economics but not in any other spher, S.O.  Aren't you ALP supporters always wanting more world governments and external treaties?  Yet when it comes to private enterprise you are all ultranationalists.

There are plenty of Austrlaian companies and businesses out there.  In fact Australians also substantial investments in other countires.It's interesting to see how utterly nationalistic and racist you ALP supporters are when it comes to foreign investment.

It has always struck me that the least racist people are the elites, because we live in an international world where most of the people at our level in other countires think in a simila way to us.

Thye fear and paranoia about foreigners and the 'other' really festers in the less elite parts of society, who are scared of profit making entities in general and who think that somehow the world owes them a living through massive wealth redistribution.

I get the impression that these people don't understand that labour depends upon capital.Norway has a population the same as Sydney. The oil is in a place that is relatively small in area compared to our iron ore.

Nobody here would have developed our iron ore reserves  if we left it up to government.  The costs are too high for a state owned mining coproration to work on a product like iron ore.
Norway has a population the same as Sydney. The oil is in a place that is relatively small in area compared to our iron ore.

Nobody here would have developed our iron ore reserves  if we left it up to government.  The costs are too high for a state owned mining coproration to work on a product like iron ore.
Do you actually know what a buy-back of shares is?SO if the company buys back the shares of the British investors, doesn't tha mean that those shareholders no longer own any shares and the company is then mostly owned by its Australian shareholders?Commerce isn't here to benefit people who have no part in it.

Where do people learn these extraordinary socilaistic notions? The chief aim of commerce is to allow people to trade together to their mutual benefit. There has to be limits placed on that trade so as to ensure that others are not harmed.  However, that doesn't turn into a positive obligation to make sure that others outside the transaction actually do well from it.

Where do such playground notions arise?  Are our schools teaching this babyish stuff?

The zero sum fallcy seems to be a real favourite of the educational establishment these days, along with the sophist problem of complicating issues that are simple and simplifying issues that are really complex.

If a company pays no tax, that means it didn't make any profit for tax purposes.  Remember that tax profit and accounting profit are different.  SO when you hear some greenie telling you that a company paid anything less than 30% tax, you know that the accounting profit is being used not the tax profit. 

If it wrong to make taxable profit something less than accounting profit then that's a problem with the tax system not with the mining companies.

I think it isn't wrong, because the tax system and the accounting principles are seeking to measure two different things. The former really looks at the expense of doing buisiness that may not be caught on the profit and loss acount.  hence depreciation is a huge deduction, but is really capital rather than revenue spending.  It is thus treated differently for tax purposes than it is for accounting purposes.What I think you don't understand is that the leaders of society are not political leaders, but leaders in business, the law, the media, the sciences and the arts.

Asutrlaia got plenty out of the mining boom.  The real reason we have to balme the baby-boomers is that the lefties amoongst them are so political and want to take our freedom away whilst making things worse for the disadvantaged.  Those are the baby-boomers you have to worry about, the idiotic left-wingers who can't understand how things work and who hold onto to their envy of others as a gospel that justifies any evil you can name.I think I would almost tend to agree with your formula, except I would also slash our government spending and other taxes.

We don't need to spend the billions we do to distort the economy as we do.  We certainly don't need more publlic servants who produce nothing of value.But don't you know, the 'progressives' here just know that all would be well if the Govenment ran evry business in the land. Things would then be 'fair.'

Alreadygovernments run education and health.  Soon they will be running all hosuing and food industries as well.

After all it is absolutely necessary that all human activity be regulated in the ineterst of the state, because Australia is the only unit we should care about, individuals don't matter, only tribes and victim groups.  But even they can't be allowed to stand in the way of the State.  All hail the State.

"War is Peace; Freedom is Slavery; Ignorance is Strength."
"Who controls the past controls the future; who controls the present controls the past."

Big Brother is still watching you.The SMH, like you dosn't seem to know the difference between assessable income and taxable income.

I have a client (an individual) who made assessable income of $10 over th last two years.  Yet his taxable income in those years was a loss. This was because his deductions exceeeded his assessable income.

If you think that the income tax law is somehow deficient in allowing such losses to be claimed by miners, then change the income tax law. The deficinecies don't justify another complex tax law that somehow deigns a certain profit to be too much.I thought we had already seen off the silly rumour that Glencore paid no tax.Stop talking rubbish.

The situation here and in Norway is entirely different.  WHat happened there could not happen here.  The scale is too vast.

Also what everyone forgets is that in the oil market the European producers could charge high prices, because the really big producer in the ME were doing the same.  WIth iron ore that option doesn't exist.The problem is that we can never do the disired things because lefties are always sooling governments onto the economy and distorting things.  The market itself would work out what is needed but the market is so despised by the left, who really don't understand it and are jealous of those who do.explain how pensioners and low income earners are taking any of the budget fix.

That is just rhetoric on your part.

I have to pay more tax to support those pensioners and lower income people.  They don't have to do anything.  So let me ask again, who is paying?It is obvious to me what is wrong with this country.  Our education system is so bad that we don't teach our children about how commerce and capitalism work.  In fact, if this forum is any guide, our teachers are instilling a love for unearned income and handouts in our children, supplemented by a hatred of profit-making enterprise and envy of anyone who is better off than you.

What we need is a revolution in education.  We need to teach people how to succeed in capitalism, not to ignore it.

If Australians had been aware of how trade and commerce actually work, they might have been able to get more value out of the mining boom by being shareholders in the mining companies.

We need to teach our children some self reliance.I  think that too many people in this country focus on 'leadership' by the PM of the day. The left in particular want some brilliant philosopher king or queen to appear and mnake evrything right with a snap of the fingers.

Actually, I think that politicans should be followers of the people, not leaders. Once we put our faith in politicians as secular messiahs, we cease to think for ourselves.

Stop taking the macro view of things and worrying what is good for Austrlaia.  You wouold do far better dealing what is good for you, your family and your local community.I'd like to know what those right wing experiments were.  The whole point of being right wing is that you distrust government interference in the economy.The interesting thing is that Labor makes more people go onto struggle street with its so-called equitable policy framework.  It is Labor that increases inequality.  it doesn't do it on behalf of the real elite, but on behalf of the whiny wannabes who can't buy and sell anyhting or add value, but whom ar e in academia, qangos or the public service.

Under Labor the this class, the luvvies, propser whilst the average punter goes backwards.

Income inequlaity incresed during the RGR governments because of Labor's mad tax and spend policies.Yes the reality in our communities is that people are too useless to support themselves without governments interfering in the market and distorting it. 

The job that is done because the government subsidises it, is no9t a real job is it?  Rather it is make work.

I would suggest to disabled and working that he/she should club together with a few others and form a non-profit organsiation that puts disabled pepople in work by convincing employers that it has benefits to the employer.

and I can speak this way because I too have a disability and can only work short hours.  Fortunately when I do work I get paid a massive amount for my skill.If I understand things correctly, one of the arguments that is raised by those who think economic inequality is a serious problem is that the poor will eventually rise up and commit crimes or viloence to obtain the wherwithal to live.

As I have said here many times, that is just pandering to the crime of envy, which has been the cause of more death and suffering thann anything else in the last 100 years.

On the same basis as that I could mention that if the government takes away too much from the wealthy, they too will revolt.

I deal every day with wealthy people.  All of them pay at least 30% of their income in tax, which is just about the effective tax rate wehn you take the tax free threshhold and the gradations of tax rates into account. What most of their planning involves is trying to ensure that they pay no more than that.  So all my clients who earn a million in income per year, pay at least $300K in income tax.  Without planning that could go up to $500K per year. The stories put about by people here about bosses who paid no tax, are just that, stories. If someone is paying nop tax either he has made no money or is a crook.You would have to raise it 10 foldNot low income earners, but low income earners or receivers.  Most of the people in the low income brackets don't earn their income, they receive it from the taxpayer.  They should therefore take what they get with some humility and expect to get a service that is a little less timely and efficient than those of us who have to pay our own way.Just because your daughter is one of the low income earners, doesn't prove my point is wrong.  The fact is that many people on low incomes receive rather than earn that income.

And is it petty or mean to ask those who are getting all this largesse from the government and paying less in taxes to support it, just to acknowledge that we upper band taxpayers are paying for that largesse?

I am not begrudging the largesse.  All I am saying is that it seems like low income earners and recievrs seem to forget that they need to be grateful for they get from the government and treat it as a privilege of living in such a fine country, rather than treating it as a right. Treating welfare as a right is mean and petty.I'm not sure that the co-payment is meant to make any difference to the healthcare outcomes, only to help the budget to pay for heathcare, and to make people understand that they need to put some value on medical care.  I would be happy to scrap the whole co-payment idea if those who do get all the benefit of bul billing and free medical services just acknowledged that we taxpayers are paying for it and were grateful.

But, as with any kind of welfare, people come to see it as a right rather than a privilege. They then whinge like blue murder if their privilege is reduced.  

All it would take is for some of the welfare bodies like ACOSS and others to state publicy that they thank the taxpayers of Australia on behalf of the poorfor the benefits that they receive. They must also acknowledge that they have no right to these benefits other than through our generosity.

I'd rather get the medicare levy back and pay it to a private insurer who could cover all my costs without gaps.

the public system can then be run to benefit those who are really poor, like pensioners the unemployed and the disabled.Good response Aaron.

My meidcare levy is very high because I make a large income.

But I agree with you that the medicare levy (which doesn't pay for a tenth of health spending) plus the private health premium would not cover everything.  However, I remeber that back in the early 70s my parents had health insurance that paid for all hospital and doctor visits, but left a gap for dentist and other services.

The problem is that the market has become so distorted by government interference and subsidy that it is hard to know what insurance premiums would be if no gaps insurance was available.I suppose it's a bit like public transport and the small fees charged by State Schools, there needs to be a small element of user pays, so as to help the budget and to ensure that those not using the service don't have to pay for all of it.A lot of silly things are said about the American system of funding healthcare.  But I'm glad you put question marks at the end of your two sentences, because that shows you know that what you sate are not facts but absurd allegations favoured by lefties who want everything for nothing.Jimmy

I thought that the $7 co-payment was only going to apply where the Doctor bulk-billed.  For the rest of us who pay the doctor full freight and then get reimbursed something from Medicare will not be affected by the co-payment, because that is what we do already.The meidcare levy doesn't pay anywhere near the cost of healthcare in this country.

There is no reason why this reform should have any impact at all on your plan.  Don't let the worrywarts of the left scare you with their politics of fear.

Don't let the left fool you.  They will not restore free healthcare if they get in. They will just make things worse by over-spending and borrowing.Excellent reasoning HP Dietz.

The whole Meidcare system is rife with bureaucracy.  But the left love it, as they all bureaucrats at heart.  If they didn't have cushy public sector jobs they would have to engage in commerce which they abhor so.

The problem here is that a principle needs to be established: people need to value medical services and not expect to get things for nothing.Redfella

The problem is that the taxes won't cover health and education, and that these are State responsibilities.

The reasons why the tax take isn't enough are many. But principally it is because the Government has expanded into so many other areas where it shouldn't be.  The list of grants given by governments to all in sundry is now massive.  The social security bill is also massive.

Also heath now costs a lot more than it did 50 years ago, because of scientific advance. 50 years ago people were used to dying at 60.  Now we wnat more and better care. We live much longer. Doctors are having to learn more about geriatric care than they did before.

So if we wnat to go back to the age of public health being funded by government, then we really have to stop the government spending on things like the NBN or NDIS, or PPL or the other vast array of middle class welfare.Well said!

The principle is definitely important.

The bulk billing system just encourages people to go to the doctor on the flimsiet of contexts and encourages doctors to over-service.

People don't value what they don't pay for and have little control of the service they are provided. if you pay for a service then you have more control over that service.

I often wonder what would happen if the Government got out of funding healthcare altogether.  WOuld the costs for all those tests that take 5 minutes come down? I suspect that there is a lot of distortion in the health care market because of the subsidies paid by the government.I get the impression that the writer of this article and many commenters here seem to confuse medicare with the health system.  They are two different things.  Medicare has nothing to with the provision of healthcare. Medicare is a means of insurance/funding of the proviision of healthcare.  However, many people can't seem to tell the difference.  The hear the word 'Medicare' and immediately think it means their doctor and the hospital.

This confusion means that people tend to think that if Meidcare is changed or abolished then doctors won't be there and hospitals will close.

The argument here is over how healthcare is funded not over healthcare itself.OI think you hit the nail on the head there, gbe.

The problem for the author of this article is that she assumes that we are all like her.  I always ignore those detail, as do just about everyone I know.  We are capable of selective reading or listening.  In ordee to survive in this modern world it is necessary to take away the important information from the media not the gory detail.

The author here seems to want the media to stop her from herself.But I haven't learnt the details.  It's not that hard to screen out such things.

You will find that life is a whole lot better if you just skim the news, which is often designed to frighten you.I don't think media outlets have responsibilities to anyone but their shareholders.

Why is it that people bang on all the time about bad the media are, but somehow expect there to be a medium somewhere that tells the unalloyed truth?

I know that News Ltd favours right wing ideas and that Fairfax and the ABC lean left.  I knw that the TV channels want to sell adverstising and appeal to those with a short attention span.  I also know that 95% of news is useless anyway.  As a result I can piece together what I need to know by taking all these factors into account.I don't think they ever did.Well if we all turn off the news and go and read a good book, the media might get the message that we aren't interested.  But it seems that a lot of people are interested for some reason.

US energy being cheap has nothing to do with the US government. if the Democrats had their way energy there would be expensive like it is here due to government interference in the market.Um, since September last year $8000billion worth of new projects have been started by private enterprise in Australia.  Look around you.  The CBD in Sydney is full of cranes again.  Business is doing well. Retail sales are up. Things are going very well.Ain't it weird, in my job I have to assist on big deals.  There are currently more of them going on that there have been in the last 6 years.  There have been a massive amount of new private enterprise aprojects started since last year.One of the requirements is that 457 visa holders get paid the same amount as Australians would do for the same job.

Do you know if any of the 457 visa people at your workplace are getting paid less? If so you should report it to Fair Work.You really need to learn some economics.

The unemployed will not get a job unless they can make someone a profit. In other words they have to add value.  I suspect your idea is that the government pay employers to hire people or pay a larger dole.  But such stimuli don't work very efficiently and usually create a dependancy on government money that does not actually add any value.

The best stimulus a government can do is to lower tax rates.  This allows business to undertake proper investment and expand. As the Howard Government showed the lower tax rates can also generate higher revenue.  I distinctlly remember ALP supporters whinging about the Howard government being a high taxing government.  That of course was because the ALP supporters have no idea between tax revenue and tax rates.

A lot of economists don't either. They assume that the COalition's tax cuts were cuts in revenue rather than in rates.  They also assume that the government would have earnt 2% more revenue if it didn't cut the rate by 2%.  This is a nonsense.  Lower taxes stimulate economic activity and therefore any loss of income isn't as high as the percebntage by which the rates were cut. In some cases the income can even go up, as less people feel inclined to avoid tax that is at a lower rate.All very good questions. The only one I can answer is the last.  There is no real diifrerence beyween testing for a medical condition of a baby before or after birth. In both cases the testing allows for the family to prepare itself to deal with the condition in question.

Of course if a baby is diagnosed with a serious diability after birth it would be murder to kill the baby, but for some reason if the baby is killed beofre birth it is OK.

Terminating for a disability is as evil as terminating because the baby is the wrong sex.I can see why some people would make that argument SPitR.  It has a superficial attraction.  However, I would argue that people don't exist to make things easier for society, society exists to make things easier for people. It is the duty of us all to look after the weak in our family circle.

It's funny how often the same people who will castigate a government for not doing enough for the 'disadvantaged' are quite happy to let the most disadvantaged of all, the unborn baby be killed off without so much as a by-you-leave.Of course in the past there was no choice, and parents coped.

The fact now that there is a choice is the evil here.  The  choice to terminate for Down syndrome, if it exists, shoulkd not be given to anyone.

I abjure anyone who doubts the value of a short life, to read what the British PM David Cameron wrote after his profoundly disabled son, Ivan, died at the age of 6.What a strange post.

Surely you must agree that there are times when technological advances cause us to have to make choices that we didn't have before that are not easy choices.  Yes it is easy to choose to have a baby in a sterile environment so as to avoid death for both the mother and the child.  But no it is not easy when a parent is given the choice to abort a child because it isn't perfect.

Next you'll be telling us that it is OK to abort deaf children r blind children or girls if you wanted a boy.  Then you'll be telling us that we really should just let old people die, because they are a burden on 'society' (in fact it is often society that is the burden, or more truthfully the State.

All human life is sacred. There may be an argument that a serial killer should be removed by execution,  but that at least would be retribution for actions not for merely not being prefect or hvaving the wrong characteristics.  Once we start doubting the anctity of human life, great evil can follow.  Just look at those places on earth where people kill others on the most superficial of contexts.I'm not sure that the example of the good professor is all that off beam in this context.  The fact is that no-one knows what life will bring. There may be some people who are due to suffer horribly from all sorts of medical conditions or disabilities.  You wouldn't think of terminating the life of someone who develops a disability later in life, even if you had some advance warning, so why would you think of terminating the life of an unborn child?

I think too many people think of the issue from their own point of view rather than that of the child.  If you have down syndrome you may not see things in the same way.  You may in fact enjoy your life and you certainly will contribute something, as e all do, to the lives of others around you..

I always marvel that those of a statist disposition are always keen t on helping the 'disadvantaged' but the most disadvantaged and dependant of all, the unborn child is someone who the Statist is glad to sacrifice.

p[ersonally I am happy to pay the government and the charities to assist in raising profoundly disabled children.  it is the able bodied whom I would like to see shift for themselves.You are right it's not genetic engineering, it's egenics, which is even worse.The basic rule of compensation is that it replaces what you have lost. The PPL scheme (which is similar to the one public servants already have) is designed to compensate a woman for the loss of income incurred by a mother during the time after the birth of a child. It therefore makes sense that the greater the loss the greater the compensation.

Personally, I don't think there should be a PPL at all.

As far as I can see, neither the deserving unemployed or the disabled will suffer any monetary loss from any government policy.So I wonder if you are a free-marketeer or a libertarian on other issues.I think you need to go and learn about logic and how to make an argument that is persuasive.

The fact that a pro-lifer strives to save one child and not another has absolutely no bearing on the question as to whether the pro-lifer was right to try and save the life of the first child.  The pro-lifer could be entirely wrong in his actions in relation to starving children overseas and yet still be right on the termination of the unboirn here in Australia with Down syndrome. Just because a person'a arguments are inconsistent with his actions doesn't mean that they are not true.How do you know that pro-lifers aren't out there helping starving children.  I consider myself a bit of a pro-lifer and I help run a large charity that looks after children in poverty."It is about parents making a decision on what is in the best interests of their child."

I think you meant that both as an opinion and as the motive you think that most couples hhave when they decide to abort.  In the first instance you have an argument. However, in the second instance you are just as guilty as you accouse Ben of being of providing no evidence.

A lot of the people here who are pro-abortion are just saying that they believe in that course because it is the parents' right to decide.  On that basis I would think ben is closer to the mark than you  on motive.  it is really about the parents' convenience.  it is also funny that all the usual leftist suspects are all pro-abortion.  So much for the compassion for the weak that the left are always bleating on about.

But what intrigues me the most is this idea that somehow it is better not to be born at all, and therefore have no life, than to have a short difficult  life.
What a bleak view of existence you have. There is obviously no real joy in your life. All is but a utilitaroian march to the grave, that can only be undertakenby the perfect specimen.  What is it all for? Life isn't just for the healthy.  It is for all.  If we start aborting babies for being disabled, I can see the pressure growing to euthanise chikdren and even adults with profound disabilties, just because it makes life a bit hard for those who look after them.

I have spoken to several parents of disabled children and the story I always hear is one of incredible love and virtue. Those parents are mostly much better people because they have suffered and have triumphed.I personally believe in personal freedom, but I balance that in a belief that we have a responsibility to our fellow beings. This responsibility is not a matter of law but of the what Lord Moulton, called the thrid demesne, that set of rules that society enforces biut not the state. 

From what I can see, our friends on the left do not really believe in the 3rd demesne. They rather take the view that if something isn''t illegal it is permissible, but hence their wish to make more and more things in life subject to government regulation. 

I take the view that terminating because you can't afford a baby or ccan't go through the anguish of having a disable child is definitely something that society should condemn, mainly because it makes us intolerant of imperfection and uncaring and nasty.  

It's funny, but lefties are always telling us that it takes a village to raise a child, yet that only seems to apply to heathy children.  maybe if people lived more in the 3rd desmene they would in fact become that vilage where it is really needed, in raising a disabled child. 

It takes a village to raise a child, say the lefties, but an indisvidual can kill a child in utero. there seems to be a disconnect there.So the child, who made no choice at all, has to suffer becaue his or her parents chose life over death? You can't really think that way can you?

It would seem that you can only judge life by how much it costs the state.  How weird.

it seems to me that yopu are in fact not an individualist at all. You see women as a group with a right to make the decision about abortion rtaher than individuals. You see all diabled babies as a class od babies rtaher than as individuals. 

Who are you or I to say which life is more valuable than any other?It's quite simple really. The yank is very keen on freedom of privacy but not on freedom of speech.  All we ask is for consistency. 

As for Coles, it has to obey the Privacy legislation just like everyone else.But did you say that about the last government who wanted to do the same thing and who wanted to put an internet filter on us all?But we are all living longer, fat or not.  So the obesity scare is really just another bit of silly panic.We still do.

Businesses are not allowed to retain personla data or to use it in any way other than contracted with the individual or for the purposes for which the data was collected.Yank

You don't have to block them.  Just give them more and more information.  If we all give them heaps and heaps of information they will not be able to get through it all. The bureaucracy will just quietly ignore all the information because it just won't have the resources to deal with it..

As for your barber, it's hardly likely he can find out anything about you from your email address. However, if you just find all the endless junk emails too much, set up a gmail account for all the spam stuff in your life and always give that email address to anyone who you suspect wants to send you unwanted bumff.Beautifully put Jimmy.

From what I can see most people are scared of freedom.  That is not always a bad thing. I suggest that this fear of freedom is really bad when it is rooted in envy of others rather than as a restraint on the ill-effects of unfettered action.If Putin talks tough then you jst shrug your shoulders and say he must be right and his people feel bad, therefore Australia shoudn't ever talk tough.  We should always give in to bullies and idiots.  

You sound very much like the wimpish appeasers in Europe before the \Second World War.Why?  Like all the dogmatic, fundamentalist attheists here you just repeat a slogan.  But you can't justify it.

When I was at school we had one hour a week scripture.  It was not compulsory.  It didn't hurt anyone. The children actually enjoyed it as a break from regular school work. 

The whole idea of education is that it is for the parents and children, not for some  ideal of 'public education.' If the parents and children want scripture classes in school then they should have them.

Why?

None of you people can actually give a reason for your dogma.Actually, the whole thing is that you do have a choice. You don't have to allow your children to go to scripture classesWhy?So many lefty commenters here are just spouting dogma.  They cannot give a reason why religius classes shouldn't take place in our schools.

I assume that many of you were educated in those schools.  it doesn't seem to have helped you, other than to make you conformists to the leftist viewpoint without question.I love the knots that Ms Rosewarne ties herself up in here.

I suppose when you see everything as being political, that is the result.  If we were using the PC talk that Rosewarne and her type favours, there is no doubt that Lambie was being sexist.  If a Liberal male had done what she did, he would have been out of Parliament and on a tour of forgiveness on the chat shows as soon as look at him.  His whole life would be ruined.

But I don't really care about that, what I care about is dignity.  Sentors should display it at all times. Behaviour such as Lambie's is just coarse and lowers the tone of political life.

yes good girls don't talk about sex in a corse way. neither do good boys.  In fact good people don't talk like that, only bogans and lefties who think that it is being daring.Actually, I don't think the voters did any such thing.

The problem stems from the system under which the votes were counted, so that people with tiny primary votes managed, by sharing with other small vote getters to achieve election.  I'm pretty sure that if you asked the people about the vagaries of the system they would be amazed.

The Senate lacks some legitimacy because of this.  I hope the major paties can agree to some reform.Im not sure what you're argument actually is, Gazza. I think you might be fighting a straw man.  There is no real argument that Australia could remain in the Commonwealth if we decided to seloect our HoS ourselves.  The argument that we monarchists put forward is that our current system is the best.

I think a lot of people get confused by the term 'republic' into thinking that somehow the issue is one of monarchy versus a land where everyone gets a say on everything.  But what has been offered to us so far has been exactly the same as we have now but with an Australian HoS elected by Parliament.  That is not a republic, but an elected monarchy.  The HoS would have all the same powers as a monarch, so would be a monarch.

The real motive of the 'republicans' is not so much to found a republic but to have an Australian HoS. Personally, I think it is actually better having a foreign HoS who can look at things objectively and has no self interest in the political outcome.  Disinteredness is a very important factor here. Too many people here seem to think that politics can cure all our ills, wheeras a proper HoS should be there to stop the utopians getting above themselves, a dose of reality in fact.There is no justification for the amount of money spent on sport in Australia.  The only reason that such money is spent is because in the 70s the rest of the world stopped being amateur and left Australi behind.  This so punctured the nation's amour propre that the politicians felt they had to step in and solve the problem by givng lots of dosh in an effort to make us feel better about ourselves.

The question is whether that is what governments should do.  Personally I do not think that in general that it is. There will be exceptions, but I think that the government should not nudge people or interfere in their personal choices for the 'common good' unless there is a really good reson.  Usually that reson should only be the defence of the nation or the maintaining of the peace.  Even economic resons aren't good enough.

The argument that sports funding encourages young people to take up sport after watching their heroes is really disingenuopus.I seem to remeber that many ALP supporters here were very keen for the government to bail ot the car industry.  But the same people will scream blue-murder if the government were to bail out the banks.

Chris Berg is right, each case has to be judged on its merits by the politicians. That is what they are paid to do.

However, i suspect that the government has to carefully let it be known that a bail out of any industry cannot and probably will not happen. In this way they guard against moral hazard.

BTW a business can fail through no fault of management. External disasters often cause business failure.  SO those calling for the blood of bank executives (mostly through sheer envy of the latter's pay packets) really do need to temper their rancour.Isn't it funny how it is always people who favour massive government intervention in the lives of the citizen are always the strident believers in the man-made climate change myth?

Too bad that none of the predictions of the 'climate scientists' have yet to come to pass.

Perhaps I view things differently because I work in a profession designed to find the truth through evidentiary rules so strict that it would make the average scientist look like an amateur.That's pure sophistry.
That is a more reasonable argument.

The Coaltion went to the polls stating they would get rid of the Co2 tax and stop the boats.

They were headline policies the voters were asked to consider.  If the Coaltion had come to power and said no, we aren't going to do those things, the ALP voters would have been happy, but the I guess the majority would not have been.  So I think it is a fair summation to say that the Cooalition have done 2 of the things they said they were going to do and thus two things they were elected to do. The third major plank of their platform wwas to improve the economy.  That is starting to happen.. Business activity is really improving leaps and bounds and employment has grown faster than the last government had predicted.Sean

I think you misunderstnad the way things work.

If a politician spends a whole campaign emphaisisng a few policies, then the convention in a democracy is that the politician was elected because of those policies.  You may be right that a myriad of other factors were at work.  

On your logic, the Rudd government had no mandate to repeal Workchoices.  However, I would have said that such repeal was one thing the Rudd government was definitely empowered to do by its election win."The boats have not stopped trying, in fact the approach the Abbott government is trying is before the Supreme Court."

Something is very wrong with that sentaence, yank.. Could you please clarify your meaning?You oviously haven't seen the famous Michael Mann hockey sticck diagram in which a climate 'scientist' left out the Mediaval warm period because it didn't suit his hypothesis.The problem is that there are experts on both sides of the debate.

Also have you ever heard of sophistry?  Let me explain.  it is highly possible to use  thousands of complex calculations and still get things wrong.  That is the sophistic approach.  That is what astrologists did, or those who continued to try and justify the ptolemaic universe when the planets' orbits didn't run where they should. 

In the case of AGW the 'scientists' have relied upon computer modelling and have so far been wrong in their predictions.  One doesn't have to be a scientist to know that a prediction that doesn't come to pass, no matter how complex and sophisticated the mathemtics behind it, is still bunkum.

My job is to evaluate evidence. I doin't see the evidence of AGW as compelling.  Especially now more and more scientists are expressing skepticism.I really enjoy reading these silly attacks on 'big corporations.'

I always wonder if those making these remarks actually know anything about business at all.

But Mr Wood still did well out of the closure of Gunns.You didn't notice the CO2 tax because you didn't notice that all prices were going up because of it.

Money was not being spent on renewables it was being wasted.Popualation control is always evil, because it runs counter to the natural instincts of us all.

Only a totalitarian would ever think of such a thing.  But with people like you the indivual doesn't matter, it's all about the collective.

The world would a much better place if people who bang on about the 'common good' and take the macro view on every topic just went about their daily lives doing good for those they know and their families.The problems of of the world have increased exponentially since the West became affluent enough to produce masses of foolish Mrs Jelalbys.Didn't we also have the coldest June.But government subsidising of solar power fed back into the grid has raised the prices for those of us who can't use solar power.By adapting to it if it comes.

From what I can see it will not come as quickly as predicted and may not cause the problems predicted.Funny isn't it?  Governments spend billions on 'scince' in the hope that it tells them that more government action in the economy is necessary and that's allright by you.  However, if the Kochs spend millions on the other side of the debate, that's 'funding denialists.'Actually i's a a good claim. Global warming is like the clothes of the emperor. Removing the carbon tax is like the little boy who noticed the emperor was actually nude. Suddenl;y we realsie we had this huge tax for no real purpose other than to give the statists their fix.We know that practically all ALP MPs are beholden to a particular union. mark Latham explained how it all works in his Diaries.

As to the Coalition MPs, well if they have a lot of donors, then the interests of those donors will often clash. This means that politican with a lot of donors can't be beholden to any one donor without offending the rest.Beautifully put, Gordon.

You hit the nail on the head.  The warming alarmists are just the latest bunch of statists, the new communists if you like, who in relaity would just love it if everything were supplied by government for 'free.' Their grasp of economic reality is about as sure as their grasp of science, to which they have added a mysterious definite srticle in the hope that that will fool us into believing what we are being told by a group od frausdter 'scientists'

I keep thinking of that scene in Gulliver's Travels when the scientist on the islke Laputa tells Gulliver that they are working out a way to store the sun's rays in cucumbers.So, all laws that prevent pollution are socialist are they?

What a silly comment.

The ETS is not a cpaitalist policy, whatever they may tell you. It was a phony market held up by the government rather than by economic relaity.  It was thus a classic example of crony capitalism which is just another variation of socialism.

Maybe you should try truth.

Science is only a method to arrive at truth.  So far science has not given a truth about AGW.  The fact is that CO2 emissions have increased but temperatures and nasty weather events haven't.  That is the truth. 

Scientists have been wrong many times in the past. Remeber in the 1970s when they warned us of global cooling.  they also said we'd run out of oil in a few years. They said that ulcers were caused by diet.
If the carbon trading scheme is set up by the government, then it is hardly a real market is it?

Real markets don't need the government to invent them, they exist spontaneously.

No the really capitalistic solution is to let the market work a way to combat climate change.  It will do that if the climate change is real. AT the moment the market doesn't think it is real, or fears having to much to do with fixing it, because governments are crowding it out.

However, already many companies worldwide have realised that they can do things to reduce emissions of CO2. How many ads do you now see where we are told that a business is using a diferent process or product from green motives. it makes good commercial sense.Roads don't push people anywhereI'm heartily amused.  Most of those here who support the theory that man has affected the climate, don't actually know what climate is.  You all harp on about warming.  Temperature is only one aspect of the climate.May one ask the ALP supporters here what policy they theink the ALP should adopt in 'climate change"?

I assume if they adopt and ETS, they will go down in a screaming heap at the next election as the Coalition will be able to do what Keating did in 1993 and point out that the ETS is in effect a tax that will increase prices, just like the CO2 tax did. An ETS still involves CO2 prodicuers having to pay money to produce the CO2.  That money will get passed on to consumers through all industrues that use electiricity to provide goods and services.Having taxpayer funded political parties is not a solution I favour. I think it wopuld lead to the politicians just taking us for granted. 

It would be far easier to limut the amount of donations any one entity can give.  
This would mean that individuals, unions and companies would all be limited to say, $500 per year in political donations. 

The second reform would be top reduce the size of government.  Coprruption increases where government is bigger, because the government has more money and contracts to give away.Why shouldn't each individual or company put its interests first? That is the natural way.  if everybody did that and stopped worrying so much about the big picture, I believe a lot of Australians would come to realise how well we are doing. 

We are all out for ourselves.  We know however, that we have to keep within the law and be good citizens if we want the protection of the law.  But that doesn't require constant reference to  all our fellow citizens.  Compromise is always necessary in life anyway. 

Corporations are onl;y collections of people come together to co-operate in an endeavour. They are not some strane hyperbeing out to rule or rape the world.Why do you think that politics and government are actually the be all and end all of life?

Those who have real brainsdon't actually follow politics or care much about government.  Government is in fact for those who can't make it in real life.This is all fantasy.

SHow us some evidence why the bilions that we spend on education isn't enough or why Germany believes in education more than we do.

What is holding Australia back, if anyhting, is the whinging leftists, who can't get it throug their thick skulls that things that getting ahead in life means adding value not by seeking 'free services' from Government.  SOciety is different to government. Stop whinging and get out there and invent something or do a good job instead of constantly whining about how the boss is richer than you whilst you do just enough to keep that job that you seem to think is yours by right.Where do you get these absurd notions? DO they teach this stuff in our schools now?

Do you actually know what a company is or how business and commerce work?  I bet you have just blindlt listened to idiotic left-wing teachers all your life and believed all that nonsense about all business deals being rip-offs and everything being designed to kep the poor down.  How sad.Rick

The Monarch doesn't have to reside in the countryof whom she is monarch. In fact there is a theory that a monarch is in fact separate from the people completely. The Queen is not British or Austrlaian, she is the Sovereign who gives those polities their identity but does not take her identity from them.

The Queen has appointed the GG to undertake most of her duties as monarch of Australia. So that really answers most of your otther questions.

As to signing British laws that are against Australian interests, it hasn't ever happened.  In fact, the Queen's constitutional advisers have in the past noted that when the interests of the commonwealth countriies are affected by British laws, then the governments of those countres have to be consulted.The point is that Australians derived a lot of profit from their overseas holdings.  So if we want to be able to repatriate that profit to Australia we should not stop foreigners from repatriating their profits either.

WHo cares wheere the profits went?  Austrlaians were employed and supplied goods and services to the miners. So profits were maintained in Australia by a lot of people.

The problem for a lot of left-wing people here is that they are happy to put their faith in scientists because 'sicisence is like hard, man"  Commerce and business are much, much harder than science, yet you don't seem so keen to acct that commercial interests should be believed because of their expertise.If the electorate votes in Labor next time, will you then tell us how brilliant the voters are?

The voters are never wrong.  It is the politicians who are at fault.Explain to me how the 'poor' about whom you seem to care so much are any worse off now than they were before the last election.

Your rhetoric is hollow.

The fact is that ALP supporters never talk about the poor when Laboor is in power.  They save all their bile for the Liberals.  Of course when the Liberals are in power things usually improve for all including the poor.  What you have to remember is that the majority of the 'poor' will not stay that way.  They are temporarily poor, either because of a temporary setback or because they are still young.

Already employment is improving.  The economy is getting back into stride.  There are opportunities there for those who stop whinging about politics and add value instead.

I suspect the problem with left-wing people is that tey can only see things in terms of who is 'oppressing' whom.  What a bleak and miserablist worldview.
But employment has improved since the election.  There is more economic activity going on and meregers &amp; acqusitions and IPOs have increased sharply.

Whether the government can take credit for this or not, it is good news.

In two years time we will wake up to find the economy going as well as it did under Jihn Howard.

The genuinely poor don't pay any tax, meredith, other than GST and excise. And they far more back from the government than they pay to the government. That is a good thing.

The issue is about letting those who can succeed get out of the poverty trap.  Government hand-outs are not the way to go here. I think the COalition understands this.

The ALP half understands it, but there is still a hardcore of Laborites stuck in in the welfare state mentality.But if there are no boats, soon there will be no off-shore processing.  And who is to say that on-shre processing would be cheaper when the huge ioncrease in numbers it would attarct would cost billionjs in infrastructure and welfare.I congratulate you.  You post a strident pice of rhetoric whilst accusing the other side of 'rhetoric.'

Have you considered that we on the right believe what we say?

You see, people should look after themselves.  Over the yers we have seen a marked deterioration in the self reliance of people because they are so used to being given everything by government.  As Theodore Dalrymple notes when discussing the underclass, these people have everything given them, and all their freedom removed except for the 'right' to copulate with anyone at any time and to shop for useless gee-gaws.

The wider you spread the welfare net, the more underclass dependants you create.
WHat a funny idea that the Government spends tax cuts.

In case you didn't know that money in question is actually the property of those who made it, not anyone else.

The Howard government presided over the best years in memory. All the economic indicators were at their best level and everyone 's standard of living rose.

Was there too much middle-class welfare? Probably.  It would have been better to cut tax rates even more. But that's what Rudd did in 2008, to try and match the Howard government's promises. 

Labor had 6 years and never did we see any reduction in middle class welfare, only an increase.
S.O.

It is always wrong to balme the voters.  If they vote Labor next time, will you then tell us how wonderfull and sensible the voters are?

If, as you seem to believe, the Coalition were elected by telling lies, then blame the Coalition, not the voters.

We don't need plans for job creation.

Already the employment situation is better than it was under Labor.

Government don't really create jobs, private enterprise does.  And private enterprise will do so if there is a good chance a profit will result.Nicely put.

Lefties seem to ignore the fact that green groups and other rent-seekers in the 'renewavles' sector are also vested interests, as are NGOs and left-wing lobbyists of all sorts.  

The fact is too that big business actually doesn't care which government is in power.

The business that the Liberals actually care about and support is small to medium sized business. it is actually those enterprises that employ most people and make the economy run.What makes you think the banks and miners haven't paid their income tax?

Are you listening to green propaganda that claims someone has made a 'profit' but paid no tax.  You see, the problem is that income tax isn't based on profit, but on taxable income.  They are different things.  Secondly, company tax is really only a down payment on indidivual tax.  In the end the shareholders pay taxon the real profits of a company, i.e. the money that is returned in dividends.I'm always intrigued when people deny the theory that a growing economy benefits all.  They derise this as the 'trickle down theory.'  However, I've never seen a convincing proof that the trickle down doesn't work.

Too many on the left make the mistake that if the wealth of each class is not rising by the same amount, then trickle down isn't working.  In other words the left are so hung up on 'equality' they don't look at actuality.  They thionk that if they prevent the rich from getting richer, somehow the poor will catch up.  The thing is if no wealth is created , then the poor will not get richer.  The poor don't create wealth.I wonder where you get this 98% figure from.

However, the biggest mistake in your post is that somehow if we just throw more money at the education system and the health system (both State responsibilities by the way) then they will better than they are now. Time and time again it has been proved that merely increasing spending on education and health does not lead to better outcome.

So the reluctance of the 2% to pay more tax is understandable, seeming as though it is we in the top 2% who pay so much of the tax already.All lies, but if it comforts you to believe this tripe, make sure that you have your tinfoil hat to ward off the mind alering rays being sent out by Tony Aboott and Rupert Murdoch.It would appear so.

Like so many lefties he views every business transaction as a ripp-off and every company as a conspiracy against the good solid lower middle class burghers of Australia.

It's folk-marxism at its worst and most humorous.Rent seekers?

Aren't those who buy investment property getting rent from their tenants.  A rent seeker is a person who wants mopney from the government.

I think people like you don't understand that a tax deduction is not a concession or a subsidy.  therefore it can't be the subject of rent seeking.

get your terminology right and you may then understand the real argument.I think 'deserve' might be the wrong word thereSorry but that is not right.

The whole scheme of the income tax act is that there does not have to be any matching of specific income to specifi deductions.  A deduction is either general (i.e. a loss or outgoing incurred in the course of making assessable income) or particular (because the Parliament thought it was a good thing).Warwick, if you are old now, you must have leant over the years that the idea of 'one man wealthy, therefor one man not wealthy' is a total fallacy. It is known as the 'zero sum fallacy.'

You see what makes wealth is adding value.The real argument isn't against negative gearing at all.  That is just a short hand. 

The real argument is about the tax deduction for the interest and other outgoings incurred by the owner of the property. More specifically, the question iswhether a deduction against other income should allowed, when the interest and and outgoings actually exceed the income received from the property.  Added to this is the 50% CGT discount that individuals and trusts get when they resell the property, as long as the property has been held for more than 12 months."...policies such as negative gearing ..."

Need I read further.  There is no plicy of negative gearing.  That is like saying "there is a policy of house." It makes no sense.Exactly right WA Ideas!

Thje whole point is that the NG deduction is not a concession or a subsidy, as the naysayers would claim.

When someone complain abotu normal tax deductions being subsidies or concessions, then you know that envy is the basis of the comment.Why should a method of investing benefit all Australians?

Are you saying that if I choose to make an investment of any kind it has to benefit anyone else but me and my family?

What a lot of rubbish.

Let me explain something to you.  The actions of all players in a market effect that market. The fact tha housing prices are higher because of investors is just a fact of life.  it is not a distortion of the market, because the tax deduction in question has been there since income tax was invented.There seems to be a lot of misunderstanding here about NG.

The biggest mistake being made seems to be that peole think that a tax deduction is a subsidy.

Everyone can claim a tax deduction (the general deduction) for expenses gained in earning assessable income.  If those expenses exceed your income then you make a loss., which can be carried forward to the next year. The tax law doesn't care which income you claim the deduction against. There is no matching.  So, if a buisness has 3 divisions and one makes losses, whilst the other are profitable, then the company can claim the losses on company against the income of the others. In just the same way if I have two sources of income, I should be able to claim the losses I make in relation to one against the other .  Tax is levied on glaobal taxable income.

If you change the law to stop people claiming deductions on NG, then you will be going against some very longstanding tenets of the law. In fact you would be breaching the whol;e scheme of the legislation.  There is nothing wrong with this except that if you do it too much the law begins to fall apart at the seams.

The question here is how would you 'get rid of NG' . I suspect that there would have to be a whole new division in the Act. It would probably state that deductions for negatively geared real property would be limited tothe amount of income received for that property. it would be a very complex piece of legislation to draft.There is no subsidy by taxpayers. A tax deduction is not a concession or a subsidy, it is part of a formula in the act to determine a persons taxable income.

The deduction used for negatively geared properties has been there since tax was introduced.  To get rid of negative gearing deductions means changing the whole formula upon which the income tax law is based.Personally, I believe that the best way to deal with any probblems that arise from claiming deductions for negatively geared property is to allo homeowners to claim a deduction for their own interest payments.

That occurs in several overseas jurisdictions.

I know some will say that what has paying morgage interest got to do with earning income.  The answer is 'nothing." However, the same could be said about charitable donations and they are deductible.There are many arguments where there are two sides that are evenly balanced.  Thus in most political arguments one expects on TV to see representatives from all the the relavant sides (there may be more than 2).  However, there are occasions when equal time is not warranted, eg in relation to vaccination of children.
I think political discussion has always been at the level of name-calling and fundamentalism. The only difference now is that there is a lot more politcal discussion going on because government has become a mix between spectator sport and a soap opera as far as the media is concerned. This has arisen because of the growth of government.  People probably place too much importance on politics.  As a way of getting desirable things done it is really not much good.Your focus is completely wrong.  If one is measuring government, one does so by referring to government not to the econmy or anything else.

The extreme right then are the true anarchists (like those in the Waco massacre) who don't believe in any government.  The extreme left are the totalitarians (Hitler and Stalin) who believe that government is the raison d'etre of human life and that everything must be subsumed in the state.

Most people fall somewhere in the middle of that spectrum.

In general parlance, a left-winger is one who favours government action as a first resort and a right-winger is someone who tends to favour a societal approach. In othr words leftists tend to favour equality as the basic measure of the success of political endeavour whilst rightists favour liberty. There are many intersections between these two concepts. Thus it takes a lot of government action (through laws and courts) to ensure liberty and it takes some measure of personal freedom to ensure equality.Public transport is State resopnsibility.Actually the best way to deal with the 'problem' is to deal with another problem, the decline of fish stocks.  It seems that by dumping iron sulphate into the sea it is possible to increase fish stocks (through the growth of algae which feeed the fish) and sequester carbon dioxide at the same time (it remains in the residual part of the algae and sinks to the deep ocean floor). This has actually been done off the west coat of the US and proved a great success.

Of course the greens don't like it, mainly because they hate capitalism so much that they declare that making any profit out of saving the world is evil.

What is evil is the green toalitarian gits that infest this world.
Tu quoque, Sir Trent.  That is the name of the logical fallacy you commit in your reply to Zing.

The question for debate was whether the CO2 tax was effective in stopping AGW?

Whether direct action is any better is neither here nor there.

The funny thing is that direct action has always been the favoured method of getting rid of pollution before.I like your thinking, Zing.

I would like to add that the problem is that too many of our left-wing friends here take the macro view of everyhting.  I suppose it is their dna as leftists. To them the state is all and the people mere servants of the state.  Therefore they always have to be concerned about 'Australia' rather than Australians.

In other words they want things done now that will affect everyone and show immeidate results.  They never take the long view or consider whether there will unintended consequences.  Most of all they don't trust the random wisdom of the market.

The market has already worked out a great way to reduce CO2 in the atmosphere and making a profit at the same time. It involves fish farming in the oceans by putting nutrients into the sea to encourage the growth of algae to feed fish.  But the Greens hate the idea, because it isn't 'non-proit'

The left's hatred of the market and love for totalitarianism is why we cannot trust governments with this problem.I think you better go and read some epistemology textbooks and learn about the definition of 'science.'  I suspect you think that it's all about men with white coats who have degrees and write papers that are peer reviewed.

A lot of the things on your list were developed by people other than scientists.  Science is not a term of art.  it basically means knowledge that is regarded as somehow superior than other knowledge.  But you should never deny that someone who is not a 'scientist' cannot do something or think something scientific.

In other words don't succumb to an appeal to authority.I really despair of our education system and our media.  It seems that so many of our people Immediately assume that commercial transactions of all kinds are rip-offs. I wonder if this a case of projection. In other words, I often think that those who complain about 'the rich' 'morally evil' companies and the like would be very glad themselves to rip people off if they had the intelligence to be entrepreneurs rather than consumers.

I also despair at ordinary person's innocent faith that complex government regulations will fix a problem rather than creating more problems as everyone struggles to determine what the regulations mean and how they apply. A whole new industry then springs up as businesses then try to make their businesses comply with the law.  That is the way then to ensure that morility gets forgotten. It is the same in government when targets are set and employees then aim for the targets rather than supply the service. Put gurneys in corridors of hospitals and you can say you've met the target of creating more hospital beds.

Too much law is bad for morality. Or as the Godd Book says "the strength of sin is the law."Maybe the people don't care. To most of us government and politics really don't matter that much. Society funstions without constant action by governments.  I bet that if you asked a lot of people they'd be happy for the parliament to take a year off.No new laws for a year. No more boring opinions dressed up as news in our lefty newspapers. Wouldn't it be wonderful.

Society can get on without politics.The real answer is to reduce the size and importance of government.

The bigger government is the bigger the opportunities for rent-seeking (eg our friends in the 'renewable" power industry) or corruption.Your faith in education is touching.

I deal with many highly educated people on a daily basis. They pretty much all believe in small strong government as the best means for allowing socity to thrive and to stop the opportunities for rent seeking and corruption.I think the political donation problem can be fixed far more easily than banning certain donors.  Make it so the maximu donation that any person or entity (including trades unions) can give to a party is $500 in one year. 

Parties would then have to go out and get mebers and would also have to ensure they are more braod church in order to get enough money in the door.

The taxpayer should not pay one cent to the parties.Actually the hottest temperatures were in the 1930s.  The warmists have had to admit this when it was realsied that alot of the data they were using was based oncomputer models and not real temperature measurements.

But the point is that every predicition by the "climate scientists" (whom the climategate emails have revealed are corrupt, grant-seeking and venal) has proved to be false.  There have beeen no increases in hurricanesdroughts or other natural phenomenon of recent years. Yet the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere has grown exponentially.The author of this piece wouldn't be out of place in Queen Victoria's time.  The only real difference is the Victorains banned smut because it was obscene, our modern day folk-marxists want to ban smut because it 'demeans women.'

I actually agree with the Vioctorians rather than the folk-marxists who are so hung-up and weird that they see oppression in every human relationship. 

Of course, the folk-marxists way of dealing with any perceived hurt to one of their favoured victim groups is immediately to call for the giovernment to step in and ban something they don't like. Then they will ask the Government for money to pay for child-care, then housing, then food.  hey, why not let the government provide everything for us?

Is there seriously anyone out there who thinks the messages on the Wicked vans are serious injunctions to hate women and girls? Of course not.  the messages are rightly reviled as tasteless. They reflect badly on the wirtier not on anyone else.  If the aouthor is so incensed, start a public campaign and try to make Wicked see reason.  Don't get the government involved.

If it is OK to get the government to ban everything that annoys, then I suggest that it would be far more effective to ban the rubbish published by left-wing idiots who continually want to strip of us of our freedom.  let's strip them of their freedom for a while and see how they like it.

Sinistra delenda est!I had to laugh about the schools comment in your post.  After all the lefty teacher's unions have had control over the schools for years.  They have been indoctinating the chldren in leftist ideals since the 70s at least.  So one would think that the schools had nought to do with the victory of the Coalition in the last election.

It's funny, but I know a lot of very bright people.  Most of them are essentially unpolitical Coalition voters. my expereince is that those of second-rate intelligence who are not really as bright as they think are the ones who vote labor.I am always skeptical about such arguments as that. They are classic examples of what the ancients called sophistry. There is really no easilt proven causal link between a couple of offensive signs and the rape of women. Any such causal link could only be made on an argument from first principles.

On the other side of the coin I can bet that you would be against any censorship of rap lyrics were someone to argue that they lead to violence against women.  You would probably also be against the removal of sex scenes in films because they encourage a sex culture. 

In fact the arguments against rap and licentious movies probably have more merit (if any which I doubt) because those things are far more prevalent in our community than a few cheap campervans.

I think some people want thses slogans on vans banned more because they run against an argument that they thought had been won ages ago.  yes it wa and still is.  The argument will not be lost by being po faced and puritanical but by continuing to remind people how facile the slogans in question are.Actually Free speech does mean that you can yell fire in a crowded theatre, if there is a fire.Isn't it interesting.  Whenever PC types disagree with someone's views on a 'victim' group we here that the transgressor somehow 'fears' the victim group.  Maybe the Victim people just don't like certain  types of women and just very poor at explaining themselves.I agree 100% with your view, because you don't seem to want to involve the law.

However, in Britain you did wantto involve the law to stop fox hunting.  Interesting.JDD

I fear you are misunderstanding the argument here.  The doctrine of free speech just means that governments should not go around determining what people can't say. This doesn't mean that citizens can't ask other citizens not to say things that are offensive.

The whole argument on this issue is not whther the wicked van slogans are offensive, it is whether the full might of the law should be used to ban them.
Those in favour of using the law tell us that the slogans are a slippery slope to an environment where women are demeaned constantly and in danger of rape. We on the other side that any use of government power to ban speech that offends someone is a slippery slope to banning speech that the government doesn't like.That's a really silly argument.  You have no way of proving any such causal link.  Everywhere we go these days we are told that such violence is wrong.  Are you saying that seeing one van with a silly slogan on it is going to change community perceptions.


Our radio stations endlessly play rap songs with far worse lyrics than these slogans. Yet I bet you wouldn't call on the ABC to ban such 'music'.

We really have to stop pretending that things we don't like are going to corrupt society. The point is that what shapes society is mostly far too complex for us to fathom.TY,

I must pull you up here.

I think a lot of the problems you have in life are based on your failure to characterise things correctly.

Governments do not 'run the country.' Twenty three million Australians making myriads of decisions each and every day run the country.

The government runds some agencies and departments.  SOme of these are necessary, many are not.

The truth is that if Parliament didn't sit for a year and the government announced no new policies in that time, the country woulsd still go on running, probably a whole lot better than it does now. Politics is a stupid and wasteful distraction.  Let the public service go on and the courrts and the police keep doing there thing.  The Ministers could make the relvant approvals.  But the backbenchers should be left in their constituenciesit unravelled because all the old battles were fought and the work-place changed to make many of them irrelevant.

If John Howard hadn't given the unions a last hurrah with WorkChoices, then we would now be in 19th year of a Coalition Government.Let me explain to you how the law works.  Most of the time a person will think: "this is how I think the law applies here." If that person acts on that judgment and no-one challenges it, then in fact that is how the law works.  SOmetimes a person will be uncertain about the application of the law and will approach a lawyer for an opinion.  That lawyer will then look at the relevant statutes and court decisions and tell the client what, in the lawyer's opinion, a court would say if it looked at the matter. Finally a matter might go to court. In each of those situations unless the opinion is challenged (up to the decision of the highest court), then the law is settled. 
A lot of 'ordinary Australians' own bank shares.

The government isn't letting the banks rip off anybody.  The Howard government introduced all the licensing rules that keep the advisory sector in line.  These rules are not being repealed.  All the rules in the world cannot stop people from committing crimes.  Murder and theft have been illegal since time immemorial, but they still occur.Actually, I think there is a third alternative. The State exists to keep the peace among the population and give them the security to trade and do business. SOme people think that the State therefore can just keep on expanding until the people become its servant.  That is the view of many commneters here.  They always think of Australia as a country and take the macro view of everything.  Wheras those of us on the right take the view that the Country comes second to its individual citizens and their society.

The problem with your dichotomy is that it fails to take into account the dofference between government and society.

It is ironic that those who favour big government are often those who support those who give away government secrets. I suspect the reason is that they only care when the government in question is seen as right wing.  I wonder if our left wing friends would be so happy if a renegade tax officer started leaking information that showed that the ATO picked on right wing organisations as has occurred in the US..Well said said Terry

The irony of the left, who want ever bigger government control, trying to tell us that somehow it's awful of the government to spy on us is absolutely hilarious.Like all left-wingers you make a findamental error.  We on the right want smaller government, not weaker government.

If the government was smaller it would collect a lot less information about us, because it woulodn't need to do so.It would however, collect the intelligence it needs toprotect us, its most important function.

The argument against big government is twofold.  Firstly, big government tends to make the people servants of the state rather than the other way around. Secondly the more a government expands, the less efficient it risks inefficiency in its core duties.Lying to Congress isn't being traitorous. Many people over the years have lied to parliaments all over the world.  I suspect very few of them were guilty of treason because of that lie.

What was it that North was supposed to have done that made him guilty of treason?What unlawful activities were these?  Was anyone convicted of a crime?There you hit the paradox on the head.  If intelligence is to be successful it can't be made public.Conroy was communications minister and Brandis is Attorney General. You are comparing apples with oranges.

This is not an authoritarian measure.  What is the problem with punishing those who breach their obligation to keep official secrets?  If someone found out your bank account details in the course of working for the government and then gave those details to someone else, would you think it authoritarian if the leaker wer punished severely?Funny how Greg Barnes and all the left-wing commenters are suddenly against government interference when it comes to intelligence gathering.

I wonder if they ever think that if they weren't so busy all the time tlking up the importance of Government and how it should take over more and more areas of life with more and more regulation, then governments mightn't actually need to spy on p[eople so much.

The government that is big enough to give you everything you want is big enough to take everything you have.I agree with both you and Laura.  The problem is that those who want to be seen as tolerant and 'progressive' keep going on about homosexuality.

It is as if, those who support homosexuals have made a straw amn, somefigure who fears gays, and must continually be told that he is wrong.

Most people don't care if someone is straight or gay.  We should judge people on their characters, not their physical attributes.Refugee advocates are ready to assume that anyone who says he's a refugee must be counted as a refugee. That is clearly not the case. Thjerefore refugee advocates are either silly or nasty power seekers who hate the government more than they love the truth. I prefer to think that they are silly, because most bad outcomes are a result of cock-up and not conspiracy.The Pacific Solution worked perfectly well as a deterrent.  Don't lie to serve your argument.  Before Rudd dismantled the Howard government's solution, the boats had all but stopped.Mark

I repect your passion, but IO think you only tried to deflect APM's comment by attacking him using Bob Carr as a source.  Even if Bob Carr isn't particulalrly useful in this argument, it doesn't mean that APM's point is wrong.

You didn't in fact answer the main thrust of APM's argument, that the Tamils in question were in fact not refugees at all.  They have all admitted as much.

You are probably right that there are some true refugeesin the boats, but I suspect that the number of non-refugees is much higher.  How do we tell when the boat people throw away their identity papers?SoO the Greens don't support the return of those who afrter screening are found not to be refugees?Sorry Skeleton but the costs of letting everyone in who can get here and 'precessing' them here will also be mammoth, especially in the endless welfare that the refugee advocates would insist on being paid.  Once the boats have stopped for long enough there will be no people in the detention centres and there qon't be much need for ADF action.  Therefore the costs of the Coalition's policies will dwindle away.  Not so for the welfare and other costs incurred if we just leat eveyone in.  There would be thousands and thousands of people if it became known in people smuggler networks that Australia is a soft touch.  We will aslo ahve to spend more on the adf patrolling to help the boats reach Australian ports.

Why is it that you can't see that?Australians are not creamed by capitalism.  Actually cpaitalism has been the thing that has given us the wonderful standard of living we now enjoy.  Just think, a hundred years ago most of us would be living in poverty. 

The problem is that there is something in the human psyche that can't stand success or well-being.  Hence immediately that we do have a reasonably successful society out come the whingers who seem to have been fed on the zero sum fallacy for so long that it just comes naturally to them.  For them no profit is legitimate and no transaction isn't a riip-off.

let me explain something to you, life is a difficult business that requires you to have your wits about you at all times. In days gone by that meant staying alert so that you weren't eaten by a wild beast or the next tribe.  Now it means ensuring that you make the right choices after careful consideration. The concommitatn thing in business is to try to sell for the lowest price you can because you can then get more business.I think we have to be careful here.

mr Kohler has become completely emotional and very silly in this article.

For a start if someone is buying a unit in a retirement viallge they have to use a solicitor to do the conyenacing and that solicitor would give advice on the contract.

Also, I wonder what regulation Alan would have?

Obviously the problems he claims to see are not 'rorts.' If they were then someone would have brought a case against a retirment village operator for flase and muisleading conduct in respect of making the various charges over which Alan complains.

The service fee pays for revenue expenses of the operator and the DNF for capital expenses. Both leave a profit for the operator.  So it is possible for both types of charge to pay for the same thing, but one for longer term costs than the other.

I think people like Alan, and many silly left Drum commenters, seem to think that somehow the profits in any transaction have to be 'fair' and thereby limited by the government.

In my industry there are lawyers who charge $10,000 a day and others who charge much less. It is possible that the quality of the service you receive from a $100 hour lawyer running a slip and fall action will be as good as that you receive from a  $1000 per hour QC running a complex tax matter, but do you really believe that the Government somehow has to regulate the QC's fees because somehow the fact that the QC makes a large profit after paying expenses is somehow immoral?Very interesting article.

I hope we get to hear more from Mr Robinson.  He certainly has lot to tell us about the American political scene.Who can forget the promotion of the prize idiot Obama to the Whitehouse.  The man had no experience at all worth noting.  He has done nothing to make America better but a whole lot to make it worse, including pushing the IRS to target political enemies of the regime. and health insurance system that is so complex and daft that even those who wrote it don't understand it.

Oh, and I did I mention the Fast and Furious scandal or the diminution of America's standing abroad or the illegal migrant invasion of minors that is now going on.  Oh yes, and the debt is so big that it can't ever be paid off.I understand that the amount of documented people arriving by air who are make successful asylum claims is very low.I'm sorry but the presumption of innocence is irrelevant here. This is a summary offence.  In other words, if you don't have any identity documents you have committed an unlawful act (not necessaily a crime).

There are many such summary offences on the statute book, eg speeding fines. You can elect to go to court when you get a speeding fine, but you have to prove that the camera was wrong.I care absolutely nothing for football, ven more so the Melbourne variety.  However, I found this article really fascinating and useful, because Dr McLeod put the problems of the AFL in a broader context. 

Too many choices and too much uncertainty are problems in all sorts of fileds and endeavours.

However, another problem is lack of flexibility so that workers for large organisations or bureaucracies can try and fit evry situation into a simple set of prameters, and if they can't be done they will do nothing.I believe that Association Football could learn one thing from AFL.  To stop the stupid penalty shoot out they could in stead decide drawn games on  corners. Each time one team conceeded a corner the other team would get a point. a goal (which is much harder to get in football) would be worth 10 points.They aren't tamils or asylum seekrs.The convention says that a person seeking asylum has to do it at the fist safe country they can reach.  India and Indonesia are much closer than Australia.  Therefore, by bypassing those countries Shri Lankan boat people are already outside the convention.  BTW, Australian law also says that it is unlwful to arrive in Australia without a visa.I think you will find that the regime that was mooted was not a self-governing one at all.  You see the problem is this.  OIf someone wanted to hobble any provider of goods and services, the best way to do it would be by getting all the suppliers of those goods and services to regulate their industry.  Straight away the bigger players woulkld make it harder for small entrants, but would also spend time fighting each other and dobbing each other in to the regulator.  The Regulator no doubt would be staffed by jobsworths who wanted to build an empire, because that kind of person always seems to get such positions.

Press freedom would therefore have been impinged.

BTW I suspect that the real 'racists' in Australia are those who call middle-of-the-road Australians like Andrew Bolt a racist. Real racists are the ones who in their small minds think that 'racism' lurks behind every remark and is somehow worse than murder or theft.  They are hung up on 'race' and see its presence everywhere as a divider of peoplle. That is real racism. It probably amounts to a hatred of your own culture.What a silly comment.  Stopping the boats obviously meant preventing them from getting to Australian territory.  There is no need for you to play a kindergarten-lvel game of semantics about the obvious.  Your logic is like that of the child who coiovering her eyes syas "I can't see you, so you can't see me."Don't be obtuse, lest we forget.  What Peter said was correct.  People don't borrow money to give it to charity.  They may have spare cash to give to chairty whilst they also have loans for other puposes, but that is no way the same as borrowing specifically to donate.Yes, the evil ones are the left-wing totalitarian types who want to flood Australia with 'refugees' no matter what the people say. 

The fact is that none of the people on the latest boat turned back were refugees.  They were all economic migrants.  Where does that leave your inept and fatuous argument?  Nowhere.

When the last Government tried to solve the problem, and failed miserably, I bet you were cheering them on all the way.  So you were happy to have camps at Manus Island.  You were happy for 100s to drown at sea.  Of course, that was a Labor government.  The fact that it was the worst government since Whitlam, if not the worst of all time, made no difference to you.  

You don't care about refugees, you care about  your side.Good point Grumpy.

I think the Greens, and many Labor people too, suffer from some kind of common sense bypass.

They seem to have this romantic notion that all asylum seekers on the boats heading for Australia, without question, are 'refugees' fleeing persecution.  To them that trumps all. It means that every asylum seeker must be given Australian residence at once with no delay. Wlefare must also be immediately provided.

My theoiry is that these Green/ALP people actually have a shortage of real compassion in their psyches. In their every day lifves they are rude and intolerant of those around them.  My experience has always been that people like this are Mrs Jellybys one and all.  Neglectful and mean to their kith and kin, they lavish enormous amounts of emotion on the 'other.' hence, they are also always bleating on about 'racism.'

The difference is that no one is going to let multinationals take resources without paying for them, whereas statist fools in the ALP and greens would happily grow government to a size that makes sure that none but multinational companies can survive.Of course the government cannot stop negative gearing directly. It can only do so by preventing the general income tax deduction from apply to interest paid on negativly geared loans.

Of course, that's really an interesting issue.  You see, it is not a case of dropping a special provsion in the legislation that gives negative gearers a tax deduction.  The government would have to write some very complex legisltion to achieve the aim Micahel Janda proposes. So you can imagine the confusion and the litigation that would result.  Already I rub my hands together with glee at the prospect.

There is a lot of talk in this article about how many people have investment properties, yet there is nothing that shows that all these investment properties are negatively geared.

In a proper tax regime capital gains are not taxed at all.  So the Michael Jandas of this world ought to be glad that even half of the capital gain from the sale of assets (only by individuals and tursts btw, not companies) is deemed to be income.  Comparing capital gains and income is a false dichotomy, as in all jurisdictions the two are regarded as completely different things.The Thin Cap and PSI rules are very complex and very inefficient.

There is plenty of tax litigation going on.  I work with it every day. 

Australia didn't have a CGT regime until 1985.  It didn't seem to distort our investments before then. 

Hopwever, my argument was that cpaital gains shouldn't be taxed as income.New Zealand doesn't tax capital gains.  Australia didn't tax capital gains until 1985.  The whole idea of income tax is that it is a tax on income, not on capital. Over the years before 1985, many cases were fought on the distinction between income and capital. 

In other jusrisdictions capital gains are taxed, but in a different manner, not uncomfortably deemed to be income, like they are hereAs someone who gets paid large sums to advise on tax, I can assure you that tweaking  section 8-1 of the ITAA 97 (not section 8 ) of the Act will not provide an easy method of preventing deductions being claimed on negatively geared properties. Having seen the Parliamentary draftsman's work over many years, I am certain that any removal of the ng deduction would involve many pages of amendments.

It has long been a principle of tax law that deductions do not have to match income. Thus if an entity has two divisions, one profitable and one not. There has always been the understanding that the company can claim deductions ofr the losses of one division against the income from the other.

To stop the ng deductions you would need to act against this principle.  You are therefore making the Act les simple and and less cohesive. 

If you must try and argue with adults, don't try to be offensive, it only makes you look small and insignificant.
Terra nullius was a doctrine invented by a left-wing historian in the 70s. The British never used the term.

What the British found were tribes of warring stone-age primitives who had no recognised sovereign or system of land ownership. At that time the British did not recognise customary use title, as the High Court later did. Therefore, as far as the British were concerned they were not invading but occupying. It followed that when the High Court was asked to look at one of the few situations where a specific group of Aboriginal people actually occupied a small piece of land (an island) it could see that the British understanding in 1788 was not correct in that situation, or that, more properly, the Crown had done nothing to alienate the land in question that overcame the use by the Aboriginal holders. 

Mainland Native Title is a completely statute driven creature, developed by Parliament after Mabo.Two things. Firstly,  Australia really has subjects rather than citizens. Secondly, Abiorigines were subjects of the Crown from 1788. The 1967 referendum did not make Aborigines citizens, nor did it give them the vote.  Those things were already in being. The 1967 referendum gave the Commonwealth power to deal with Aboriginal problems, ie.e it menat that the Constituion recognised Aborigines.I have to admit that Henry Reynolds is not a historian in whom I have much trust.  Keith Windshuttle showed quite convicingly that Reynolds and his fellow leftist historians care more for their own agenda than for impartial history. Thus Reynolds has 'form' on aboriginal history.

In any case, it is not usual for war memorials to 

Only a complete idiot would believe that it wasn't in Australia's interest to fight in the Great War.  If Germany dominated  Europe, then Australia's mother country would have been in peril and therefore so would we.  Only those ignorant of Australian history try to pretend that as of 1901 Australia was automatically fully independent form Britain. I would recommend the author of this article read Gavin SOuter's 'The Lion and the Kangaroo' which deals with the relationship between Australia and Briotain in the years after Federation. As late as 1931, Joseph Lyons' winning electioneering slogan was "tune in with Britain, " a reference to the newly popular medium of wireless and the fact that Britain was already moving out of the Depression through adopting conservative economic policies of the kind Lyons thought Australia shouls adopt.Alwyas look to the past: The past being the days of socialism in the 20th centrury
Aristocratic: Being where the sons and daughters of unionists and ALP MPS get parliamentary seats
Religious: the new green religion of Climate Change
Authotitarian: try to regulate everyone and everything, especially the media.  If the latter criticises the ALP it must be punished.

Yep, your list really does describe the ALP!Steve

I was talking the other day to one of the Coalition's psephological experts.  From what I can see he knows exactly where the middle ground is .He can tell which street in which electorate is likely to consider important politically and will help the party draft its policies accordingly. He says that in the majority of cases the middle ground is very well catered for.  That is why the extremists on both sides are always so angry. That is why we get so much vitriol in political discourse.  After all if all the commentatpors started saying "everything is going swimmingly' there would be very few commentators after a while.  The media depends upon controversy (real or invented) to sell advertising. And let's face it, there are just a lot odf punters out there who follow politics like ohters follow sport, with passion and convicition.Jon Faine, Tim Dunlop, Jonathan Greene, Mungo McCallum, Peter Fitzsimons, Mike Carlton, every woman writer at Fairfax and most of the men too.  need I go on with the list.

Both sides are fairly represented in the ranting stakes.

The whole point is that those paid to write about controversial subjects need to be good polemcists.  Just think how boring life would be if every opinion columnist sat on the fence every time.

In any case, we on the right believe that the bias is not a matter of opinistas, after all everybody knows that they are just spouting opinions. Who cares what Bolt or Dunlop say? No-one expects these writers to do anything but give their opinion. I suppose its like lietening to a friend down at the pub. No, for we on the right the real bias is in the presntation of the news where so often fact and opinion are blurred. Also there is the selection of stories.  For example why is the ABC running quiet on the Gillard slush fund affair which has been in front of the Royal Commission in recent times?Duniya

To which law do you refer?

The ADF has of course its own rules and regulations of conduct.  As far as I am aware, the Government has never and would never call a Royal Commission into the breach of those rules and regulations. 

I doubt whether the ADF would have broken any other Australian laws in carrying out its tasks.

So really you are guilty of what the author of this article is discussiong, i.e. unthinking rabid partisanship.This is a very interesting article.  Of course many of the commenters here immediately prove the author correct by making extreme comments about the Government or Opposition.

Over the last 50 years the practice of politicis has become far more complex than it was. The main reason for this is that government, at the behest of the voters and due to its own volition, has grown enormously.

People on both sides faced with the monolith that is now government naturally become extremely agitated if their team is not in power. Allied to this is the fact that we have all been led to believe in the last 50 years that governments can somehow solve all our problems. 

Personally I think the best way of destroying the extremist rhetoric and abuse caused by politics is to reduce the importance of politics. The people should start arguing that political fixes are not magic solutions, and that in most cases the solutions rest with the people and not the politicians.

Of course, this will never happen, because since time immemorial there have been plenty of loud people who think that politics is actually more important than anything else.  However, the rest of us can joyfully ignore all the blather or continue to watch on like me with wry amusement.Nova

Royal Commissions are not held just to inform the world of legal terms of contracts that one side might find objectionable.  It may very well cost primary producers the amounts yo say to deal with Woolworths, but unless they take Woolworths to court and prove that the costs are not legal, then I don't see what puprose a RC would serve.

I think the problem we have is that too many people have no idea how business works.  So they then become suspicious of all business."that would have been" 

In other words the talks were not detrimental to ISPs and their customers.  If that is the case, then it doesn't matter if iinet walked out or not.Actually the main laws on Financial Planning were introduced by Howard and Costello.I have to admit that I keep on thinking of the cases in the US where everybody was convinced that childcare centre operators and staff were guilty of child abuse.  It turned out of course that the verdicts were all unsafe, because the judges and juries had been hoodwinked by 'experts,' over zealous DAs and their own ability to believe the worst of people. 

From what I can see the evidence against Harris was no coroborrated by anyone other than the vicitim. The events in question occurred 30 years or more ago. In such situations it is very difficult for a defendant to get a fair trial.  The witness behind the creen might have told a very harrowing story, but how does a jury know that it is true, byond a reasonable doubt. 

I think that this case is another one where the accused should have anonymity until afterall avenues of appeal are exhausted. It's funny how victims can have such anonymity, even if it turns out they are lying, but accused have to put up with the media circus.  This I think is bound to prejudice any trial.Bogans vote Labor. All the classy areas vote Liberal. 

I'm sorry but you can't change the facts.  In every electorate, the better off and less bogan the area the higher the Liberal vote.I notice that the left-wing commentators are the ones who look down on 'bogans.' My theory is that such commentators are really scared they will be taken for bogans themselves. 

The real upper classes don't worry about looking down on people.  It isn't necessary.Bogans are mostly Labor voters, as they live in mostly Labor electorates in the West of Sydney and Melbourne.  They are certain;ly not right wing.  They are like Pauline Hanson, those who want the country to be run on a left wing basis but for their benefit.Well said Lord E.

My wife has a similar history to yours. After living half her life as an Eastern Suburbs mwife, she is now regarded as 'one of us' by all my friends.  That is the real joy of Australia. Anyone, can with money brains or talent move up in the social world within one generation.Bodin is right.  As someone who sits on a few charitable boards, I can say that the ATO used to check epopel all the time.  We don't need another silly bunch of non-productive bureaucrats getting paid out of our money to do what the ATO does anyway.As a real taxation expert (ie one who gets paid large sumes by people to advise on tax affairs, I can explain that this is a terrible regulator widely hated throughout the community. 

The reason is that it is so unnecessary.  The ACNC was a typical ALP bureacratic answer to a question that didn't exist. It added a huge tax-sucking bureacracy of middle ranking public servants on cushy little earners so as to annoy people trying to run charities.  

the only real need for Government involvement in charities is to administer the deductible goft receipient staus of these bodies. 

If a charity is no longer active it is no longer claiming any tax concessions.  There is a far simpler weay of checking, just use the ATO computer to check if anyone has acliamed a deduction for a donation to a charity. If it is then the charity is operative and can be examined by the ATO. If it hasn't received a donation in a year it should beasked to show cayuse why it shouldn't lose DGR status.

Charities don't pay income tax, but if they are no longer operating they wouldn't pay any tax anyway.  Once again, you could solve the problem by getting charities to lodge yearly returns with the ATO merely as reporting mechanism. If you must register charities you could then give them a TFN.

All of this doesn't include other non-profits which often have to get approval from other areas of Federal Government that the ATO before getting DGR status.

The whole point is that the ATO could do all of the things required without the need for a whole separate body and more red tape.Jack

You are right, except I think we should make it clear that the term 'intelligentsia' doesn't dentote that those whom it describes are intelligent.  My expereince is that in fact that most members of the 'intelligentsia' have very closed minds and accept all the left wing pieties more because they are fashionable and/or easy.  

With the greatest possible respect, yank, I have to pull you up on the hyperbole and utter stupidity of that post.

In two years time, when the economy is going well again, uneployment is down and wages are back up to Howard levels, we will all remember the fact that the ALP and green supporters were such animals that they couldn't put up with democracy. We will recall the utter shambles of Rudd/Gillard and realise that it is all part of Labor's DNA.  Labor is useless.  it always was and always will be. There was only one Labor Government that was any good, for about 2 years, and with bipartisan support, and that was Hawke's first.  Other than that Labor has delivered so many awful governemtns at Commonwealth and State level.

The reason is simple, the workers aren't up to running things and left wing philosophy is wrong.I find it really amusing that with our extensive public education systems, the wonderful resource that is the internet and the media, there are people who can still believe the sort of things that you write.

I suspect it is just ignorance of the lives of those who live  in the 'leafy suburbs.' 

Maybe it will be best if I explain just one fact to you.  The wealthy don't 'get paid' they make money.  In other words, they are not like a wage earner who goes to work and then goes home and gets paid a fixed wage.  Mostly they venture in trade and commerce and build up businesses from which they derive income. So you see why they are a bit protective of their wealth.  It is because they generated it not by just turning up at a workplace and doing as little as possible whilst whinging about the boss.Explain to me how anyone can get a tax deduction for childcare costs. 

Entertainment is not deductible, nor are meals.

Clothing is only deductible for lower class workers, not for we who wear Armani and tailored suits.

The little people hardly pay any tax whatsoever.  

I pay more tax  than the income of an average family. Most of my family and friends are in the same boat.  We don't complain about it.  But what gets stuck in our throats is that some how we aren't paying enough so the likes of you who pay bugger all can complain.  

If you want the good things in life, go out and work for them.  Don't whinge about your betters.I agree 100%, Steve.

But I also think the Government should have nothing to do with childcare.

next we will have the government planning our exceise and supplying us with food and shelter.  hey, why not have the government come and flush the loo for us too?I will try one more time.

Is it better to be so 'compassionate' that thousands drown trying to get here?

Is it OK to welcome every asylum seeker with no ID?

If Australia is seen as a soft touch, won't we get millions coming here?

Australia is a long way from anywhere, so if someone is a real refugee, why doesn't he seek asylum at the first safe country to which he comse after fleeing his homeland?

Answer those questions cogently, withput veering of into irelevancies and I will admit that you may have a point with your faux compassion.  Until then I have to say that tjhe Australian voter has been right on this issue.The state of the economy, government services and fiscal rectitude, along with justice defence and all the opther areas that government has to deal with don't worry Mr Hughes, only this silly claptrap about some asylum seekers.  What a waste of space this man is.

But I do applaud the Drum for publishing this vanity piece of shallow writing.  It shows us all how silly and monomaniacal 'refugee' advocates can be.All this condemnation of Rolf Harris is going to look pretty silly if he wins an appeal against the convictions.

There is a big problem with child abuse claims.  In the US it was found that courts and juries were hoodwinked by 'experts' and prosecuters into believing all sorts of child abuse allegations that were completely false.  It took years for the real victims (those wronfully convicted) to get out of prison. 

I really don't like the tone of this article. It assumes that child abuse is more widespread than it is and enlarges the definition to include things that are not abuse, all based on an anecdate the author was told by her mother.  

And the US stayed in depression until 1941.  meanwhile in the UK and Australia, we had Tory governments which calmly and with too much stimulus gots us out the dpression by 1934. 

Rooseveldt was a really terrible President.  but he gave the have nots hope, even as he made things harder for them.  That is the same with mpost left-wing governments. They are very popular when they say they are going to give away lots of money, but somehow the money never seems to make thinks better.Poor old S.O. You just don't get it do you?

Come to Sydney and take a look at the skyline.  SInce last Septemebr, cranes have proliferated.  Construction is going on everywhere. My profession is now really busy with lots of mergers and acquisitions; a good sign that the economy is going well.  COnfidence is back.

As a friend of mine says: "today the government made 100 decisions that you and I know nothing about which made our lives better and slightly fewer that didn't. "

In 2004, the Howard government decided to help set up a tech company which helped invent a way in which mobile phones could access the internet more easily in Australia. They loaned the company $2m.  In a few years the company had succeeded briliantly and paid back the loan with interest. That decision which very few pwople knew about made lives better, because it helped to improve our communications infrastructure.

But I suggest that was also a decision of a government with an ethos of knowing what people to help and what buttons to push.  The current government has the same DNA. It was left a terrible legacy by the cretins of the ALP, but I think over the next two years we will see an improvement in the economy and in society.Don't be so depressed Yank.  Come to Sydney and see all the bustling economic activity as the number of cranes on the skyline continues to grow.  I have even noticed that mergers and acquisitions are really taking off since last September. 

Would you ban donations to Labor from the Unions?That's not a bad idea E vs L.

It is possible that some courses (eg Arts) need to be at university, but on the job training would be a good thing in most businesses and for most young people.

The scheme could be enlarged to allow those who aren't of an academic bent to be placed in employment after completing year 10.

 
Dr Johnson was right when he said: "depend upon it sir, when a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight it concentrates the mind wonderfully."

Stop worrying about what young people on the dole can't do and concentrate on what they can do. If they are serious about life, they will find the means to survive, just like we all do.  If you miollycoddle them, which society has done for some time now, you do create a climate of entitlement. 

As usual I would turn on its head the question that most statists ask:

Are you really sure that youth unemployment is high because there are no jobs, or could it be that there are no jobs because youth unemployment is high?

If the dole is available even the most enterprising young person's initiative is likely to be sapped.

In days of old the dole was known as unemployment insurance. In other words befor you got the dole you had to have been working and contributing to society before you were paid welfare.You label them bludgers because even if there were jobs, they wouldn't want one.Why not?

Or they could thumb a lift.  They could also club together with a few mates and get some kind of transport.

WHy are you so sure that Australian youth are such drips?

Why do you think that they shouldn't be allowed to use their initiative because you think a bit of hard work is too much to expect from our poor babies?The real idea behind work for the dole is just as much to make the dole recipents appreciate that they are being paid out of the public purse and therfore have to work for that money.Maybe your problem is that you are focussin on a 'job' rather than an income.

I speak as an employer here.

If someone comes to me and wants a job, iI would say no. At the moment my firm doesn't have any positions.

However, the other day a young lawyer came to me with a proposition that was based on the fact that he could earn me money by doing research for me. He reasoned that if I din't have to do research, I could be freed up to get more work  and thus earn more money. He gave me a detailed proposal which I reveiwed and accepted.

He now has a part-time job (all he wants while he does other things) that erans him a good pay.What I find amusing is the fact that the whingers have an automatic mindet that the Government must solve the problem.

They haven't looked at the issues.

The left wing worldview has always been that co-operation is the way to go.  Yet it would seem that the co-operation they teach their children is the sort of wishy-washy co-operation of getting together and whining.

Don't our schools teach our children about the different forms of associations and companies that people can form so as to get ahead?  Capitalism gave us that form of co-operation, so I suspect that our teachers, being public servants can't really tell our children about how real co-operative existence works.

It seems obvious to me that unemployed youth should be getting together into mutual self-help societies which can talk to employers or start micro-businesses.  Maybe some adults will have to be involved and even some union leaders too. The big thing of course is that such groups do not need to be political. 
You are probably right.  But the existence of WMDs isn't really the important issue that anti-war leftists try to make it out to be. When the war was declared, everybody in all major paties in the US, the UK, Australia and the rest of the Coalition were led to believe that the WMDs were there. They all thus agreed to go to war on that basis.

SoO the real issue is not whether the WMDs were there, but whether the executive government really made the decision to go to war because that they honestly thought the WMD were there.  This is an argument that some anti-war people don't want to have, because it is much hardeer to prove that intelligence agencies or political leaders were not acting in good faith than it is to prove that there were no WMDs found after the war had started.Right wiongers don't think there is any pr-democracy groups in Syria.  That is the preserve of lefties.Individuals can in fact excel by joining teams.

That is what capitalism is about. That's why the limited company was invented.

Sorry Lisa, but that is njot an example of tu quoque at all, because John wasn't accusing the Greens of wrongful actions, but of hypocrisy. Aslo he wasn't reponding to any criticism of a group or idea he supports.  Thus the two conditions of tu quoque really aren't there.

It would have been tu quoque if someone had said to John: "your ideals lead to polution." and he had responded: "you greens eat slime, so your ideas can't be any good"So both Wining Pom and Lisa failed to respond in any meaningful way to 52's very cogent comment.

The point is of course is that man is ingenious.  He will adapt to whatever is thrown at him by the world.  

The problem is that the scientists have yet to prove that the climactic catastrophes that follow warming of the atmosphere will happen. 

I note that the Austalian peak body of geologists has recently decided not to publish a view on climate change, because there was no consensus amongst its members as to the cause of the phenomenon.What a silly response.  The example given was meant to show that Autralia contributes such a small proportion of the CO2 in the atmoshere that any reduction by this country in its output of that lovley plant sustainer would not make much difference in the scheme of things.

Do keep up.But they didn't collect data.  It is coming out now that most of their 'science' was modelled on computer programs.

Recent actual data has confirmed that the hottest decade was the 1930s. That is probably why sceintists in the 70s were telling us all that the World was dangerously cooling (they used real data then too).

Some IPCC writers are now breaking ranks.

The problem is that science has been corrupted by big grants and scientists' need for validation and prestige.  This has happened countless times in the past, where scientists have fought for the orthodoxy for years after it was clear to a minority that the orthodox view was wrong. 

I am really amused at how left-wingers, who until 10 years agao thought along with their epistemological hero Feyeraband thought that 'science was accident, are now all enthusiastic believers in what they call 'the science' global warming because it gives their faded statist ideology a new lease of life.The funny thing is that we had a solution. Up to the 1970s, when leftist nosnsense was brought into our schools by a a melange of teachers' unions, academic fruitcakes and leftist bureaucrats, the school system was doing very well.  Enrollments in private schools were relativley low, children were well disciplined and the opportunity was there for clever children from less advantaged backgrounds to get a first class education by going to selective schools.

The fact is that following leftist fads, we threw away all that and have been in flux ever since.

That is why we have seen a growth in the number of pupils at private schools and the need for those schools to receive funds from the government.The problem is that political decisions need to be made politicians after taking advice from those they believe to be qualified to give that advice.  However, as far as education is concerned this is not limited to education academics (who after all have been spectactularly wrong in the past, just like academics in all disciplines), but also experts in adminstration and planning, actuaries and all other sorts of people.  Of course this means that som,ewhere along the line the 'pure' educational advice will not be followed, either because the funds aren't available or because another criteria is more important in samoe facte of the education system.

For example, education academics might determine that the best learning environment is a certain sort of room. It may turn out, though, that buiding experts will say that the kind of room in question have some inherent structural defects that will mean extra cost to fit in existing schools.  The acturries and the accountants will then come along and inform the Minister that there will not be enough fuinds or enough pupils in future years to justify the extra expense. The lawyers will also advice on the liability issue, given the weaker state of the structure of the rooms in question.

SO the minister shelves the plan, much to the disgust of the educational academics.Better unhindered religious and conservative indoctrination than leftist indoctrination.That's not really true. Back in the 10950s-70s Teachers were well respected pillars of society.  They were also paid quite well. However, when the teachers got more leftish in the 70s they started to lose respect. Also other professions started doing a lot better for their members.  That is when standards fell.

I rememebr that my father, a very wealthy businessman, included several state school teachers among his friends and acquaintancesin the late 60s and 70s. In contrast ,my social circle, in which business people and professionals form the core, state school teachers are absent. None of the school leavers I have known in the last 20 years have ever thought of becoming teachers. That is a sad thing.  We need people from all socio-economic backgrounds going into state schools. Our pupils need to have upper middle-class teachers just as much as teachers for other socio-economic groups.I wish to point out that you have said somehting very important.

Too oftern on this site people use league tables poorly. Let-wing commenters are usually worse in this regard, though we on the right do it too when it comes to education league tables.

The important thing is it doesn't really matter if one is at the bottom, if everybody is doing well.  This is the same in education as it is in measuring poverty.

Lefties bang on constantly about inequlity without realising that it matters not if people are unequal if the worst off are not living in absolute poverty.

It is the same in education comparisons.  What we should be measuring is absolute things not comparing our performance with other countries. If the best state scores 95% on a certain measure in education and Australia comes in at  26th place on 92. I don't see why we should be concerned, when anything above 50% is a great result. SImilalry we shouldn't be unhappy if we came 8th last time with 89% but came 26th this time with 

Is Country number 1 in that test really going to better than us because it has a slightly higher percentage than we do  of 10 years olds who can achieve some educational goal? 

Maybe the true test is actually of the best students.  Thus the real thing we should be worried about is the percentage of our student base that is in the top 10% of test reults. That top 10% can have an influence on a society.I agree. However, somewhere along the way, the teaching profession has lost most of the kudos it once enjoyed.  I don't think this is because of the work of the teachers themselves, so much as the actions of their union, left-wing academics, bureaucrats and politicians from both sides who change things too little and too often to make a difference.  Also, as you say, as more mothers enter the workforce, teachers are being seen more and more as part-time parents of their pupils.

Intersting how a lot of those changes were quite marginal.

Also interesting how you don't refer to academic results at all.

The problem with your trumpeted changes was that they were to everything but what educations is actually there to do, teach children to read, write and do sums, which leads to them being able to reason efficiently.

I too have been involved over 10 years in recruitng people, in this cas young lawyers.  I have seen a marked declinbe in the reasonining and communication skills amongst these graduates over the years.

Did you know that in Britain the literacy rate in school age children before compulsory education was establsihed and the late 1990s was about the same?  So much for the need of a state system.I often think that the 'outrage' in these affairs, or in any number of other media stories, is really anticipated rather than actual.  It's almost as if we just assume 'the public' will be outraged without actually letting them tell us that they are.

I saw a child fall over the other day.  it was really a minor tumble and she suffered no ill-effects.  After she realised she had fallen, I could see her stop for a split second before she realised that this was the sort of occasion when she had to cry.  Then the tears came.  I suspect this sort of thing is what goes on with so many public 'ourages.' SOme poor sod says something politically incorrect. The charitable thing would be to ignore it.  But the media, like that little child, has to think for a split second, and then make a story out of some rent-a-crowd community group being 'outraged.'

In many cases, the media and everyone else involved in a story will even gloss over who it is that is 'outraged' by the event in question. Thus it is here.  I get the impression that no-one is actually outraged by Carney's behaviour, but a whole of people think that some mythical silent majority will be outraged if something isng isn't done and some punishment meted out to the offending player.

And maybe that's just as well, or we'll be seeing water sports all over the place.You and I agree for once, yank.

However, I would qualify that by saying that for me the propaganda comes from the Fairfax papers, the ABC and the Guardian.  But at least we both realise that life itself is what affects our emotions.Great point, Robin.  The truth is that our 'friends' the journalists are always very keen on alarming us so that they can feel self-important.

I have largely given up watching the news or listening to it on radio or regularly reading the fauxfacts papers, because they are full of alarmist claptrap.

If I want to find out what is going on, I will read a cross section of reports from the internet.

The Spectator is a handy news source too.

But I find that one actually learns a lot more about the world by reading history, literature and philosophy. I should add too that a breeze through the comments on the Drum is also informative of the thinking of the leftish sort of person.And how much money does the union movement give to the Liberal Party?There's a simple way for you to fix the problem: become rich yourself.

You are obviously a talented person with lots of information as to how things work. Get out there and take a risk or two, start up a new business and after a few years you too will be well off.  It is pretty easy to do in this country.The 'common good' is a shallow dream od socialists and other naifs. 

The way society works is this: laws and customs are put in place so as to allow everyone to retain as much freedom as is consistent with public peace. 

This means that the talented or more motivated can succeed and the less motivated or less talentd do not.

The most dangerous thing is to attribute other people's success to corruption or skullduggery.  Once you fall for that trap, you will fall into the trap of thinking that the people should be made to serve the state rather than other way round.  Once too many people think that way, then our way of life will collapse under a burden of regulations and laws that will intrude into evry facet of life.The extremes were the disastrous policies of the last government. A Carobn tax that does nothing to reduce emissiopns that aren't really harmful anyway. That's an extreme policy.  Building school halls?  Commonwealth governments had never got involved in school construction in the past. So that program was extreme.

The regional cities plan that wasted hundreds of milions on pork-barrelling in marginal electorates, is another extreme program. The there was Plibersek's affordable housing scheme that blew $4B without any impact whatsoever. That too was extreme. And I shan't even mention the extreme attempt to stamp out fee speech by licensing journalists or the NBN debacle.

All Abbott did to get elected was to point out such silly and extreme policies of the Gillard GovernmentWon't it be wonderful when Australia becomes ungovernable?

Then we can all get on with our lives and stop worrying about politics and politicians. 

It is always amazing to me why so many people buy into the soap opera that is politics.  By giving it such importance you will the politicians on to interfere more and more in our lives.  And what good does a lot of this interference do?  Hardly any at all.

There was a time when government action was useful. But that time really has passed.

All we need now is administration.  That will go on whether we are 'ungovernable' or not.

As the great Tom Paine said: "Government is a necessary evil."That moderate leadership is all around you in society amongst business people, scientists, artists and all other soprts of people.

We don't governments to lead us, we need them to follow us.Preferential voting was put into place to ensure that the most popular ideas really did win and candidates with ideas that appeal to a minority didn't win on a split vote.

Think of a constituency where are three candidates of almost equal popularity. Two of them have similar policies and the third policies are totally different. Under a first past the post system the third candidate could win with 34% of the vote. Just under 2/3 of the voters would then not have endorsed the policies of the winner.

However, if the electors know that there will be in efeect an instantaneoud runoff election they can then at least be assured that it is more likely that the winner will espouse policy prescriptions broadly in favour amongst more than 50% of the voters.  This is because, a candidate tends to direct preferences (via how to vote cards) to other candidates in order of how close each other candidate is in political philosophy to the preference giver.Thinking is usually s outside the square because it's wrong.Where did Esteban mention the mining tax?

In any case you are wrong about mining companies.  First of all they do not use sweatshop labour.  People in the mining industry are paid well.

Secondly, miners pay royalties to the State governments, so they don't get the minerals for nothing.

Thirdly, a lot of the shareholders are in fact Australians so they pay tax on the dividends that the mining companies pay.

Company tax is but a downpayment of tax that is paid in the end by the shareholders of the companies.

Australia doesn't own the minerals each of the States does.I agree Mitor.

We need to hear ideas of all sorts.

But I bet a lot of lefties would shout down Andrew Bolt if he were to speak on a university campus somewhere.Two things

1. The authors' don't understand that prisons can be used for protective custody as well as for incarcerating those guilty of crimes;
 and

2.  Criiminal justice and mental health are both areas of State concern, not Federal responsibilities.  There is really little the Commonwealth can do.The demographic suicide of the West is a well-known phenomenon.  Russia will soon be a toothless tiger because it has stopped breeding. Japan is already seeing its population decline.

This of cousre will lead to a situation that with out immigration from inferior cultures the West won't be able to support its elderly.A very cogent summary.

The good news is that the left are also not particularly bright, so their attempts to hijack debate don't work a lot of the time.

In the end a conservative government will always do better than a left-wing government because the default position in life is conservative.To be fair, a Convention is a Treaty not a contract.At the moment it is clear that asylum seekers are being given a really easy time in getting into Australia by the Tribunal.  As they have usually no identification and there is no way to verify their claims of persecution, it is automatically assumed that they are telling the truth.

By placing a burden of proof on them, we are only asking for more evidence.  However, I suspect that the Tribunal will just agree with anything they say and wave them throiugh anyway.Clive

There were in fact 2 referenda held during the Great War that did not invovle changing the Constitution.

There is nothing in the Constitution that says a government can't hold a referendum on any point.  All it needs to do is pass enabling legislation to hold the referndum.  I think that we should have more referenda on important policy decisions.I think you have gone off on a bit of a tangent. International Conventions are useful in times of war for both sides, because it benefits them both.

However, the question here is whether a statute that is passed by Parliament can override a Convention signed by an Earlier Government. The latter is usually adopted into Australian law by Parliament when ratified by Parliament.  However, the current Parliament cannot be bound by past Parliaments.  Thus, unless the Convention provides that the Country cannot change the rules of immigration, then the current Parliament can pas a law that is inconsistent with the Convention, simply by saying that despite anything in the Convemtion, Australian law is now this.But Tim, you are assuming that all boat people are helpless refugees.

Therein lies your own racism and vileness. You assume that these poor little people must all be pathetic victims because they are of a different skin colour, and those of that clolour must always be victims and white people oppressors.  

The point is of course that only you and your fellow refugees think about race in connection with this matter.

The real racists are not we who wish the people smuggling to stop, but those  who want it to continue.It isn't compassionate to encourage people to take to the ocean with a leaky boat and die on the way ,as they did under Labor.

In a court the finder of fact will be certain that something will occur when the burden of proof has been met. In most civil cases that burden is on the balance of probabilities.  So once the certainty is over 50% the fact is held to be true.  It is therfore certain in the eyes of the law. It is certain absolutely. That is what Zing was 

That is the standard that Mr Morrison is trying place on refugees.And I have a right to expect the government to make moral decisions.  I think the current government has more morality that a hundred Labor governments of thugs and crims.The country will be a better place once the debt is reduced, the wages go back up to Howard levels and people relax after the silly Rudd/Gillard?Rudd years of incompetence and activity for the sake of it.I bet you are the kind of person who believes that 50 degrees C is twice as hot as 25 degrees C.

The 50% rule is a simple rule used in all civil court cases.  it just means that if you seek to prove a fact, that fact has to be more than likely to be tru than not. It is a balancing exercise, not a percentage exercise.  It hlieklihood of the fact occurring has to be more than 50% not the occurrence of the fact.But you are just assuming that everyone who claims to be a refugee is one.

I assume that a lot of them ar not.

My evidence is that real refugees would settle in the first available country they reached. There they could use the money they would otherwise have paid to people smugglers to make a good life, because that money will be worth more there.  Genuine refugees don't throw away their ID.That must be why we voted Keating out in the biggest landslide ever.  The howard Government was much better and Costello made mincemeat out of Keating in Parliament.I note that the article mentions that the trial went on for over 100 days and the evidence studied by the jury was voluminous.  Yet, our lefty, Murdoch-hatershere on the Drum can only determine that there must have been a miscarriage of justice if one of the minions of he that is the cynosure of evil was released.

The ignorance of the law is astounding. 

Wealth comes from adding value, from creating something that someone else wishes to purchase.

Where we create a society in which most people are told 'get a job' and all will be well, those jobs will soon run out because there are not enough entrepreneurs to create them. Rather than bleating on about sharing wealth, maybe we should be teaching our children about creating it. 

All of the whining lefties on this site are guilty of the worst sin that exists in the world today.  This sin is far worse than any bigotry. It is envy. 

You people don't want equality for any other reason than you are jealous of the wealthy.  

Guess what?  The economy isn't a zero sum game. Just becuase Gina Rinehart is wealthy it doesn't mean that any person is any poorer.All of that is just rubbish.

What the Coalition will do is make the conditions for the economy to improve. When it does all the 'disadvantaged' will be better off, because a rising tide floats all boats.

Your way leads to more and more people deciding they are 'disadvantaged' and expecting the government to look after them. That way we bredd a weak and stupid population. 

In the UK they made everyone who was on a disability pension go for a medical if they wanted to keep the pension. Guess what? 25% of claimants didn't bother and lost their pensions.

The biggest problem with welfare is that it needs to be targetted to the really disadvantaged but can't be if it is seen as an entitlement.

Personally I favour a far more generous old age pension with little if any dole or disability pension for anyone who is not profoundly disabled. No single mothers' payment should be made to anyone other than a widow.It must be wierd living in that alternative universe of yours where everything is so balck and white and facts are what you say they are.

The Abbott government is not one for extreme economic ideas.  The ALP is more extreme in its quest ofr 'equality' more not much.

The point is that the economy has slowly racheted to the stage where governments are spending too much. It is not extreme to want to cut that spending, but completely normal and mainstream. The problem is that in cutting that expenditure someone somewhere is going to get less than they received before.  So everyone affected is going to scream blue murder. 

It isn't a case of raing taxes on 'the rich".They pay most of the tax already.  We have a spending problem not a revenue problem.

The other day the Catallaxy website published a list of over 400 federal Government grants that are made to middle class academics and consultants for no real gain to the public weal whatever. Why do we need to spend over a billion dollars a year so the ABC can have a 24 hour news channel that hardly anyone watches? 

In fact what we need to do is cut tax rates.  We would probably get more income that way, as the economy would thrive. 

The French just increased the tax rates on high incomes and lost most of their wealthy citizens to other regimes.

Why should I pay more tax, if the government is already wasting what I pay now.Do you really believe in the trickle down effect?

I seem to recall many left-wing commenters here pooh-poohing the idea that a strong economy will mean that everyone is well off, because the wealthy can then create more jobs.  But it seems that you are happy that if the government pays a lot of bludgers and rent seekers money, taken from me, then tthose rent seekers will somehow be able to afford to give me more back than was taken.  have you thought of the fact that on the way through a lot of my tax dollars get eaten up in administration costs?

The point is that the wealthy add value and thereby grow the economy if they are allowed to spend their own money.  That's because they will invest it in value adding ways.  Government transfer payments don't add value to the economy.You really shouldn't use examples when you don't know how the law works.
The  director on $180K may pay 30% of his or her income in tax, but then Mr Average earner, pays 15% or ven nothing, once rebates and family support payments are taken into account.

Remember too that a copnay has no tax-free threshhold, so it pays 30% on all its taxable income.

And when the Director gets the franked dividend, tax will have to be paid on it if the Director's income goes into a higher tax bracket.  In any case, the point is that due to the Director's work tax has been paid at 30% of the income generated by the Director in every year. If the Director was forced to take dividends each year, the overall tax paid over time would not be higher it would just be received more quickly.

In any case, $180,000 isn't really enough for a person of standing to live on at a decent standard. I suspect that the Director would prefer to tak a higher salary. Of course he/she may want to use retained profits to build the company and employ more people, so than when the time does come to retire, the dividends will be even greater.
Company Director will need to live in a good neighbourhood, will have to pay for private school fees, will go to good restaurants and the opera. Also A company director would probably take the family on overseas holidays once a year.

These are the sort of expenses that people have to incur if they wish to be one of the in crowd. Societal pressure will alos require a european car and designer label clothes and other expensive goods.

So yes Campany Director does spend three times as much as you.But Australians at the other end will always be doing it tough.  The current government isn't making it harder for them. What makes things harder for them is the sort of left-wing policies that Labor favours.  Leave the market to thrive and you will achive a bigger pie.  A bigger pie means that everyone's slice can be larger.

Under Howard wages rose much more than under Labor, and pensions too.  The Howard government got more revenue, not because it 'squeezed the rich' but because it let the reasonably off feel comfortable making money.You forgot some

7. Curtail all freedom of speech and association;
8. pass a law that every citizen is a servant of the state and has no individual value apart from the state;
9. Nationalise all industry
10. watch the world collapse into ruinGraeski

There is a lot to what you say. A lot of low skilled jobs have gone.

But maybe what we are doing is looking at things the wrong way by focusing on 'employment.'

'Employment' envisages drone-like creatures who think of a wage first and don't really care about the job. Any job will do as long as a wage is paid. I would tell the youth of to escape that mindset. The real question in life is trying to find a way to support yourself by doing something that you like doing.  Young people need to be taught that being entrepreneurial extends to realising that we all have to sell ourselves. For too many years now, our lefty teachers and pundits have cavilled against capitalism and particulalrly commerce (this is a twisted perversion of the old upper class disdain for 'trade') .  SO many of our children come out of school thinking that 'employment' just means rolling up to a 'boss' getting a job because you have a qualification and then having that job for as long as you want, without really doing it particularly well. 

That is aided by Governments creating many rules and regualtions holding young people back, most notably the minimum wage.Super

I think you need to look at things from a different, broader perspective.

Firstly, it is really the job of Government to defend the nation from external threat, try to get our traders fair treatment in other countries, keep the peace and uphold the rights of property. That's what law and policy should be all about.  However, since WW2 governments have tried to do a lot of other things too. I think this results from the fact that governments need to keep justifying themselves.  

Society can regulate itself.  The more you expect government to change society, the more you render people incapable of understanding that they can change society themselves. Government, at best can follow societal change, but it really should avoid being the instigator of it in most if not all circumstances.

Have you ever thought that it might be statist intervention in the market that has caused youth unemploymnet?  Things like the minimum wage, industrial relations laws that favour unions, and left-wing education that does its best to sneer at trade and commerce.

Deregulation has led to a strong economy. I can see no evidence that it has caused youth any problems. Regulation has done far more harm. And the fact is that government has grown over the last 6 years. Therefore regulation has grown.There is the killer of youth employment.

The problem is revelaed in your own argument.

It is all well and good saying that big companies are OK.  That is because they can afford all the red tape, and in fact applaud it, because it keeps smmnaller competitors out of the market.

The law is not static in this area.  Nor is it actually reflective of justice. It can and should be changed so that small businesses have to go through a lot less red tape.

It has always seemed unfair to me that an employee can resign for any reason and just give notice, whereas an employer is expected to only dismiss for a cause.I respect your point of view, but I think you need to think a bit more deeply on this issue.  Like many people you take the emotive master/servant approach to employment.  You forget that the employment relationship is a contract just  like any other.  The employee has no natural right to a job, nor to any term or condition to be included in the contract.  It is all a matter of law and negotiation.  

People who use the arguments you do almost seem to think of a job as some kind of property of the employee that is inherent in the mere fact that he or she wants an income.

But I suppose that comes from a very confused discopurse of 'rights' put forward by the unions over the years. They have spoken about workers' rights for so long that people have forgotten that these rights are rooted in legislation and are not natural or God-given rights at all.

You also forget that the worker can always resign on a whim, but you deny the employer the right to terminate the contract on a whim."We want well paid citizens"

What a strange comment.  Surely waht 'we' want is a good market in which people are paid what the market deems they are worth.  I suppose you could then say that in such an econmoy everyone is well paid because they get what the market justifies.Rusty

I think you need to learn a bit more about the workings of business and commerce.  Firstly, in private enterprise there is no upper limit on what an employer can pay an employee.  It is purely a matter between the employer and the employee.  Secondly, there is no law that says a senior executive can't have a bigger pay rise than other staff.Due process is something that applies in legal dispute, not in a contractual issue between an employee and employer.  

There should be no such thing as 'unfair dismissal.' 

The problem is that by using the word 'unfair' we bring emotion into what should be a mere contractual dispute.

I suppose it would be better to call it an unlawful dismissal or a dismissal without proper cause.  Because what is happening is that a dismissal that has been done is contrary to the terms of the emplyment contract as extended by various legisaltion and regulation.

Having said that, it is OK for an employee in most cases to resign for any reason, as long as the appropriate notice is given.  I can't see why an employer should also not be able to terminate the employment contract for any reason or none.What a strange world you must live in.

Of course there are good and bad businesses.  Businesses are run by humans and humans make errors.  However, that doesn't mean that somehow, workers have a natural God-given right to have a marvellous boss.  

Too many people in this debate lose track of the poit that an employment relationship is really only a contractual one.  One person agrees to supply labour to another in return for payment. Of course it is in the interest of both that this relationship continues for as long as possible.  But there should be no legal compunction for the boss to be a great manager or the worker to be a great employee.  We all just rub along and do the best we can.Why should any worker have security?

The only reason I can see is that a secure worker is more likely to give his/her best to the employer.

Unfortunatley too many people try to make the argument an emotive one by trying to make it one about 'rights' rather than about common sense and commerce.

I suspect this is soo because too many people seem to have been taught that employees don't have to concern themselves with commercial reality.  Government legislation has followed that line of reasoning and now made it worse.  So we have a whole swathe of the population that just can't grasp commercial reality at all and think that the boss owes them a job for life with high wages.Unemployment was actually much lower during the Howard years when all those free trade agreements started happening in earnest.

In actual fact most of us are doing far better than we did in years past.  But too many people seem to delight in be miserablists.

Well said HaroldHopes!

You at least, unlike a lot of the whining lefties here have worked out that envy is a sin that is best left to fools.Who is 'we?'  You don't pay CEOs anything.  Neither do any of us here.  Each private company makes up its own mind what it pays its employees.  This whole idea that Australia is like one giant macine that can be tinkered with to suit the will of a whole lot whinging lefties really becomes so annoying.

Why don't you go out there and become a CEO?  Get off your fundament and add some value.  If these CEOs are so hopless as you imply, then it should be easy for a bright person like you to get out there and lead a company.I think it's because the general populace has been distracted by too much government interference in our lives.  We have become lazy and leave things to government.  We have therefore failed to recall thatcommerical rality is all about profit not about wages.

left-wing education has meant that too many kids don't understand the facts of commercial life.  Left-wing social policy has also hastened social breakdown and , by irony, a collapse of community.What a load of rubbish.

The country is now doing well again.

Business is now growing and construction in the cities is growing apace.

I suspect that what a lot of people here complain about is that they aren't doing so well.  They of course don't want to blame themselves for that, so they blame the government, the CEOs or the banks for their plight.

Australia was being strangled by the overactive ALP government that had no idea about how business and commerce work.  But now the adults are back in charge things will continue to improve, as they did under Howard.  I recall al the same whingers complaining then, yet wages rose under Howard far mnore than they did under those who came before or after him.  

If yoou sit around awaiting the government or anyone else to make your life better you will wait a long time.

get out there and make a difference.

Why not get together with your neighbours and form a non-profit company to get a project done, or to make food more affordable for the poor where you live.  Stop being angry about life and have some ideas.  Fix that which you can fix and you will soon see that life is much better.Why are the left so obsessed with racism?

They hunt for it everywhere and draw the longest bows possible in this search for something with which to admonish their fellow Australians.

It doesn't matter.

Real racism is the kind you see in countries like malaysia where the government treats people differently depending on their race.

Individual racism is a social wrong, that is dealt with by society, as it was in this case.

I suggest the writer use his inestimable talents on real problems like the growth of government and regulation that is slowly killing civil society and ennervating our people so that they become dpendant zombies of the State.Democratic socialism is a contradiction in terms.  You can either be a democracy or a socialist polity, you can't be both.The only problem with your theory is this: most of the really bright people I know at some time in their lives realise just how little they know about the real essence of life.  Most of them become Christians. It is intellectual humility that usually marks a good brain.

It's funny how the atheits tell us that they reasoned out amorality that mostly coincides with the Judeo-Christian morality.  The rest of us did it all much more easily and accepted the fact that God created tha morality, then we resoned that it was good.Well said.  it is very amusing that those who tell us that religion is a fairy story not based in reason, do not make their attacks based on logic, but on emotion.Fraudulent lie, eh?  A bit of a tautology, surely?

But more seriously, the question is not whether the WMD were there, but whether those approving the invasion believed they were there.  There is no evidence I've heard of that states that they didn't hold this belief.  

It is highly likely that the intelligence services were wrong, but ist is really silly to blame the politicians for following the intelligence report.So in your world, everything is the West's fault. If an IS terrorist kils someone in cold blood, it's not the terrorist's fault but the West's.  What a morally bankrupt and thouroughly silly point of view.

That is my problem with the left all over, when it comes to causation they will try and make things as complex as possible, when it is simple to see that the perpertator of the crime is always top blame, and no-one else. But when some metal sophistication is necessary, the lefty will turn out the usual scatchprases about how evil Tony Abbott is.Mybe I should explain. Oh Lordy was saying that the West (through Sykes/Picot, of whom it is clear you've never heard) divided up the ME to get at the oil, using friendly dictators.

So Lordy and Lardy are agreeing with each other.

Better apoligise now Lardy.Very good post!

There seems to be no room on the left for any real argument or debate.  They can't bear the idea that somewhere someone might disagree with the party line.  The responses to you here have been very informative in this regard.  These people are convinced that their way is the truth and that it is nothing but evil to print anything that is contrary to their dogmatic understanding of the facts.


Of course under this lies a contempt for the reader.  It would seem that to yank, and his skivvy wearing mates,  we are all just dupes, whilst the lefties are all towers of intellect. Personally, I believe we are all fools, and that intelligence really has nothing to do with political leaning. 

I wonder if Fairfax and the ABC had an obvious proprietor, we aon the right would lambast that proprietor in the same way as the left demonises Rupert Murdoch.  I'm sure that they would.Nobody says there is no climate change. The climate changes continually, any reading of history will tell you that.  What I am skeptical about is the fact that we need to spend btrillions of dollars and have the government interfere in our lives on just about every level on the basis of a few predictions that have not come to pass.

A ,lot of dodgy people are getting rich out there on the basis of 'climate change.' The vested interests on that side are far more weighty than the skeptics.  yet it would seem that the skeptics are winning the debate.Could I dare to point out that what most of you think of as 'news' is probably political news?  May I then go on to suggest that political news isn't really that important?

That is not to say that political agistation is not important.  But getting obsessed with the news and slavsihly following politics is rather odd.
There are so many more things in life to enjoy.

Personally, I read the Spectatorand the UK Telegraph, mostly for the Arts and Books sections, as well as the columnists.  If I want to catch up with a particular political issue I read about it on all the websites I find across the internet. ALD is a very good place for that.  

But I get more out reading literature, philosophy and history than I get out of the news.  The problem with most news is that it is of the here and now and very rarely explains how we got to where we are now.

In this regard I challenge you all to stop worrying about current events for a week and get some deeper learning about the world via reading something a little deeper than a journalist's ramblings.  You will find that politics looks pretty unimportant after you wean yourself of it for a week or two.


As susual, you don't answer the question.

APM was right, there is no use in Government subsidising manufacturing if the unions use that subsidy to rort the system.  I would also add that there is no use in subsidising manufacturing unless you get the management of the company concerned to make things that people want to buy, both here and overseas.

The real battlers are not now unemployed, Alpo, they became unemployed under Labor.  There has been no real spike in unemployment since September last year.

Good post Mongo

I get the impression that the media spin has now become so fast and furious that both major parties have forgotten what they stand for.

Everyone is so scared of making a 'gaffe' or saying something that will upset the other side of politics, as interpreted by the media, that they can't connect with the voters like John Howard did.

I really wish Tony Abbott would acvtually be himself alot more.  When he talks like the person he really is (eg in relation to MH17) he shows that he is touch with Australians.  His constituency isn't the downtrodden but the Middle classes.  He needs to explain to them that government isn't about big schemes and giving out lots of goodies to everyone but about pleasing the markets and giving us infrastructure.

We also need to get people off welfare by getting the economy firing as well as did under John Howard.Surely the answer is to allow the child to know the donor's details but not his name.

I assume that when donations are taken, the donor has to fill in certain details about himself, ege heredity, etc.  That would be something that child needs to know in case of heridary diseases and other conditions.  However, I don't think it's necessary for a child to know the identity of the donor unless the donor wishes it to be known.So in two years time when the economy is firing well and things are under control, business isn't being frightened off by Labor's absurd policies of tax, borrow and spend on waste, we will enjoy seeing people like you tell us that you were wrong.

the problem for ALP supporters here seems to be that they are just so one-eyed and silly that they can't see what is actually going on.

I'll give you a tip: have a look at the Sydney skyline. There are masses of large projects going on.  Business is now waking again from its hibernation during the dead years of the GFC and the ALP mismanagement. Recovery comes from there, my friend, not from Governments spending lots of money on 'the poor.'In all this kerfuffle, no-one has actually proved Joe Hockey wrong.  it all depends upon what you call poor.  From what I can see ALP supporters and the usual lefty idiots like to think that 75% of the population are 'poor.'  Joe Hockey was probably thinking about the real poor.  

Unlike you lefties we on the right actually care about absolute poverty. You lefties, with you fixation on the sin of envy, are fixated on 'inequality.' the fuuny thing is that all of you have more goods and a vastly better lifestyle than your grandparents had.  yet you still hunger for more and want to take it from those who are better off.  Thee nnvy and greed of the left are very ugly and very evil. They caused more deaths in the 20th century than anything has ever done.  

If you can afford a car, then you are not poor.Two things.

Firstly, a commission would not have seen the witnesses and heard the case.  Only the judge has that experience.  It is a cardinal rule of law that the trial judge's views are treated with the utmost respect because only he or she had the opprtunity to hear all the evidence in the case and see witnesses testify in person. That is why Appeal judges are very careful about reversing the judgments of lower courts unless there is an error of law.

The second issue is that the Community is often ill-informed about crimina cases.  So basing snetences in indivual trials based upon 'community fexpectations' is a recipe for injustice.  Community expectations in this regard are that stiff sentences are given for serious crimes.  With one or two exceptions this is what happens.  On the day that we hear about one criminal getting a light sentence, 10 offendrs were given sentences about which we didin't hear because the media knew that there was no way of stirring up any controversy.Todd

Most Judges are very right wing, because they come from a legal profession that is also msotly right wing.

Mandatory sentencing is silly, because it doesn't allow the one person most familiar with the facts of the case, the Judge, to determine the sentence.  On;y the judge sees all the witneses and hears all the testimony and has the requioste legal knowledge to apply the sentencing to the facts.You were doing well until you got to trying to push all the blame on the conservative side of politics.  As the article note, the ALP is just as keen to make mielage out of the supposed problem.PaulT

I think you have misread Zing's argument. Zing is not advocating mandatory sentencing in that post, but merely postulating that a charge of murder could be brought against someone who throws a ounch with the intent to cause GBH and actually kills someone.

Those who control multi-national companies don't give a fig about how many people are prison.

The real question to ask is whether NSW has fewer crimes than Victoria because it is locking up more people. it could be that Victoria only incarcerates a person after 6 crimes are committed whilst NSW locks up offenders on the first offence. NSW would therefore have more prisoners but less crime.How many incidents have there been?  Not enough to justify twisting a fundamental principle of law.  In any case, I don't think that such mandatory sentencing has any deterrent effect on a drunken oaf.  

In any case, the rules are quite clear.  Most of these incidents would be clearly murder or manslaughter.  The penalties for those offences are rather stepp.  I don't see why one particular sort of murder/manslaughter shpould be regarded more serious by its very nature than another.  That is something for a judge, who has heard all the evidence to decide when sentencing a convicted person.One problem is that the people don't get to hear about the othre 10 cases decided on the same day as the one for which the pundits think a light sentence was given.  They also don't sit through the trial and hear all the evidence.  Most people get offended on the basis of a quick media report of the trial and a garbled knowledge of the facts gained from earlier new reports of the offence.

As Chris says, prosecutors can then get arounfd the mandatory sentence rules by changing the charge.

The law does need to be flexible so as to meet the many different circumstances that prevail in each crimnal act.  

The principal behind the introduction of of statutes is based on the same public misunderstanding or government idiocy.  A lot of the time it is better just to enforce the laws we have rather than invent new crimes.I think Jimmy is right. Mandatory sentencing is usually just a reaction to the community's confected anger at particular light sentences.

The community outrage is usually fueled by brief media reports that don't give the full story.  

I think too that many people fail to relise that a crime is prosecuted by the Crown as an offence against society, not against the victim.  The victim has a right of coutrrse to sue the criminal in a civil case. This does not happen often, because the victim usually cannot afford it and/or the criminal wouldn't be able to afford any monetary damges anyway.

When a criminal case is tried, the jury is tasked with deciding whether a certain crime was committed.  The feelings of the victim are not relevant to this investigation.  Whether the victim was an innocent babe or a hardened criminal is itrrelevant.  Society is punishing the crime, not compensating the victim.

When it comes to sentencing, the judge can take into account the impact on the victim.  But once again the system is there to punish the crime not to compensate the victim.

Brian, as a lawyer I agree with you 100%.

I consider that the increase in the size of government in recent decades has vastly dminished what Lord Moulton described as the "Third Demesne" that area of life between freedom of choice and the law where people knew that they  had to submit to community-based rules. 

A second consequence is a diminuition of the law.  This comes about by the existence of laws that merely mirror what civilised people should already know.  Section 18C of the RDA is the classic example of that.  In recent week we have seen several people receive well deserved public odium and disgrace because of racist remarks. Section 18C wasn't needed. In fact 18C is bad law because it tries to define something that really can't be defined, what is culpable discussion of race. 

A civilised society is one that needs few laws to police the morals and behaviour of its citizens.The answer is that young men are preternaturally violent, and alchol and other drugs fuel that violence.

In the old days, the boring old cult of respectability and Victorian moral code went a long way to supress that innate aggressiveness in young men..  Now that has gone and the thing that killed it off, political correctness, hasn't got anything to put in its place.The problem with protecting the low income recipients ( many of them don't earn anything) is where to put the cut off.  For example, if the dole is too high, then those who work at lower paying jobs would be worse off than those on Newstart. This would be a huge disincentive for people to obtian paid work.

It is probably best therefore to have a sliding scale.

Those under a certain amount of income would get a GST rebate of 100% and this would be reduced by 10% for every $10,000 of income over $35K.  But what if a low income recipient also supports a family.  There would need to be some kind of different scale for them.

So you see how a simple idea becomes incredibly complex and involves large amounts of bureaucracy to administer it.
I think your arguments have some merit.

However, if we got rid of middle class welfare by lowering middle class tax payments, then we wouldn't need to increase thehighest income tax rate.Yes Tony, that's what the Howard Government did when it brought in the GST, it raised all pensionsI agree with much of what you say.  However, I would suggest that it would be easier to implement your plan, if the profits of companies (other than listed companies) were taxed in the hands of the shareholders who are individuals.

That would encourage companies to take a longer term view and invest more of their profits in cap ex and business building. This in turn would lead to increased employment opportunities for those people who are not of a cpaitalistic bent and just want to earn money and go home.I think you have a need to think this through a bit more.

For a astart I don't know where you get the idea that any company pays less than 30% tax on its taxable income.

So talk of 14% is absolute rubbish.  Let me repat that in case the lefties don't understand it.  Any talk of a 14% being the rate of tax paid by mining companies is rubbish!!

All companies pay tax at the same rate.

What you aren't understanding i te difference between accounting profit (which is the profit that is reported to shareholders) and raxable income. I think you will find that for most businesses, the two are different.  The accounting profit is generally higher because it measures something quite different than taxable income.

Most of the big rail transport of ore in WA is done on private railways.  Also the miners pay charges for ports thruogh freight costs.I see your point LRO, but I still come back to the point that tax is 30% of taxable income, not any percentage of accounting profit.  

You might have a good argument that certain deductions and rebates are unfair because it means that certain company pay tax that is a lower of their accounting profit.  However, I think it is a nasty piece of rhetoric to make the staement that certain companies only pay tax at 14%.

But I keep comping back to the fact that company tax is levied on taxable income, not on profit. That profit will be returned as a dividend to shareholders.  If those shareholders are Australian then those dividends will form part of their assessable income and bear tax.  If the shareholders are foreign, then withholding tax will apply.I agree with you 100% Roger.  In centuries past people had the guts to revolt occasionally against high taxes and government spending.  These days we seem happy to be taxed into the ground.  Appointing a commission to do that would be tyranny.

We pay too much tax. The Government spends too much money.

We need a political party that will say that. 

A Commission could be useful, but it can only be a body tasked with making recommendations.  Only the elected politicians should have any right to impose taxation. They should not ever be allowed to delegate that right.

Australian education needs to be improved in that our children need to be taught civics and learn about the moral corruption that big government can cause in the community.You keep forgetting that the tax burden on the profits of companies doesn't fall only on comnpanies, but on their shareholders.  Using your figures, there were $86billion in profits that could have been used in the business in Austrlaia to fund further aqctivities (and all the jobs and economic activity that goes with them) or could have been paid as dividends  which income tax or withholding tax.I hope you realise that profit is not profit until expenses are removed from it.

Accounting profit is income less expenses calculated using the accounting standards. Tax is not paid on this, but on Taxable income which is calculated on the formula assessable income minus ddeductions. Tax is then reduced by certain rebates.  this is not the same process as calculating accounting profit.  That is because both are measuring different things.  Accounting profit is about measuring the success of the company and making returns to shareholders. Taxable profit is about paying tax.  Governments have always realised that these two are completely different, yet many people out there don't seem to able to understand this simple point.


The Deloitte figures are not source materials, they are based on other source materials. The best source materials are the accounts of the miners themselves and the various accounts of the various relevant government departments.I could see the professions and business grinding to a halt as we all left the country to avoid that silly regime.  I know that when you are nearer the bottom of the scale rather than nearer to the top you think that it is terribly unjust that people earn more than $150,000. But think of all the people who have wonderful jobs supplying the needs of the wealthy. Think of the art and archotecture commissioned by rich people, or charitable foundations and trusts, arts bodies and other non-profits that they establish.  

The point is that life isn't a zero sum game.  Just because the wealthy do well it doesn't mean the poor do badly.  Welath inequality is not important.  Those who think it is are stoking the fires of envy so as to become wealthy.  

I've got a better idea.  Whay doesn't tjhe government do what Warren Hrding did in the US, cut spending by 25%. Then we could cut taxes by at least 20% and be a whole lot better off.  Our people would also get back their independence and hardiness.

There are too many rent seekers hanging off the government teats.  The renewable enegy crooks are the classic example.  Billions get spent providing these people with easy profits whilst not actually producing anything of lasting value.The really greedy are those who can't seem to understand the principle that you don't have any right to money you didn't earn.

Those of us who do well are not holding on to our loot out of greed but out of revulsion at the greed of those who want to take it from us.  That greed can be either personal or on behalf of others.Self righteous calling for 'sharing' other people's money is a greed for the warm feeling of feeling superior.

once you recognise that the redistribution of welath is a favour done to the less well off by the better off, and are grateful to those of us who make the money that you want to take or give away, then we maybe able to talk.

However, all I ever see from leftists and ALP supporters here is the underlying assumption that somehow money and goods all belong to everyone, that the poor have some inherent right to the property of the rich and the rich are greedy if they do not acknowledge that right.  

I am not saying that it is not a good thing for the rich to be charitable.  However, wehn they do give to charity those to whom the give express some kind of gratitude. I never heard nyone here ever express any gratitutde to the well off for all the money theu give to the less well off through their taxes.But the greed is all on the part of those who want to take my money for themselves.  In other words the greedy ones are the low income earners who think that just because they earn less menas that they are automatically enetitled to some of my hard earned cash.No I mean those who use the government to get grants or monopolies. The renewable energy companies are the classic case.Rusty, just look up the Laffer curve on google.

It worked in Australia where the Howard Government also collected more tax after cutting tax rates.  The reason for the increase in revenue is that the economy is stimulated by lower rates.  people get to keep more of what they earn and so work harder. They ened up paying more to the governemtn but also take home more after tax too.

As for your comments about rises in banker's slary and the good fortune of the offspring of the son of the landowner, I can only say, sowhat? None of these people is taking the food out of anyone else's mouth.  On the contrary, I assume that they will pay more tax and give more to charitable causes than most.  They will in fact benefit the less well off.  Your problem is that you seem to think that all money is somehow really owned by the state and that if anyone has too much then someone else has too little.  But the economy is not a zero sum game.Bizbob

I don't suppose you have ever actually been to Catlereagh Street in Sydney or to Double Bay or Mosman. if you had, you would see shops full of excquisite luxury goods that cost a lot of money.  these goods are all made by craftsmen and women who take a lot of pride in them. Not only that these things represent the  pinncle of man's achievemnt.  Without wealth this would not be possible.  A lot of people undertaking noble trades and producing beautiful things would be out of a job if your horrible plan came into effect.  For even on $20K a year yake hom, a lot of us would not be able to afford the best things in life.

Nobody is going to bust a gut to earn a maximum annual take home pay of $250K.  If that were the limit, you would see the quality of life deteriorate, drankeness increase and people leave te country in droves in search of a better future.Projects wouldn't get started.  Life would become very drab drear.I've got a better idea, cut spending by 10% each year for at least 3 years.  The we won't need so much tax.  We can cut the tax rates and simplify things.

A top tax rate of 20% is perfectly adequate.  If we had such a rate alot more people would be earning large incomes.Countries don't have final destinations.

For ever governments have been striving to improve things. In some areas they have and others they haven't. However, I don't think we will ever see a stop to the constant fiddling by governments.   The governments and the media have too much of a vested interest in continually implementing new policies.

If truth be told, the parliament could take a year off and leave things to the public service and to the cabinet ministers.  I'm sure the country would be working perfectly well by the end of that time. 

Government and politics are  just show busiess for ugly people.SPITR

I am not arguing vested interest over a lack of contancy.  Both have a role to play.  We are all self interested and try to alter our environment to suit ourselves.  However, it seems to me that since governments became democratically elected things, they have encroached more and more on our lives to such an extent that without knowing it, they are now promoting a lot of change just for the sake of it.

And the more this goes on, the less society becomes able to police itself.But the whole point is that we could just hive off all government to 'independent' commissions to take out 'the politics.'  We would then end up with a technocratic tyranny.  What's worse we would have no say.

The whole point is that the government of the day needs to be accountable to the electorate. They are paid to govern.

In my opinion, this should make them cautious about doing too much. Unfortunately, the voters have voted themselves a largesse that is unaffordable. 

tee heeV

May I answer your last point.

the Lord mayor is not popular with those of us who spend mnore than a 3rd of our weekdays in the City and pay all the tax (and I'm an indivdual) without getting any representation.

The whole thing is that there are very few residents in the CBD which takes up a vast part of the area governned by the OCuncil.  So we in the CBD have to put up with the terrible policies of More and have no way of voting her out.  I think that the CBD is a completley different case to other electorates simply because even though a lot of people don't live there, they still spend much of their time there.

I think it would be best if all workers in the city had a vote.

BTW, why aren't collections of people entitled to the protections of democracy just as much as individuals?But we aren't being given a vote on what the Commission says.Actually we should all be striving to be good.  if we we each did that society would be just fine.Before we need tax reform we need spending reform.No. you need the rule of law and the sanctity of private property.

Income redistribution is not really a mark of civilisation but a mark of its decline.

In a truly great country, income redistribution isn't necessary, because the people can look after themselves.

here in Australia and in other countries we have now reached the stage where governments are just churning tax dollars.  They take it from you and then give it back to you, less the cost of a few useless public servants, in 'benefits.

The US was the most successful country the world has ever seen, and it's welfare was much lower.  Over the last 40-50 years that has changed and American has been in decline, until now when it is far more socialistic than any European country with massive bureaucracy that is all armed.  When every qango has a paramilitary force like they do in the US, then you know that country is being misgoverned into the ground.

A lot of lefties whine about Australia not going like the US.  I agree, but only because the US is where all these horrible left-wing PC ideas have come from.So  the rich are paying for the privilege of living in the society that they had the biggest hand in creating? Society created government, Alpo, noit the other wat round.

The poor get a lot out of that stable society too.  Yet they don't seem to have to pay so much as receive the benefits free and gratis.

I will tell you what is fair. What is fair is those who get welfare to be grateful for it and stop thinking that part what is mine is theirs just out of right.Explain to me what sort of legislation would have to be neacted to get rid of the deduction for negatively geared real property.

I can tell you that it would be very complex, because currently the deduction is claimed under the general deduction provision we all use to claim our work expenses.  

I suppose you would argue that a company that has 2 divisions, one of which is profitable and one of which is not, they shouldn't be able to write off the losses of one against the income earned in the other, because soemhow that is unfair to the competotors of the weaker division.

You see the negative gearing deduction is a natural part of our tax system.  if you are going to keep tweaking that system for evry little problem you will end up with something even more complex and unwieldy as we have now.Tough.  Why are people always whining about FHBs.  let them rent if they can't afford to buy.I think you have some real conceptual problems there.

Firstly there is no real 'national wealth' only the wealth of Australians, which is not something to share.

Bu the fact is that those 8 tax cuts caused the economy to grow thus ensuring that the welath of Austrlaians grew.  ABsolute poverty was dimiinsished too. Also the government actually collected more tax in real terms at the end of its term than it had before the tax cuts took place.Service delivery by whom?

If you are talking about government services, then the first question is whether the government needs to be the deliverer of so many services, and secondly you have to realise that the the discussion about service delivery has little to do with the the tax side of the equaltion. In fact the argument about the limits of government needs to be had miles before we get to taxation reform.

it could be that a thorough review of expenditure reveloas that the government needs a lot less to do more.  Then taxes can be cut.Banning political donations is very undemocratic.  People who want to help their preferred party should be able to give it money.

However, the answer to the problem of donations is simple: just limit political donations by any individual, company or union to $250 per year.  Of course those who cry out loud against donations never include the unions.  But it is clear that if the unions are allowed to have a political party at their beck and call, that is corrupt and evil.  

That will ensure that the parties do things that encouragea a lot of donors rather than just a few.

There should be no taxpayer funding.  In that way we just get the politicians doing what they want without any need to listen tto the voters.I think you mean the Whitlam years and then the Keating yearsThere are so many issues with your post that I don't know where to start.

First of all government does not equal society.

Second of all democracy isn't about sharing things, it is about electing a government to regulate the relationships between people in certain situations.

So it isn't the government's job to determine how society should work or how the fruits of free enterprise should be distributed.  The market does that. The government's job is to protect the market by imposing the rule of law, not by interfering in the market.I love the idea of the budget wearing a priest's surplice.

But seriously, I think you will find that the wealthy don't get many 'concessions' as far as tax is concerned. Those that they do get are a natural feature of the tax system and not soething given them by a kind government.

The deduction receiveable from negative gearing is a natural result of the tax system.  It would take a lot of complex legislation to remove the deduction only from those who claim it in relation to investment properties.  The whole point is that the tax system has always allowed people to claim the loss from one economic activity against the income from another. 

I agree with your wish to make MPs more accountable.

The best way to get Apple to pay more tax here is to drop our company tax rate to the same as Irelands.  We would then get lots of foreign companies washing their income through Australia and would pick up a whole lot more revnue as a result.

As for getting rid of Abboitt, you forget the last mob, who puit us into this massive debt and who had 6 years to do all those things you want and didn't do them.  SO they would hardly likely do them now, but would just keep spending til we wealthy people all moved to better countries and left all the welfare junkies to it.



Artful

The point is that politicians talk a lot about groth or jobs, but theese are really achieved by private enterprise.  

A well educated electorate should know that.  it should also know that governments are not the great cure-alls that many people seem to thjink they are.  SOciety can do quite well without governments interfering in so many aspects of life to justify their existence.What is a 'donator"?  Is it one of the Transformers or a new kind of car?  I think you mean 'donor.'If we are going to have an Independent Commission on tax, then we also need an Independent Commission on spending.

The whole cause of our problems in this country is governments buying votes or supporting their constituencies (eg business for the Coalition and the Unions for the ALP) through excessive spending.

Tax reform could mean huge tax cuts if governments could get spending under control.The best tax reform would be a massive reduction in tax rates. This would stimulate the economy much better than sthe government spending borrowed money on poorly aimed stimulus as the last lot did.

But the ALP people here are so hung up on 'equality' that they can't see that it doesn't matter if Gina Rinehart has 2 more corporate jets if the great mass of Australians do better under a flourishing private enterprise-driven economy.  

Governments cannot create wealth, they can merely redistribute it or at least create conditions in which private enterprise can create wealth.WHy will it be a great day when salries of CEOs, which is nobody's business but the shareholders' and the CEO, is lowered?

Are you just another envious lefty who can't bear to see anyone else succeed in life?  Don't worry, if they paid a CEO any less it woudn't benefit anyone else overly much.  So I have to assume that those here who constantly call for government action to reduce CEO pay are only acting out of envy.

Beware, if the government can reduce the pay of CEOs, then there would be nothing to stop them from reducing the payment of any employee.This article makes some good points.

However, I would say that City Councils are different to other electorates.

For many years I haave spent a thrid of my weekdays in the CBD in Sydney. WHat the Council does to those streets affects me a lot more than it does some president of Glebe who never comes into the City but tie dyes hippy skirts for sale in the local market.

That's the problem, those who use the City have no vote, whilst many of those who don't use the City doo have a vote that affects the City.

I would say that the CBD is too imoportant to be controlled by local government. It should be controlled by a special executive  voted in by all people who live, work or own property in the CBD.Interesting that Ms Firth doesn't mention the Gerrymander in South Australia. But of course that gives an advantage to the ALP.So when you get old and you have no children to look after you or care about you, will you depend on the State to care about your needs.

What a bleak vision.

ANd who sairs what's fair or what's a proper wage?

Stop thinking like a prole and join the value adding classes and you will feel a lot better about life.

Life doesn't have to be about 'a job.'  It should be about getting an incoome.  That might be done by giving in and getting a job without much in the way of prospects, but it can also be done in so many other ways.  Imagination is the key.  In this day and age with the world's knowledge at our fingertips we should all have the opportunity to think outside the boring confines of 'emplyment' as the only way to earn money.

The economy grows through people finding those ways, not through expolitation of resources.I don't know where you get the idea that the healthcare or education in this country is poor othern than through left-wing policies.

It's not a case of throwing more money at these things, because that has been tried and failed.

What we need to do is run things more efficiently.  Unfortunately bureaucrats are not good at managing things. Added to that are all the left-wing shiboleths that have accreted to the public health and education systems over so many years.  The education sytem in particular has suffered from 'supplier capture."But lefties are still thinking in 19th century master/servant terms when it comes to employment.  They just can't understand that employment is a contract not some kind of moral relationship where the employer has to gurantee a job for life, high pay, great conditions and family friendly policies in return for a slack work-ethic a lot of whinging and tiem serving.None of that stuff happens in Business or First.But on the other hand most who support quotas do so because it would suit them and people like them.

As long as we look at the world through this stupid proportionate prism where no-one is an individual but only a member of a group, we will actually have more discrimination.

No quotas, no affirmative action, just let nature take its course.

I have worked for several female CEos and found that, like male CEOs, they are good or bad depending on their personalities.

Let's face it, there is no rule in the world that says that in every occupation the sexes have to be equally represented. Businesses won't function any better.No, the laws in question look at the grounds of the discrimination, not at the identity of the victim. Thus it can be unlawful to discriminate against someone on the grounds of their sex, or what the ill-educated feminists refer to as 'gender'

So it covers women discriminating against men.There is a mixing of metaphors here that isn't making things clear.

Crawling over bodies and glass ceilings don't seem to have relation.No, you miss the lovley subtlety of Ajones' argument.

He is pretending to act like a feminist. It's a great parody of identity politics. 

He got rid of a tax, which is something very few governments in history have done.

But in any case, as Dr Johnson said: " I can criticise a carpenter for making me a bad table, though it is not my trade to make tables."

The point was that getting legislation through is not the only thing government is about, especially if it is bad legislation.Tony Abbott has created a chance for people to make it on their own.  He has created a favourable business environment already, as the laetest business confidenc efigures show.  That is far more important than Labor's vision in which everyone is to be made in a victim dependent on government and lacking in any drive or spirit.

I see it on these bfora all the time, the lefties are all frightened about things constantly.  The y would rather that life was easy rather than interesting. They hate anyone who has succeeded in life, because I suppose such people make them feel inadequate.The point is that the 'little people' wouldn't be a skerrick better off if Gail earnt the same salary as them. So why do you care what she earns?

This of course has little to do with the fees that the bank charges you to use your own money via their facilities'

Do you expect them to do that for nothing?DOn't you think that the shareholders of the bank would get the money from the reduction in the CEO salary before the employees?  After all it is the shareholders who are taking a risk, not the employees.

And why does the bank have to give any attention to what lefties think is good for society?The real issue isn't whether there are more women CEOs, but whether if a woman who wanted to be a CEO could be so if she had the appropriate talent.

You don't demonstrate that by assuming that in an ideal world women must make up half the CEOs.But why?

I don't care if my doctor , lawyer, greengrocer, plumber, managing partner is a man or a woman. It doesn't matter.  If there were 50% of women in all jobs and occupations it wouldn't mean that those jobs were being performed any better or worse.

ANd what of the person who misses out because of quotas?  Is he supposed to feeel good because there are now more women in management?  No, for the rest of his life he is going to say that he was held back by sexism.

Two wrongs don't make a right.Who are these 'we' you talk about?

How do you know that miners don't pay a high royalty? 

How do you know people aren' using renewable energy.  The problem isn't using it, the problem is governments skewing the market and making it all too hard.The mining tax was income tax and very stupid, because it broke the rule that all taxpayers should be treated the same.That report is asolute rubbish.

For a start it is written by warmist spinmeisters with an axe to grind. Secondly, it was produced overseas and is all just back of the envelope stuff as far as Australia.

But lastly any report that dares to be so stupid and wrong to claim that diesel fuel rebates are subsidies is complete junk.

You will have to do beter than some press release pushed by the ALPBC.They don't do any damage. There are very strict laws about mine site reclamation. Please don't be so emotive.That is the whole point, AE. The government should change the law once the court has advised that the law doesn't do what the government wants it to do.  The courts are not there to set the law in stone, but to tell us what it is.Are we refuting the reports?  Yes, because they are political documents not scientific ones.  Many Climate scientists are now challenging the consesnus anyway.

Are we anti-science: yes, if it is not evidence based and on a par with the standard of proof required in a legal case. After all the only finder of fact in society that has the right to enforce its findings is a court. Therefore Courts have a far more developed set of rules about evidence, that science couldn't hope to match.

Do we want a better future?  Of course.  A better future will come without the government acting to restrict freedom and hamstring the economy on the basis of a theory that is never proven by hard data.

You remind me of a lot of lawyers with whom I have been on the same side.  They spend their whole time wondering what the other side will do and not enough caring about their own client's wishes.Have you ever thought that being socially responsible and egalitarian is actually what the right is all about?  We on the right  actually believe in society not government as the arbiter of moral questions.  We believe that everyone should be free to achieve what they want.

The left believe in enforcing 'equality' and social outcomes on us by government fiat.  That means that we the people have social responsibility removed from us and given to politicians. Great swathes of the people then become moral weaklings who engage in the pseudo-individualism that you so despise, their only real choices being in the realms of sex and shopping.

But that has been a left wing trick for many years: encourage sexual freedom whilst similtaneously slowly removing all the other freedoms.This is hilarious. All the right wing people I know are asying that the Abbott government although mostly good, has not not mpoved far enough to the right.  Then I come here to read that Abbott is a far right extremist.

Could it be that you are a far left extremist and therefore that the cntrism of the government to you seems far to the right?Um, I think you will find that people have children because it is part of their dna to do so and that GDP goes up because more people are being born and adding more and more value. It has nothing to do with increasing company profits.

I'm sure you'll soon be advising us all to put on tinfoil hats so as to avoid the mind controlling radio waves being sent out to corrupt us by Murdoch and  the 'companies."Ann

I agree with you. But to be fair I think the leftists should lead the way on this. Thus all the well off thesps and other luvvies should immediatley become hippes and give away all their surplus wealth to the Government. 

No more flying for Cate Blanchett.  No more giant power sucking mansions for AL Gore.  No more waterside mansions for Tim Fannery.

it fact they could probably do more to solve climate change by refusing to speak in public.  Think of all the hot air that would not escape from their mouths if that were the case.It's not about killing anything but human dignity and potential.

How dare any government or any person think it or he/she has the right to curtail the basic right of every human to have children.

WHat happened to the right to choose that pro-abortion people are always going on about?

it would seem that there is only one choice and that is the awful 'common good.' There has been more evil released in the world because of that evill little pohrase than from any other cause.  it is envy's handmaiden and the destroyer of lives and cultures.

And those who feign to despise nationalism are always wanting to encourage vast policy shifts in order to cover Australia.  Their whole lviewpoint in fact is concentrated on the nation. No invidual action is immune from being assessed on what effect it has upon Australia.

Sinistra delenda estSO governments using AGW as a reason to put more taxes on us and create a large bureaucracy and pass more laws restricting us is not interfering in our freedoms?

I thnik you miight want to consider the human condition a bit more.

You see our freedoms are absolute.  We have agreed or been forced by coercion into giving up most of our freedoms so that we have the ability to enjoy the benfits of freedom.

Any government action is therefore a restriction on freedom.

The law against murder is a restriction against freedom. It is however a restriction that we all agree should be in place.But is becoming clear that the 'greenhouse effect' isn't causing  the climate to change.

In fact it would now seem that the changes in the temperature are in fact driving up the CO2 emissions rather than the other way around.

I understand that since the fall of communism the left need a new secular religion to give their need to boss us all about some meaning.  AGW is perfect for that.The 'product' is the added value. 

DOn't be snooty about people who make a profit.  That profit is the basis of economic wellbeing.

It seems that many people think that it would be better to have lot of little manufacturers making a loss rather than a whole lot of importers making a profit.

In fact I would argue that thre is less magic in manufacturing a product than in designing it. A lot of our importers are doing just that.  So in fact they are givng us a product.Realist

You really do like those logical fallacies don't you.

So people denied that tobbacco was a killer?  That has no relevance when considering Forfest's argument that a person is entitled to change his mind when presented with fresh evidence.

Forrest was merely skewering DD's argument that people who were in error because of being badly advised are not allowed to be skeptical about anything else.  It was an absurd argument.  It is probab;lly the absurdity of the argument probably confused you and made you lash out with your own non sequitur.DD

You doubted that the WMD existed and you doubted that the Russians had anything to do with the daowning of MH17.  But you don't dobt AGW exists.

I would say that is as straightforward a case of selective scepticism as you will ever see.

Now, it could be that you are correct about all 3 of the events above.  So I would conclude that there is thus nothing wrong with selective scepticism per se.

I would suggest that we are all guilty of such scepticism.  For those who accept AGW without any doubt I suspect that their lack of scepticim stems from the fact that AGW has been tailor-made for those who favour big government and collectivism.

And whose to say that selective scepticism is not actually a good thing? After all can you imagine how insupportable life would be if we had constantly to question, like a court, the truth about every fact or idea put to us.

"The man on the ABC just said the Balranald Bat-Bashers defeated the Many Mealy Mouths in the tiddly winks play-offs by 3 throw-ups to 2'

" Well I don't believe it, I'm going to drive down to Balranald and ask at least 350 locals what the result of the match was"
Maybe, just maybe, the fact that all your measures of the important hings in society all improved the most in the Howard years might give you some sort of clue about the woorld really works, rabbie.

The point is that people are not helpless victims but ingenouis beings capable of the most amazing things.  The best was to stifle them achieiving such things is to infantilise them by insisting that government must do everything for them and leave only the freedom to fornicate whom they please and shop for gee gaws.  

The best way is not to force society to get better but to create the conditions that allow society itself, through its brilliant people, to get better. That means giving us the freedom and the economy to succeed.

If you are so keen on making things better, rabbie, why don't you found a school for the poor.

I helped found a major arts organisation and a charity which has raised millions to help the needy. My help amounted to providing legal services and governance.  Others had a vision that has now matured into a wonderful achievement.  

It's now easier than ever to work out your vision.  Credit is easy, the internet puts massive informational resources and an audience at your fingertips.

As the great Spiked Magazine's strapline goes: Humanity is underrated.Murry Salby and Richard Lindzen amongst others have in fact done a lot of the work and have concluded that climate change is not caused by the small amount of extra carbon molecules that humans have put into the air since the industrial revolution.

Also I think you'll find that the scientific method is really borrowed from the one profession that is expert at evulating evidence, the law. That is why every day judges decide matters far more complex thatn most scientis could comprehend.Well said polony.

I have always wondered why those who engage in capitalistic enterprise would favour the left which is far more illiberal than the right.  Whereas we on the right might believe that men should not buy sex, we do not think that selling or buying sexual services should be banned. 

I think too many people of liberatarian inclination mistake Conservative distaste for something as a wish to seek governments to ban it.  One should be able to campaign in society for people to stop doing somethging without involving the government.

In a way I have always wondered at those who would 'legalise' things.  Mostly this is just a code for introducing a plethora of regulations making the plying of the relevant trade much more difficult.  If drugs were 'legalised' you would see 10,000 pages of legislation and regulations within a year tightly overseeing every aspect of drug manufacture, import and sale.  We would soon see just as much crime as ever, but around flouting the regulation.You are right rever, up to a point.  However, I suspect that the point of view of the Greens and the others is that they care about politics wheras the mass of voters don't.  EVen if their policies are loony tunes to most, they don't care. They aren't trying to obtain government to get their policies put into place, but are playing a longer game whereby there policies become less and less unusual because they are constantly being discussed in the places that matter politically.Prostitution is another one of those areas where the views of left-wing feminists and Victorian period social wowsers are very similar, except for the justification.

Both want to see prostitution banned.  The wowsers because it is immoral and the left-wing feminists because it demeans women, or rather because it is a politically incorrect example of how men use women for their own purpose.

There is a lot to be said for both of these views. However, I believe that the battle should be carried out in society, not via the law.  It seems from the Swedish experience that most people find prostitution abhorrent. If conservatives and feminists realised their community of interest on this point and the support that their views have in the community, I am sure they could come together to mount campaigns in the social media and share public platforms. In such a away they could convince a broad spectrum of people that prostitution is a practice from which people should abstain.Actually, the State consitituions probably allow the States to supply any goods and services they like to the people.

The question is whether doing such a thing would be good for the people.The most despicable thing I can see is that almost half te population is allowed to vote when they receive payment from the government.

Those people should be disenfranchised because they have a vested interest in the government spending more.

At least businesses can't vote to suit themselves.There seems to be some fault in logic in your post.  

If people have a veted interest in something that is not linked to government, like jobs in the mines or in the law, then one can't argue that they should be disenfranchised. That is a non sequitur.

In most fields it is ethical prctice that those who have a conflict of interest excuse themselves from a vote on any matter.

I was saying that this should be the same in voting for parliament.  Public servants and people whose primary income comes from government (with the exception perhaps of OAPs who have paid taxes or been mariried to taxpayers all their lives) have a conflict of interest when it comes to elections. 
I cannot agree.  

Of course the underclass should be able to vote themselves more and more dole and other goodies from Government, because their interests are so obviously far more worthy of respect than those of the capital owning classes who pay the tax that funds the dole and goodies.Bruce

You may be right.  I suggest then that you start a movement where by example you show us a better way to live. Don't cavil against the system, but be the change you want to be.I think you misunderstand Conservative philosophy.

It is far more pragmatic than you immagine.

The State exists to regulate the behaviour of its citizens and to safeguard their property. But citizens still go out and compete in life. However, in recent times governments are regulating for social outcomes that extend beyond the traditional remit of governmental concerns.  On so many fronts they stray into areas which society itself is quite capable of policing without the blunt instrument of the law being needed.

The Conservative view is that every regulation must be filtered through the effect is has on the freedom of the people.  For example a government copuld pass a law tomorrow that no-one is a llowed to eat sugar. The health lobby would support that law.  But of course it would be a terrible reduction in our freedom and the benefits would not worth it.  

The left on the other hand filter regulation merely by looking at the intention of those who frame it.  Usually that intention is to do good but the consequences are not so good.  The main adverse consequence is the complication of life so that it becomes almost impossible to obey the law (American corporate legislation is like that). ANother consequence is the infantilisation of the populace.  We all know that it is wrong to eat too much sugar.  We should be left to make our own minds up abpout that.  If we fail then we should bear the consequences..

Now there might be some sense in regulations that enssure that we have the means to determine how much sugar is in processed food, so as to assist us in making a free choice.  But banning sugar would be evil.Then union lobbying through the ALP should also be illegal.

DUring all ALP governments, the government workds hard to get union leaders and officials cushy qango jobs or funnels money to the union movement, or gives unions cushy deals or sets up arbirtation systems that favour unions.  Isn't that corrupt too?And are you not selfish on behalf of those whom you support, anote?

The fact is that we are all jockeying for position in this world. Some people try to pretend that there is some objective reason behind their wishes when mostly thery are arguing from the subjective.  The best we can do is admit that subjectivity but try to justify opurselves with refrence to objective facts.Haven't you looked at the Fair Work lately, stuffed to brim withex union officials?I often wonder how our education sytem seems to be able to produce people who can still think that it is somehow an argument-winning tactic to abuse the arguer rather than the argument.

Your comment is proof that logic needs to be taught in our schools.

So few people who profess to despise 'corporations' have any real grasp[ of logic, but are moved by bigotry and ignorance.Ah, the call of censorship from those who are too scared to read opinions they don't like.

There is no privilege in being heard but in being understood.

personally I wonder why all the lefties here are published, but I am glad that they are because they expose the foolishness at the heart of left-wing thinking.  I should think you would be glad that the IPA is published, because from your side of the fence it allows you to tell us how bad the arguments presented by Berg are.  But of course you aren't capable of doing that so you must fall back on argumentum ad hominem.

BTW, I think you need to check the Golding quotation because it seems to be missing some words or punctuation. It actually refers to the holder of the circle (i.e. the Drum) not the speaker.
If corporate donations are banned, then I believe that union donations should also be banned, as unions are also lobbying for regulation that suits them."personally, I'd find a way to tax the flies (and these flies - unlike the ones at your barbie - come with ABNs) to pay for the fly-spray to keep them away. But that's just me I suppose."

Very good.

I can just see the whole Heath Robinson-like mechanism that you would set up here to avoid a non-problem.  There would be the Fly Eradication Tax Assessment Act as Well as the necessary Rating Act. Theere might also have to be a Transition Act, as well as a Compensation Act for poor people who might not be able to hold a barbecue even if they have government supplied fly spray.  Thene there woud have to be Regulations and a lot more tax officers to administer the tax.Maybe the real argument is that the person holding the barbecue if he buys some fly-spray for himself.

But no, I think when you thought it through you would espouse a 'market-based solution' whereby flies can sell each other gtovernment created permits to excrete on food at barbecues in  in Australia if somewhere in Guatemala the local flies resist the urge to trouble to buzz around some food scraps on a rubbish dump.In the 1920s in the US and in 2012, the amount of the wealth owned by the wealthiest 1% didn't change. This was depite the fact that government spending and wealth redistribution increased by a enormous amount between those dates.

Whereas the old rich earned their money thorugh business, many of the new wealthy earn theirs through government contracts, consultancies and regulatory assistance.  Many of these people are left wing lobby groups.

So growth in government has not made things much better for the less well off, but has ensured that certain people get very rich.

SO there is a lot to Chris's argument that we need to ensure that regulation is not put in place that allows people to enrich themselves by rent seeking.I'm sure that Chris Berg could publsih an article here arguing that we all be kind to our mothers, and the usual lefty suspects would immediately attack him  and the IPA for being spruikers for big business. 

Well said sdrawkcaB

Yours is a good conservative solution. Growing the food you eat is a fantastic idea.

Gerard has a point that the market pushes things on us.  But if smart people get out there and work out how to make it worth Coles' way to move sweet muck from the checkouts or trains parents how to say 'no' then the market will work to solve the problem.
Logic tells us that investigating corruption in the union movement does not preclude government agencies from pursuing wrongdoing in the corporate world.  However, I would mention that ASIC and various other bodies oversee the corporate world, whilst the union movement is has no overseer at all.  That is why the union movement is probably more likely to be corrupt.The problem is that to get the union to the court thpousands of dollars have to be spent.  If there was a regulatory body like ASIC there would far less need to use courts.

It's funnythat lefties who are so keen on regulation everywhere else are very keen to ensure that there is very little regulatory oversight of unions by a statutory body.  As a right-winger, I usually abhor regulation, but I do think it's time unions were subject to the same laws as other entities.The Union movement gives massive funds to the ALP in the hope that the ALP will pass laws that provide benefits to the union leaders and sometimes their members.  On your measure that too is corrupt."Overseers of the union movement are members of the Labor Party, their esteemed members as well as the rank and file."

That is the funniest thing I've read today.

I think you will find that it is fact the Unions that own the ALP. The ALP was formed by the unions to act in their interest.

For some reason those on the left think that it is OK for a political party to be completely beholden to and receive money from the union movement, in return for favours, but it isn''t OK for private enterprise to donate in an effort to forward policies that make things better for them.

The answer is simple: limit all political donations to $1000 per year, from Unions, corporations, anyone.Does it relly matter if the Commission is politically motivated or not, as long as roots out coruption in the union movement?

This article and your comment are variants of the tu quoque fallacy.  

However, I must admit if Labor set up a Royal Commission into corporate corruption I would probably also ague that it was politcally motivated.  I hope however, that I would accept findings of that Commission.Ever heard of the tu quoque logical fallacy, Realist?  You just committed it.  Whether John Howard was the most dishonest man since Adam is irrelevant in refuting a charge of dishonesty against anyone else.

It just so happens that I do not think that there is much evidence that PM Gillard was dishonest. My memory was that she had a tin ear politically and tried to do too many things too quickly.

She could have remained in power for years if she hadn't brought in the CO2 tax and stopped trying to do things so quickly. Power overwhelmed her.You are being rather naive aren't you?

A feminist who Says he or she is advocating equal rights. But that is a subjective result isn't it.  In any case, surely the vast majority of us agree that everyone deserves equal rights. Does that make us all feminists or just democrats?

It might help if you realise that rights are not outcomes or privileges granted by government via quotas or affirmative action. Rights are merely the opportunity to succeed if you work at it or have superior ability.Realist, I know you are trying to keep up, but really why should it be a problem for you if people have superior ability or aptitude to others and therefore succeed in life? Is it envy, on you part? That is usually the driving force of those on the left.

I wonder if you think your favourite musician or artist hasn't got superior talent or skill? Or maybe you prefer sport to the arts.  If so, I'm sure you'd take the view that the sports stars who hold the records did do by having superior  skill and talent.

Why would it not be the same in other endeavours in life?

You don't need to be rich to succeed either. One of the most successful people I know is a courier who is well repsected by his family and friends and has great life even though he can't afford to wallow in luxury.Your post reflects some of the shallow thinking that pervades this debate. 

First of all you wnat to make everything a question of sex rather than the individual. But more importantly, you want to load the dice by declaring upfront that anyone who argues against you is 'sexist.' So you want to set the rules of the debate.

That won't do.  It demonstrates that you know you've lost the fight before you began.

There is nothing sexist about pointing out that men and women are different and that some occupations contain more of one sex than another. 

Mulky

Conservatism in politics carries a different meaning than conservatism in other areas of life. Let us call that small c conservatism. The left have a lot of small c conservatism inherent in their silly creed. Thus the unions want to keep us back in the mid 20 th century as far as industrial relations are concerned and want to reverse all the free market reforms made since 1983. The Greens want us to go back to the pre Industrial Age and live in caves wearing grass skirts.these are the sort of people who also tell us how 'spiritual' they find eastern religions or how awesome it is that Aboriginal culture is "like so traditional and over 40,000 years old, man"

Conservatives with a big C on the other hand believe in progress of individuals to a better life and have seen capitalism achieve that whilst socialism holds the poor down. It isn't capitalism but leftism that is causing the growth of the difference between rich and poor.  Governments, by trying to give a subsistence to too many people have made those people incapable of contributing to their own future. The AlP is he home of the backward looking welfarists who want us all to be servants of the state which they have mistaken for society.Typical left wing sneers and inanity. How would you know who was competent? Just because people do thinks you I don't like doesn't mean they are incompetent. But maybe if you tell the lie often enough you will really start to believe it when Tony Abbott is in the 10th year of his Prime ministership.Could it be that the women of the left make a lot of noise and achieve little through merit, whilst the women on the right make little noise and achieve what they do achive through merit?

The feminsts talk a lot, but do they really achieve anything for women in comparison to the women who quietly get out there and actually do what the feminists talk about.  You will see that most feministas are stuck in the commentariat. 

But truly, I pray for the day when people are judged on their characters rather than their sex.  However, it seems that the feminists are determined to pout that day off as long as possible. hey, ladies, may I give you a tip.  The best way to win a war is to act like you've won it, not as if you are constantly miles away from winning.  I know this will mean that you will have to do some real work rather than be activists, but isn't that what you say you want to do?  Don't you want to go into the workforce and actually do something other than whinging about how hard it all is?

I call for the end of femiinism and the beginning of "peopleism" whereby we aim for  true diversity (diversity of outlook and opinion not sex, skin colour or sexuality).

After all, I put it to you that it is far easier for an upper-middle class woman to have a great career than it is for a man from the lower socio-economic groups."the respectful treatment of millions of Australians, many of whom got the opportunity of a tertiary education because of one man."

Yes, and that one man was Robert Menzies. For it was he that increased the number of universities in Australia and gave out masses of scholarships so the poor could attend. 

I think the reference to twice being rejected at the ballot box refers to the 1975 and 1977 general elections where the Labor Party under Gough Whitlam was soundly defeated.It's funny that those who don't own anything are always going on about nebulous concepts like 'social responsibility.' One never sees any evidence of course that those who use the term are themselves required to be socially responsible or ever live up to their own rhetoric.

The fact is that you just assume that this 'social reponsibilty' thing is a solid fact without acknowledging that it is only based upon belief.

my belief is that government exists so as to ensure private property. I also believe that all of us, not just the wealthy, should give something back to society.  But I don't believe that we fulfill that function by giving money to governments to enable people to remain poor and dependant members of the underclass.  Go and read Theodore Dalrymple's writing on the underclass and come back and tell me that anyone has acted with social responsibility in creating the conditions that saw a whole lot of the working class turned into a sad and awful underclass through left wing policy prescriptions. You could say the same about Aborigines, whose lives have got worse despite, or maybe even because of the rise of the professional aboriginal activist and fellow travellers.

So you can stick your 'social responsibility' if you think that giving lots of money to the government is way of showing it.
You should realise Brad, that according to our leftist friends 'innovation' is something that can only done by governments. Private enterprise inovations are all evil because those make them don't do it out of the goodness of their hearts but to make a profit.
I really wish people like you were with us back in 1975. The country was in a parlous state. The conomy was collapsing, the government was hopelessly incompetent and leading us to ruin. That's why Fraser did what he did and then won a resounding victory against Whitlam. 

I suspect that poor old Fraser would have done better for himself and his party to have let Whitlam govern until 1977. By then the economy would have been a really bad state and Whitlam thouroughly discredited.

But Fraser decided to save the nation and a lot of Whitlam's reforms too. 

The Fraser government now get a lot o flack for not doing anything.  But of course it managed to restore the country to a relatively even keel merely because it didn't act irresponsibly like the Whitlam government had done. 

Many say that Fraser should have accepted the changes suggested by John Howard and the Campbell Report (many of which the Hawke Government put into place). Howevr, I think Fraser believed that too much change from the right too quickly might not be best after so much change from th left under Gough.I understand where you are coming from.

If I was a Labor supporter, I think the Gough mythjwould annoy me too, because it is quite clear that Gough, somewhat like Rudd after him, was not really a Labor man at all.  He had no background or power base in the unions.  He was only leader because they thought he could win elections. He only chose the ALP because he knew it would be too difficult to get to the top on the other side. Compared to Menzies he was a minow.

In a way Whitlam and Fraser were both very similar: patricians who felt they had a duty to boss around the "little people" for their own good. 

A lot of what the Whitlam govenment did, of course, was achived by others not Whitlam. So the hagiography of him actually belittles the ALP itself.No man is a hero to his valet.I agree that Whitlam was a convicition politician. It's  just a shame that they were the wrong convictions.

Of course Gough was actually of the stuff from which conservative politicians are made.  He had nothing in common with Labor at all. He went to Knox and was a lawyer.

I am convinced that when it came to politics Gouhg took the decision in the 1950s that he would struggle to get to the top in the Liberal Party in whch he would have been one of many talented upper middle class lawyers. And he would have seen the figure of Menzies dominating the Liberal party and realised that he would have little chance to shine.

That is why he went to the Labor Party, where frankly he shone out amongst the dross. I sincerely doubt whether he really took all that left-wing stuff too seriously.  Maybe he did come to believe in things after a while.  But I have always taken the view that he was infact quite the reverse of a conviction politican. Like an good lawyer, he took the side of the party he was paid to represent and did his best for them.I'd like to correct on misnomer.

Nixon whent to China in 1972.  The other western nations therefore had the opportunity to follow suit without having to have any vision at all.

At that time  I had a firend whose father was in the diplomatic corps.  He was hoping to be our Ambassador to China once the government recognised the regime there.  he had been working on this under the Coalition government for some time before WHitlam was elected. He said that McMahon would have gone to China if re-elected in 1972.

Once WHitlam did go to China he of course passed over my friend's father whom all agreed was suited to the post of Ambassador and gave the job to someone less qualified.You don't answer the point put forward by JohnM.

He noted that the deduction for interest on real estate used to earn assessable income is the general deduction that everyonr uses.

I will add that it has always been a fundamental principle of Australian income tax law that deductions don't have to match income, so that an entity can claim losses from one activity against another. Why should negative gearing of property be different?  Getting rid of the deduction would need a copious anmunt of new legislation and intriduce fresh layers of complexity to a law that is already incredibly difficult for most people to understand."People potential - which multiplies through good sociability and unselfish society"

That all sounds so vague and fluffy.  When it comes down to it the 'workers' don't ever seem to want the hippy nirvana of co-operative yoghurt making and rainbows and lollipops for all that your staement conjures in our minds.  

If they do rise up, they wannt to be oppressors in their turn.

AT the moment there is nothing stopping people with 'imagination' from getting together and developing scheme and  non-profit bodies to make their society better.

That is what happened in Vioctorian and Edwardian times.  But too many people are too ignorant or too lazy to shift for themselves.  They expect the Government or private enterprise to think up things and do things for them.

Of course I'm sure that government actually stiflles some social solutions.  For example, it should be possible for a group of local parents to get together and set up a system where mind each others' children. SOmething tells me, however, that the government would discourage this on the basis that they wouldn't be able to regulate such a thing.

We really are losing our initiative through letting government become so big.So you have a lot of experience with big business?



AE

The envy of the leftists knows no limit.

They can't understand that a normal deductiopn is not a 'subsidy' but a normal part of the law law.  They can't see that the banks will pay tax on the interest paid by the investor.  

SUch people are caught in a simplistic worldview where all capitlisam is evil and all government interference is good as long as it done by a leftist government in the name of 'equality.'Who is more culpabable: the banks which asked for the gurantee or the Government that gave it?

And, would it be true to say that a guarantee does not actually lead to any expenditure by the government?

Thridly, would the government itself have borrowed those funds if the banks hadn't done so?I seem to recall at the time that the government was roundly criticised from the right for giving the gurantee.  There was a lot of controversy over the fact that the gurantee was only given to ADIs and not other finacial instittuions.  This caused a lot of trouble as people moved their money to ADIs.

I am attacking the guarantee, which was a really silly piece of policy that wasn't needed. The Rudd Government should have stood up against the banks, as that was supposed to be the Labor way.  But then, instead of giving a fair guaratee to all finacial institutions they limited it to the banks. So we got a bad policy poorly implemented, which caused a lot of grief om the markets and left a lot of people stranded.Ah, the solution of the left: put more tax on things so as to discourage invention, innovation and freedom.

Why don't we instead cut tax rates across the board and allow us to keep some more of our own money.  This would stimulate the economy far better than any government spending ever could.Putting the question after the answer? Not really, just using a bit of rhetoric to make things a bit more interesting and nuanced.

Tax is a revenue raising tool. Any use of it as a nudge mechanism is like tying your shoelaces while wearing boxing gloves.

The great Howard tax RATE cuts actually led to more government revenue because they stimulated economic activity. Don't you recall Rudd in 2007 telling us constantly how the Howard Government was a high taxing government?Why not, GJA,  stop committing the argumentum ad absurdum logical fallacy and admit that the difference between cutting 2% off the income tax rates would not lead to the end of all government activity.

That is a much better idea thatn a tax, Alpo.

I believe that at the moment,the Reserve Bank is sort of doing what you suggest.

I assume that the Government has the consitutional power to set up tthis fund, as it won't be a tax and therefore won't have to be paid into consolidated revenue.We probably need banks these days because so few of us are dealing in cash but making our payments throough credit cards or EFT. 

However, if you dislike the banks, I understand that Credit Unions can look after your needs just as well.

It is the duty of us all to make our own decisions and to move our custom between suppliers if we believe, for whatever reasom, that one supplier is not offering a good service.What utter drivel.

The Coalition under Howard was the best government this country has had since Menzies if not since Federation. They left the Treasiury full and the regulatory system well structured so that we would withstand the Great Recession even with the inept Rudd and Swan at the controls.
The problem is, Foolkin, that back in the day Government was much smaller and much less tied up with the economy.  I also get the impression that in those days most Australians didn't really care that much about politics.

But now too many people think that politics is the be all and end all of life.  Government is central to them.  Therefore they come up with the solutions that you suggest.  All of these of course will not give us the people more freedom but will perpetuate the idea that the solution to our problems lies with our government rather than with ourselves. Although I think you don't want it to happen what will occur with your changes is that we will become servants of the State (which the left will mistake for society) rather than the other way around.

One could argue that the last government tried a major policy shift or two in the belief that they would lose office as a result.  They therefore tried to build in things that would make it hard for the next government to change their legacy.

The history of this is that from Federation to Whitlam/Fraser Australian governments tried to build up local manufacturing by putting up high tarrif walls.  Even into Hawke's time Governments were protecting local industires to some extent.

However, this protection didn't serve to build up our secondary industries because it often generated bad management and/or extreme empoyee demands.  This was passed on to the public in high prices.

From the 70s on it was realised that the Great Depression had in fact been caused by barriers to trade more than anything else.  Countries then decided to liberalise trade.

Out managers and our employees could have survived, but they were not clever enough to realise that they would have to compete, because they had been propped up for so long.

Now it is impossible for any national government to really just decree that we can have a manufacturing industry. And subsidies don't work here.  Mybe we need a development corporation that loans money to start ups on thae basis that we get back interest on the loans.
The sales tax rates were 10% for domestic items, 30% for luxury items and 20% for evrything else. There were also a lot of exemptions.

It was far more difficullt for bui=siness to administer than GST, but fewer businesses had to pay it because it was imposed at only one level in the supply chain: the wholesale level.Why shouldn't the poor pay a higher proportion of their income in tax.  After all most of that income comes from tax revenue anyway. And the 'poor' get a lot more other services from the Government, like free medical care and prescriptions, roads, education, the rule of law, etc, etc.

Often lefties raise the argument that we of the wealthier classes get a lot of benefits from the system, but all those benfits also accrue to the poor aas well as a lot more.

The best way to get more poor people is to make it relatively easy to be poor.Government isn't the important thing about a country, Jerry.  So who cares how people see it overseas.

The problem you have is that of many ALP supporters, you think that a glib tongue means a good mind. Most of the work a PM does is in communicating to people in small groups or in writing. I am told by those who know that Tony Abbott is a very good conversationalist and first class thinker.

I have know quite a few barristers who in court talking to the judge ae brilliant orators, but as soon as they have to address a crowd they seem stilted and not so bright.  orators are often the least useful politicaians because they can't make arguments only deliver them.here seems to be alot of confusion about the role of the law in this question.

The criminal law is not there to avenge an action but to apply the consequences that society deems necesary upon the commission of that action.

Crimes are not committed against a person but against society..

Therefore, the idea that making it a crime to harm a foetus then gives the foetus the legal status of a human is of no weight.

Is a building a person because the law states that a person who sets that building on fire has committed an offence? Of course not. It follows that the criminalisation of certain actions which harm a foetus does not have anything to do with the legal stsus of the foetus.

Society may determine that where a woman has decided to remain pregnant, then harming the foetus is a crime, whilst at the same time also deciding that where the woman wants to terminate the pregnacy she has the right to do so.  The two conclusions do not contradict each other.The complexities of the Income Tax legislation are not really due so much to concessions, but to successive governments trying to plug loopholes that clever people like me have found. When governments plug such holes they never do it with simple law, but with a plethora of provisions that try to cover every possible outcome.

That is why if they get rid of negative gearing on real estate, the law will become far more complex.  At the moment there is one provision relating to negative gearing deductions and that is a general provision that  covers the vast majpority of deductions, ie the deduction for expenditure incurred in making assessable income.The fact that "middle class jobs" are better paid is not a result of those jobs requiring more decisions. A bus driver probably makes far more decisions in a day than a doctor. It actually rests on the kind of decisions that are made and the value that society puts on those decisions.

Like everything else it all about adding value. Many people in the professions do more than just plod away at their profession.  My new neighbour is an ex dentist who invented some process or device that makes dental work more efficient. It is elling all over the world and allowed him to spend a couple of million on a new apartment.

WIll the onward march of the algorithm stop such things? No I think it will assist those who think of new ways of doing things oe new products.Your anti-Abbott bigotry gets in the way of any mature debate with you.SB

What makes you think that every debate on the full topic is is mature and every mature debate is on the full topic?

It would in fact be possible to have a mature debate on the GST alone, and then have a childish debate on the whole tax system.  Suurely it depends on the debaters.splod

Of course most comments are partisan.  But not all.

The skill of a mature thinker is to winnow off the chaff of partisan comments and get to the pith of the matter underneath. 

In my profession I see a lot of arguments/debates/ meetings where people are mostly partisan and often wish to succeed rather than get the right answer.  In a debate, you will have the extreme partisans and others who really only contribute a little through lack of intelligence or engagement. It is possible that any one or more of these people will contribute one important comment.

A matrure debate is one where those trying to determine the truth listen to everyone but make a decision based on the best suggestions put fowrad by anyone who took part.Politicians might not be able to have mature debates, but the rest of us can.Let me take one of Gough's worst reforms, The Family Law Act.  This disatropus piece of legislation has led to the breakdown of so many families and so much social misery, especially amongst the poor.Excellent post apow. This article is a grand example of trouble in the land of "seems" where people with the sensibility of 11 year old mean girls constantly look out for offence and jockey furiously over who is the greatest victim. It has a wonderful Alice in Wonderland feel to it, or perhaps it is a scene from a novel by Waugh. These po mo ultra political types really do need to get a life.The problem is that the inside group of activists is usually full of people whose egos are larger than their intellectual capabilities.  Thinking that you can win an argument by telling others to shut up is pure lunacy.That is a very good point DN.

There is a certain kind of person who seems to think that works of art are all public property and as such must all be cultural artifacts that pass all the political tests they set.  They don't realise that if a program passed all those tests it would cease to be a work of art and become a boring repetition of leftist dogma.


In the alternative the policitcall corrrect mavens argue that for every show that deals with upper middle class white concerns there should a proportionate amount of programming that relates to african american concerns. or maybe that there should be a fixed amount of programming showing black and white people living in peace and harmony. So if they had their way the TV schedules would be subject to strict quotas. Once again we all know that what would be produced would not be art, but politically correct pap. 

And we  also know that if the PC brigade got their way it would cause less fraternisation across racial lines rather than less.

The problem with so much minority activistism is that the activists can't wait to be oppressors in their turn.

I remember reading about far worse sexual shennanigans among children in Kograh in the 1950s in 'Unrealible Memoirs' by Clive James. In 1980, when that book was published, I don't think anyone turned a hair.  The point is that revelations about such things really don't have political relvance at all.If this stratifying is taking place, then isn't TV only reflecting real life?  TvV has no duty to reflect anything, it has duty to entertain, inform and delight.  it can do all of those things without being politically correct."I get the sense that Dunham just epitomises a type of entitled upper middle class white feminist who thinks that her own personal issues are everybody's issues."

That is a perfect description of the egrgegious Virginia Woolf, the first of the great leftist solipsists of our age. There have been so many more after that.  it doesn't really matter if you are rich, poor, black or white you are bound to think your problems are the world's problems if you are of a certain turn of mind. You can then turn your egotism and utter selfihness into apparent virtues by screaming loudly for improvement in the lives of people like you.

The true altruist is the person who tries to help people who aren't like him. The good Samaritan is the classic example. I'd have far more respect for activists if they admitted their selfishnessand just got out there and made it for themselves. That would send a far better message to others like them than all this special interest group pleading and offence taking that goes on in the world. We shold judge all people by their character and not by their physical attributes.

But it's not just black femnists who can complain about this sort of behaviour, it's everyone.In fact today you will find that the real offenders are the activists.  They constantly think about dividing people along the lines of race, credd, sex or sexuality.  Their livelihoods depend upon rism and phobias so they invent them.  

They certainly didn't vote for Whitlam in 1975Have you ever thought shelving, that Gough Whitlam actually had it easy, because the government in his day was much smaller than government is today. There were a lot more things that could be 'reformed' 

It's easier to have 'vision' with a blank canvas than it is when the picture is already complete.

Don't sell our current politicians short. It is much harder to do anything really new these days now that politics has become so all embracing. So maybe if Tony Abbott is the right wing demon you paint him as you should be thankful. If he removes a lot of Gough's legacy, the ALP will be able to have vision again and try to replace what Tony takes away.Oh dear, oh dear, another social engineer.

Stop looking at the macro, it's not important.  Start looking at the micro.  If you go around loudly telling poor people that they can't afford to live in the capital cities, you will son  find that it is true.

Leave the market to decide.

People should be able to treat anything they like as an investment.  No-one has any obligation not to do something just because of the poor.  People will do best for society by doing the best for themselves and their families.Why shouldn't people be left to do what they like?

You want to rob people of the benefit they get from selling their profit, so as to make sure that others can buy property.  SO you want to rob people so things can be better for you.  How pathetic not to say evil and fascistic.

Is there no end to the horrible interference in others' lives that you lefties won't stoop to.WHy governments?

Why shouldn't businesses, private individuals and non-proits all do the lifting.

Like too many people, you sem to think that governments are the go people for everything in life.  They are not.  They have had a hundred year to solve the problem and they have failed.

Government is not there to establish fake rights (such as the right to shelter).Well said , brewster.

Lowering the value of the homes of those on middle and lower incomes so as to make house cheaper for the 'poor' doesn't  make much sense either.

Are you sure that it is thanks to Government policy?

Beware of the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy.  Just because one thing happens after another it does mean that the second event was caused by the first.
There are a lot of assertions in your post that may not be true.

How do you know that first home buyers have been shut out of the market and that investors are in the ascendant? Do investors buy the sorts of propoerties that first home buyers want?

Could it just be the case that the prices rose before any investors came along and the first home buyers were already frozen out?

In any case I don't think you can call it a bubble.  it is only a bubble in the minds of those who think it is sad that 'poor' people can't afford a house. A true bubble takes place where there is mad speculation on something that in itself has very little intrinsic worth.

What people have to realise is that markets change over time.  

Maybe it's time for poorer Australians to do what most poor people do overseas, rent.Yes, and all the scientists who are being scientific say that the trend and the data show that AGW is not a corrrect theory.Ronald Reagan springs to mindAolpo,

Do you mean "in control"?You'd be much better off reading MArk Steyn's "AFter America' which shows how left wing and nasty the US has become.A lot of assertions there, but no facts.

The US is in big trouble at the moment.  The Democrats are in charge. The logical conclusion from that is that the Democrats have to take some resonsibility for the state of the country. If they go on with what they are doing, then it is fair to say that things will not get better.

To sum up, your view seems to be: "Let's stop all this compettion, so my point of view can prevail."

Obama has proved to be the emptiest of suits. All his hopey changey rhetoric hasn't stopped America from sliding into decline.What a dreadful phrase 'public goodness" is.

WHo cares if something is in the public good.

Only self righteous creeps moan on about 'the public good' whilst themselves detracting from it with their collectivist, totalitarian ravings.Don't be so disingenuous, splod.

The division of arguers onto sides is a fair debating tactic.  Most of us know that such divisions are at best merely indicative.  The categorisations are not hard and fast.

But for your education "left' usually means anti-American, pro-big government, whilst right means pro-market, pro-freedom. Of course there are many shades of opinion in between, but most people fall on one side or the other.Nazis were National Socialists, Alpo. They are lefties. On the extreme left you have ALL breeds of totalitarianism.  On the extreme right you have Waco nutjobs and the warlords of Mogadishu, ie total anarchy.

The left's crazy idea that they could impugn the right by labeelling nazis and other big-state hate groups as 'extreme right' is so silly that only a lefty could believe it.

next you'll be telling us that IS fighters are neoliberals.I'd like to know who these dictators are whom the West is supposed to have supported for decades.

I'd also like to know how the west exploited the Middle East.

It seems to me that too often people are fond of repeating these pieces of rhetoric without actually wondering if there is any thruth to them.  It's like the oft made asertion that governments subsidise big business.  It's a complete fallacy but a rubric that comforts those who for one reason or anaother believe that the 'corporations" are evil.No Zing, there is nothing right wing about totalitarianism.  Totalitarianism of all kinds is left wing.

The taxonomy of political philosophy is clearly binary: you either favour government (collectivism) or you favour freedom (individuaism).  In the centre you will lean one way but accept  that there is merit on the other side too. You may be a collectivist for any number of reasons, such as religion, nationalism or a belief in the worldwide dictatorship of the proletariat. However, the fact that you favour collectivism puts you on the left.

The extreme right is no government at all. What Hobbes called a state of nature.

Of course there is nothing that says that fellow left-wingers won't fight against each other.  That is because they are all competing for power. They also appeal to the same sorts of people. Communism and fascism are the coke and pepsi of the political world.  In essence they are both the same sticky concoction, a melange of idiocy, illiberalism and intellectual vapidity.Ben

Yes it is true that a large number of the opinions here are of the lony left persuasion, but it is also true that as such opinions are just about all terribly weak and inane. Therefore, it cannot be true that such opiinions can dominate anything.Yes, and it has always been correct as far as politics is concerned.

There was never a golden age, as many lefties seem to believe, where politicians didn't act in their political interest.I find Mr Abbott such a breath of fressh air and so mature after the last two mad or stupid permanent adolescents we had as PM.

But leftism is the creed of the adolescent, the sort of person who thinks their troubles are the troubles of the world. To them, a person who says no and doesn't constantly come up with silly schemes that diminish our freedom or  initiative isn't a real politician at all.  
Umming and ahing isn't adolescent, it is merely a tic that somepeople have.  it is in fact quite un-PC of you to belittle such a thing, as most people can't help that condition.
Not at all Wiga. I think schemes to reduce our freedom are usually wrong.  But I suppose there is a balance.  The law against murder is a law that reduces our freedom.  It isn't a silly law.

A law that stops us talking or thinking is a silly law.  Labor favours such laws more often than the Coalition, but the Coalition at least usually is targetting a deed rather than speech when they make such silly laws.  Labor is usually targetting speech.But Henry doesn't know.

He is the guy who asked his mother what she thought about a stimulus and took her advice.

There are a hundred better people to talk about tax reform than Henry.A civil decoration, o lordy.

The answer to the questions in your first paragraph are "yes." The well off mostly do create their own wealth. You see wealth is created by adding value. The workers add some value with their labour, but they get paid for that value, as do all the suppliers of goods and services to the wealthy. The wealth is what the well off have after they have paid for the labor of theworkers and the goods and services and the infrastructure proved by government (which is provided so that everyone can work together) .

Personally, I made my money out of providing advice to wealthy people and coampnies.  They in turn often did th same sort of thing.  I used workers to provide those services (ie juinior lawyers) and purchased nmany services and paid a lot of tax.  So after I did all that, I did make my own fortune.

You see the workers and the government were doing the same thing as me, they were trying to make an income by providing a service.

Most workers, however, have decided that they want to trade off the stress of working for big money, by getting a fixed income for a relatively easy job.The Packers have obviously added value, else they wouldn't be where they are.  The value doen't have to be something you like or care about, but something that someone else finds useful or entertaining.

You talk about Gina Reinhart is just stupid and beneath you.

Clive Palmer too must have done something that added value else he wouldn't have the money to throw around on the things you mention.

The problem is Whitey that even if the large companies paid more (and I don't think that they should, because they are obeying the law now), it probably won't mean that the rest of us pay any less.

What we need to do before we qorry about tax reviews is to have the mother of all spending reviews, which is what the prof is talking about, I think.
That was a good thing, but at the same time they took away low income tax offsets, so the result was a very small tax cut.But Jess

There are very few people who earn less than $18,000 annually.  So PAYG still has to be withdrawn from most salries and wages.I'm always amused when a lefty comentator on a forum calls a Conservative politician who has risen to be PM 'dim.'

I bet if there was an intelligence competeition between him and you he would wipe the floor with you. For a start he wouldn't base his whole political ideology on the worship of strong leaders like you do.  WHy is it that lefties always want messianic leaders?Ted,
I t sounds as though you are unaware that the GST goes to the States to pay for the services they provide, which is the bulk of the services that the 'poor' receive.But you were trying to argue as if the Feds kept the GST.

The GST does go to the States. it is the States that provide the bul of welfare services.

You better to learn how to read, ted, because you're comprehension skills are weak as hell, little boy.apow

You and I are in agreement.  We don't need to raise the GST, we need to cut income tax by 20% and spending by 33%.Of course saying the government should do something about it includes saying that the government should cut spending. So that is your whole argument up in smoke.

Poor apow, you spend so much time constructing an argument in the pithiest of terms and it is such a crock that it is as easy to defeat as a one boxer with a rash. :)

There was a full stop between my assertion that we were in agreement and my half joking call to cut taxes and spending.  In other words I was agreeing with your point about  three word slogans and adding another such slogan, for a bit of fun.

The Howard government managed to give us tax cuts and spending cuts in many areas. The bonus was that the cuts in income tax rates and other tax reforms resulted in a surge in business activity which led to more government revenue to splash out on goodies for the lower middle clases., those 50% or more whom you crave to hear from.On one golden afternoon after the 1996 election, John Fahey cut many billions of spending on ALP pet projects.  

And btw the way using silly lefty stock pharses like 'neo-con' is really beneath you. A neo-con is a converted lefty who when he or she moves to the right still wants to use leftist tactics.  You seem to be using it to describe anyone who holds right wing views.
Alpo,

I think you, like many on the Labor side, forget what the GST is for.

The GST is collected by the Commonwealth, but it is actually revenue that is paid to the States for them to spend on their operations.Surely, ram, high tech businesses would have high tech computer programmes that would simply claim the input tax creidts and add the GST to sales of finished goods and then spit out a report which could be linked directly to the BAS.  That's what most businesses do.
But rmam, I'm sure those people who entered the datea re GST also entred dat for other things to, like invoicing.  You are not proving that GST made all the difference to your business. Post hoc ergo propter hoc is the name of the logical fallacy you have committed.As the Federal Government doesn't provide any healthcare services I wonder how it could cut health.Good question.  The Minister for Health is really the Minister for Healthcare fundingThe income is that of the States not the Federal Government.

In any case,  you must rememebr that most GST is collected on services not goods.Australia doesn't need a population policy. Only totalitarian states have such policies.

I suggets that if you want such a policy you emigrate to China.

Governments are here to serve us, not the other way around.  "Australia" is a social construct, not some machine that can be made better by vicious people like you trying to cull our people.Yes the Greens are more liberal than the LIberals, that is liberal in the American sense, i.e. left-wing.Science is not democratic.

If a government says to a lot of scientists: "We'll give you lots of money to prove that the world is heating up," what do you think the scientists will tell the government?

You see, unlike doctors lawyers and accountants, scientists have no code of ethics they have to follow.Why do you put so much faith in commentators?That is an interesting point.

I suppose the fact that conservative and conservationist have similar meanings gives us a clue.  

I certainly hope that the greens are closet Tories.Well said Edward

The problem is that in a campaign SHorten will not impress.

In the NSW and Qld marginals the ALP will flounder because it has no money and no sspark.

And in any case, the ALP's primary vote is too low for victory.  We all remeeber how terrible they were in government.  WHat the voters are doing now is telling the government to trim its saild a bit.As a right-winger, I agree with you.

We Australians have become the wimpiest nation on earth.  We are so happy for the government to do everything for us, that we constantly forget that we can do things for ourselves.

Of course you can do things differently, as long as they are within the law.  It takes a lot of hard word, however, to convince people to go about things in a different manner.  But one thing you will find is that the market is the home of great innovators.Actually, the AGW myth is getting more and more threadbare by the day.

The IPCC report itself states that the scientists really have no idea why the warming has stopped.  It is only the polictical summary that is still gung-ho.

Now that a climate scientist has dupilcated with real data Murry Salby's finding that warming caused CO2 increases, the end of the AGW scare may be at hand.So let me get this right, the left who tell us constantly that that the market is useless, evil and worse are now suddenly market champions when it comes to putting a tax on air.

WHat ever happened to all those solemn diatribes about how government is better than the market at running every little aspect of our lives?  Why, if the market is good for taxing air, isn't it allowed to take care of meicine and education without any interference by the State?

But of cousre the answer is simple.  The ETS that the lefties so love is not a capitalist, market-driven scheme at all, but a socialistic ramp.  Governments don't create true markets, they guard them.  Without the government the market would not trade in air. The whole thing is a tax by another name.

The main reason to be disappointed in direct action is because the Coalition really should be telling us that AGW is a myth.  We need to stop wasting money on this myth and paying 'scientists' and evangelists large sums to tell governments how much they can interfere in our lives.I like the idea of returning to the ancient Greek method of choosing rpolitical representatives by ballot, because it will be seen as being not quite as legitimate as election.  This means that the MPs selected will not have the unfettered power that our politicans have.

The problem with our democracy is thta we have not set efficient limits on governments.I agree about the style of politics, but I hate the idea of your kind of politics, because I see you wanting to give government so much power that we will all end up being servants of the state rather than the othr way around.

Politics is not important, pas it on.The point that Brand and most people on the left seem to fail to realise is that we should don't need much government action or policitcs any more.


These people keep making out government to be the most important thing on the planet.  It is not.  The laws aare in place, people.  Government has done its job.

Parloiament and the politicans could take 5 years off and just leave the public service and the ministers to get on with adminstration.  Australia wopuld immediately become the best place in the world, as the damn politicains would stop tinkering all the time and getting in the way of private life.

That is the revolution I want. Down with Government as anything but a marginal part of our lives.  We don't need to replace it or select MPs differently, we just need to limit their activities to least possible.I wonder if the study in the UK pointed out that the low income 'earners' receuved all their money from the government anyway.

But of course the study you cite is very suspicious.  How does a nyone who pays no income tax (i.e. low income 'earners) and 20% VAT on purchases, manage to pay tax of 43% of their income.  The Council Tax must be incredibly high.

In any case, a society that models its institutions around the needs of low income 'earners' is bound to get a lot more of them.There were thousands of such stories in the media, especially on "our" ABC.  The trick was that the lefty media would like you did, exaggerate what Tony Abbott said and then manufacture disdain and loathing.

In case you didn't notice the only thing that Labor did well after 2010 was to attack Abbott. We were constantly hearing from all Labor's stooges in the media about the nastiness of Tony Abbott. The smears never stopped.

The problem for Labor was that they were utterly stupid in ther attacks on Abbott.  They should have ignored him.  By telling us all that Abbott ate babies and would take your pension away whilst laying into your grandmother with a crucifix they just made themselves look like an Opposition and not a government.  Governments should do their best never to mention the Opposition leader's name in public if they can help it.I thought politics became poisonous on the lection of that prat Whitlam who seemed to want to be as divisive as possible from the first.  He had only scraped over the line against a very tired government, and he had a cabinet full of dinosaurs who had no idea how to govern. The practice of politics then turned nasty as these amateur-hour socialists tried to change everything overnight, in the face of a worsening economy.What a load of rubbish.

The Abbott Opposition was no more aggressive than any other.

If anyone was using a scorched earth approach it was Labor, who made sure they left as many nasty spending committments that would make it difficult for the next government to achieve economic reform and cut the deficit and repay Labor's massive debt.I think everyone is going about this the wrong way.

Before we worry abotu reforming the tax system, we really should work out how much money the governmen needs to meet its committments.

So first a thourough spending review should take place.  Nothing should be sacred in such a review.

The basic purpose of the review would be to ensure that the government gets off the backs of the productive as much as possible and focuses its welfare spending only on the poor.

AFter that is done we can adjust the tax system to fit.

Of course it would probably easier to do what Warren Harding did in the US and immediatelky cut taxes by 25%.  That woulkd stimulate the economy and get business paying more tax.The problem here is that the GST revenue goes to the States.

Free unviersal heathcare is a terrible thing becuase it reduces politics to endless arguments about sickness and eats up money like there is no tomorrow.  In addition it starts the process whereby we all become servants of the state.  The government can justify every little nasty nanny state interference in our lives with "we must stop you from doing X, because it will make you unhealthy and cost a lot more in healthcare costs"

In any case, I can get my pets treated straight awya without any government scheme and with perfectly adequate insurance to pay for it.  Why can't that happen for humans.

Heath care is just another market.  When Governments interfere in a market they make things much worse and much more expensive.Rubbish

There was an Asian meltdown, 9/11 and the the dotcom bubble During Howard's time. They all shook the world quite hard, but we didn't notice them because our economy was strong. A lot of that strength is to the credit of the Howard government, whose tax rate cuts were probably the most visionary and beneficial thing that any government has done for Australai since Menzies.  

The mining boom also contributed to our relatively good run through the GFC, thosugh the Ruddistas did make things alot worse by overspending and spooking business.Weber came up with the idea of the ideal type, that is a construction of a person who doesn't exactly exist but is useful in any debate.  However, the ideal type is only a tool, not a fact.

I think the same can be said about "Australian economy." It is a construct that is useful in debate but which isn't really fact.

The macro picture is one that isn't really as important as most people would have us believe.  WHat we need to focus on is individual success.  If a significant people are doing well, then the country is doing well.  Too many people want to think about things the other way.

We get too hung up on the abstracvt idea of the "AUstralian economy" when we should be more concerended about Australians' economies"wrote stuff which throws into doubt his appropriateness for his role with government"

Where do people get this line from?  Is it an ALP talking point?

Saying that Spurr was not suitable for the curriculum job, which he has already finished, because of the emails is like saying that a batsman isn't suitable for a cricket team because he has red hair.You have a very strange and romantic view of investment by business.

Businesses have a prime duty to make a profit for their owners.  As part of this duty they may genuinely or disingenuously letting it be known that they have wider social ambitions. 

In my profession, firms take on trainees all the time and push them to become qualified and then experienced in the law.  Of course the reson for this is not an altruistic one of providing jobs or investing in young lawyers' futures, it is to keep the firm going and the fees coming in, as well as to uphold the law, which all lawyers are sworn to do.

There is no real value to a business taking on trainees unless it pays them to do so.  In most industries that is not the case.Have you ever thought that it is left-wing policies of welfare dependency and huge government spending which are leading to the inequality of wealth that causes you so much concern?

The funny thing is, Government keeps getting bigger (if only a little more slowly under the Coalition), yet inequality grows. Maybe, the fact that government is sucking the air ouit of the economy and diminishing the idea of personal responsibility is really sapping the spirit of the young and leading them to lives of despair and lassitutde.Laying the hyperbole on the hyperbole isn't really going to help you win an argument.

The problem is that when you use big words like democracy, you have to know what they mean. It is clear that you have no idea what the a democarcy is. I get the impression, that you think a democarcy is some polity where their is constant left-wing government and any deviation from that can't be the people's will.And what would they know of him?NoRubbish.

The States have far more to do with employment than the Commonwealth.

Tasmania didn't have the green jobs before Abbott, not as a result of Abbott.

Sounds like Labor and the Unions.ANd what will these hords of ALP voting youths get in place of the Coalition?

They will get an ALP that may pay more dole, but whose profligacy in  taxing, spendin and regulating will ensure that the army of these youth grows to mammoth proportions.

The problem of youth unemployment is not a problem that governments can fix. Only the youth themselves and the community can do that.

We need a change in attitude, not a change in government.Firstly, the subsidies are all myths invented by lefty think tanks who are too stupid or nasty to know what a subsidy actually is.

Even if there were subsidies to the miners, at least those miners are employing others, which the individual unemployed person is noiot.

The problem with your comment is the idea that somehow mammoth organsisations are really run by one person for the sole benefit of that person.The concept of being underemployed is a weird one.  It seems that people who use this term think it a scandal that someone hasn't got the job they trained to do. WHy?  Just because you trained to be something doesn't give you an entitlement or expectation that you will be able to get a job in your chosen field.

I'm sure a lot of people trained hard to be sportstars or actors but have never really made it.  DO we then say, "oh that person is underemployed" because he's driving a taxi?  Of course not.Yes the negative income tax is a briliant idea.I am intrigued to know why you and your wife stuck at this casual employment for 7 years if it was so bad.

I also wonder why you think that somehow that all jobs have to have conditions that suit the employee and not the employer.The AUstralian government didn't engage in any bailouts.

You can't compare a buiolding to a debt.

In any case, how do you know that those coroporate buldings aren't also mortgaged.Serfdom comes with socialism, not conservatism.

After years of Labor telling the clients of the state that they were victims, they now believe the propaganda and have made themselves victims.  They have lost that hardy Australian can-do spirit.  That's what happens when you treat adults like children and keep insisting they aren't up to helpjng themselves without politics and government to do it for them. That is in fact the true serfdom.

For many it's here alredy, because of left wing policy in the social sphere.

The left believes in creating more clients for themselves and the state by making life 'easier' for the disadvantaged. However, the more they do this the worse things become for those clients. That is the left wing way: make things worse for others whilst making them better for the growing cadre of new class public servants and activists.You're happy to commit the argumentum ad absurdum fallacy as well.

Theere is no real chance that professionals who work hard to repay loans  will give worse service.  In fact it is likely that they will give better service because they will be highly motivated people who wanted to succeed despite the cost.

You have hit the nail on the head.

The real problem here is not that higher education should be free or not, it is that we can't make it free for everyone.

Back in the past, far fewer people were accepted into university.  There were then fewer course and fewer universities.  Since Labor's reforms under Dawkins all these curbs on the number of students have been progressively removed.  As a result we can no longer affoprd to provide free higher education.

If we do want to rpovide free higher education we can do two things:

1. privatise the unis and subsidise the fees of students with low income students getting all their fees paid; or
2. insist on unis cutting student numbers back to the academically gifted.
"I am curious to know why any readers here should accept your opinion over the scientific consensus on this issue?"

Because, AGW, is just too convenient for grant-hungry scientists and power-hungry governments.

None f the 'consensus scientis' predictions in relation to AGW have actually come true yet.

What's more some other scientists have now replicated, using real data, Murry Salby's theory that it is rises in temperature that effect CO2 levels in the atmosphere rather than the other way around.

After reading the Climate gate emails, it is impossible to believe that the few scientists at the heart of the AGW 'consensus' have been operating as ethical scientists should do.
lynne

Why should the cruel practices in other countries put we Australains from eating meat from animals killed here in Australia humanely.

Your post contains one of the most basic of logical errors the non sequitur.One of the greatest misconceptions in life, one which you seem to shatre, is this weird idea that you can't represent someone unless you are the same sex, class or race as them.

EVeryday in this country peopkle represnt others who fuffer from them in all these characeristics and more.

You lefties are always trying to tell us that everyone is the same and that its evil to demonise 'the other", yet you can't seem to stop making the'other" feel different.  Mr Abbott can be minister for women, just like a white man can be minister for ethnic affairs.

Only fascist left-wingers believe that somehow all the tribes are in need of an exact proportion of members in every body.  Don't let them take you down the route of mindlessness.So on the logic of you extremists of the left, we should have sacked the GG and the PM when both were women, because it was unrepresentative to have two women in the top job?I wonder how many corporate executives you really know, I have dealt with hundreds of them. When I was a partner at a national law firm I was one.  My experience was that executives come with a myriad of difering personalities.  Most of them are cleverer than the average person and most of them are interesting and funny people. Tjey do tend to be driven. But that doesn't mean that they are backstabbers.

You really need to eschew stereotypical thinking.  If it is wrong and illogical to demonise someone on racial or sexual grounds, then itis just as wrong and illogical to be bigotted against someone because of his lawful occupation.

So you have to have a law degree to be in cabinet?

Your logic is a bit faulty.

Maybe you should check your own biases and bigotry.  

I have to say though, that the best thing about Tony Abbott, apart from the calm good sense he brings to the role of PM, is that he drives the lefties mad.
The problem is that the Constitution envisaged the Commonwealth only needing indirect tax revenue.  The income tax was not then an issue.

However, the States signed away their power when they agrred with the Commonwaelth to allow the Commonwealth sole income taxing power.

it is that agrrement that needs to be rescinded.  

What we need to do is reverse the tax mix.  The Federal government should rely on indirect taxes and some grants from the State governments.  The State Governments, which provide the bulk of the services to the public) should get the bulk of the income tax.LB

I don't know if you have noticed that not everybody will be able to study what he or she wants because many courses actually have entry requirements.  So the 'poor' will usually not get into a course because they haven't met the criteria, not because they are poor.

In my expereince of talking to a lot of people from SYdney's western suburbs or Central Coast, the biggest barrier is their own poverty of expectations. If you are Jaydn Bloggs and all your family and acquaintances are unskilled workers, then it is likely that you too will be unskilled worker, because that is what you know.  To break out of that and become a professional is very difficult, often because your family won't like it.  

However, it is relatively easy for those people to get into some sort of business for themselves.  A lot of them are now contractors and small business people.Agreed. That is why the left is wrong.  They don't understand that someone who cleans toilets today, might move on and get a better job tomorrow.  Cleaning toilets is a job that should be done on the way to soemthing else.

In fact studies have shown that most of the 'poor' are in fact people who are on the way to better things.They are the young people in entry level jobs or students doing part time work.Non-residents have to pay tax on income earned in Australia. SO there goes your CEO argument.

BtL didn't make any comment about one class being "above' another.  Class war has nothing to do with status but to do with the bigotry of those who want to divide us between 'rich' and poor' and assume that no-one who falls on the 'rich' side is decent.

Oh yes, and those who spout lawyer jokes more ofetn than not have inferiority complexes of stunning proportions.Envy is really not a good basis on which to live your life.  In fact, envy is probably our biggest social problem today.ACOSS is a pretty big lobby group.What a silly comment.

The Government keeps the peace, runs the courts protects the borders and a million and one things that benefit us all.Actually it is a lifestyle choice.  Go and read Theodore Dalrymple on the effects of the welfare state and how the underclass it created actually revel in the life that they have not having to worry about working.No, if you take welfare away from people you will find that suddenly they will have an incentive to find an income for themselves.  They will become inventive and show inititivae.  Instead of diverting their cleverness to surving on the amount paid by the government, they will go out and really add to the economy by adding value.

You make the mistake that a lot of people mmake about public spending and the economy.  If the government hadn't kaen money from the economy to spend on welfare, then that money would have been used in the economy by those who originally earnt it.  The unemployed thus don't add to the economy when they spend their dole.

The scary truth is that you don't believe it.

If only lefties would look at things as they really are and stop being sidelined by this schoolyard sense of 'fairness.'

You obviously don't know about the stress and difficulties that acrrue to those who are successful.

Actually, I think it would be fair if we taxed only those who made over $100K annually.

I would suggest that before we can judge what is a fair tax system, we need to judge what income the Country needs.  it seems to me that if we wanted things to be fair, we would lower the revenue expectation by about 25%.  That would mean that we could get only those in the top income brackets to pay tax. 

the second reform I would then introduce would be a social one.  SOmeone should start a campaign whereby we thank the high income eraners for their tax contribution and make a big thing of it.  The Big earners then would in fact be proud of their contributions.  We should really laud those who emerge over the threshhold of paying tax, throw them parties. etc.

The point is, if you make the tax amount reasonable and attach social cachet to paying it, you will get a lot more people paying it with good grace.  You can then lifet the burden from the middle classes.

Of course this would mean the end to big government and middle class welfare.I wonder why people think that the commonwealth government can actually deliver services. It doesn't really have much of a track record in this area.  

That is why Whitlam's vision would fail. We can see that from the idiotic attempts by the last ALP government which botched service delivery really badly.

Who is to say that a lot of the old vested interests at the commonewalth level would not prosper under the growth of the commonwealth. And who is to say that new vested interests worse than the current ones wouldn't grow.

We need less government, not more.

But most of all we need federal fiscal balance.  The State governments which supply just about all of the services need to be held accountable for the revenue they spend.Typically all the leftists here will cry that we need to ditch the Sate governments nad have an overwhelming Commonwealth government.

What they all fail to realise is that the STates actually do most of the things that they want governments to do.

Without mammoth constittutional reform, it would be impossible to abolish the States.

What we actually need is a massive reduction in commonwealth taxes and an increase in State Taxes.  The first step is to allow the States to collect all income tax and the Commonwealth to receive the GST.

This clearly what the Constitution envisaged happening since t gave the Commonwealth exclusive rights to collect customs duties and excise taxes.
So tell me Greg, who runs all the services you want from government?

The States?

DO you know why that is?

Because the Constitution requires it.

What's the big deal about changing a few licences and registrations when you move interstate?  If that's all you have to worry about, then you must have an easy life.

But the real point is that if the States funded themselves and could compete, then all States would probably lift their performance. 

Keep telling the lies aboout "tea parties" and such things and one day you will really believe them.

The tea party is merely a group of middle of the road Americans who think that government is now too big. There is ample evidence that they are right. The US government is also massivly corrupt and inefficient.

Obamas healthcare funding program is incredibly unpopular and will result in the Republicans taking the Senate as well as the HoR next month. ly.As a righty, I agree with you Splod.

There is no piint in electing Labor, when they are aple imitation of the other side.  But therei also no pijt electing them if they go back to their loeft-wing past , as that would take us back to the 1920s.Let me ask, how do the media report any more on policy than they do?

The policy issues are released by the parties all the time.  The media mentions these all the time. 

I think too many people think that 'reporting' in this case includes analysis.  Actually it doesn't.  WHat a journalist tells me about policy isn't really important.  


WHat policy analysis do you think the average journo can do?

He or she is not an expert in anything but reporting. and on the past behaviour of politicians and events. SO analysis for them is based upon politics not policies.

Tha's as it should be.  All the media need to do is report the policy issues.  We can then decide what we think. 

Only labor supporters really care about personalities. That is obvious from the utter bilge they sppot about Tony Abbott's personality.Most of the people I know who have principles vote for the party they believe will do best in government.  They may vote ALP, Green or Coalition.

Never believe that those who don't think as you do have hvae no principles.  They just have different principles to you.

Coialition voters tend to be more affluent and intelligentI'm always amazed at the the fact that people put so much faith in political action at all.

Many seem to think that somehow governments could achive anything, and that we should subsume society itself and all inviduality as well into the continual quest for 'policies' and political 'solutions.'

Ninety Nine percent of the time, politcal 'solution' have unintended consequences that are worse than the problem that the 'policy' was designed to overcome.

Government has reached its limt.  it needs to do what is has to do well, and stop being overactive and trying to get into more areas.

We don't need governments worrying about discrimination, obesity or smoking.  We don't need governments nudging us to better outcomes morally or anything else.

We need governments to the basic minimum and do it well.

As de Tocqueville said, a government which gives the people rights and privileges will turn the people into weakened drones and servants of the state.I dispute your call on Fraser.  He did one vital thing: he saved Australia from the awful WHitlam government.  The economy would have floundered if Fraser had allowed things to go on without an election.

The fact is of course that no government rests on one person anyway.  Thwe Whitlam government contained a bunch of really useless idelogues and old fogeies of astonishing incompetence. 

Howard wanted to make the changes that Hawke and Keating were forced to make (ie Right WIng changes) to the Australian economy.  Those changes were bi partisan.

In a way Hawke deserves praise because he managed to convince the unions to accept lower wwages for their mebers.  he also oversaw the general decline in the union movement.  It was Hawke's success that led to Labor's fall into irrlevance.  Once the Berlin Wall came down and the left lost the economic argument, it was necessary for Labor to move right. However, there were many silly little ALP type reforms that annoyed the people so that keating got thumped in 96.

Moist of all, no matter how right Labor went, it could never really understand business.it wasn't Cicero who was famous for saying "cui bono" but a very minor hack Roman politician, Lucius Cassius Longinus Ravilla, who was active the generation before Cicero was born.SO why didn't Labor repeal this middle class welfare, instead of adding to it with more family tax benefits?The building industry went through a shocking time after the stimulus ended.  It was, I'm told far worse than it would have been if the industry had been allowed to donsize naturally as a result of the GFC. Labor's policies made things worse, not better in many industries.For once I agree with you, Bizbob.

There should be no bar on any party dumping its leader at any time. Of course such dumpings will annoy some voters, but that is something for the new leader to overcome.Actually, the Cooalition had won seats off Labor in a huge landslide in 1966.  They then lost seats in 1969.  So it was only one election.

We must also remeber that COalition in the 80s having the same sort of battle between Howard and Peacock.  Labor had another taste of it with Hawke and Keating, where the former was dumped by his party.And a lot to be proud of as well.

You see that's the rub, the good and the bad are alwyas there at the same time.lefties always mistake contempt for fear or hate.  But that is because they are still living in the school playground.

The reason why the English language has so many words is a clue to the fact that your simplisitic approach is not really of much use in a grown-up debate.

So if I say I am concerned about the terror activity around the world, is that 'fear' or 'hatred'?  Of course it isn't.  No one is peddling fear, except the lefties who seem to think that the first thing that we are all going to do is go and bash an Islamic person.  That is peddling hatred, hatred of your own fellow australians.  It is similar with the constatnt charges of racism, sexism and homophobia that left-wing people make against Australians in general.I wonder. Could it be that we have concentrated the minds of most jihadis on the ME and kept them away from the West?

And do remember that the secular regime in Iraq had killed millions of its own people and was stirring up trouble throughout the region.Rudd wasn't a conservative, he was leftist.

'Conservtive' and 'progressive' like many words have more than opne meaning.  In the political sense they have recognized meanings.  Conservatives are right-wing and progessives are left-wing.

Of course every so often you'll here abour 'conservative communists' i.e. those communists who want to keep communism the same as it was.  Some lazy commenttors will often shorten that to 'the conservatives."  In  fact one might even say that the commentators are pruposely trying to muddy the waters and paint Conservativism in a bad light.  But fortunaltey most of us are up to that litle game and realsie that the commentators are using 'conservative' in a mall 'c" sense rather than in a philosophical sense.
I wonder if thingswould be any different on this score if the ALP were in power.

I would think that in fact Labor would be more hawkish, because they have to prove to the nation that they have cred in national defence after their useless performance on border control between 2007 and 2013.The commuinsyts actually did control people's lives to an extraordinary degree.

I bet you are one of those people who is awfully keen on statist solutions to every problem, but in the meantime you are happy to find incredibly obscure ways by which we are controlled.

Sounds like climate alarmism.  They keep telling that lie so that governments can enslave us with more regulations and controls.It is actually far less a religion of peace than Christianity is.That is the best argumentum ad absurdum I have read for a long time, Alpo. 

Better get your tinfoil hat ready.  it's going to be a long ten or 15 years of Tory government you will have to endure, olf friend.

Maybe what you could do is go out and make a success of yourself. Try something different. Add value.  When you get some wealth and responsibility under your belt you might see things a bit differently.

Cheers

BTW: it's classical liberal, not neoliberal.  The 'neo' prefix asumes that someone is new to to economic liberalism, that they were formerly perhaps a keysian or asomeone who believed in command economies.

The current government doesn't match that description.  They are classical libearals in economic terms or Conservatives.  There is nothing new in that. It is a tradition going back to Adama Smith and beyond.
You don't really answer the question do you Rinaldo.

Craig has won the argument, hasn't he?Your first pragraph is a silly distraction.  It matters little if working class people don't have botox.  Nor is your refernce to Gough Whitlam anything but gratuitous.
However, the rest of your post is full of common sense.

I would have said upper class sense, but I suspect you are proud of your working class roots :)But surely if you choose to conform, then you are exercising a freedom.  The freedom is in the choice not in the result of that choice.

You are free to choose a government that takes away your freedom.  However, once you make that choice you have lost the freedom to make too many others.But there are a lot of people whose look are more of a contribution to society than their intellects.  

Please do not underrate beauty.  SInce the beginning of the 20th century beauty has been scorned by the arts to such a degree that art is now vapid, boring and irrelevant. Beauty is often linked to profundity.  However, by letting it fall into the realms of low-brow culture we have let it lose a lot of that profundity.
I have been getting botox injections 4 times a year for the last 10 years.

In my case it is to relieve chronic and never ending facial pain.

I am told that it does make me look younger, but most people don't notice.

I think the author of this article is missing something.  There is a big difference between tolerance and respect.  The first is an absolute necessity for social intercourse, the latter is not. 

Too many minority group activists do not understand this.  Or maybe they understand it too well, and seek power for themselves and their cause through trying to pretend that tolerance means acceptance.

As to people saying things about the choices of others.  yes it is silly.  However, it is human.  VBut most of all it reflects badly on the speaker not on the target.

If only the activists would learn that simple lesson.

Rather than askin people to stop making such utterances, you point out to the world that they are fools for talking about things of which they have no notion.pfd

That post isn't up to your usual standanrd.

As you say, you are usually a stickler fo the facts.  But here you launch into the real of speculation about the case.  The Judge heard all the evidence and saw all the witnesses.  What you think is really neither here nor there.  You don't have enough knowledge of the events to give a reliable opinion.

I'm sure you know that what seems cut and dried outside a courtroom is often proven to be completely otherwise once the rules of evidence are applied.Well put Jerry.

Speaking as a lawyer, I always cringe when someone who who latches on to one fact deicdes that the verdict is wrong, even though he or she wasn';t within a mile of the courtroom and heard none of the evidence.Academic opinion in the law is of no importance.  The only opinion that matters is that of practising lawyers.  If I want to know the law I go to a silk for an opinion, not to an academic.

Secondly, if other lawyers in SA disagree with the Judge Masipa it will be on the application of the law, not on the finding of fact.Very well put.

The ANC is in a way sufferring from battered child syndrome.  It's people were supressed for so long and treated badly that it really doesn't know anything different and has become a batterer in its turn.

That perhaps is the most pernicious result of apartheid.The prosecution had ample time and resources to try and prove this to the Judge.  She had all the evidence presented to her.  She saw all the witnesses examined.  You had none of these things, but want to rpesume you know what happened based upon your own expereince.  That's not how the law works I'm afarid.If the left discarded all those ideas, they would become right wingers.
If the rest of the world embraced vodooo you would be here telling us how we were wrong not to do so.

By the way, stop being disingenuous, nobody at all denies climate change.  What a lot of us do deny is man-made climate change.  recently, a Swdish climate scientist has successfully replicated Murry Salby's finding that it is the rise in tempratures that drive the increases of CO2 in the atmosphere. That destroys the 'consensus view.' 
Typical leftist response: write it all off as a criminal matter rather than a politcal one.

The governments that want to reduce our freedom are those of the left.  Just look at the last government which wanted to expand the definition of discrimination to such a degree as to make it possible for activits to target any speech they found offensive.  And let's not forget the attempt to licence the media.In order to live in society we all give up our much of our personal liberty.

You see personal liberty includes the right to do anything without any consideration of anyone else.  However, it is recognised that certain defined personal liberties should not be given up lightly. Freedom of speech, privacy, due process and freedom of association are the most important of these. 

However, the thing is that often speech or asscoaition occurs in connection with something else.  

Defamation is a good example.  Defamation relates not just to the speech but to the intent to inflict reputational harm on another.  That is a deed.The same is true in relation to the old adage about falsely yelling 'fire' in a crowded cinema. The intention there is not to speak and impart information or opinion, but to cause harm. That is a deed.

So, I would suggest that none of the liberties we hold dear is being taken from you under the new terror laws.  These laws are aimed at deeds not at the specific liberties which you seem to be talknig about.
But the ALP's proposed reforms to the anti-discrimnation laws would have been impingement on personal liberty, as is section 18C of the RDA. The reason for that is by making the offence subjective rather than objective, the ALP has attacked speech and not deeds.Luke

I think there is a missing word in your first sentence. You seem to be saying that 2 adjectives are dead. Saying "the political/economic is dead' is like saying the classical/botanic is dead." 

So, the political/economic what is dead?

And what is all this corruption?  Probably just normal commerce which so many people have difficulty understanding, and so assume is evil.

And what are these ways of the 21st century that are so special? All the hippy claptrap so beloved by many on the left has been around since the 1930s.


The biggest lesson of the 20th century was that fundamentalist statism is a evil failure. What gurantee do we have that these 21st centeury ways of yours are not just more of the same old statist evil?
I agree din.

No matter what Michael says people will not take kindly to the value of their houses going down, particulalrly if they have a large mortgage.

The thing that Micahel seems to not realise is that equity in a house is the thing that strats many a small business or gets many a child the chance to go to a good school. 

WHy should we care about those who are at the bottom? We should look after the vast majority of middling people who will lose out if these changes were ever implemented.No one is treating anyone more fairly than anyone else, Sydney Bob. Some people are treating themselves more fairly by using the neutral tax laws to their advantage.

the tax laws weren't written with property investors in mind.  They apply equally to all sorts of investments.

SO the author's idea that somehow housing is different really falls a bit flat.But if we had 50,000,000 people then we would have enough to create an internal market big enough to support secindary industries without the need for government subsidies.The 50% discount is in place on all CGT assets not just real property.

The reason it is there is in recognition of the d=fact that ssets are acquired with money which has already borne tax.

As for the interest deduction, it is also income in the hands of the banks who pay tax on it, so the money ins't being lost.If negative gearing wasn't allowed, the amount of money lent on houses overall would drop significantly, thus the government wouldn't get tax from banks on interest from investors, but it would get more tax from individuals.  Swings and roundabouts.That is hyperbolic nonsense.

Most people who want to are still buying houses.I think you better go back and learn the difference between revenue and capital.

Also you might ponder the idea that land doesn't have to be competitve.  But even if it did, as it is an asset people from overseas are keen to buy it as an investment at a high price. They aren't keen to buy our goods and services at such high prices.

Wages are a cost of producing goods and services, real propoerty is not.

You are therefore comparing apples with oranges.SO a 'real' profit is earned by 'real' men doing 'real' jobs and anyone who makes a profit out of smart investment is a 'bludger' ?

Oh dear, what a sad life you are going to lead if that is your worldview.

Envy is probably the worst evil in the world these days.  You'd better be careful that it doesn't eat up your soul and leave you a husk of bitterness.

Adpat my firend.  get out there and revel in the joys that this modern world has to offer.  DOn't get hung up on the economy.  Just do what is good for you and yours and you will find contentment.

Of course house prices were vound to rise in inner suburbs as SYdney's population grew.  If you can't buy a house take out a mortgage obover some shares instead whilst you rent.

Most people inEUrope have rented all their lives for generations. It doesn't seem to bother them."As a nation we can do a lot better than funnelling our wealth and aspirations into never-ending growth in house prices."

That may be true.

It is up to all of those who believe this to convince us. You don't need the government to change anything.  That is the coward's way out.  What you have to do is to convince people of their own free will to stop doing one sort of activity (investing in real property) and to do something else (invest in other assets).

By the way the 50% CGT discount applies to all CGT assets not just land. If the assests are used activley in a business, then the discount is increased to 75% or even 100%.  That is another great thing introduced by the Howard Government to provide incentive to people to build up business. The speacial discount applies to smal businesses (ie with less than $2m annual turnover or less than $6m in assets minus liabilities).

SO there already are quite a few incentives to invest in more active assets than real property. 

I also wonder how the author would get rid of negative gearing ion real property.  WOuld he suggest that we write another 10 or 20 pages of income tax legislation? Would he tell us why the whole underpinning of the income tax law has to be overthrown on one little issue?I think you misunderstand the meaning of 'private' here.  In clause 5 the word 'private'  means 'personal.'


The meaning of 'private' that is being discussed here is best described by the word 'confidential.' I'm not sure that any rules can prevent a communication from being confidential, unless they say that all coimmunications made via a work emiail system will be published for reading by a wide audience.

No it doesn't.

It states that they can be read by the University, not by the public. SO they are not public emails.Your logic is faulty.  Professors are also not paid to run through the park on the weekend, go the pub after work or spread fascist-left ideas in the community (and a lot of them do the latter), But that doesn't mean that they don't have the right to do these things.Just because you communicate using a work email address it doesn't mean that your communication is not private.  

It is the intention of the communicator that is important here not the medium.  In any case maybe the Professor meant the email to be private between himself, the recipent and the uni (which only counts as one person). That does not allow anyone to say that the commuincation was public, as the uni itself has no right to publish the email either.

But maybe the point is this. Even if  the university had access to those emails, does this make it lawful for anyone else to read them and publish them?

If there is some kind of law against privacy, then I suggest that the New Matilda will be introuble.

Just because the email belongs to your workplace doesn't mean that it can't be private.

It's not a question of ownership.  An email is a communication.  A communication can be private within an organisation.  For example what if Manager A and Manager B are discussing the performance of worker C?  Manager A and B would want to communicate by email about Person C without Person C knowing what is in the email. 

The point is that even if your employer is entitled to look at your emails, that doesn't put them in the public domain.  They are still private with the employer also being a deemed recipient.I have to correct you.  Your understanding of the meaning of the word 'private' here is not correct.  A private email account just means personal email account.  A private communication is a communication that a person means to be private.  Even if the uni could monitor the emails it doesn't mean that any one else has a right to see those emails and to publish them. In effect the uni is just like another recipient.

The Professor thus intended the email to be private between himself, the uni and the recipients.The University only counts as one person.The fact that the university could read the emails doesn't make them any less private.  Like a lot of people here you mistake private email  with personal email account.  The latter is more private than the former.

WHat has to be looked at is the communication itself.  Was it meant to be kept private between the sender and the recipents (including the Uni if it read them)? That is the question.So let's destroy the New Matilda by boycotting its advertisers and pinting out that its editor is a leftist loon whose views are abhorrent.May I point out that since 1972 government has grown like topsy.

Back then, it was relatively easy to find some new programme to implement.  Now we have all the old programs to administer.  The more stuff the government does, the harder it is for any government to keep up.

It is like seeing the inventer of TV as wonderful, but not realising that if he were here now he'd be as clueless as the next man abiout modern technology.

The growth in complexuty in government has rendered government almost impossible.

And could it be that government plays catch up with society rather than the other way around as so many dewey-eyed leftists seem to think?

Personnally, I wonder why people on the left so love politics that they always want more of it.  Is it because they can't achieve anything in life woithout the need to coerce others?  

Let's face it Gough's administration was the worst in Australian history, until the Gillard and Rudd show came to town.

Hawke and Keating deserve much more Kudos (but not Keating as PM) for at least realisi9ng that the Liberals had won the economic argument and making sure that wages plummeted to realisitc levels under the Accords.  The introduction of all those new taxes was a shame, as was the inability to fox bracket crepp.  But then John Howard came along and made the real reforms that count, the reforms that lead to people being able to prosper if they want.I agree with your reasoning. 

The question of how the New Matilda obtained the emails is only of interest if they obtained them by illegal means.  The real question is whether they breached any law by publishing them.

 I suppose the same question also applies to any receipient who provided the emalis to New Matilda.  That person too could be sued under the same principles.

Reading a confidential communication not intended for you is not something that I think the law deals with, so much as apssing on the communication to others, especially by publishing it.Sorry Jess C,

But it might be arguable that the Professor did expect the messages to be confidential between himself, the receivers and the university.

In other words, the university has a right to see the emails, but no -one else.Just one point.  University professors are not government employees because Universities are actually not government insitutions, but independent chartered institutions.Rhonda

You are not addressing the issue raised by Sir Robert.

He said that Professor Spurr's email account was a taxpayer funded.  It is not.

The fact that the email account was not a private one is really a furphy.  The real questions here is simple:

Was it right for the New Matilda to publish these emails (and who knows they may have edited them or taken them completely out of context by not publishing all them)?

The second part of your post addresses that question. You seem to believe that anyone who has anything to do with government should not have any views that would offend the maiden aunts and new victorians of the left.  I have known some really nasty people in my professional career.  However, if I needed someone to act for me I would immediately pick some of them because they are also great lawyers.  

Professor Spurrs views on race have nothing to do with setting the curriculum.

I'm sure that governments have hired wife beaters, sadists, adulterers communists and hypocritical lefties by the dozen over the years who have all done the job for which they were paid with skill and due diligence.  There is no reason to think that Professor Spurr was any different.
The standard of proof in all civil law is the balance of probabilities. However, in cases where fraud is alleged then it is possible that the standard is a little higher, though some say that the evidence just needs to be more rigorous.

The question here is not one of who owns emails, but whether the person who wrote the email has had his privacy breached by the pubslihing of those emails.

In these cases it is actually the communication that is important.  the medium only becomes relevant if it is a medium that was clearly not private.  Thus if someone wrote a message to a friend on a wall in Pitt Street, it couldn't be said that the writer was keen on confidentiality.

So in this case, it is not important whether the university owned the email account as some of our simpler colleagues here seem to think.  Rather the question is whether the university's email policy was such that it meant that the Professor knew that his messages were not confidential.

Maybe the Professor could argue that even if the knew the Uni could read his emails, that doeesn't mean they were not private between himself the recipient and the uni.  After all I'm sure the uni too has a policy that it's emails aren't to be read by outsiders.

But surely the point isn't whether the uni had a right to view the emails, but whether the New Matilda had the right to read them and publish their contents.

If the emails belong to the uni, then NM stolid them from the uni.No, it's only in Victoria where biased lefty judges cause problems, as in the Bolt caseMitor

That classic example of the tu quoque fallacy in your post really is not worthy of you. 

The fact that the anti-terror law contains provisions that you don't think are reasonable doesn't negate the point that Victoria has some notoriously left-wing judges, one of which was an ex"ALP candidate who bent the law out of shape in the Bolt case.

I blame Bolt nd the Herald Sun for not appealing that decision.  I suppose they thought that if the decision was allowed to stand it would shine as beacon of why the despicable s 18C should be repealed.  it is a shame that the Abbott government caved in on that.So your children can only learn things from people who are pure as the driven snow?

Change "conservative" to left, and you are right.

Please don't talk about evidence unless you are are a legal practitioner, because otherwise you don't know what evidence really is and are not trained to assess it.sorry, I was just  pretending to make an appeal to authority like all leftists do when they worship scientists rather than science itself.

There is now plenty of scientific evidence that AGW is not true. It is the non scientific who wish to deny this because governments don't want to hear that there is no basis to their power grabs and scientists don't want to see the end of the prestige and grants that AGW theory has brought themI Like the beach of confidence line, but I have to point out that the public interest is a legal term which, as the author points out, is not the same as the interest of he public. The national interest is different again. That is a concept that drops up more in an international context.This is probably one of the best articles that I have ever read on the Drum, because it is scholarly and makes an interesting point.  

Public interest not national interestSurely the real question is whether the New Matilda had the right to publish the emailsLegal Professional Privilege ('LPP') is a special sort of legally recognised right to privacy attaching to communications between a person and his or her lawyer. If Professor Spurr had sent these emails to his lawyer in the course of seeking advice, one assumes LPP would apply. 

Michael Rivette might be able to tell us whether Professor Spurr would be waiving LPP if he sent this email to his lawyer from his work account knowing that his employer could read such an email if is chose to do so. 

I think that siutation is analagous to the real circumstances.

There are a lot of things that have to be done by any government, especially one following the debacle of the last ALP smallest of an administration. I doubt whether there is really much in the way of Federal legislation that would help people who have changed their sex. In fact I'd argue that really it is the Star's role to be neutral in these things. Politicians should in fact try to make sure that their words don't make it harder for vulnerable people, but they should not provide any extra privileges to such people.Natalie

There are two sides to a conversation. You must also try and understand how I want to define things. Too many minority activists seem to think that they have the sole right to define things and make the running. That is not the way to gain tolerance.

In my view the term transgender person only has relevance whilst someone is changing their physical sex. After this is accomplished the person in question is a man or a woman, depending upon which sex that he or she has chosen. Of course, we really shouldn't treat women and men differently anyway. Tje sooner we all get over the need to treat people with kid go loves and just treat them well the better.One would get the impression from all this hagiography that Mr Whitlam did it all on his own without the ALP to help him.  In fact he was not an ideas man at all, just an advocate of mixed success. 

When he retired did he return to the Labor heartlands to live amongst the ALP stalwarts of Cabramatta?

No he lived in my electorate, the richest of all, in true blue Liberal country.

The point is that Mr Whitlam was always out for himself and his own glory. If things had been a little different he might have joined the Liberals. I think he joined Labor because in those days a man of his talents stood out in the ALP but was really commonplace in the Liberal Party of Menzies.

But what I find interesting is that society has got to where it is mostly without politicians. Government has slowly developed over 200 years so as to provide a reasonable support for private enterprise and social cohesion. The Whitlam 'reforms' even if they were good represent only a gnat's bite of the development of government. Most good government is unseen and unheralded because it is obscure. Whit lam got all that boring stuff wrong and left a terrible legacy of big government and incompetence behind.

Leave society to change what it should and let government stick to the few things it is designed to do.

Whitlams legacy: massive social problems, welfare dependency and lack of independence amongst our people.I agree 100% with Mr Barns.

I have always thought that the Sex Offenders' register has been more about placating the more excitable members of the public.
The register has nothing to do with rehabilitation.So do all families with children go rushing off to see if someone they know is on the a Register?

How many times have you consulted it?

The kind of people who boast about how much they would do to protect their families are usually in my experience bullies and cowards when in comes to the crunch. Their children always tell me how annoying that kind of parent it, caring more for their own egos and self image as "protectors" rather than really loving their children.Like so many people who comment on these fora you seem to have fallen for the zero sum fallacy. Just because there is no longer a public ally available sex register doesn't mean that victims will suffer any more from the crimes of child abusers. It is arguable that victims do suffer when an offender isn't given a sentence that is thought to be of sufficient severity. But I doubt strongly whether any victim will feel worse because the sex offenders' register is not publicly available any more.

The question is whether the register is preventing fresh crimes. The evidence says it is not.

So we are hurting people who have paid their debt to society. Are we in fact making it more likely that they will reoffend because they never can fit back into normal life? If you had n chance of a decent living a were shunned by society, wouldn't you feel more inclined to get your own back by reoffending?And will you or your child suffer any less because of the register?

If the person offends again, because he can't fit back into normal life because of the register, will that bother you?

So nothing will appease you? Then that means nothing should be done.

In any case, the aim of justice isn't to appease the victim but to protect society.I wonder if the victim of child sexual a use is really any better off because of the fact that the offender suffers a lifetime of limited chances even after completing a gaol sentence. The justice system is there to ensure hat people do not seek redress by violent means, and to look at the relevant events with disinterested detachment. It is to protect society and not provide revenge for the victim that is the basis of justice.

So those above who argue for a register in order to make the perpetrator suffer like the victim are missing the point.Smoking and obesity are NOT international problems. They are problems that occur in many places.  But they are not communicable diseases.  WHO should be looking at things that international co-operation can fix, not at things that local governments can fix.  Smoking and obesity are first world problems that first world governments can tackle without international help.  WHO needs to husband its resources to help those who can't helkp themselves, i.e. the poor and benighted people of the thrird world.I'll correct you.  It doesn't matter where the IPA receives its funding.  Stick to the argument. Ad hominem attackls are logical fallacies.  Bringing them iup only weakens your argument, such as it is.Actually it's more like selling an ornament for $1000 that you bought in an op shop for $2, and getting the right to income every time the ornament goes on show in a museum, which is all the time.

The anti-privatisation people always forget that things like Medibank are neither essential government services and that the privatised owners will up the profits and therefore pay lots of tax.  SO we get the Purchase price (10 years time annual profit) plus tax that will hopefully build up to the same as the current yearly profit when the organsiation is rumn on private enterprise principles.  It's a win -winEconomists are not experts in finacial advisor regulation. Next you'll be saying that the Government knocked back tax reform against the advice of all the newsagents in the country.That really is a silly comment. North Kore is a communist dictatorship.  So it doesn't have to please the people like AUstralian government have to do. It can and does depoil the environment freely.But carbon dioxide (not just carbon) isn't a pollutant, it is a naturally occurring gas that feeds plants.Do you actually know what a democracy is?

It seems that those who say things like "if we had a democracy.." seem to think that a democracy would always agree with their extreme views.Why can't we do both?

Coal provides cheap power and export earnings upon both of which economic propserity lies.  Solar power is expensive and needs subsidies from government.  The government will be more able to do give those subsidies if solar power doesn't force up electiricty costs and therefore hold the economy back.

The government should offer prizes to those who can develop an efficient solar power solution that is as cheap as coal.

It should not make prices for electricity skyrocket by imposing taxes or giving rebates to solar users.All total rubbish.

The AGW thing is a myth dreamt up by power-hungry governments to enslave you.  break free of your chains and fight for liberty.

Rubbish

That is the way to make politicians get on a gravy train that will never run out..

it also raises politics tway too high in importance.  Politics is a necessary evil, but it is still evil.

leave humans alone and they will thrive.  Humanity is underrated.

Sinistra delenda est!Renewable nergy is not better for the environment wherethe equipment used to generate it is manufactured. Also it is clear that renewable enregy is not capable of meeting our electricity needs cheaply.

In addition, it seems that AGW is a myth perpetrated by grant-hungry 'scientists' and power -hungry politicians.

Treat all politicians with suspicion, but treat those of a statist disposition with utter contempt.  

CLiamate change is not man-made.  The amount of CO2 produced by man is a tiny amount of the total occurring in the world.  In any case, some scientists now believe that the fact that CO2 increases fluctuate from year to year indicates that in fact the natural change in the climate is causing the increase of CO2 in the atmosphere.

But why would such scientists receive recognition.  After all the warmist alarmism is far mor profitable for those who love a bit of self-importance and the threat of apocalypse in their lives.  Governments of course love such things, particulalrly now that all other left wing memes have proven to be such washouts. 

John kerry is presiding over the collapse of US power in the world.  he can't keep his embassies protected in the middle East.  But he can whine on about climate change and thus try to divert attemtion from a huge Democrat failure in foreign policy.The explanation is that the tepreature changes drive the CO2 increases rather than the other way around.I saw those polls.  They were mendacious.  What people, quite rightly said was that they dislked racial villification.  They didn't say that we need a law to ban it. Most people are not actually bright enough to realise that you don't need the law to do all the work for you.You have just proved Kevin's point, Dove.

WHy is it OK to ban helmets in banks by law, but not burquas in Parliament?You have summed it up perfectly.


Lefties are so absorbed with words that they always miss their true meaning. The will find offence in anything if it suits their warped sense of self-righteousness.  No lnk is too tenuous. 

They are the true heirs of the Victirian prudes who covered chair legs because they might remind someone of something salcious. 


The  important word there was not poodle but "mincing."  it is an old sterotype that gay men mince.  Therefore that insult by Gillard was an anti-gay slur which is far worse than grlie-man, which is just a remark that says that you aren't manly enough, but doesn't denigrate girls.I don't recall any rage.  I remember we all just picked the lefties up on their Victorian hypocrisy.

Gillard could make anti-gay jokes, but we on the right couldn't call her out on her hopeless performance without being called 'sexist.'

As to the tonails in the kitchen, methinks you might be projecting, Scotty, me lad.What a lot of rubbish.  Most girls and women I know would not take girly-man as any kind of disparagement of women, but a clear disparagement of a man who is weak. He is weak because he isn't living up to what he shoud be as a man. That isn't to say women are weak as a sex.

There are probably as many misandrists as there are mysoginists.Do you know what mysoginist actually means?  Obviously not. Let me give you a clue.  Mysoginist and sexist are not synonyms.

You can't name one thing Tony Abbott said in opposition that was mysoginistic. You then claim that having to few women in Cabinet is an example of the PM's mysoginy.  WIthout any direct evidence such a claim is mere speculation and pretty inane speculation at that.  

You lefties always amuse me.  You claim that everyone is equal and that there are no differences between men and women.  If that is the case then it shouldn't matterwhat proportion of the cabinet aremale or female.Basil

Crime and violence have only come down from the highs they achieved after the anti-dicrimnation push had started. 

But I do agree with you that one must avoid the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy. 

There is a good argument to say, however, that leftist social policy has caused a lot of the social problems that we have today.  The essayist Theodore Dalrymple is especially good at drawing this out.

And if Labor were in power we would be in terrible trouble as they spent us to perdition.  But you can't see that the ALP has blighted Australia for years with its idiotic insistence that government should do everything for us because we are all such weaklings.  Who cares if someone denigrates sopmeone on any basis?  I don't. I'm sick of all this endless worrying that you lefites enter into every time someone who isn't on your side makes a comment.  Don't ever debate the substance, but just get all onanisitc about how it was siad.

The leader of the Opposition is an economic girly-man, as are all ALP MPs, whether male or female.  None of them has any gumption.  They will will get tough in politics but not in combatting the real problem in society, the spread of government.

The fact is that people have become addicted to politics.  They have thus made government so complex and far-reaching that it is impossible for any politicians to tame the beast.Where do you get that 15% from?

The top marginal rate is 45%, without the medicare levy. 

Far better for you to say that the CGT is payable on half the capital gain, rather than fiddle with percentages. 
I'd love for you lefties to explain what negative gearing actually is and how it all works.

At the same time I'd love to see you point to the tax legislation and tell us all how there is a 'special negative gearing regime' that applies only to real property, because of all you constantly imply that somehow 'negative gearing' is an evil created for'the rich' by government.

I get the real impression that those who talk about'negative gearing' with such disparagement don't really understand how the tax system works or that it is in fact a deduction that they wish to be removed not negative gearing itself.BIZbob

For once you and I are in total agreement.

However, I would go further, why not just lower taxes evrywhere and make it easier for business across the board.

Turn Australia into a tax haven and all of us woulod be wealthy in no time.The problem is that the Commonwealth Constitution forbids tax diferentiations between States or parts of States.

However, State and Local governments can and do a lot to encourage business.Well, Gravy, obviously you don't move somewhere until you've found some source of income (not necessarily a job).

Like I keep saying to people here, expand your horizons and stop thinking that income can only come from working badly at a job you hate whilst complaining about the boss.I think you are spot on, Jimmy.

Maybe the problem is that the big city is such a lure.

I know that I couldn't live away from 20minutes from the CBD. But I can afford it.Lots of logical problems in such a short post.

Firstly, the Chinese have had the one chiold policy for years and pollution has still got worse.  Secondly, the fact that pollution rises after population growth doesn't necessarily mean that population growth caused the pollution.  Beware of the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy.Big business doesn't care, because big business doesn't have a single mind.

You would have a much more enjoyable life if you realised that 'big business' is not an evil super-genius' trying to do you down.Well said Early Grayce.

As cities mature the prices in the inner parts will rise.

I think our biggest problem s small c conservatism.  Most people just do what they know, and don't bother to get out of their comfort zone.  Thus they would rather whinge about not affording a house rather than look at a different area of the city.

I cannot blame them.  That is what I did myself.Obviously you didn't finace your children through Cranbrook or Ascham by sometimes drawing down on your mortgage.  Nor did you have to supply a list of your assets to a lending institution in order to get a loan for your business.  

All wealth is to some extent illusory.  The whole system is based upon trust.  That Rembrandt you have in your attic is still the same picture that you inherited from your Grandmother who bought it for a few thousand pounds in 1917.  But now it's worth millions. That's the market.  Nothing has intrinsic worth so much as market value.In other countries you can indeed claim a tax dediuction for interest payments on the family home, but I think then you have to pay CGT when selling.I really wish thta people would understand about negative gearing and the CGT discount.

The whole point about the negative gearing deduction is that it shifts the tax burden to banks and their shareholders. Instead of the investor paying tax on the amount of income represented by the interest on the loan, the bank does so instead, because it is selling a loan that it probably wouldn't if negative gearing deductions weren't available to investors.

The CGT discount takes into account that assest are purchased with money upon which the purchaser paid income tax.  So it would be unfair to tax people twice on the same income. It also takes into account inflation.I don't think the unions are really a problem in relation to their welfare role.  In fact I believe strongly that they should expand on that role.  My problem has always been that the unions make everythinng political rather than economical in nature. They are confrontational and don't seem to have any commercial or business knowledge at all.  It follows that they would rather see a business close than reduce workers' entitlements. They seem to think that an employment contract is ot a contract but some kind of indentureship that requires a constant strugle between workers and capital.

There should be no minimum wage. Let the market decide the minimum, just as it does the maximum.

There is a third way of a country getting into a debt: a left-wing government borrowing billions to waste of stupid government programsCash is not the same as money.

Think of notes and coins as being like other infrastructure.  it is a measns of exchange .  It is printed by the government but they don't own it.

Most of our money is in fact just a figure on a spreadsheet or in an account.  it doesn't have any physical existence.

Thus I may do a deal with a foreign company to sell a 100 widgets.  The foreigbn company putrs money into my account.  You can't say that the Australian government printed that money.Trickle down is actually two words, so it can't be a buzzword.  But trickle down works.  Just look at the Howard years when all the economic indicators iwere at their best, because the Government provided a great business environment. It also let the moderately wqell off flourish and move money around by judicious investment.

As to the infrastructure, you forget that it can be privately provided (and a lot of it is). However, the point is that private enterprise genrates the money that pays for the infrastructure.If that is happenning in the US, it has ben caused by left-wing policies favoured by the Democrats.For God's sake, is there no area of human life that you don't the government to regulate?

I can see your boring, horrible, bleak world.  It would be a world in which everybody is an automaton, just living for their utility to the state and to others. 

Fortunately, most people with any true intellect can see through the eny-ridden, totalitarian ideas of the left. 


Sinistra delenda est!So you are into austerity, Gerard?  I thought you lefties hated the idea of austerity?  Oh yes, that's right you want the government to spend up big but not proivate people.

SO where is the government's money going to come from if everybody reduces economic activity?

In any case, your recipe for happiness is not a rejection of the free market, but just a new kind of consumerism.You do know that the taxpayers in Australia weren't called upon to pay anything to the banks.  The Giovernment gave a gurantee, not a payment.  And like most things that Labor did, it was done poorly. The gurantee didn't cover non ADIs, so a lot of them lost large sums in investments as people moved their funds to ADIs that were subject to the guarantee.

Of course banks need to be regulated.  

But Mr Verrender's article is incredibly silly.

First of all he refers to emails that may not exist.  Second of all he makes the great logical error of assuming that Macquarie is against all sorts of regulation, when it is instead against bad regulation.  The fact that Macquarie sought government help in extraordinary conditions doesn't mean that Macquarie was then in favour of regulation.  After all, regulation and help are two different things.Bewars the zero sum fallacy.  Inequality of income and wealth does not mean that the less well off are being robbed by the well off. 

In any case envy is probably the worst evil in the world today.If our tax rates were suficiently low, far fewer people or corproations would avoid paying tax. The actual revenue collected might in fact increase as companies fight to park their income in Australia.

People usually avoid tax because they perceive that it is too high and that governments spend a lot of it on grants that are not central to the business of government.

The first thing that needs to be done is an audit of spending programmes.  

We the people then have to be asked what it is we want governments to do (not just the Feds but the States and Local government too).  it seems to me that we have got into the mess that Tim Dunlop describes because we just keep letting politicians grow government into areas for which is not fit.Look up the Laffer Curve.

There is precedence for the idea that lower tax rates mean higher revenue, or at least do not result in the drop in revenue that is as much as you would expect if you just multiplied the rate decrease by the taxable income dclared in the year before.

Tax avoidance costs money and time.  If the tax system was simpler and the rates lower, a lot of people wouldn't bother to avoid tax.  In addition, if our corporate rate was low enough we woould attract a lot of the money here from other jurisdictions.  Thus the tax base would be higher.

Another example of the beneficial effect of lowering taxes took place in the US in the early 1920s when President Harding reduced the size of Government by about 20% in one fell swoop and cut tax rates accordingly.  The US economy took off.  If only the US hadn't been so wedded to tarrifs the boom might have lasted past 1929. The Roosevelt got in, and tried left-wing solutions to the Depression.  The result was that the Depressionin the US lasted until 1942, whilst in Australia and Britain it was over by 1934.
Oh yes, the quality of Government services is not based upon the money spent on them so much as the way in which they are run.  Maybe if the government took less in tax it might be spourred to run its services more efficiently and to stop giving spending oddles of money in areas in which it has business being." the only organisations which should be receiving funding are those which provide services to all sectors of society, not just some minority or another."

SO that means we need to shut down all payments of pensions and other welfare payments, as they go only to minority interests.It wouldn't matter what sort of government we have, it wouldn't be able to gurantee a nice society.

Society is boigger and more encompassing than the State or the Government.

I would argue that in fact the more government you have the nastier society gets, as people become dependant on the idea that government is all.  SI just wonder whether Mr Dunlop would have published this article if the ALP were victorious in last year's election.

I certainly don't recall Mr Dunlop making such arguments when Labor was in power.

I accept that he now chides the ALP just as much as the Coalition.  However, I'm sure that if Labor did get back into power, Mr Dunlop would not wish to agitate so much for systemic reform.I thought my post quite clearly played the ball rather than attacking the man.

All I was saying is that we haven't seen this argument raised when Labor was in power. That is no attack on Tim, but a realisation that he has now noticed that even his beloved left-wing parties are not up to the mark.  In other words, I am congratulating him on conceeding defeat to the me.You measure a society by how civlised it is.  You measure its civilisation by its culture and the amount of things that don't need to be subject to law.  The State is not society.  It is the State that provides the welfare, not society. As a lot of welfre corrupts the receiver by reinforcing bad life choices it is not a good thing.How WE look after the sick, poor, etc, not how the State does. Can you see the distinction? A country where the State uses coercion to take money from people to provide masses of welfare is not highly civilised, it is instead bribing people with bread and circuses and encouraging many ( not all) of them to continue in penury.

It is not charity to give metho to an alcoholic. Similarly it is not charity to give free cash to those who will use it up and continue to make the poor life choices that landed them in penury in the first place.

Go and read some Theodore Dalrymple and see what the welfare state has led to. It has blighted whole areas of Britain and made large numbers of people feckless zombies. It has reduced others to just numbers in the vast State machine, permant mendicants. That is not looking after people that is making their lives worse.The typical left error.

They don't seem to understand that real empathy doesn't involve putting a tax on something or spending someone elses money on it and not actually doing anything yourself.

The whole nature of Conservatism is that it is the home of those who really care about their fellow humans, as individuals not as many amorphous groups of 'victims.'The logical problem with your post is called post hoc ergo propter hoc.

You insinuate that we are all richer beccause we losy our moral values.  However, the fact that our loss of moral values occurred after we became richer doesn't necessarily mean we bacame rich because of our loss of moral values.Another point.  I could just as readily notice that since we have become more used to people of other races our moral values have deterioted.  You can't leave $5 under the milkbottles since muticulturalism became fashionable.

But of course that would be absurd, as their is no limk to multiculturalism ad the collapse in moral values.Yes, fundamentalist atheism does deny all those things.V,

I think you may have misunderstood the concept of freedom of speech.

SUch a freedom is a feeedom against government interfence with speech, not private calls for people to retract what they have said.

Thus if Smith calls Jones an idiot, Jones can ask Smith to retract the statement without infringing Smith's freedom of speech.  Smith then has the right to retract or not, based upon the circumstances of the case.Skeptic.

Would you agree then, that welfare is the thing that they seek?

SHouldn't your ire be reserved for Indonesia which won't offer any of the things that we offer?  If they did offer those things, then the asylum seekers wouldn't need to go through the extra trauma of trying to get tot Australaia.S.O.

There has been a lot of confusion about the definition of 'multicuturalism' over the years. People on the left seem to use the term to emphasisewhat makes people different. TToo many lefties seem to not understand that their deification of multiculturalism is reall jst a symptom of their oikophobia, a disiease that lefties like Jonathan Green are particulalrly prone.

We on the right want to concentrate on what brings us together.

I would therefore say that Australia has one culture that comprise s a unique blend of many cultures from many places in the world.  Multiculturalism refers to this.  It is not a term that ghettoises us into lots of little cultures.

I'm often amused by the whole cultural thing anyway.

Throughout Asia chillies are very popular in cusine.  Some people would say that they are part of the culture of many Asian countries.  However, they were only available in Asia from the 16th century onwards, after The Spanish colonised the Americas. Thus the Asians were being muticultural in taking chilli to the herats and making it part of their own food culture. Yet today most of us would think of chillis as being part of asian culture, not as imports.

Cultures change with the years. We don't need to push them on articially like the left seem to want to do.The problem you have is a fundamental misunderstanding of how the economy works. The wealthy get wealthy by inventing something that people want to buy. I can be a new product, service or process. There is no inherent rip off of someone else. Why do you think the economy continues to grow? If all wealth was made at the expense of others, then national wealth would not be growing.

You need to understand that the economy is not a zero sum game. If Gina Rinehart does well, it doesn't mean anyone else does badly. Beware the zero sum fallacy.The problem is that if you get your way and real estate prices drop, a lot of people who currently have houses will suddenly owe more on them than they are worth. That will be an economic disaster. It happened in Britain in the 90s recession and made a lot of people bankrupt.

Governments doing anything that lowers house prices, other than tinkering with some regulations that inhibit the building of new houses is wrong

The government has no business making it easier for some people to buy house by ensuring heavy losses to current owners.

Zippy

Of course you are right. But so many of the anti-Coalition commenters here are so eaten up with unfounded prejudices that it is difficult to see them ever seeing reason.

The myths that we see constantly include this strange idea that high income earners pay no tax because of mysterious 'concessions,' that tax deductions are part of a special regime that exists only to allow rich people to pay no tax, that negative gearing is something that is specially provided for in the tax law and not just part of how the law has always operated, that the 'poor' are being made poor by Gina Reinhart, that Asians are buying all the good properties, that companies can pay less than 30% of their taxable income in tax and the list goes on.

Yes, and you are free to drink too much and smoke cigarettes. Those who wish you well, howeve, will try to persuade you not to do so. Unless they tie you down and force you physically to stop drinking and smoking you cannot really use the excuse that it's your right to run your own life.

Similalrly, I'm sure Professor Davidson realises that the use of ANU funds is a matter for the ANU. He is entitled however to argue that the ANU is using those funds wrongly and to urge them to use them in a better way.

If you think that the Professor is wrong, then tell us why, don't try to derail the argument by saying he doesn't have a right to comment.1. How do you know SInclair isn't making large sums from his own investments?

2. How do you know that people like SInclair told US Shires and insitituions to invest in big banks or sub-prime mortgaages?

3. If the ANU are correct finacially that will be good, but there is no need to traduce decent companies and act politically in order to follow your finacial hunches.

4. Tell us what these 'subsidies' are that the coal industry receives.  Like a lot of people on the left you throw in that line about subsidies but never actually explain what money the government pays direct to coal mining companies.Joe, you may be right.

But surely the point is that the ANU acted shabbily by defaming certain companies and using the 'ethical' bulldust as an excuse.

If the ANU thought the investment was bad, it could have just dropped it quietly and got on with its life. But no, someone wanted to grandstand and be pious and self righteous.  The ANU has ended up looking stupid.You miss the point.

Firstly, nobody is questioning whether the trust should make investment decisions.  WHat is being questioned is the wisdom of those decisions and more particulalrly the politicisng of the issues.

Anyone can be criticised for making a decision.  

You can vote with your wallet by boycotting a certain product.  I applaud tyour right to do that and wouldn't interfere with it for the world.  However, I reserve the right to criticise your decision as being misguided. 

You lefties are so used to calling for other points of view to be banned that you mistake criticsm for censorship.No the market doesn't, as you elegantly put it, suck.  it's the decisions that suck.

Once you understand the distinction you will be ready to get to the next level of enlightenment.I am a COnservative.  However, I have to say that I applaud your post, because it shows a good grasp of logic.

It is correct that if someone wants to be 'socially responsible' according the left wing view of that term, then they may have to pick between the lesser of two evils.  In other words they may keep the Fossil Fuel shares in the company that takes fossil fuels in a more 'socially responsible way.'

However, the point remains that they must be careful not to traduce other isn a political way and then dress it up as a finacial decison.The problem is that a few very learned scientists are now coming to the conclusion that the termpreature rises were the cause of the CO2 increases rtahe than the other way around.
If the ANU invested in tobacco companies, you would hear an army of lefties whinging from here to the end of days.

Like I have said above, no decison that anyone makes is immune from criticsim.

You lefties do seem have this idea that criticising something is akin to wanting to get governments to ban it.

Debate is all about criticsm.  The ANU of course is free to ignore the whole furore.Paul01

A lot of my clients are executives and CEOs of large corporations.  Most of their income is made from their salaries.  They therefore have few opportunities to reduce their tax bills.While we are getting the government to interfere in the businesses of private companies, I think we should have a maximum wage for ALL employees. 

The bottom workers' pay should also be reduced, so as to save the company money. It should be done by law, so that the unions have no say.  In fact Unions should be banned from any say over pay whatsoever, because obviously, Governments are the only ones qualified to decide what sararies and wages should be earnned by ANY employee.The problem is theis, Prison: if their is no adverse consequences of failure, then you will get more failure.

It sounds all lovely saying that we have to redistribute wealth so as to help the poor, but experience shows that when you redistribute wealth to the poor,you reinforce the bad behaviour and wrong choices that made or kept them poor.Reductio ad absurdum is the term that applies to your argument, ingenious as it is.

You really should stop worrying about what other people get and concentrate on your own life and that of your family.

If you didn't know about Directors earning high salries you would probably be a lot happier. Revel in life and its joys. Do well in your community.  Help people and vounteer.  

The wealthy are not taking any bread out of your mouth.It was 1959 and SuperMac as he was known won a large majority in the election that occurred just after he made that famous comment.

IThe thing is that the wealthy are not the same people over the years.

But the poor are always complaining about "the rich."

Envy is probably the besetting sin of mankind.I wonder why people seem to think that money is something that belongs to us all, and that those who invest somehow don't deserve the income they earn.

I suspect that not enough people really uinderstand money or how business and commerce really work.  They seem to have vague ideas that otherhave a duty to spend their money in ways that other approve. 

The thing is that the vast majority of people do not just put it in the bank.  The interest is too low for that. They tend to invest in Funds which in turn use the money to fund businesses and property.  So the money is stimulating the economy.

And think of all the crafstman and artisans who create beautiful things.  If society was levelled than some of man's greatest achievements wouldn't happen.The great philosopher Roger Scruton has developed a term for the argument many commenters are raising here.  It's called the zero sum fallacy.

The economy is not a zero sum game.  That is evidenced by the fact that it keeps growing as people find new ways of adding value. It follows that even if the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer, there is isn't necessarilya causal link between the two phenomena. 

There is no need to make the rich poorer to make the poor richer. 

Surely the argument should be about how we help the poor, not how we attack the better off.

We should also remember that many people strat their lives officially 'poor' bu pass through that state and on to a reasonable standard of living as they grow older and more experienced. 

There are always going to be anumber of people who cannot by without welfare and charity. They are unable to care for themselves. We must provide welfare to such people.  The paradox is that if we make the welfare too generous we start to reward bad behaviour and poor choices among many who really could take care of themselves if welfare didn't exist. We in fact create a poverty trap.Pesonally I can do most of those things (apart from drawing) and I am a Tory Lawyer.  So as the Government is full of Tory lawyers, I suspect that a lot of them could do some of the things you list.

But one doesn't have to be able to create art in order to appreicaite it.

In this regard I have found George Brandis to be remarkably knowledgable about classical music whenever I have met him at funcions he attends in his role as Arts Minister. SImon Crean was rather good in that way too. Peter Garrett was less impressive.

The most useful tool for any child is the one that I never see on any syllabus.  it is far more important than the arts or the sciences. It ranks up there with the 3 Rs.  It is logic.

Assertions are not arguments, and assertions are all you seem to be making here, SteveC. So you really just proved my argument that too many people don't seem to very skilled in 

I'm sure you are capable of doing better. Question begging and argumentum ad hominem aren't going to get you there.

However, you have proved one thing.  When people dislike a conclusion they are just as likely to attack the person who drew it as try to argue against it.




Mr Shark

I am in fact an ex rock musician and song writer.  I hold rock and pop music in high esteem.  I also enjoy all forms of classical music too.  Liking the two types of music aren't mutually exclusive. 

I wonder how you can conclude that my answer wasn't logical without putting up any evidence. Also you seem to think that I am not in favour of arts education. I am. I just don't hink that it needs to have a solely utilitarian justification.

I heard that they were ditching ABC classic FM. I can't say that it bothers me too much, as I listen more to BBC radio 3.

I read a scholarly tome recently that suggests that the real cause of the dumbing down of our children is a sharp decline in the number of children reading for pleasure and interest.  They are being told that they don't need to read because they can find information on the internet about what is in great books.  The problem is that evidence shows that they don't use the internet for that purpose. They are distracted by immediate, adolescent pleasures.

I think more arts education might actually help here.

A lot of those studies are by self-serving academics trying to bolster their own disciplines.  A few more studies have shown that in fact modern teaching doesn't give children the ability to think'creatively' at all.  In order to think creatively, you need to know a lot of facts. You have to have the tools with which to think. Clear expression and and idea of numbers is vital. 

The 3 Rs as as vital in any workplace as ever. Those without them are not creative so much as useless.

That is not to say that other things shoudn't be taught.

It just means that the 3 Rs are still the basi building block.  

It's all well and good saying that you can look up things on the internet, but if you have no idea of thir existence you won't know where to look. So facts do need to be taught.In my profession, I am seeing more and more young lawyers coming through who can't solve problems because they haven't got a grounding in the facts.  How do you solve a problem when you don't understand the question?

If you don't have a sufficient vocabulary or an abilty to create a proper sentence or a knowledge of arithmetic, you aren't going to be of much use in a modern workplace.

However, I think you have mistaken the 3Rs approach to be one of rote learning.  On the contrary,  the 3Rs are tools that can be used to solve problems.I can't help feeling that this article would have been a lot better if its author had toned down the aggrieved rhetoric.

It is manifestly clear that a knowledge of the arts is a good thing and itsekllf leads to artistic creation,; another good thing. But I do wonder whether arts education fosters creativity of a general sort. 

Maybe the fact that, due no doubt to attending an elitist private school, I know more about literature and the arts than a lot of other lawyers has sometimes helped me create a solution to a problem. However, I think it is more likely that some people are just more creative than others.

There is a great story how Mark Zuckerberg developed a computer chat program to get the views of his classmates on the art works they were studying in Art class.  He used their views to pass the exam. That was creative. But the thing that stimulated that creativity was the wish to get a pass in Art not learnig about art itself.The concommitaant view is that the ABC supports your view so it can't be biased.Forgive me if someone has said this above, but the one glaring thing that came out of this article by Mr Scott was that the ABC has grown like topsy over the last 20 years.

So it obvioulsy has been given a lot of funding.

But why do we need ABC2, a 24 hour news network and 3 childrens stations and talk radio as wel as Radio National?

Wouldn't it be better to narrow down the focus of the ABC to a lean and solid machine, rather than this diffuse body that sucks up billions for no real benefit?

Let's face it, in the internet age the ABC is supplying a lot of things that can be got elsewhere.Why do the parents aspoire to go to university?BTW, Mitor, can you refesh my memory? Did you ever attack Conroy's plans or the worse plan of last government to redraft the anti-discrimination law so as to make those charged under them guilty until proven innocent?Where do get these absurd figiures?

The ABS show figures show that the number of public servants was slashed by Fraser, grew under Hawke and Keating, fell back a bit under Howard and then grew again under Rudd and Gillard.  They have been chopped by Abbott.

The fact that also has to be remebered is that governments now use a lot of contractors in the public service. These people are not employees, but carry out the same function.

In any case one doesn't measure government intereference in the economy by the number of public servants but by the amount economic activity being subsumed by government.Homelessness and mental health are State responsibilities.

In any case, Labor has had ample time in power at both a federal and a State level.  it has never ever got anywhere near fixing these problems.  In fact its left wing policy prescriptions, which the Coalition often out of misguided softness do not hamper when in government, actually make things worse.Why do you think it is necessary for Commonwealth Governments to lead us anywhere?

The job of the Commonwealth Government is to keep us safe from attack, look after the borders and provide a few pensions and some national infrastructure. The State governments should provide laws to allow us to recover damages from those who wrong us or to prevent them from wronging us.  They should also provide some education and health services and provide most of the infrastructure. In other words the Governments are there to provide defence, some services, pensions, law and order and some infrastructure. They are thus enable us to get on with the real process of living.  Leadership is the reponsibility of us all, not politicians.


If we are in a malaise, then it is probably hyperactive government that has caused it.I find the commenters here quite funny.

In right wing circles the verdict is that Tony Bbott's government is far better than the rabble it replaced, but that it is far too soft in economic matters.

Yet I come here and am told by commenters that the  Abbott Government is a'far right wing" and "extremist." 

I wish someone would explain to us waht is so far right about this government.  And please don't come back with the silly generalities about the government favouring the big end of town. Those who make such silly statements never priovde a shred of evidence for their claims.




I could say the same thing about a lot of ABC radio presenters of the left whom I regard as shock jocks who pander to those less cultured or intellectually gifted on the left.
Only the ignorant of history think that some kind of nirvana can be achieved by government.

Stop thinking about the Nation and look at your own affairs and those around you.  If you look after yourself ,then the nation will be fine.That is merely a quibble, Luke.

Yopu make it so that any attack on Ms Gillard is sexist.  In that case any attack on a male politician must also be sexist.

The sooner you ALP supporters get over this whole use of charges of 'sexism' as a means of avoiding arguing the real point, then maybe you will learn how to argue prperly again.

Using weapons like accusations of racism, sexism, homophobia or islamophobia are just way of trying to shut sown debate by demonising your opponent.

AMybe it would be better to be anti-abuse.  WHether the abuse is sexist, racis, homophobic or islamophobic doesn't really matter.  If you abuse someone you are behaving badly.That's because it wasn't a free market solution at all!

A market invented by government for air is not a free market.  You really shouldn't repat silly left-wing talking points if you don't really know what they mean.The died of shame comment was shameful, but not sexist.

In fact all the so-called sexist remarks made about Gillard were not sexist at all.

Ditch the witch is no more sexist than f--k Abbott.

Dumping Julia and Bob Brown in a chaff bag can't be sexist because the two are of different sexes.  Or are you going to try and construct an argument that the comment was sexist in relation to Ms Gillard and homophobic in relation to Mr Brown.

That's the sort of intellectual childishness one would expect from the ALP supporters here.

How does one throw sexism and mysogyny at anyone?

And if Mr Abbott and his front bench colleagues were guilty as you say, how does this justify rejection of Mr Abbott's idea of Team Australia? If that idea is crude and divisive then it would deserve rejection whether The COoalitions attacks on Ms Gillard were justified or not.

The appendage "all genders" at the end of your post adds nothing to it.

I am sorry to make such a lot of the infecund language of your post.  But I think that it is important to pick out the logical flaws in arguments (my legal training) in an effort to demonstrate how prejudice can drive reason from the debate. It would appear that your anger at Mr Abbott blinded you to logic and therefore rendered your post less effective than it could have been.As a private school -educated lawyer who earns well in excess of $200,000 a year, I have to ask whether in fact you are allowing yourselfto stray into the realms of bigoted thinking in believing that all of those in a similar position to me believe in the same things and have the same attitude.

Personally I don't believe that I deserve more income. I don't believe that I am taxed too much becauseI I want more, I believe that governments should do  and tax less because it would be better for the country and its people., rich and poor.

Isn't the point that you should try to avoid being bigotted about groups of people, because there is really no homogeneity of views and abilities within any group?Yes you can lie as much as you like these days, but you will only get into to trouble if you say something that reveals your ideas are unsound.  It doesn't matter if what you say is true or not, if it is unsound you can expect the furore to be harsh.I suppose we can all offer opinions.

Carr was, as he had been in NSW, a man who hid behind media manipulation rather than achievement. As Foreign Minister he didn't really have much time to achieve anything.  Shadow Ministers rarely get much of a chance to shine, especially shadow foreign ministers.  How is the current shadow foreign minioster doing?

I know that a successful career outside Parliament is no gurantee of a sucessful one inside it, but I would just like to point out that in the lawyering stakes, Bishop is to Gillard as a Jaguar is to a Holden. You don't get to be a managing partner in a proper large law firm without being incredibly smart. As an ex-partner of such a firm, I can tell you that those who rise into managing partner roles are no fools or lightweights.  The problem for us is that we do not see what is going on from day to day in Canberrra.  If we base our opinion on media coverage, we will probably be under-informed.In a sense, I, as a right-winger, agree with you.

I always cringe when Conservatives get into tit for tat arguments about sexism or any of the other politically incorrect crimes. WHy shoukld we play in the left's sandbox?

Sexism, racism and all the rest of these things have been used by the left as tools of shutting down arguments and ruining innocent people's lives. We on the right should eschew such tactics. 

The basic rule  is that we should attack ideas and not those who hold them. If we make social assumptions, then we should ackowledge them as much as possible.  If other believe those social assumptions are wrong, they should say that and not jump to using vile terms of abuse like 'sexist.'

For example, a male politician might make a speech saying that in his experience women prefer studying arts rather than science. 

The proper response is to say that either the statement isn't true or that if it is true, it needs to be fixed for reasons that the naysayer would then postulate.  However, in our current climate  you can be that the media anmd twittersphere would be full of charges of sexism by 'otraged' left-wingers. It the politican were a minister, he would probably be moved to the back bench. He would definitely be forced to apologise in public, be called a 'sexist' by all right-on feminists (male and female) and probably have to perfom some propitiatory act like starring in an ABC documentary where he lives among the poor and spouts all the usual lefty cliches about their condition.

So in the strange world in which you inhabit, women are all just little hot house flowers with whom any form of argument is impossible.  I suppose you will say that I am being sexist for daring to argue against the sophistry you are peddling here.

There is a lot to waht you say.

I got the impression that in NSW politics it was long before 2004 that the media decided that it in fact was the Opposition.  The real Opposition therefore got little oxygen. As a result they weren't professional at all and lost the 2007 election even though the voters told pollsters that they actually wanted to kick out Labor.I agree with you about citizen initiated referenda.  However, we have to watch out taht such referenda are not used by powerful lobby groups (eg corporations or unions) for their own purposes like they have been in the US. In that country, even when a right measure passes at a vote, the lefties and their allies will spend millions in court challenges that often succeed, because of the overly political judiciary in the US.For whm is the current government a disaster?

Where I live I see business thriving and people happily going about their lives enjoying themselves mightily. 

Let's be honest here, the truth is that it is the State governments that have far more impact on our lives than the Commonwealth Government. And the Abbott Government hasn't done anything that will impact directly on our lives in the near future.  However, in the next few years we will wake up to find the economy going along nicely and things back to the even keel they on whhen Howard was in power.I agree with you.  It would be rather wonderful.  Nothing would ever get done, thus government would wither away to its core repsonsibilities.  Wonderful!Democarcy is one of those words that a lot of people use, but they never seem to mean the same thing by it.

I ask some of our commenters to tell me what they think it means.Churchill said that democracy was the least worst of all the systems of government. That is a fair summation.

But democarcy is really only the way we select our government.  I think the problem that you are identifying is more fundamental than that.

No matter what sort of government we have, it is bound to be captured by special intereest groups and rent seekers.

In the US between 1920 and now there has barely been in a ripple in the percentage of the national wealth held by the wealthiest people in the country. Of course the same families haven't kept the wealth.  But the interesting thing is that since 1920 the government has grown massivley in the US.  The effect of that growth, despite much wealth restribution through taxation and welfare, has been to entrench a lot of people in wealth because they get huge benefits from Government via contracts and lobbuing opportunities, etc.

So the irony is that left-wing policies end up making some people fabulously wealthy as rent seekers, whilst making the less well off welfare dependants who can't ever look after themselves and will constantly want more and more government interference in the world.I think that those who cry loudly for cuts to politicians' emoluments are probably motivated by a wish to inflict some pain on the politicians rather than any real wish to reduce government spending.  It is the same with CEO pay.  In the scheme of things the amount that would be saved in the CEO's pay were cut would be a pittance compared to the company's bottom line.

Rae

have you ever thought that thge real problem is just too much government?  We the voters have been lulled by the media and the pollies for years that the government has to keep 'refoming' things and getting into more and more areas of life.  Of course this means that the politicians are going to be unable to to do everything. 

The best way to solve the problem is for the Australian people to realise that government is not the answer to most of our problems.  We need to end the entitlement culture.So the economy has to suffer and the inefficiencies have to go on forever just so a few 'workers' can keep their jobs? 

Business doesn't run to create jobs, but to create profit.genfie

So what are these "institutions responsible for evidence-based decision making and restructuring our economy to benefit large mining companies" of which you speak?

Somehow I think you have obscured your meaning.Envy and greed are the curses of the sort of soft leftist nonsense that you espouse.

Haven't you noticed the utter bile that all those here throw at the 'wealthy' at any opportunity?  All because they are envious of the wealth of others and greedy for a share of it themselves, but without the hard work.

Most of the services that the community requires are actually supplied by private enterprise.

If private enterprise can supply food and shelter, I don't see why it couldn't be left to supply education and heath too.  I suspect that it is more the innate small c conservatism of the left (and the opportunity for lots of political patronage and jobs) that keep these two sectors in public hands.A lot of businesses have replaced employees with contractors.  The thing is that the contractors themselves usually get paid more but the cost to the the business is less, because the on-costs of employment are saved.And yet the PS grew rapidly under the last government.

It may have less power over policy but it still seems to be very good at empire building.So isn't it time to state openly that the Government must reduce services acrooss the board?

Most of the real services are provided by the State Governments anyway.

Brilliantly put, Gordon!

Our left-wing friends here operate on the basis that no cuts should ever be made and more services and grants should always be in the offing.

Of course one day if things go on as the left envisages,  there will be no productive economy left to provide all the tax for these 'services' that the left so adore.No-one was arguing that it was the workers' fault.  But that doesn't mean that the trimming can't be done where necessary."They rank social benefit over their own wellbeing."

And so have provided a bad service.

When are lefties going to realise that self-righteousness like that is more evil than merely working for a profit.Don't confuse tax rates with tax revenue.

What dismantling of the Public Service?  In case you din't notice this country is awash with public servants.  That is problem.  Too many people are not engaged in adding value.The greatest example of cutting to greatness came from Warren Harding, the US President in 1920.  On enetring into office he cut government drastically.  The economy boomed. If his successors hadn't insisted on tarrif walls, the Depression may never have happened.Question: Why is a qango using $400,000 to sponsor opera?  This qango's mission is to help stop smoking.  $400,00 seems a lot to pay to stop the WA Opera from putting on one opera in a 3 year period. it also seems to have nothing to do with what the qango was formed to do.

Maybe that is why someone has raised all this kerfuffle either to draw our attention to this ludicrous sponsorship or to try and distract us from it by concentrating hte argument on something other than the fact that Healthway has no business using its money in this way.You are right Zing.  The difference is between one of speechand deed.  The law restrains our deeds, but not our speech.  In certain cases, speech can include a deed, i.e. in defamation where the defamer speeaks with the purpose of hurting someone's reputation. 

If someone just holds an animus against a certain ethnicity he or she can say that without legal sanction.  However, he or she could be expected to be shunned by a lot of people.

I haven't read the legislation dealth with in this article.  Buit I suspect that the Government has crafted the legislation based on the Deeds/words distinction.  

It is not always a distinction that is easy to make. 

I notice that when leftists complain about so-called restraints of freedom of speech, they usually are complaining about restrictions of deeds.  Thus if the police act to stop someone blocking traffic whilst holding up a protest sign in favour of a 'progressive' cause, you can bet your bottom dollar that the protestor will claim that his or her freedom of speech has been curtailed. This is rubbish of course, because the policie weren't acting against the speech but against the deed of blocking the public highway.
Let me see.  The Liberal Party view has always been that i the great bulk of change and innovation comes from the operation private enterprise.  This has been right since the industrial revolution at least.  It was also right in the 1940s.  Guess what?  It's right now too.Corprate crime and collusion is being prosecuted every day, S.O. 

The difference with the unions is that regulatory oversight of them is not so rigid as it is for companies.

personally, I think it would do the unions good if they took a bit of the medicine they push on everybody else, lots of government interfernce in their affairs.  And why don't they pay tax? 

It's funny how we never hear the people here who attack businesses and the wealthy for not paying tax suggesting that the unions should do some lifting and pay tax.  

Just like many people don't realise that Greenpeace is a multinational and not a tiny environmental organisation, they also fail to realise that the unions too are huge organisations.I think it's interesting that people think the media, whose self interest is tied to big government which can provide lots of juict political stories, is right wing.

The desiderata of most of us on the right is to make politics boring again, so that government does as little as possible, whilst the public servants get on with providing the services to the public. The poor old media would have very little on which to report then.  So of couyrse they are interested in propping up thte idea that government (and particulalrly politics) is important.

What 'rights' would they be that you think need protecting? Don't you mean favourable contractual terms?

Using feel good words doesn't change the real essence of something. 

The 'workers' actually did far better under the Howard government than they did under Labor before or after.  That was because most of them left the unions and looked after their own contracts. That's why real wages jumped under Howard.

What Workchoices was going to dimisnish was union power, not worker power. The two are not the same.

The whole unionist thing seems to be a hangover from the 19th century master/servant work relationship.

I often get the impression that some unionists actually revel in the idea of the old 'it's 'ard down at t' mill' because they are actually a bit scared of the new world of work.





Alpo,

Just one point.  Can you agree to stop this constant exagerration of the power of the right in the media?

Evrybody knows that our media slants left. Just look at the Fairfax papers, the ABC and the commercial TV stations.I think you'll find that it was the Menzies Government that did the most for university education. 

As for universal healthcare, it would seem that you don't understand how things reallyy work.

Healthcare is a State government reponsibilty.  Shall I repeat that for you?  State governments provide healthcare services.  All the Feds do is pay us back some money wehn we go to the doctor, or subsidise our visit to the doctor.

I'm really sick of people falsely  conflating healthcare and the funding of that care.  

Before the cumbersome and silly system inaugaurated by Whitlam, my mother was able to take out insurance that paid for all her medical costs, no gaps or fiddles.  Afterwards she said things became much worse.

In case you missed it, Menzies took the universities under Federal governmt's wing and greatly increased access.

Still can't understand that we already do provide universal healthcare can you?
Have you ever heard of anyone being turned away from a public hospital?

healthcare and funding are related but they are not the same thing.

Have you ever thought that it might just be better to allow people who can afford to do so pay for their care and just subsidise the poor.  We could do that by cutting taxes and letting people take care of their own helthcare spending.


Ah, the old fallacy still lives: we have to do smething, this is something, let's do this.

Vision is all well and good, if it is actually something that will not have unforseen circumstances, cost to much or be really poorly implemented by a bunch of amateurs like modern Labor. That's the problem, they are really good at politicking and calling Tony Abbott names, but when it actually comes to governing they fall down on the boring bits which make up most of the task of governing.

It's very interesting that people are always accusing governments of all stripes of following focus groups.  Yet at the same time we use 'polls' to argue that a government's policies are not popular.

Either the focus groups are unrepresentative, the polls are skewed or the whole thing is a waste of time.

Politics is showbusiness for ugly people.

It is mostly unnecessary and full of divas.Ha ha. Very true.But Alpo, this is the 21st century.  The fight for wages and workplace safety doesn't need to be political.  Anyway, work patterns have changed so much that less than 20% of workers are union members. Obviously this means that people aren't interested in the current union model.  maybe it would be more democratic if the unions listened to those who aren't members and became what those people want them to be.Oh dear. Do you really believe that people get the sack because they want to join a union?

And do you really think that people support the unions because they vote Labor?

The problem you have that Bill SHorten is uninspiring, the government has a lot more funds thatn Labor, the opinion polls are always wrong when Labor is ahead by only a point or two  (shy Tory effect), the Liberals are far better marginal seat campaigners when they are in government, it is still two years to the next election, once a campaign starts people will be reminded what a huge mess Labor made of it last time.

I agree 100%.  I think the time for the unions to be politcal bully boys is over.  It is time that they became welfare organisations.

At the moment it seems to be the case that too many people join the union movement to become politicians rather than to help the workers.Since 1983, the ALP's primary vote has shrunken dramatically, with a blip in 2007.  But even then, the ALP really achieved power through Green preferences, whereas under Hawke it could do it mostly alone.

Union membership has shrunk.  And even though the ALP government just gone gave the unions back a lot of power, union membership didn't increase that much. on their watch. As Union membership decreases, so does the ALP primary vote.Surely the fact that Mr Cassidy is talking about this topic shows that he icares about the Labor party and wants it to flourish.

Ergo this article is an example of pro-ALP bias?

Personally, I don't see why a lot of people here are having a go at Bill Shorten. 

Surely, the point is that Mr Shorten is like Brendan Nelson was in 2007, the leader that is meant to pick up the pieces from a bad defeat and keep the chair warm until a new leader who isn't tainted with the past ALP problems comes along.

Mr Shorten is a seat warmer.  I suppose he should be judged not on his abilty to be PM but more on whether he helps heal the rifts in his party and puts it in a better position going forward to push for its favoured policies.No, the media is left-wing (just look at fauxfacts papers and their appallingly stupid left-wing articles about tax avoidance) and it appeals to the ghastly lower-middle class wannabes who have this urge to pull down the 'wealthy' so that they can become wealthy and powerful themselves without the need to actually add any value.I like your argument AT.

We are told constantly that a large majority of Australians find the ABC news trustworthy, yet hardly anyone watches or listens to ABC news and current affairs broadcasts.

I suppose it's like the Church of England, one of those things we all want to be there, but not something we really can bothered listening to.  Every so often I watch a bit of ABC news and always I see the same flaws as on the commercial channels: editorial comments posing as news, stories ignored that harm the left or played up if they can be used to bash the right.

I hear that the ABC wants to shut down Classic FM as a braodcast staion and move it to the internet. Costs must be cut, they say.

Yet there seems to be limitless funds for that canker of the screen, the 24 hour news channel. 

I suggest that the best thing for the ABC to do is to reduce its news and current affairs output to the bare minimum.  I think that is what the people really want. They might as well ignore the news and one or two current affairs shows as ignore the plethora of such shows that now plague our screens.

So if a person went on TV wearing a T-shirt with the words "I hate (insert racial slur here)" would you still say that people can wear what they like?

On the whole I agree with you.  But there are rules about dress.  SOme of these rules are societal some personal and some legal.

I would have thought that as a mark of respect for our parliament and our culture, people should remove their burqas In Parliament and in Court.

And don't give me that multi-culti stuff.  We are not multi-cultural we are a blend of cultures.  However, when it comes to our instituions they are all British based.The answer is quite simple: people should be allowed to wear anything as long as their safety or the safety of others is not compromised.

Of course this means that people can and should criticise people for wearing the burqa anywhere.  What we should say to these women is, we believe that you should not wear that outfit because it makes those whom you talk to feel uncomfortable not being able to read your face.  After all reading faces is a large part of communication.  That is why road rage occurs.  Drivers can't see each other's faces.

However, the burqa wearer can ignore our pleas for her to remove the garment.I agree 100%. In fact I would like to see Unions get out of politics altogether and become welfare organsiations.  Just think of how much tax we could save if lots of unions paid out the dole to their memebers and helped their members to get work.  They could also look after those hurt at work and all sorts of other similar welfare functions.  The trade off would have to be that they became apolitical.  We would then lose all the corruption and the bruiong unionists who are only there for a safe seat in Parliament and lots of joolly politicking.How about we don't tax companies at all, and tax all the dividends they pay instead. In that way companies would retain profits for capex and create more jobs. 

After all comopnay tax is really only an early payment of shareholders' income tax.  That's why sharholders get an offset of the tax that the company pays.

In realtion to foreign shareholders we could intitute a much higher withholding tax.You obviously didn't understand the argument.  Companies don't keep all their profits, they pay them out as dividends to shareholders.  Shareholders have to pay income tax on those dividends.  Therefore, the tax law currently discounts the amount of tax payable by the shareholder on the dividend to take into account the tax paid by the company on its profits.

What I am suggesting is that the company would not have to pay tax, but that the shareholder would also receive no discount. In other words the shareholder would pay all the tax and the company none.

That is how they do things in the US in connection with the equivalent of our Pty Ltd companies."We should try to find ways to provide more opportunities"

The unemployed themselves actually have the heavier onus here.  They have to get out there and make their own opportunities. Firstly, they should think outside the old paramenters of aiming for a job and instead think about how to earn income.  it may mean selling shoelaces, or working in 3 part-time jobs.  Or it may mean convincing a would-be employer that there is a commercial case to create a job that the employer didn't know was there.

"Both private and public are responsible for creating more rewarding jobs"

I don't think you really mean to say that anyone has the duty to make sure that jobs are more rewarding.  If so you have nothing on your side.  If on the other jhand you mean more jobs that are rewarding you have a slightly better argument, but not much.

It is not a business's duty to create jobs.  it is a busness's duty to make profitsfor its shareholders. One of the by-products of that duty is that businesses create jobs. SO if you want businesses to create jobs you have to give them an environment where they can increase their profits.  That is where government comes into the picture.  Governments ca't creat jobs other than public service jobs. All other government job-creation programs usually fail to make much of a dent in unemployment because they take no heed of the market.

One way the government could help businesses create more profit and more jobs is to reintroduce stiff tarrifson manufactured goods.  This would encourage companies to move production on-shore. But it would also drive up prices dramatically, annoy our trading partners and only lead to the sort of infficient manufacturing operations that we saw in the car industry.  The unions would featherbead and management would come to rely on government largesse.Andre

I think you misunderstand me. 

Any business will create new jobs where it sees a profit emerging from those jobs.

For example, many years ago I went to a law firm and showed them that they needed to take on a partner with my expertise.  They hadn't advertised any position. Nor did they really know that a position was available.  However, I convinced them that they could appoint me as a partner and that they could also employ the 2 lawyers to helr me, and still make a profit from us.  

Neither of the two jobs for those junior lawyers were advertised.  The firm only created them on the belief that it could make a profit by obtaining my skills.

An unemployed accountant that I know, went around the are in which she lived visiting all the accounting firms.  None of them had a job for her, but three of them had enough work to give her part-time employment completing tax returns. By using her each firm could take on more work and make extra proifit even after paying her.Barsnax

I agree with you.  It will be next to impossible to do much about the members of the underclass that have gone through generations of unemployment.  But nothing the left suggests will help them into work either.  In fact the left's policy prescriptions will just increase the size of the underclass. 

It doesn't help anyone to tell them that nothing is their fault and that the government and private enterprise should be finding them employment.The beswt way to restore tax revenue is to cut tax rates.  This encourages more economic activity and therefore engenders more tax revenue.

Increasing tax rates or closing 'loopholes' tends to see the take fall rather than increase.Even better than all that fluff:

Get out of the way and let business get on with making this the lucky country again.  That in essence is what the Howard Government did.  

A few regulatory rtweaks here and there, and a strong maintenance of the borders there, and buisiness delivered prosperity.

Haven't you noticed that big redistributive government just makes things worse for those at the bottom?I agree regulation isn't the only thing in the way. Often do-gooder plans and social nudging policy ghet in the way too. As you say the more the government gets involved in life, the more people become unuesd to exercising their own judgement.  Instead of developing moral (not just ethical) self reliance, people become entrapped in the 'the State is all' mantra whereby they watch the state create paupers so it can help them and look good to the rest of us.Ann

You and I are in substantial agreement on this.

I am sick of people making their plans so as to get government benefits.Nobody denied that thje GFC ever occurred.  What they are denying was the need to sell all the silver and then borrow up to the hilt to deal with the GFC.  Howard and Costello left such a good regulatory framework that Australia was less open than most to the full impacrt of the poisoned debt going around the world that started from left-win US government policies.I'm always amazed when I come here and read some of the ideas of those who see themselves as 'workers.'

First and foremost there seems to be an inherent refusal to understand basic economics or commercial reality. Then there is the adherence to the zero sum fallacy where almost any gain made by the 'wealthy' is made at someone else's expense. This of course is  related to a visceral dislike of the 'wealthy.' In fact there is also a strong distaste for excellence of any kind.  These people seem to want a world where everyone is as equally dull and average as everyone else, as longs as no-one is allowed to be 'wealthy.'

There is a strong line here of  conservatism, with a small c, and real fear of innovation.

Being a worker is not inherently noble.neither is beeing an employer or a wealthy person inherently evil. Their are noble people in all walks of life.

I know a lot of wealthy people. Many of them spend an awful lot of their time doing charitable work. They also spend a lot of their money on such causes.  A lot of the others are the sort of nouveau riche types that we all despise.  But the practiically all  them don't set out to do down the worker or the 'poor.' becausThe problem for your argument is that Howard didn't cut taxes but tax rates.

DOn't you rememeber, Rudd complaining before the 2007 election that the Howard Government was the highest taxing government ever?  It is true that the Howard government's revenue was large, because its tax cuts helped to generate economic activity.  people therefore paid more tax collectively even if they paid less individually."Inappropriate attitudes" screams another wannabe Gauleiter of the PC brigade. The only attitude that is inappropriate is that of people who think that anyone fears homosexuals. Some people may be disgusted at the homosexual act, but that doesn't mean they fear anything.

Anyone who seriously uses such emotive and obviously patently stupid words like homophobia or islamophobia should be immediately laughed off the stage. They are not fit to take part in civilised discourse. They are just imatture power seekers.That is A very interesting comment. It would seem that you think that the government actually owns all money in society and that it generously allows us to keep some of it by not talking it all in tax. The point is that it is our money, and allowing us to keep it  is not a concession.Your comment is very sensible.

I really think that this whole debate is poorly framed. There is no doubt that there are people who should be on DSP. However, I suspect that we all wonder when we are told that 5% of Australians are receiving that pension. For some reason that number seems high.

Of course this doesn't mean that there is an army of budgets or rioters (and the two are different) out there ripping off the taxpayer. It probably means that either there is something in modern life that makes more and more people unable to work or more and more people can't rely on their families anymore for support because of family breakdown and the expectation that the State will provide. It also probably means that he bar is set too low. 

From hat I can see, there are now many people in the humbler echelons of society who were passed by when most of the unskilled jobs disappeared. The State has taken e decision, at least indirectly,to just let these people take welfare. This is easier than giving them an incentive to do better. Welfare is not an incentive.I suggest you read some Theodore Dalrymple. He is a doctor who lived amongst the underclass. He says that if you reward bad behaviour and poor personal choices by paying welfare to those who do stupid things then you would be mad not to expect more of the same behaviour.

The problem is that with the welfare state being all so encompassing, no one really risks  being a real pauper any more by behaving in a self destructive manner. There is always some government paid person to come along and help. People have realised that if they don't expect too much out of life they can get by no matter how many badd choices they make. So they keep on making bad choices.  I remember after no fault divorce came in, and so many couples who were getting married would tell me how it was OK because if the marriage wasn't any good they could get out of it after 12 month's separation. Of course those people's marriages always did end up in divorce.

The secret to a healthy society is that the vast majority of people have to believe that if they act foolishly and do not strive to support themselves, then they will suffer humiliation and pain and will be judged harshly by society in general.I'm in the position as you. I manage to work enough to earn a large income, so I wouldn't want to claim DSP. In any case I am insured so if I don't work I get a decent monthly payment.I disagree. Given that tax is legalised appropriation of money by the State, every citizen has the right to pay as little as legally possible. There is a huge moral difference between making sure you pay the minimum amount of tax possible and receiving benefits to which you are not entitled. One person is keeping his or her own money, the other is stealing from the Staye.There is a core of truth to what Jimmy says. He may be gilding the lily and putting things a wee bit simplistically, however his opinion that somewhere along the line governments have found it easier to create an underclass of the poor and buy off a lot of the middle income earners with their own money. If the consequences for poor life decisions are mollified by government action, then more people will make bad decisions. If more and more people realise that they can get something out of the government, they will try just that little bit less to succeed by their own efforts. Thus we have the well known poverty trap that welfare creates on eye non monetary benefits are taken into account. Why work and pay full fare on public transport and more tax if you end up taking home just a little more than you get on the dole?

Welfare should be there as a last resort, for those who really need it. When one in 20 Australians are clawing the DSP you have to wonder if the bar to qualify is not set too low. One cannot blame DSP recipients for that. If they meet the criteria they should get the DSP. However, we do have to do something to stop the idea that the State will cushion your fall on every occasion.Nobody is targeting all DSP recipients. So why should you be upset? The DSP might have been designed to assist those who can't work, but can't you see that if the bar is set too low, then there will be quite a few cases where someone who really could work if there was no DSP will go onto DSP instead.

You would probably feel less offended if you told the world that you were in fact grateful to the taxpayers like me who pay 6 figures in tax each year to support you. And I have a disability too which my doctor has told me means that I should stop working.There is a core of sense in your post. But because it is surrounded by ranting, incoherent attacks on politicians and others, you blunt your message. That is a shame,because someone with your life experience has a lot to ofer in this debate.

In the UK they managed quite easily to get a huge number of people off DSP. They simply decreed that all DSP recipients had to seek re-evaluation of their condition by a certain date. Strangely enough, a very large number of people didn't reapply.May I make a suggestion to those people here who either receive a DSP because they really meet all the criteria, and to those who rightly say that we cannot state that the system is a bludger's charter?

It would help your argument mightily if you said thank you to the taxpayers for stumping up the cash that pays the DSP. Just for once I'd like someone to be a little bit grateful for the money they receive from the State and not just assume that is somehow a basic human right to receive welfare. 

Most of those here who either receive the DSP or who argue passionately that there are very few cheats on DSP, all seem to be so defensive about the issue, almost as if they were somehow guilty.  However, I'm sure that guilt would disappear quickly if those people publicly made clear their gratitude to taxpayers for the DSP.I sympathise with you.  Bureaucracy is a nightmare.  But it is also the price we pay for having a generous welfare system. We should be grateful that we have such a system.I think you misunderstand two points.

First, it seems that the healthy people on DSP are also working on the side for cash.

Second, with all the other benefits attached, some people are actually happier doing nothing and getting a tiny payment rtaher than working for more.  This particulalrly ythe case if the person lives at home with family and has no need to pay household bills.Why should we care whether those who are ineligible for the DSP can't get a job or not?

I often wonder that if the welfare net wasn't so comprehensive whether people would find alternative means of income if necessity gave them an incentive.Oh dear. I suggest you take a few courses in jurisprudence before you start lecturing us on how the law works.What did the a Coalition do? It ran a government that allowed everybody to improve their situation. It did all those boring things that governments are supposed to do like keep us safe and build us roads that Labor was so bad at doing.  But most of all it regulated the economy and saved money so well that even Labors idiocy couldn't quite ruin us when the recession came. It's all well and good having all those silly fascist/socialist policies, but if the economy isn't sound there will be no money to pay for them.

The only true bigots I see in public are lefties who hang on to an intellectually impossible position in the face of all good sense. Tony Abbott was perfectly right to state how he feels on any issue. He may be wrong, but I notice the those who don't support the Coalition won't be satisfied with saying that he is incorrect on an issue, they also have to argue that in being evil as well. That says more about them than it does about Tony Abbott.

I wonder when the left will get over this fear that just about all comments are racist, sexist or anti homosexual. It is so tediously immature and stupid to constantly seek offence.The clue here is that the left hate the ral market, because they aren't bright enough to control it or make it work for them.  They only achieve wealth through robbing others using political means.

The 'market' for carbon is not a real market, but a government created pseudo-market that can be manipulated by crony-capitalists. In the same way renewable energy is full of such rip-off merchants getting lots of juicy subsidies for no real benefit.Better give us some examples, Jerry, because I can't think of a single one.Gillard was a lawyer.  I admit she wasn't a very good lawyer, but she had practised for a little while.Most of the media is soft-left.  They hate the Coalition and always have.  That si why the SMH and Age will run any story they can to do down the Government.

The good thing about having the media against you is that it sharpens your arguments and your skills.

Most left-wing media types are stupid. So it isn't hard to run rings around them.The polls under Gillard were in fact more reflective of the malaise at the heart of her government.  It was also clear that as a government that had to win seats to retain government, the polls were far more important in Gillard's day that they are now.

The polls are not showing any real ALP resurgence, but a move to minor parties who will give preferences to Labor.  In the polls in Gillard's time, the Coalition had a very high primary vote, which they took to the election.

In practical terms this probably means that the ALP will not pick up the necessary marginals to win the next election based on the curretnt poll figures.  However, in Gillard's time the Coalition consistently had a primary vote so high that it was sure that the ALP would never win the seats they needed to retain government.

I really think that the ALP were really stupid after the 2010 election. They should have let Tony Abbott take office then. He would have all the joys of minority government and the ALP could have husbanded its resources for the following election. they then could have brought Rudd back at that time and used his popularity as Opposition leader to crucify Tony Abbott.I always thought that John Howard had the ability to talk to the voters over the head of the media and the pundits. The public didn't particulalrly like Howard, but they trusted him to get on with government and leave them alone.

Politicians are like used-car salesmen.  Nobody admits to liking them as a class.  However, if you know one who goes about his trade with a minimum of fuss and doesn't talk to you like you are a fool, you'll respect him, even if you don't like him.Is it true that when people in the poorer areas vote Liberal they are bogans and racists, but when the same people swing to vote Labor they are suddenly the wonderful, upstanding working class who can do no wrong?SO foreigners deserve the best of everything just because they are refugees?  How about we care about Australians in need first?
