i get bugger all in the way of handouts and yet i expect the taxes i pay to be used efficiently and effectively to help our society as a whole.  not to be used so that amongst other things millionaires can claim $100,000.00 in maternity leave or that the heavy lifting is done by those least able to rather than those with $20 billion dollars squirreled away in non taxable trust accounts such as Gina and Co.

if you want to criticise Evan do so against the excesses of both the far left and far right.  i think you would find the majority of citizens in this nation want a egalitarian society rather than the swings which we keep getting to the far right or the far left.well an election saved us from the last idiots.well noah according to international law a nations airspace ends at the 10,000 metre mark, the airliner was flying well within its rights at 11,000 metres.

also according to international law, a combatant has the responsibility of identyfying a target before committing any action against it.  this did not happen as a halfway decent pair of binoculars would have shown this was a swept wing commercial jet airliner and not a straight winged turboprop transport plane as the FSB criminals originally claimed it was.

this is just russia upping the ante with their FSB dogs.Truthseeker have you ever had a look at a block of code?  

Do you actually understand what is required to rewrite the coding of something such as a modern surfact to air missile?  i look at code all day, never anything as sophisticated as that and you can bet your behind that it is not as simple as that little movie you watched last night make it seem.

10's of thousands of lines of code and each one of them has to be prefectly written else they could conflict with another line causing the whole program to crash and .... not work at all leaving the missile sitting upon its launch vehicle stubbornly refusing to go anywhere.No link, and apparently no independent source either.

AJC, that just isn't good enough and quite hypocritical.if the loony left wants to forgive and forget the murder of 2 dozen + australians last week i sure as hell will never advocate for one single bloody country shopper to enter into this nation even when we fix our own internal issues.

i always had this stupid view that australians would always stand for justice when other australians are wronged...  i have been thoroughly disabused of that silly little notion over the past few days...

you lot want to save foreigners?  do it with your own dime on your own time!  australian taxpayer funds should be targeted at australians only.well gillian they are quite welcome to take a plane ticket to some other country who has signed the useless convention.  they are not wanted nor needed here and are clearly just a burden on our society.

you lot want to salve your useless bloody ego's pay for their relocation in a nation who wants them.

it is time this nation let the rest of the world kill themselves off that way there is less chance of them killing off our innocent travellers.  and to all those who scream "we need the rest of the world" -&gt; we dont, australia has every resource we need to be selfsufficient.mel your useless 3rd world country shoppers can contribute nothing to this society.  we dont need basket weavers or toilet scrubbers, we need skilled migrants with experience in 1st world manufacturing process.

dont like it too bloody bad, these people come from societies which have stagnated in the 1st and 8th centuries.  after watching the performance of those societies and their peoples over the decades as far as i am concerned they can all bloody well rot in them, your egotistical crusade not withstanding.

we cant save the world and we sure as hell should not be importing even one single problem from it which our children will then have to fail at solving.  use your own time and your own bloody time, not the collective resources of this nation.

maybe you lot should spend more time on our own societies issues rather than worrying about other societies which we can only influence by the barrel of a gun, however since you dont it clearly shows how hypocritical you all are.gillian and her pack of fruitloops need to find real jobs that contribute to our society rather than wasting our collective resources on the hopeless and useless cases of the worldrevisionism mortan.

sheeple bleating will not change the fact that abbott is the best choice out of two extremely appalling options." people have died and yes some of them are Australians"

and lets burn the australian flag when we protest because people have died defending the flags ideal... but it doesnt matter

disgusting people hold such sentiments as the above.

those people who died were your fellow countrypeople and by extension your family.  bloody amazing how i see outrage from the loony left (and i include you considering your past comments) and then come out with comments such as yours.

you people make me sickneil their behaviour is absolutely disgusting and i truly hope i know none of them in the real world.

the families of those murdered deserve justice not just the cowardly acquiescence of whacko left in this nationyeah because the murder of 28 australians by "ex" russian fsb agents is not reason enough... maybe if the russians send a kill squad in to murder your family in their sleep you may change your tune, then again probably not.

there are so many gutless little hypocrites in our society it is sickening.

"defend the weak against the evil strong" maybe more should take such sayings to heart.well it doesnt really matter now does it.

political expediency has won over justice now that the yanks have decided it is all just a big mistake... the australian government will follow suit and damn the 28 aussies who died!maybe i am off the mark here, however it seems to me it is well past time to hold producers accountable for their products.

if a person is having a heart attack due to eating products which are activley promoted as non threatening then those companies need to be held liable for each individual medical cost... lets see how fast the burgers do become better at HJ's just for a start.

it is the same with tobacco even if an individual company cannot be targeted since smokers change brands all the time due to marketing the all of them should be held collectively responsible for each individuals medical costs who are affected by their product.  there are many symptoms to smoking related diseases which cannot be hidden.

just as i am personally held liable for creating a situation which leads to injury then so should companies and their shareholder be even if it is only financially.metronome it is upto the various religious communities to police their closed societies, if they are incapable of such then dont be surprised when broader society decides that having homicidal maniacs preaching hate, as has been well documented in some of sydneys mosques, and planning terrorism within those communities is not worth the risk to our greater society.

the various religious groups either work with us or they are against our society, sitting back and doing nothing is not an option.  if their first loyalty is to their religious brethren rather than to australia then dont be surprised to see the call for the banning of religion to roll across the land.

me, i dont care either way if people wish to hide from reality  by believing in silly little fairytales... i have a family member who has gone over the edge in this regard as far as i am concerned, however i will defend her right to do so to the death as long as she presents no harm to the other people of this nation.

each to their own, until they become a threat.jay the UN is worthless.

every tinpot dictator which cause these problems has a seat on the un and bribes the other tinpot dictators into voting down any measures which would solve many of these regional issues.

better we just limit UN membership to 1st world nations and then offer places to 3rd world nations who are willing to embrace democratic ideals and reject others such as inherent corruption, dictatorships etc...  for those nations who do not wish to, then so be it, leave them to their own devices to sink or swim whilst the others that have are protected under a 1st world umbrella from them.give us a break yank with the blatant lying.  the auto industry was dead after nissan packed up its bags under one of your precious labor governments.  destroying our tariffs, preposterous union wages, and one sided "free trade" agreements with 3rd world labour countries are what destroyed this nations auto industry

it is sickening the way you lot on the loony left and righteous right use the misery of the aussies affected by these failed labor/lnp policies to score points in some egotistical little game

the lnp and labor have proven to be traitors to this nation by selling off all of the assets built over the last century in the past 30 years to hide their economic incompetency"I don,t think they can blame the $400 million loss of business to Russia to anybody else except the Cabinet and ms Bishop..."

really, how about on the russian built and supplied sa-11 that murdered 2 dozen aussies.and yet the US is over 3 trillion dollars in debt... how about acknowledging that little fact or would you prefer to see the australian people in 1 trillion dollars of debt just to keep multinationals and union welfare coffers fullALL HAIL THE LNP AND LABOR WITH THEIR RELENTLESS PURSUIT OF PRIVATISING GOVERNMENT MONOPOLIES!

only to cost the taxpayer $10's of billions of dollars to buy back the same monopolies

what happens when all those privatised coal fueled powerplants around the nation begin to age... do you actually believe "private" industry will fund their replacement?  dream on, just another way big business rorts the system with the aid of the major political parties.

hmmm so aussie post is next on the privitisation list... what do you think we will have to pay to repurchase it in 15 or 20 years time when it becomes ANOTHER failed LNP/Labor policy like we are now doing with telstra.more looney left idealism with no basis in reality.

get rid of xenophobia...  it exists in every bloody society on the planet always has and always will whether you like it or not.

be kind to boatpeople... we were and then we were flooded with them to the point it was costing our society $10's of billions of dollars with no return on the investment except assuaging whacko loony left ego's.  that just a poor investment strategy, why dont you and your useless lot find an actual solution to their underlying issues instead of egotistically preaching at the rest of our society.  go on make yourselves useful for a change.

ramping up of fear and imminent disasters... hmmm like useless climate crazies in these forums do.

help the disadvantaged, unemployed, uni students and mentally ill... guess what oostermann, they were all in the same situation under your precious labor party governments.  what we are experiencing now is 35+ years of continual policy failure by the lnp and labor governments.  they both share the blame equally for not correcting faulty legislation as it was found.

try and lower rates of incarceration?  we have enough criminals who continually reoffend and are re-released into our society.  better to big a deep 1km or 2km pit and line it with cells for reoffenders to spend the full term of their sentences in with no parole periods.

blindly following egotistical loony left and righteous right political dogma whilst ignoring reality is what has caused the mess we are currently in and you wish to keep adding to it...  no wonder the mainstream thinks the fringe are a pack of useless nutters.

actually your 50,000 labor asylum seekers cost will cost our society for decades to come because they have no basic skills base for a 1st world society, they have no english language skills, many of them have preexisting health issues and will require full time taxpayer support in everything they do until the day they die!

bleeding heart hyperbole with no actual facts to back them up will not change that no matter how loud you lot bleat it.

your self selecting countryshoppers are an unnecessary burden on our society.... dont like it, talk your precious UN into hosting another round of useless talkfests whilst the countries these people originate from continue to stagnate as 1st and 8th century failed 3rd world hellholes.

yep the west caused them harm for a few centuries as their backward cultures were exploited, however they had already stagnated by then so the west didnt cause their underlying problem, it was already centuries old.

importing the problems of the 3rd world into our own society does not solve the underlying issue no matter how much you wish it to happen just to stroke your little ego's.  you want to save the 3rd world? well the so do most of the rest of us, however not to the detriment of our own society.well pat there are 7.5+ billion humans on the planet.  humanity is not an endangered species, in point of fact in may regions it is worse than a plague of locusts.

sorry if that offends your sensibilities however it is a well known factyep you are 100% correct dubious... most conquerors either deliberately massacred the previous natives or made them slaves.  this fact still reverberates across the globe and you can pretty much count on one hand all of the nations which have corrected their colonisation issues.

australia is one of those.  over the past decade the australian public has funded the aboriginal movement with $30 billion.  my main question is where the hell is that $30,000,000,000.00 if we still have aboriginals living in squallor in town camps and the like.  maybe the problem lies closer to the bleeding heart brigand and their complete ineptness than you wish to admit@alpo
nice to be in 100% agreement for a changewe havent had a government whose goal was generating long term real world employment in decades.

we need government
- to close all the loopholes in the taxation system ensuring everyone pays a fair amount of tax whether that be 20% or 30% of their annual wages to ensure the nation has the cash on hand to function - multibillionaires may not like trust accounts being taxed and multinationals may not like being stopped from offshoring their local profits, but hey too bad.
- trades apprenticeships should be 100% joint sponsored by the employer and the federal government - tradespeople are an investment in our nations future.
- shutdown all the different employment visa programs - if we currently have 100 citizens/residents applying for each job advertised then we have no need to import a single visa holder, if industry is desperate for skills then they can start bloody investing in them
- introduce reciprocal trade barriers against countries which have them against us in assorted manners - european subsidies are still a trade barrier against australian manufactured goods

the list goes on and needs to be dealt withsorry to hear that ae...  you will have to come into the nearest larger regional centre for checkups and the birth or else take a couple of days off work and have the birth in the nearest major city.

life sucks, however we cannot have our society relying on foreign contractors in core industries.  dont lay the blame at me for stating the obvious blame your precious lnp/labor parties for actively pursuing policies which have allowed it to happenwell ae
since we dont manufacture one hell of a lot in this nation anymore price decreases across the board will not hurt the nations economy at all... in fact it will help our measure of trade figures immeasurablyyour parents in law payed 18% interest rates on a mortgage of 4x the average salary, we pay 5% interest rates on a mortgage of 11x the average salary
in your parents in laws era they had 11% unemployment rate, using those same calculations today we have between a 12% to 13% unemployment rate, current abs figures conclude those working more than 1 hour per week are employed and thus the massively underemployed are no longer included in the figures

that sort of puts it into context.  the joint lnp/labor policies over the past 30 or so years have proven to be more of a failure for the long term prosperity of this nation than not

dont be surprised when your middle aged child asks you the question "Do you want fries with that?" as you travel through the multinational drive thru who offshores the vast bulk of their local profits.  it is just the end game in everything you are advocating and wishing foryes because vpn's are nonexistent

time for the media industry to adapt to the times.

they still wish to make the same increasing profits per person whilst their market has expanded a thousand fold with the advent of multinationalism

a better model would be chasing the bulk profit model rather than chasing the individual profit model, most large successful businesses operate on such a mode.the "West" is not pushing Russia and China anywhere.  that is the direction they have chosen to take just as they both chose to embrace that other failure - communism.

the only difference this time if it happens is that china will collapse under its population and economic pressures.  china needs the west far, far more than the west needs china, as for russia as much as i personally like the russians i have met, they are only a regional power such as australia is and the global economy can survive without them once again.

pssst, russia cannot survive without the global economy though thus the reason that we have western democracy dominant around the globe and not the former soviet union.your hilarious

the US is still by far the most dominant military on the planet both operationally and technologically.

yep the f35 is a turkey, however it is the most advanced turkey on the planet using cutting edge technology which the chinese and russians will not come near for decades to come.

history has already proven you wrong there with the technologically inferior russians and chinese now western lickspittles.  in a few hundred years that may change, i wont be around then and my descendents will more than likely have adapted to a completely different society by then and who knows... maybe the apes will then rule the world...

otherwise who gives a damnyep youve pretty much nailed it Peril

this is what the LNP and big business have thrived upon over the past 40 years and what Labor has continually failed to address, hell they have been a party to cycle more often than not.

we inhabit one of the planets 7 continents with its entire wealth at our fingertips to manage for the benefit of our society as a whole, instead it is sold off to multinational corporations or the uber rich, in many cases not even to anything close to its true value.@terry
having read some of his previous posts i am not surprised

gerard completely ignores the fact that palestine was a jordanian territory prior to them using it to invade israel.  israel occupied the territory for that reason and would, i am damn sure, love to extract themselves from them if they could do so knowing that all threats had ended

gerard also completely ignores the fact that israel could level the palestinian towns and cities if they truly wished to carry out a campaign of genocide.

then again gerard more than likely knows all of this and thinks his little point scoring game means something to the rest of the world.   pssst gerard, it doesnt.  the terrorists will keep attacking israel and israel will keep defending itself and the day that israel loses the support of the west is the day the muslim world will launch their 3rd invasion of israel... my guess is that is the day you will finally see confirmation of israeli nuclear weapons.

on that day will you condemn the israel government for defending the people of that nation?"On this occasion, justice should be served immediately"

australia is not in the business of assassinating foreign leaders else exKGB Colonel Putin would hopefully have already had a bullet in the head.blah, blah, blah... rentseekers distort facts once again, blah, blah, blah

this bleating by the asylum industry rentseekers and their useless sheeple will continue until we withdraw from the flawed and completely outdated UNHCR treaty.

let them bleat then as the country continues to ignore them, until then send the countryshoppers to manus or nauru none of them should ever be allowed to stay on australian territory for more than the time it takes to ship them off.@IanM:
those royalties amount to a few cents on the dollar for current prices of iron ore and coal

when the miners whine about iron ore only selling for $90.00 per ton, never forget they are paying the States less than a dollar for that ton.

tax these non taxpaying multinational corporations at the wharves until they break.  the next lot who come in might be a little more intelligent and realise that their multinational companies will die without the non renewable resources we have and they want.ofcourse it will fail miserably... it is milne and all she and her party are capable of doing is failing miserably"As we know, yet another round of violence has broken out between Israel and Palestine in Gaza"

what a load of rubbish!  this current conflict has been going on for the past 2 years, during the time that Hamas (a recognised terrorist group) has fired unguided rockets into Israel.  the only reason there has been little loss of life on Israels side is because to the hundreds of $200,000 iron dome anti missiles it has used to lower the threat.

Israel decides enough is enough and suddenly all those who sympathise with the terrorists are up in arms.  they are occupied because the arab league of muslim nations used the territories to launch the 2nd invasion of israel, and no amount of bleeding heart rehortic can ever change that simple bloody fact.  the other point is there has never been a palestian nation, prior to the israeli occupution the west bank was a jordanian province.

the palestinians want peace and prosperity.  then they must show they are worthy of such trust as self determination and having terrorist groups in governance of the territories is not the way to do it.

you mean those palestians who terrorist groups such as the PLO and Hamas have been using as human shields against justice.

this is a palestinian issue and until the palestinian people completely reject terrorism they will continue to suffer for their support of it.israel has stopped settlements before whilst hamas and the other palestinian supported terrorist organisation have continued their attacks agains israel.

the palestinians are just reaping what they have sown and after 100 or 200 thousand of them pay the price they may give up oj supporting the terrorists in their midst.

their choice.100 or 200 thousand is peanuts to you however it represents 10% to 20% of the palestinian people in the region.

considering it was and probably still is the goal of the arab nations in the region to massacre every israeli in the region then i have no issue with israel defending itself anyway they like

the jordanian palestinians have reaped what their nation sowed in 1967@GJA
yep israel suspends settlement building right up to the time the terrorists begin attacking them once more.  hell they had a period of close to two years at one stage they suspended the settlements even though they were experiencing terrorist attacks during that time.

if the jordanian palestinians want self determination and an end to settlement building then they had best prove they are worthy of such rather than continually supporting terrorism

it is more than clear that settlements are being used as punishment for bad behaviour.  just as you slap a dog on the nose for crapping where it is not supposed to, so the israeli's are slapping the palestinians on the nose for the same reason."If Israel is worried about civilian shields then they can open the borders and let them out."

just like if Hamas and the other terrorist organisations in the region are fighting for the freedom of the palestinian people they can stop using those same people as human shields.

this fight has nothing to do with freeing the palestinian people and everything to do with destroying Israel and massacring the people who reside within the borders of Israeland yet within a few years israel proved themselves to be able to govern their nation peacefully for all those within their borders.

as has been proven repeatedly those of the PLO and its splinter groups such as Hamas are incapable of governing for the good of the people in palestine but rather exist just to continue their little conflict which is the cause of the occupation of the jordanian territories.

and even though you and the terrorist may refuse to mention it palestine is part of jordan and was never an independent state.nice hypocrisy

how about the thousand or so missiles fired into israel by the palestinians over the past 2 years... how about the tunnels into israel, they did not appear overnight, how about the fact that palestine is part of jordan and was used by jordan to launch an invasion into israel which is why it is occupied.

at the end of the day if the palestinians want freedom they it is up to them to prove themselves worthy of it and actively supporting terrorism is clearly not the way to do it.ummm no.

hamas has ordered all civilians to stay in their neighbourhoods, this ensures hamas human shields.well joy
those missiles cost $200,000 each and have been used against hundreds of rockets from palestine over the past 2 years.  why dont you fund the defence of israel out of your own pocket or maybe you would be best just letting them deal with the issue which they never created in the first place.

palestine is a jordanian territory and was used to launch the 1967 invasion of israel.@joy
no mention of you funding hundreds to thousands of the usd$200,000.00 anti missile missiles as well as all the supporting costs.

which brings us to the conclusion that israel can do whatever they like to defend their nation against its terrorist threat, terrorist loving ego's not withstanding.if you want to legalise homosexual marriage in our society then put it to our society as a plebiscite at the next federal election.  a 75% win will give you a mandate and less and it is not worth the disruption to our society as a whole.

then again we have seen time and again in this issue how the homosexual advocates are trying to force this minor issue into a major issue.

ask for the plebiscite and then follow the will of the people and if they say no head to the UK or NZ to get married.  me, i will vote no until we see the results of the societal experiment in those two societies which closely match our own.

there is not one single reason in the world to rush into this as it is not a life or death decision and we have seen too much social expermintation forced upon us by special interest groups with the ears of the government of the day.custard i was in my early twenties during keatings era and there was plenty of work.  hell i used to roll through job after job after job seeking that perfect one.

plenty of manufacturers we based in this nation back then whether it was furniture industry, the auto industry, the food industry etc... now we have cheap chipboard rubbish built in china and sold for a fortune by HN, our auto manufacturers are heading offshore meaning all those thousands of small businesses that supported them are going to hit the wall and we are down to one bloody cannery left in the nation!

the unemployment rate is far higher than that which is released by the ABS since the statistics are now calculated on a completely different model.

the world has changed since the 1980's/1990's, there is little prospect for gaining long term sustained employment in our society anymore since the LNP and Labor jointly screwed our nation over."what happens to the 540,000 who miss out on a job when all the 140,000 job vacancies are filled"

ummmm i thought that was made very clear CJB... they go on a six month waiting list before they are allowed to collect their $200 per week to feed themselves and the family, pay the rent/mortgage, pay the utilities, pay for travel expenses, etc...

maybe people should be demanding our governments start implementing effective policies to counter such a future.  and if that means publicly owned and operated entities again such as we had pre 1980 then so be it!  atleast people could put a roof over their heads and food on the table.just like Labor the LNP has no long term employment policies.  they are both worthless and stuck in the "next electoral cycle only" rut and have been for getting close t 40 years.

the LNP and Labor have proven not to be nation building and/or nation nurturing parties.cmon zing... it is clearly a specious argument

the lnp's domestic policies are clearly lacking in anything approaching forethought let alone credibility

one term tony.  and neither hackneyed nor fullofbull will get even close to the pmship with their performances whilst the rest of the current cabinet, such as abetz, have proven to be just bit players

leaving the nation with the only choice being those other useless morons in the labor party come the next electoral cycle.

as with the last election the voter will be screwed if they do and screwed if they dont leaving them to choose the least despicable choice out of two truly despicable major parties.Give me Netflix and HBO online, give it to me at a comparable price to the US, release it at the same time and I'll pay for it.

there is no need to settle for second best in a digital economy.  when these businesses abolish the "Australia Tax" they have all imposed on our nation then maybe copyright infringement levels will drop.

my message to the film, publishing and music industry is simple: keep gouging me, then expect me to gouge back.whilst the Loony Left would prefer the following form of governance:

1. the nanny state where noone is responsible for their own actions nor held to account for them.@Baz
I disagree Fred - Hawke and Keating governments reforms actually benefited Australia greatly. 

a nation operates on the timescale of centuries... the hawke/keating reforms were designed to operate on a timeframe of a decade and when howard took office and we realised what had been given away for so called "market reforms"

multinationalism, privatisation and multiculturalism are rapidly strangling this societyanne corporate multinationalism is strangling the functioning of governments around the world as these private companies offshore their profits before taxation to tax shelters.  yep i love ireland, but no matter what the irish wish to claim their 3% tax on business makes them a tax shelter and has a direct pull factor which funnels 100's of billions out of other economies.

not one big multinational in this nation or in the US or most of Europe pays its full tax bill.  when you buy from amazon (google) your purchase is made directly through an Irish shell company and our government does not receive one cent in tax.

multinationalism is a curse and needs to be strangled itself@south of saturn
A republic is a form of government in which power resides in the people, and the government is ruled by elected leaders run according to law rather than through inheritance or mandate.

Sorry i thought that was what we had.Latham has it right in his own way.  Politicians do not have the knowledge nor the ability to manage our nation effectively or efficiently, this has been proven time and again over the past few decades with the constant failure of their policies either in implementation or in management.

Better we have experienced professionals in each different sector running management teams on performance based contracts to implement and manage policies rather than relying on politicians to do such.

Politicians are not project managers, nor are they economists, nor are they finance specialists... the vast majority these days are just hacks who have failed in the real world or began their careers within the bosom of the LNP, Labor or the Greens with no experience in the real world or else have entered politics for their own tiny narrow needs such as Palmer.

Having a degree in politics or law or some obscure english/arts course does not mean they can manage our nation any better than a bloke off the streets.

Politicians should be overseeing policies ensuring those implementing them meet their KPI's and not trying to manage things they have no experience in.well ray the opera house was funded and built

the nbn has not been funded nor built, the big new roads package will be funded with borrowed funds from foreign markets, all of labors green schemes were funded from borrowed funds from foreign markets to purchase foreign manufactured goods, this list is endless and further proof of the failure of the LNP and Labor.

we have over $1 trillion dollars in our super funds looking for a home to invest in... maybe it is time our governments put their stupid bloody partisan politics to one side so that we can find ways to invest in the long term manufacturing and agricultural future of this nation so that it benefits the people of this nation and not multinational corporations or foreign governments.@ravensclaw
Odd Mr Jericho made no mention of job snobs or jobs that can't be filled despite offering pay well above the award.

and what jobs would they be?  provide the proof please.  travelling for hours on to an orchard miles outside of cities to pick the fruit soon brings your much vaunted $25 per hour down to a figure below minimum wages especially taking into account fuel costs and servicing costs on a vehicle.

all it takes is perspective to see how much tripe the old job snobs argument truly is."So rather than making jobseekers perform menial tasks each week we should instead develop policy that actually helps people get employed"

i dont know which bloody australia you live in Greg however for either the LNP and Labor to implement effective long term policies they would have to actually have effective leaders and supporting cabinets, both of which have clearly been completely lacking over the past 30+ years.  now we have brought to this stage of blaming the victim (australian citizens) rather than the perpetrators (politicians)

30+ years of policy failure by both the LNP and Labor with neither of them willing to take measures to correct mistakes of the past.  hell our industrial relations legislation is still full of WorkChoices acts after Labor promised to repeal the legislation.

a pox on both of the parties.@ din sorry to disappoint

Eligibility for Medicare Card
Everyone who lives in Australia?excluding Norfolk Island residents?is eligible for a Medicare card if they:

?hold Australian citizenship
?hold New Zealand citizenship (documentation required). More information on the Medicare enrolment for New Zealand citizens[1] page
?have been issued with a permanent visa
?have applied for a permanent visa (excludes an application for a parent visa[2]), have permission to work in Australia or can prove relationship to an Australian Citizen ? other requirements may also apply. Call us for more information
Visitors to Australia from a country that has a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement[2] with Australia are also eligible for medically necessary treatment.
yeah PtL but it is quite easy to go to each States website and peruse exactly how much they have to pay in royalties.

i did it not long ago and it worked out to cents on the dollar, meanwhile those same State governments allow extremely generous royalty free periods whilst the taxpayer funds the core transport infrastructure.

no we are miners and dont use the nations transportation networks even though we are hundreds of miles inland with no access to oceanic ports!

paying royalties to extract the minerals is fair, as is paying for any profit made from the sale of those resources.  if they dont like it there are always regions in the deepest darkest africa they can go to... nice stable regions with no hint of civil war or tribal conflict!

they mine here they have security and that is something they have to pay for no matter where on the planet they go to.@dubius
and pre white settlement there was no such thing as an iron implement on this continent.  whats your point.keith the aircraft was in international airspace.

according to international law it is incumbent upon the combatants to ensure they are not targeting civilians, a half decent pair of binoculars would have done that making this a war crime.well TaxPayer, they will be hardpressed to find work since the LNP has been signing trade agreements hand over fist for the past few decades which has stripped our nation of many different industries as they head for nations with 3rd world conditions and wages.

maybe the righteous right had best look at the damage which has been done to our nations employment opportunities before making stupid comments such as "Once the unemployed have to work for the dole we will see a dropp in the number of those who comment pro left dribbles"

the LNP and Labor are well on the way to destroying our society after the past 30 or so years of continual policy failures.i judge on action not on political rehortic.

stop the boats.   they arent hitting our shores anymore and as we are seeing with the latest countryshoppers, the indians will have a word with them to find any indian nationals or residents amongst them and then they will be transferred to manus.  verdict - no more countryshoppers landing unannounced on our shores, job done.

kill the carbon tax.  it was a deceitful piece of work foisted upon the australian people by a lying hound whose only interest was grasping her claws upon the pmship at any cost.  verdict - the tax has been repealed, job done.

kill the mining tax.  another labor stuff up where they crawled into bed with the multinational miners to ensure they were to never pay a fair price for the non renewable resources they are stripping from our nation.  verdict - a tax which achieved nothing has been repealed, job done.

build the roads. well the cash has been allocated in the budget however now we will have to borrow it from foreign sources since labor screwed the nation over with the mining tax - we'll see what happens however i would prefer to just see blackspots permanently fixed until we can afford 10's of billions on roadworks.

work for the dole.  considering the LNP has been instrumental in driving our manufacturing offshore along with other industries such as customer services with their so called "FREE" trade agreements (a free ride for the low wage paying, low conditioned nations) this is just hypocritical of the LNP and like with their other hypocrisy contained in the budget they will punished for it at the next election.

Overall Verdict:  this nation is royally screwed as long as the LNP and Labor with the aid of fringe extremists such as the Greens and now PUP keep control of our political system.it will be trent.  palmer doesnt want it as it hits his bottom line and palmer is only in it for palmer.oh stop the histrionics people.

mcdonalds has just announced it is opening six new stores to help tackle unemployment.

one day my kids will be serving your kids burgers when your kids have their 1/2 day off from the multinational fast food joint that employs them.

phew for a second i thought there would be no real future for the kids of today and tomorrow as all industries were offshored to 3rd world labour countries with our generous Free Trade Agreements and 456/457/458/459/4599989 etc. visa programs employing 10's of thousands of foreigners in place of our own.

once we all work in the fast food industry we can all be lifters, 4 Quarter pounders at a time! (unless OH&amp;S has a problem with that)which poll Yank?

the only one that matters, the Federal election.  the only problem with it is either the LNP or Labor will form Government after doing dirty little deals with the Greens or Palmer who have only their own interests at heart and not those of the nation as a whole, pretty much the same as your Labor and the LNPgive us a break paula.  it has nothing to do with communication issues and everything to do with lame ducks.

we were presented with two absolutely appalling choices during the last two Federal elections.  In the first election, the public soundly rejected both parties, in the last election the public decided that if they had to have one party or the other forced upon them then they would atleast make the choice.

the australian public should NEVER have been put in such a position and this just highlights the failure of our political system.  it needs a complete overhaul /scrapping or else we may as well invite charlie or one of his kids in as our new King of Australia.  personally, i would prefer the overhaul /scrapping option with a new system based on the best from social democracies around the globe.well PtL

if you want the US model so bad you can always immigrate there.  australia however is, or was, a social democracy prior to 1980 when the loony left and rabid right began our current path to destruction.

it is time to reverse all the social engineering experimentation which the LNP and Labor have emplaced over the past 30 years.  our systems are broken, the best bet is to revert them and then only emplace that which works for all of our society not just the loony left or righteous right.

yep all those trade agreements you love can be turfed into the garbage where they belong, they are not quid pro quo so they do not even deserve the social engineering term "Free Trade"well Gary

now we will see the massacre of tens of thousands all in the name of "Allah"... liveleak is a good place to start if you want to see exactly what kind of subhumans are now threatening the region.

should the west have inteferred in iraq? no, but they did.
should the west have instilled democracy in iraq? yes, it was worth a try just for the people's sake.
was it the west's fault that the democratically elected government in iraq began a campaign of sectarianism which has led directly to what is occuring now? no, rightly or wrongly this was the choice of the iraqi people

the question is should we of the west intefere in what is happening now.  as much as i am an isolationist, after watching some of the unedited video which the msm will not show i am all in favor of the US, the UK and Australia putting every damn special forces team we have on the ground,  hunting down and executing these barbarians.

innocent people knelt down with their hands tied behind their backs and then executed... no these animals cannot be allowed to win the day without a fight and the only ones on the planet capable of fighting them are the western democracies.

jess it may be the international standard... however it is clearly a flawed standard when it comes to extracting realistic data modelsOption 1.  Stand back and do nothing else in the region allowing ethnic/tribal cleansing to go unchecked until an eventual winner emerges.  whilst those who like to blame the West for anything and everything may like this option i dont believe the innocents in the region should suffer for their little pathetic ego's.
Option 2. Drop the hammer on the entire region ruthlessly snuffing out all opposition to Western imposed rule
Option 3. Isolate an area of the region and instil a Western controlled enclave which does not recognise any religious or tribal affiliations.  It is provided with medical, industrial and social services by a consortium of Western nations with the aim of making the enclave economically self sufficient.  If a whole new political entity has to be created to oversee such enclaves then so be it, it is better off without Russia's and China's veto powers just as a beginning.

What is clear is that the Governments in the region are not able to rule for all those within sphere of influences which breeds discontent resulting in minorities in one region calling on their compatriots from another region to aid them.  Since the people of the middle east have stagnated in the 8th century the only avenue which is left open is terrorists and terrorism.  this is more often than not the norm, the facts dont dispute this.if any of my childrens test had come back positive i would have talked to my wife and let her know i would have been in favour of aborting the child.

yes it is a hard decision, so is a life sentence for the child and the childs carers.  for those who wish to take on such a responsibility for their own reasons, that is your decision.

attempting to guilt trip into keeping a handicapped foetus however is an activity worthy of the lowest form of scum in our society - in the same grade as paedophiles, murderers, rapists and politicians.germany is recommisioning its coalfired powerplants and dont be surprised as more of the EU looks to coal and/or nuclear to meet their energy needs as they wean themselves away from the russian bear.and yet pete the soviet union crumbled in the end...

why, because it was not economically viable just like todays russia which relies on an export driven model of fossil fuels to europe... europe has now learnt the folly of relying on the russian bear with countries such as germany recommissioning their coalfired powerplants since russian gas supplies can not be relied upon.

just because putin and his cohorts are living like kings does not mean that the rest of those in russia are.nice stb

you are more worried about how the north koreans will feel about us than finding justice for the dozens of australians murdered by a russian supplied gadfly missile.trade sanctions are the norm of modern warfare, ww1 and ww2 were the exceptions rather than the rule.

name any other time in this century when major military powers have gone head to head?  previous to this century it was a common occurence, however those same major powers have found trade to be more beneficial than war which is why the eu is full of those same economies that previous to this century have been in perpetual war with each other.But the question isn't what should we do about too-big-to-fail but what can we do about it.
And the answer to that question is almost certainly nothing.

actually the answer is simple, if a big bank fails and the taxpayer has to bail it out then its investors lose everything as the taxpayer takes ownership of the asset.

if we have to bail the bast*rds out then we can sure as hell take ownership of them.  dont like it? elect better board members.well amin the only problem with the whole iraq debacle was the bleeding hearts were allowed a foothold in the issue.

the coalition should have just isolated the oil fields for our own use and left the iraqi people to deal with saddam.well daz unlike the coalition of the willing or the loony left i am honest about the reasons we went into iraq as well as the reason we got stuck in that 3rd world hellhole.  a sniper with a .50 calibre rifle could have achieved the same result with a lot less loss of life on the allies side.  and as we have seen in Crimea, nations dont steal, they reacquire.

useless bleeding hearts are also the reason good australian servicemen died in afghanistan rather than just pounding the whole goddamn region back to the stoneage where it belongs.

you want to cut 90%+ of our co2 output? build 6 nuclear fission plants which will generate the vast amount of energy this nation requires in the foreseeable future.  when nuclear fusion becomes available then we can replace the fission plants.

i am not interested in assuaging your ego's, as far as i am concerned if there is an issue you deal with it in the most direct and effective manner available.  because it is more than clear you lot have no answers to any issues let alone the willpower to practice as you preachthat is why I am trying a different approach

and still not offering any longterm realworld solutions which will power our nation into the 22nd century... that is the problem with idealism, it is not practical.and EM that is the position of a 100% climate crazy...

what you are asking for is our society to down tools and move back into caves just as our ancestors did before they had knowledge of firemaking just to make "you" feel better over the issue.

climate crazies are bloody ridiculous with their egotistic rants whilst not being able to put forward realworld solutions to the issue."It would be foolish to give up on stopping climate change as well it would be foolish to ignore the problems it will and are causing."

and it is just as foolish to waste australian taxpayer dollars appeasing useless climate crazy egos when the problem is caused by north america, eurasia and the subcontinent.

when they cut their emissions so then we can, however our 1.1 to 1.4% of global emissions are negligible.  you lot want to save the world, bleat at those who are actually responsible for the larger issue or else reach into your own damn pockets to appease your useless egotistical crusades.@tire
ahhh so suddenly it isnt about our coal fired powerplants it is about our mineral exports.

sorry i dont beleive you since you are one of the ones always screaming for this nation to have carbon taxes and the like, and i have never seen one of your posts calling for the cessation of our coal mining industry (which the LNP, Labor and the hypocritical Greens wholeheartedly support since they understand the foreign currency which our nation receives from it)

i think i have stated before i have little time for the arguments of hypocrites.@fish
there is an issue and i put forward concrete solutions to dealing with our end of it.  is the world going to end nope because we do nothing, nope as we are not causing the issue.  is your ego going to be stung because your specious arguement is just that? probably but then again i really dont give a damn like the rest of the nation.

you dont like nukes then too bloody bad.  they offer a cost effective simple solution with manageable after effects unlike your own solutio... oh hang on you provide not one viable soltion in this whole comments section... silly me lets talk about hypocrites.no it is just all about vested interests.

you have the climate crazies in this nation who want to waste our collective resources on an issue we have no significant input into just to appease their useless ego's whilst providing no actual solution to the overriding problem

you have those who you call "deniers" however they are really just those who have something to lose if we actually tackle our 1.1% to 1.4% of the global issue

and finally you have those of us who understand there is a problem however any attempts to actually deal with it effectively are blocked by the above for their own idealistic reasons.

6 nuclear fission plants around the nation will generate all the energy this nation requires, when nuclear fusion becomes viable in 50 year ~ 200 years then we can replace the fission plants... nuclear waste generated in that time would be bugger all and could be buried in a nice deep pit in the middle of the outback.

it is only idealism that stops us from dealing with these issues efficiently and effectivelyyep whilst democrats have always fought against freedom ... whether that be freedom of speech or basic human freedoms such as from slavery (slavery was abolished in the US by the republicans, the conservative side of politics whilst the democrats fought them tooth and nail)

there is nothing wrong with being a conservative.  i lean to the conservative left and have zero interest in this nations path down the roads of multinationalism and multiculturalism.  they are failed experiments from the so called progressives (read experimenters at our nations expense) from the right and left of our political spectrum.it raises $11,000,000,000.00 per day from the australian public with whom the cost is passed to.

in other words it is just another bloody tax.
JuLIAR by name, JuLIAR by nature.you will find that state elections generally always oppose federal elections.  unlike sheeple from the left and right most of us understand we need to put some roadblocks in the way of the lnp and labor now that they have corrupted our political system beyond redemption.give us a break PtL!

the lnp and labor have destroyed core industries of this nation with their policies.  kids who leave school early have not a hope in hell of gaining employment since our entire manufacturing industry has been forced offshore by union thuggery and lnp trade deals... our agricultural industry is under the same threat with trade deals allowing foreign subsidised goods into our market whilst we have removed all subsidies from our domestic growers.

those same kids who have been locked out of the employment market are now locked out of the education market with costs in the 10's if not 100's of thousands being lumped upon them.  whilst those who are doing so paid a pittance if anything at all for their university educations.

as with the loony left, useless propoganda from the righteous right sheeple is still propoganda no matter what spin you want to put on it.  i just class it all as sickening."Come on people we can do better than this."
not as long as climate crazies dominate the conversation... idealogy over function was always destined to fail.

when the nation can have a rational conversation on how to tackle the issue in an effective way that the australian voter can stomach then we can move ahead.

demanding the people of this nation pay a price no other nation on earth imposes and which has had zero effect on lowering global co2 output is more than enough reason to despise climate crazies in this country and their useless ego's.you have no interest in what is good for all, only like the rest of your ilk, what is good for your ego.

you want to cut australia's co2 emissions?  then lobby for fission plants as an interim for fusion plants@helvi
"Educate the population better, so they will be able to make more informed decisions at elections"

if you look at the points outlined you will see they address the underlying issue.  what bloody use education if you are not provided with meaningful data to form a decision upon.  as we have seen recently relying on politicians to provide massaged data such as you imply only encourages the sheeple to bleat whilst the rest of us just lose all interest in the governing process."The only thing we need is for politicians, particularly the senior ones, to be truthful and act according to their word."

it doesnt happen anywhere else in the world, why would you expect it to happen here?well we are descended from convicts and all have our little foibles.  there are more important issues in this nation than petty theft that happens in every society on the planet (except yours presumably)kerrie i have not seen a pm who wasnt a sociopath since i started voting back in the late 80's.  hell looking back i havent seen a pm who was worthy of holding the bloody position since they were in it to only look after their own little clique rather than the nation as a whole.

look back over all of the policies introduced since then and you will see disaster after disaster... hell even Superannuation policy was designed around the needs of the financial industry first and foremost rather than the consumer.  hence the reason not many people will be retiring without leaning on the pension.people there is an easy bloody solution and one which will be of benefit to most australians rather than those few with hooks in our political parties...

ELECT ME AS EMPEROR!"Why would bankers go to all the effort of mucking around with a carbon price when they can just steal people's money"

yeah because the European experience with their completely defrauded "PRICE ON CARBON" is not proof of exactly who steals the billions leaving the punter in italy, greece, spain, etc.. out in the cold.

you know exactly where you can shove those stupid little carbon price schemes."Just look at what China is up to"

hmmm Beijing and New Delhi are the two most smog infested cities on the planet with the majority of Beijing coming from... ohhh those dozens of coalfired powerplants they have commissioned over the past few years and are continuing to commission today...

hmmm China is an environmental wasteland with its rivers heavily polluted with heavy metals and manmade chemical concoctions... yep definately doing something.

most of China and its conquered territories have had their large carnivores hunted to extinction to satisy mythical Chinese medicine (we cant be too critical since the aboriginals hunted to extinction australias megafauna)

yank stupid sloganeering doesnt change the facts.  the chinese government only does things in the immediate interest of the chinese government and stupid sheeple bleating isnt going to change that.@yank
By 2020 it will have 20%. 

by 2020 according to your much vaunted ipcc talkfest reports we will have passed the 2c tipping point so it is just another meaningless climate crazy unsubstantiated piece of sloganeering

you know what i find truly pathetic about the useless climate crazies in this nation? their complete hypocrisy as they tap away on their coalfired keyboards which have been manufactured in the largest co2 emitter on the planet - china.  try boycotting all goods manufactured in china, north america and india if you want to cut down on humanity's co2 output

"Do a search to find out."
i have no interest in boycotting yank.. i am not a hypocritical climate crazy and actually face the reality of the situation.  it is not a problem we have caused and it is not a problem we even as nation can have even a minor impact on solving.

i like most australians have more important things to do than worry about the useless egotists in our nation@tfg
"3) Climate denialist liars depend on deliberate deceit, cherry-picked non-fact and conspiracy theory to promote their misinformation"

kind of like pathetic and uselessly egotistical climate crazies in this nation do by claiming "WE CAN SAVE THE WORLD WITH OUR TAX-ON-THE-AIR-WE-BREATHE"

not one bloody thing we do will have an effect on the global issue which has originated in north america and eurasia with those two regions still responsible for the vast (85%+) majority of emissions.

you want to talk about cherry picked facts and deceit, just look at every climate crazy argument put forth in this nation.  when the rest of the heavily co2 emitting developed world and developing world cut their emissions by a large amount then we should, until that day it is a pointless exercise in appeasing utterly useless egotists.@thebiggestegotistintheroom (take your pick as there seems to be dozens of them)
not one damn thing stopping you from paying for your own urges.  there is no bloody reason the rest of the nation should pay to appease useless egotistical crusades such as your own though.

"As one of the largest emitter of CO2 on a per head basis yes we should do something." climate crazy cherry picking considering as a nation we are responsible for 1.5% of global co2 emissions.  go crawl under a rock in a cave  without burning fossil fuels to keep you warm, but your ego will be assuaged on the matter."unauthorised use of copyright related material"

well i guess we can use the same arguments against the above since there is no public interest tests... pirate away me hearties.

"It's not an 'Australian Snowden' that we should fear"

No we shouldnt however rentseeking lawyers are another matter altogether@graazt
"whilst those with means do bugger-all "heavy lifting"."

it must be a bloody cold day in hell today!
reason: we are in agreement.

when you have the rheinhart clan arguing over control af a $5,000,000,000.00 trust fund that is exempt from tax whilst the rest of us are charged tax on the interest of our bank accounts  you have just the tip of the iceberg on the rorts that have been put in place by the LNP and Labor to look after their mates.in 100% agreement aussie... stupid taxes and paper schemes have achieved nothing of note.  the planet is still experiencing increasing levels of co2 and yet the same useless little sheeple keep screaming for something which will do nothing to slow down the effects of humanity pumping co2 into the atmosphere.  egotists the lot of them.

reforestation of this nation, legislation and punitive fines against industry for their co2 emissions, a co2 import tariff on goods produced in those nations who have not reduced their co2 output and whilst we have some little sway in the un introduce bills against those nations with rampant deforestation.

the amazon has lost over 756,000 sqkm of rainforest since 1970, most of that so that people "can have fries with that".  a worthwhile sacrifice? i think not which is one of the top reasons i refuse to eat at such places.if people arent buying then those companies will fold, that is capitalism in action or do you prefer we keep bailing out all these multinational corporations at australian taxpayer expense?

i dont give a damn about multinationals and their profits.  if they all fold tomorrow then australian sme's will rise to cover what we need recreating the jobs we have lost because big business has offshored most of our employment to 3rd world countries.

lets be clear... i dont give a damn about multinational corporations, i dont give a damn about climate crazies and their ego's, i dont give a damn about bleeding hearts and their ego's and i sure as hell couldnt give a toss about politicians and their sheeple supporters.

i do give a damn about this nation/society which my children will inherit and it having a successful future and the only way that can happen is by producing actual results instead of political 3 word slogans and sheeple bleating."Like stabilising the population to net zero growth"

most developed nations have already achieved such a thing.  it is the importation of those from the 3rd world which is the reason their populations keep increasing.

you truly want zero population growth? then we need to lace all aid to the 3rd world with contraceptives, hell that should be happening as a matter of policy anyway since they cannot look after themselves.  given time their societies will be able to rebuild once the population pressures have been removed from them.Evan, you will bruise useless loony left ego's by stating the truth so baldly.  god(s) forbid they actually take responsibility for their own actions rather than blaming everyone else and attempting to meddle in their lives.@tire
"The industrialised world is realising this and acting accordingly."

sloganeering doesnt change the basic facts

the industrialised world is reverting back to fossil fuels.  the germans, who the climate crazies are forever claiming as supergreen, are reactivating their coal fired plants because stupid little green schemes have failed.

they still purchase their baseload of czech, soviet era, fission plants because solar cannot, cannot, meet the energy needs of a modern 1st world industrialised society.

dont like it, there are plenty of caves you can live in (damp and cold lifestyle unless you burn some type of fossil fuel though).@awake
if the pathetically useless ego's of the climate crazies in this nation want a "Royal Commission" into global warming then my message would be "reach into your own bloody pockets for the $500,000,000.00 talkfest which will achieve not one damn thing"

Which will be a complete waste of resources since the north americans and eurasians, who are actually responsible for the global phenomenon, will not pay any attention to.

stupid climate crazies in this country are sickening with their egotism.considering India is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases on the planet... they can look after themselves.well EM i guess you wont mind if we shut down our dirty coal fired generators and replace them with nice clean non co2 emitting fission plants until we get fusion in 100 or 200 years?  or is it more about ego than co2 emissions."Julian Burnside says Government could be guilty of piracy for holding 153 asylum seekers at sea"

we can always have the australian naval personnel throw them overboard for the sharks (sharks have got to eat as well mate and terrorists make good eating) or maybe we should just put a couple of 5" shells into the vessels these countryshopping terrorist are using to force their way into our society.

better that than have them start the same terror shennagins they did in Sri Lanka here.  the facts are the tamils started a terrorist action in Sri Lanka so that they could form their own monocultural (that means Tamil only in this case to the bleeding hearts who have difficutly following such concepts) nation in Sri Lanka and not that they were persecuted into terrorism against an evil wider community.  there is not a reason in heaven or hell my children should be shouldered with dealing with that kind of burden.

there is one difference between the so called "professor" and mr burnside... i respect mr burnside as he is willing to put his own money where his mouth is whilst the supposed "learned" professor is just another rentseeker looking after his own interests whilst hypocritically claiming the high ground."Julian Burnside says Government could be guilty of piracy for holding 153 asylum seekers at sea"

we can always have the australian naval personnel throw them overboard for the sharks (sharks have got to eat as well mate and terrorists make good eating) or maybe we should just put a couple of 5" shells into the vessels these countryshopping terrorist are using to force their way into our society.

better that than have them start the same terror shennagins they did in Sri Lanka here.  the facts are the tamils started a terrorist action in Sri Lanka so that they could form their own monocultural (that means Tamil only in this case to the bleeding hearts who have difficutly following such concepts) nation in Sri Lanka and not that they were persecuted into terrorism against an evil wider community.  there is not a reason in heaven or hell my children should be shouldered with dealing with that kind of burden.

there is one difference between the so called "professor" and mr burnside... i respect mr burnside as he is willing to put his own money where his mouth is whilst the supposed "learned" professor is just another rentseeker looking after his own interests whilst hypocritically claiming the high ground.dave as was stated in the Senate on Monday, we are borrowing 5 billion dollars each year to hand over as foreign aid...

my question to everyone in these forums is how many of you take out bank loans to hand over to foreign charities? and if you dont do it personally then why the hell should we be doing it as a nation!@lestweforget (forget what? appeasing useless bleeding heart egos who wish the australian taxpayer to fund their hypocritical crusades maybe?)
i donate a part of my salary every month to a charity and have for over a decade.  it is an automatic deduction and it goes to australian charities.
what i dont do is take out personal loans to pay for such charity. 

you on the other did not answer my question.  typical though.

why the hell should the australian government be taking out a personal loan each year for the next 5 years of $5 billion dollars to pay for foreign aid which the australian taxpayer will have to honour.well dave my politics are of the left and i would prefer to see our borders shutdown to those who are attempting to force their way into our society using flawed international treaties.

our government will be borrowing from foreign sources an extra $5,000,000,000.00 each and every year to hand over as foreign aid for the next 5 years.  in the meantime we are destituting our own citizens rather than ensuring they have a chance at a real future.

these are simple facts and they are the result of decades of policy failure by the lnp and labor with the psychopathic greens egging them on.

before we solve the problems of the rest of the world we should be solving the problems within our own society first and foremost."Genuine refugees are fleeing persecution in their own country which may well include torture, false imprisonment, summary execution based on ethnic background, religion, sexual orientation, gender etc"

pssst dave,
not my problem, not my childrens problem and sure as hell not my societies problem.  you want to solve the worlds problems which have been around since day dot?  then get off your behind and do it, dont expect the rest of us to pay for your ego.  yes dave, i dont care, i have my own family, friends and society which needs nurturing.

Australia is a nation not a charity organisation, two completely different concepts and i understand that some of you cannot grasp such complexities which is why i have stated it again.

as a nation the first priority of her government is to look after the needs of her citizens.  since we have seen very clearly over the past decade, continuing today, that her governments are incapable of such action there is no reason in hell they should be looking after the interests of foreign nationals.well dave my politics are of the left and i would prefer to see our borders shutdown to those who are attempting to force their way into our society using flawed international treaties.

our government will be borrowing from foreign sources an extra $5,000,000,000.00 each and every year to hand over as foreign aid for the next 5 years.  in the meantime we are destituting our own citizens rather than ensuring they have a chance at a real future.

these are simple facts and they are the result of decades of policy failure by the lnp and labor with the psychopathic greens egging them on.

before we solve the problems of the rest of the world we should be solving the problems within our own society first and foremost.michael you are one of the few authors i actually pay real attention to in these forums.... what i would like to know is:  how would you fix the mess of a system we have inherited through successive LNP and Labor governments over the decades? 

i am forever seeing criticisms but it is rare to see actual realworld, not pie in the sky fringe group, achievable solutions to many of the problems this nation/society faces.

maybe that is an article you could collaborate on with some of your peers for future publication in a simple point system for us poor old souls without financial backgrounds"What fool believes that encouraging the trade and inflation of the prices of second hand goods is productive?"

pity about the fatal flaw in your so called argument.  you can replace a manufactured product with another manufactured product whether it be physical or implied (such as stocks and bonds).  you CANNOT manufacture a new piece of realestate (unless your some kind of great and powerful wizard!   please be a great and powerful wizard, my kids want a flying unicorn)

"When a run down two bedroom workers cottage with only street parking can get a price over $700,000 dollars then you know that insanity rules"

ummm no it just means there are either morons with more money than sense or else canny investors with the money to redevelop the land making it into something worthwhile.

the confected outrage in these forums is pathetic.  you want to drive down the cost of housing in our cities?  then we need to build completely new cities from the ground up in new regions.  you can spit in the US without hitting a major city, the question is "do we want to go down that road?"you pretty much got it in one.   if you can squeeze a dime out of the corrupt lnp/labor special interest scams we are landed with called government these days then i encourage everyone to.

else you will see every bloody cent you earn going to rentseeking multinational corporations or multinational special interest groups such as the UNHCR who do not one damn thing to earn our money.

so Ann to sum up -&gt; bugger the UN, bugger the multinationals and bugger any other group who is not made up of australians.doesnt look like much of a war to me...

aboriginals would kill one or two anglo's and the retaliation would be anywhere between 20 and 200 aboriginals being shot by local police forces...  many of the claims happened anywhere between 20 and 30 years after the so called event....

the only thing i see is a stoneage culture deciding to attack, a for the time, modern firearmed society which was also part of the most dominant empire of the time... stupidity or ignorance?  did aborigines die attacking or defending themselves from white settlers... yes.

was it as many as claimed... probably not, considering the vast majority died from common diseases which they had never encountered before.  we will never know the complete story since the only records for most is verbal accounts from stories which were passed down through generations, not exactly reliable.  neither is rewriting known history to assuage sore ego's.well a fact is a fact whether people like it or not, it was not a war since the military of the empire or the states were never involved. only vigilantes and australian police forces of the varying states.caff... i dont really care about windshuttle or his book.  i dont really care about little details of what happened 150 years ago, i have my own concerns in the here and now.

yep white settlers massacred some aboriginals, an order of magnitude more died from introduced diseases.  do you expect me to feel guilty about such things?  i dont have the time nor the inclination to.  hell next you will want me to have a guilt trip over the same situation that happened in south america, should we erect monuments to the aztecs to appease the egotistical guilt trips over that?

human history is full of war, famine, disease and injustice.  it isnt going to change because some rentseeker wrote a book, it never has before.i'm sorry if it upsets you stalga however i have no real interest in delving into what is now ancient history.

i understand that when australia was colonised hundreds of thousands of aboriginals died for all sorts of reasons.  some were intentional, the vast bulk of deaths were unintentional and the effect of disease.

i am honest enough to admit we have our own real world problems to solve and not confected ones that are only being brought forth to appease bleeding heart egos.  it is time to assimilate aboriginals within our society so they too can enjoy the benefits because clearly the past policies are not working."recording as much as is known about exactly what happened, who, where and when."

considering many of the "facts" were verbally gathered decades after the events good luck with that.  then again the i have seen the loony left doesnt really give a damn about facts or reliable fact gathering.

but hey some of the so called incidents were made into "stories" to be told around campfires... thats reliable.actually TOJ i have found verrender to generally be unbiased in his articles.

where he has criticised the government it has been in a considered way with actual facts to back him up (something surprising when you read most of the rubbish published as informed articles by one left wing or right wing special interest group in these forums)

since he was not being published in these forums when the completely dysfunctional labor governments were in power any criticism on that point is disengenious.billions upon billions upon billions of dollars... and yet our televisions are free of lawyers calling for people to join their class actions against the banks when they have been found to be engaging in such shonky behaviour... guess because there are currently no ambulances involved.time to completely withdraw from the flawed un agreement leaving egotistical bleeding hearts with not a leg to stand upon.

they will either have to put up their own personal capital or shut up.  considering hypocrisy knows no bounds on the lunatic fringe my guess is they will continue to bleat and whine whilst keeping their own cash in their pockets.

that will only leave julian burnside as the defender of the faith as it seems he is the only one who actually represents these people probono through the court system and not just through the media system (which doesnt cost them a thing) like Mr LeechGreat Tim now write an objective article on the Left's constant failures to our society.

1. we cannot afford to keep borrowing billions in foreign hard currency to pay for welfare programs for those who are not even citizens of our nation.

2. we cannot afford to keep borrowing billions in foreign hard currency to pay for recurring government spending.

3. we cannot afford to keep borrowing billions to pay for infrastructure for multinationals to benefit from whilst they offshore their tax receipts leaving the public to pick up the tab.

those are pretty damning signs of fiscal irresponsibility and whilst some are lnp traits they are all consistently labor traits.  maybe labor should crack down on the unions and stop them employing criminals from the rebel motorcycle gang as enforcers just for a start.

labor has no credibility left in this nation due to their incompetence on all matters and its not even worth  mentioning the psycho greens with that shrieking nutcase Milne at the helm.well speaking as a parent who has had to put his children into childcare when retrenched from my afternoon shift position a few years ago so that i could work to pay the ever mounting bills and the wife could also work to pay the ever mounting bills, my opinion is our society has been completely screwed up by the LNP and Labor.

my father worked fulltime to pay the bills when i was a kid - this included the mortgage, utilities, food as well as putting something away for us 7 kids being able to go away for xmas holidays each year.  my mother was able to stay at home to look after us without "mortgage stress" destroying our family.

and yet we have those who champion the LNP and Labor when all i see is a regression in our society to a system that was prevalent in 18th century england.well Yank the industrialists in China and India loved your Labors stimulus package, 100's of billions in borrowed hard currency flowing from us to them... meanwhile in Australia we have now lost practically all of our industrial output when those same monies could have been used to completely rebuild our manufacturing with modern methods and technologies.

Labor betrayed this nation even more than the LNP have by not winding back failed policies such as FTA's with 3rd world labour and condition countries.imy right hand was crushed in an industrial accident 25 years ago leaving me with fused joints, soft tissue damage and constant arthritic pain when the barometer decides to change...

i have worked full time for 23 of those 25 years and undertook retraining so i could continue to contribute to this society rather than sitting back on my arse blaming everyone else.  there are more than enough people who rort the system with their pathetic bad back excuses and other rubbish whilst earning with cash in hand jobs.

you want to fix the system Stella then acknowledge that there is a massive problem with people rorting it and put forward real effective solutions to that problem.

we do not have 1 million people in this nation who are so severly disabled that they cannot work fulltime, what we have is hundreds of thousands of people who are rorting the system.been freezing my arse of in Melbourne when I am dodging the rainstorms whilst at the same time we are having blizzards in the Victoria alps.Oh no John your whole egotistical crusade has been sidelined by the australian people!

Australia is responsible for 1.5% of global co2 emissions, you and the rest of the zealots can take your whining to North America, Eurasia and the SubContinent since they are responsible for the vast bulk of humanity's CO2 output.

Maybe you should go get a real job and actually contribute to our economy rather than attempting to suck the life from it for your own personal gain.neil australia could eliminate the majority of its co2 output by commissioning half a dozen fission powerplants.  we have control of a large amount of the planets yellowcake supply which foreign mining companies are exploiting for their own gain.sorry eggman but you must keep the focus on the symptoms as the climate crazy zealots dont have the brains to deal with the actual underlying cause - rampant unsustainable human ovepopulation across the globe.

hell it is more than clear after reading their pathetic ranting in these columns over the years that they cant even put forth viable solutions for the symptoms.  they are in it for their useless ego's and that is all.137 comments
not one of them even hints, let alone mentions a practical viable solution to a GLOBAL problem.  this isnt a problem we can solve let alone have any effect upon with silly little taxes and schemes.

the selfcentred australian greens led by that ranting nutcase milne have nothing to offer the issue and are only in it to appease their useless ego's.

when i look at the majority of the comments it is clear that this isnt a discussion about trying to solve the issue, it is about a group of whacko's just looking after their ego's.

yep i despise the loony left and their sheeple supporters and the righteous right and their sheeple supporters because the lunatic fringe is incapable of providing real world solutions for the majority.  proof of that in this nation is the psycho greens and the current teapartyesque lnp administration, whilst the labor party has failed this nation miserably allowing the current political mess to fester into being with their internal backstabbing me-me-me culture.considering the only viable options we have for baseload industrial power (not pathetic little electic scooters) is either nuclear or fossil fuels which genie do you want to remain out of the bottle.

hard choice?  life is like that and pathetic little left fringe ranting doesnt change that.  so put up or shut up, what is your baseload power choice because a 1st world society such as ours spread out over 7,5000,000 sq km of landmass cant survive as a 1st world society without one.

i dont expect an answer as the lunatic fringe has never been able to provide a viable answer before when asked this question and never will be able to in the future.  the real world doesnt give a damn about your dreams and fantasies.the public has had no great benefits from the privatisation of government services, hell just look at the cost of victoria electricity from unnecessary gold plating the network whilst ignoring the fundamentals such as ummmm.... maintaining effective fire fighting controls at the coal face!

then we have telsra!  a national poorly maintained telecommunications network which is at the end of its effective life and the public of this nation will be made to repurchase it at premium pricing.

nope privatisation, like those other bugbears, globalisation and multiculturalism, is just another failure being foisted on the australian public from the two major australian political parties who refuse to recruit professional project managers and engineers within their ranks in favour of union hacks, slime sucking lawyers, accountants and failed business people.the last people who should be treated as demigods are politicians, next in line would be ath-a-letes who wind up spruiking products for Jenny Craig, sitting on unentertaining pathetic prime television footy panels or other such rubbish.

we have world class scientists and medical practitioners who receive zero recognition for saving lives and yet we hold public parades for dumbarse sportspeople.  who would have thunk it!the loopy Greens are a spent force and have been since they decided to become global evangelists rather than concentrating on our own environmental issues.

then again when i was 18 i voted Greens with Bob Brown, then i grew up and understood they had nothing to realistically offer the people of this nation.  like most people who grow up, we all come to the understanding that the Greens are the party for the gullible only.  there is a reason their voter base remains stagnant, 18 year olds grow older and are replaced by other 18 year olds.who really cares?
the australian political landscape is a wasteland and looks like it will continue to be for many decades to come.

who you going to vote for? one party machine with their own best interests at heart, or the other party machine with their own best interests at heart?  or you could protest vote with the lunatic fringe causing untold damage to our society as they appease their worthless ego's at the expense of the rest of our society.

best option is to hold a party in canberra for all current, budding and former politicians with everyone of their lobbyist groups and behind the scenes backers.... and drop a nuke on the place.  problem solved.well i am sure you were very diligent in your report... and after wasting millions of dollars, as all these little inquiries cost at a minimum, things will remain exactly the same.

the un is a pointless exercise in bureaucracy much like its league of nations predecessor.better no organisation than one which only exists for its own existence.

the un achieves nothing and solves none of the worlds problems, it is a pointless exercise in bureaucracy.the lnp have hit the nail on the head, however it is for all the wrong reason.

there is a debt and deficit crisis in this nation and it will keep getting worse.

- 40% youth unemployment in not just country towns but many suburbs of our cities and a major reason is because the onus has been taken off industry to provide training for these people.
- practically all of our heavy and medium industrial output has been offshored to nations which have the advantage of having no minimum wages nor minimum working conditions - thailand has 2 million undocumented cambodians working within its borders, how do you expect australian industry to compete with that?
- our core infrastructure has been sold off by the LNP and Labor to the international market meaning hard currency which could be circulating within our nation is offshored almost immediately.   Current Federal LNP policy is to reward such behaviour at us, the taxpayers, further expense.

the list goes on and is so bloody depressing.  why do australians have no faith in our politicians, because it is extremely clear that they have sold the nation out for their own little 30 pieces of silver.

better we hold plebiscites on every major action Federal and State Governments take at each election cycle killing off the idea of "presumed mandates" once and for all.the convention was designed to allow the flow of those fleeing communist eastern europe into democratic western europe.  that is all it was ever meant to achieve and it should have been scrapped in 1990 after the fall of the communist bloc.

it was never designed for, and has proven a complete and utter failure, when it comes to the mass migration of the planets unskilled and majority uneducated 3rd world population into the 1st world.

you want to save the world Moka?  find an actual practical means of doing so.  my personal favourite is to lace all food aid into the 3rd world with permanent contraceptives measures since rampant overpopulation is the underlying problem with their societies.  once that problem is under control we can then help elevate them to 1st world conditions in their own countries.generosity? compassion?

considering it is hard enough to find those little concepts enacted for our own needy you know exactly where you can put them for foreign nationals who have nothing to offer this nation and society.

the first and foremost responsibility the government of this nation has is for its own citizens, when it can effectively meet the needs of them then we can look to others.

if we can never meet the needs of those of our own nation, and i have zero confidence that we can considering on the proven incompetence of our political parties in pretty everything the touch, then the rest of the world can look after itself.@comrade
"we were ranked 49th for the number of refugees hosted"

and ranked in the top 5 for the number of refugees resettled, stupid bleeding heart spin with no basis in reality is why you lot have lost the argument.

if we are so bad then all those who have breached our borders need to be placed into un run refugee tent camps with no running water, or adequate medical services let alone adequate food supplies.  oh wait we have those camps on manus, well actually they are luxury villas compared to what actual refugees in africa put up with, and yet you still complain abut them.

people who use arguments such as yours are sickening as it is clear you only care about appeasing your egos above all other considerations.

and for the record i dont beleive we should be resettling a single refugee who doesnt have a skillset our society has a need of until we can look after "all", not just some or even most, of our own citizens to the exact same degree.more useless spin comrade.

in this country, australia, if you are granted asylum then you are also automatically granted residency - hence resettlement.  dont rant that they are two different issues as they are not as far as australia is concerned.i am all for TPV's as well as temporary refugee camps in the middle of the outback where the inhabitants have not a hope in hell of entering our mainstream society, previous to labor abandoning them to appease that useless shrieker milne they actually worked.

the labor/green policy of open borders was a complete bloody disaster which my children will be paying for.  i value my children and their inheriting a modern stable 1st world society far, far more than i do extreme loony left idealogues and their pathetic ego's who reside in this nation.

the 3rd world's societies have stagnated in the 1st and 8th century.  they will continue to do so as long as they are entirely based on tribes and religion so there is not a valid reason on this planet or any other planet for that matter to import such rot into our own society.  if that is hard for you to understand then i will put it differently - with the current systems in place they can all rot in indonesia as they have not one thing to offer this society and never will have.it is not the responsibility of our country to save the lives of foreign nationals who are not under our direct care, that is the responsibility of their own countries.

countryshoppers attempting to force their way into our society have breached the un convention and are not our responsibility.  read the charter.idbtm
actually i like most aussies couldnt give a damn about the useless convention so try bleating to your bleeding heart ilk.

they are not asylum seekers, they have gained asylum when indonesia issued them with visa, they are just countryshoppers or forum shoppers as the convention identifies them.

have some damn compassion?
i reserve my compassion for the people of this nation first and foremost because at the end of the day i really couldnt give a damn about failed 3rd world states and their people.  maybe you should try that instead of trying to feed your ego at their expense, donate a weeks pay to the smith family just for a start.

yes i am that type of person you lot hate the most: a nationalist with zero interest in how other societies screw themselves over as long as they have no effect on our own.Yes, and turn Australia into a political exile, mocked by egotists, criminal people smuggling networks and forum shoppers around the world

i have no issue with that and it is clear the vast majority of australians dont either.@professor
I would welcome our military taking control of the dysfunctional political system we currently endure.  hell hopefully they will deal with it in a nice direct manner and remove all current politicians and their lobbyist masters from our society permanently.

I trust the Australian military to look after the national interests of this nation far more than I trust any of the political parties who have proven to have only their own special interests at heart."Ben, each of those billion people in China uses far less power and emits far less CO2 than we do here"
NEWSFLASH:  a third world country which uses what is effectively slave labor is less fossil fuel intensive per person than a 1st world society... my god thats amazing!

and yet their coal consumption is increasing and not decreasing no matter what spin climate crazies wish to put on the situation because when you compare their overall coal consumption to australia's you can clearly see that they are a major part of the problem not australia.

china emits an order of magnitude more co2 into the atmosphere than australia does now or ever has in its entire history.give it a rest yank.  exponential human population growth is the underlying cause of just about every environmental and social problem this planet faces.  time you lot pulled your heads out of the place where the sun dont shine.its about the only reasonable thing i have heard from clive so far.

i dont mind an ets as long as the major emitters are part of it and it is designed from the outset to be effective and not rorted by the multinationals.

if any of those terms are broken though, and then like the flawed unhcr treaty, we would need to withdraw from such a treaty.no jay manufacturing has been revolutionised by 3rd world labor and conditions it is that simple since you only have to look to where the worlds manufacturing has been moved to with so called Free Trade Agreements which are so unbalanced that they are farcical.

it is time that australian governments invested heavily in this country rather than promoting schemes that rely on foreign manufactured goods.a majority find that clive palmer is in it for himself... wow thats astounding, who would have thunk it!hard to stir up more litigation if your in court all the time.  

clives a businessman first and foremost and it seems very clear that lawsuits are a major part of his business activities.clive is only in it for clive... you know that already rabbit.

from what i have seen you are a realist and wishing for clive to actually excel above his own petty base needs is like wishing for effective governance from the LNP or Labor - it may happen but not in our lifetimes.we needed a clive Dave.  we already have milne providing the  hysterical shrieking from the extreme lunatic fringe left and now we clive performing as her counterpart for the far right, i wouldnt class him as extreme yet, but he has a great chance of achieving it.well you got something right.  palmer is all about superficialpull your head out forrest both the lnp and labor have betrayed the citizens of this nation.

the current government has added one hell of a lot to the current nations debt.  it is also been both lnp and labor policy over the past 35 years to sell off every public asset available rather than actually manage the assets for the good of the states and the nation.

now we have the states funding massive infrastructure programs which only benefit the multinational miners whilst allowing toll roads to be built which only benefit multinational infrastructure corporations and our public education/medical institutions being allowed to fall into disrepair."At least Clive Palmer is wealthy enough so that he is unlikely to be bribed"

want to make a bet on that? his first demand for voting for the repealing of the mining tax was that is was to be retrospective so he didnt have to fork out the $000's of millions he oweswell after spending some time studying the hizb-australia website it is clear that if its followers/supporters are the norm then they have no business residing in australia.

the website and the ideals it advocates are a complete anathema to our culture.and one car gets you to your destination hours before the pathetic public transport system in australia can.

you want to fix your useless public transport system then you need to tear down and rebuild our cities since they have been designed around the automobile... then again like all loopy green ideas there is no basis in reality or do you expect the rest of society to pay for your egotistical urges?no thanks erebus.  i will keep my car and my city which i am quite happy with.  there is no easily accessible public transport to my holiday home which is in one of victoria's holiday hotspots so there is another failure.

we dont need to rebuild the system, we need to rebuild the way it works and if that means the government once again starts building and maintaining infrastructure rather than relying on the private sector which has proven to be a complete failure then so be it.

i would like to see electric vehicles everywhere, however for that to happen you require baseload energy which means either coal or fission to power the needs of 25 million people.sorry pete but turning adelaide into a city with 25 million people just shifts the whole issue there.our governments should not be signing any of these international treaties without putting them to the public first in referendums/plebiscites and gaining a 75% majority verdict.

if that slows down the process of government then too bloody bad because going by government decisions over the past 35 or so years a blind monkey can do a better job.it wouldnt have been hard for labor to retain power at the last election except for one little issue... they proved to be a pack of incompetent backstabbing morons.

their big nation building infrastructure project, implementing the nbn was doomed to fail from the start since it was designed to garner votes from volatile political seats rather than for delivering the goods in an efficient and cost effective manner. 

then we had the spending spree... over $100 billion of borrowed money from foreign sources to pay for pv panels and insulation batts manufactured in foreign factories rather than investing those funds in expanding our own insulation manufacturing industry and creating our own pv panel industry.

labor's real failure is they, just like the LNP and the self serving egotistical Greens, lack anything close to being regarded as a realistic vision for the future of this nation and its society.sorry Dan we cant make youth unemployment the top priority at the G20 meeting, the climate crazies in this nation want their hypocritical crusade to take top spot.

have you not seen them typing comments endlessly on their coalfired keyboards whilst they drink cups of tea which has picked by what is essentially 3rd world slave labourand has been boiled on their fossil fuel fired gas stoves.

yes they have a mandate to lower our co2 emissions from 1.5% of global output to 1.44% of global output whilst the rest of the world continues to increase their output with no sign of abating.  but hey, its like, you know, the thing we have to do because, well someone has to and maybe someone else will... well maybe they will and it can only destroy our economy if they are wrong - right.agree gbe

labor cabinet is still the same pack of incompetents of the previous two electoral cycles.  no point in voting for them as they are proven failures, better to just keep the lame duck we have until labor can produce the goods.the 1991 failure was caused by the people crying because the US Airforce was destroying the Iraqi military's ability to fight on live tv.  yep war is a gruesome business and people die horribly in it... stopping a war because of tv footage of burnt out armoured columns was just stupidity which allowed iraq to continue to be a thorn in the worlds side for another decade.

the last failure in iraq was caused by loony left bleeding heart morons demanding a democratic nation building effort whilst also demanding the people there be allowed to keep their 8th century tribalistic culture.

i got news for you lady... 8th century cultures and 21st century cultures are not in any way compatible.  you either force them at gunpoint into the 21st century with the abandonment of their 8th century tribalist/religious dogma or else you completely isolate them from all interaction with 21st century societies.  if they attempt to harm western civilisation after that, then you slap them down to the level where they think the stone age is new and wonderful.leffel no adf personnel ever needed to be placed in danger.  we of the west have the technology to deal with countries like iraq without ever setting boots on the ground.

however we did put boots on the ground due to the fact that the governments of the west were to scared to just wipe the cities of iraq off the map.  well we pay the price for it now.

understand leffel at the end of the day humanity has become a plague across many regions of the planet.  australia is not in that position yet even with the LNP, Labor and psycho Greens policies for a big australia and it never should be.

if humanity across the rest of the planet died or disappeared tomorrow dont expect tears from me.  nature will have a chance to fix many of the problems we have caused over the past 100,000 years whilst the human race will have a second chance.@brenda

and i am sure you would have been one of the first out of the ceral box screaming murder after the Enhanced Radiation weapons wiped the populations off the map.  it truly is that simple to solve the problems of the middle east whilst leaving the oil infrastructure in one piece.

never forget your confected outrage over my not giving a damn over 99% of the humans on this planet means not a damn thing to me.@yank
"Let me state it now I am 100% against Australia's involvement in any military actions in Iraq"

a laudable stance? or a laughable stance?

you are always one of the first demanding we take in people fleeing such troublespots.

i would be in 100% agreement with you if that means shutting down our borders to all and sundry who flee such troubles as my kids sure as hell dont need to deal with the problems they import in 20 or 30 years time.

however after seeing the unedited footage on liveleak it is also undeniably quite clear these scumbags need to be dealt with on the ground in an extremely permanent manner or else their murderous spree across the region will continue unchecked with innocent men, women and children being raped, tortured and murdered.

so much for your (and that of your ilk in these forums in agreement with you) much vaunted humanitarian stance.  so looking at the evidence we can conclude that your opening statement is laughable and not in the slightest bit laudable.

as for the author of this piece.. it is quite clear he is just another rentseeker sucking at the purse of the australian taxpayer.the greeks and italians came from societies based upon similar values to our own... so try again.gbe

it has nothing to do with us... except we as well as the rest of western civilisation are in a position to stop a murderous rampage across the middle east.  these people do not deserve to be labelled as human and need to be treated as the rabid rodents they are and terminated with extreme prejudice.

while i couldnt give a flying "fig" about islam, christianity or bloody voodoo for that matter, there are scores of innocent men, women and children who are being murdered out of hand by a pack of psychopaths in the region and they should not be allowed to build a stable powerbase for future atrocities.

if even I as a nationalist and isolationist can see the problem then i am sure you can as welli sympathise with victims, not self selecting immigrants.

as far as i am concerned we keep our borders shut to all and sundry who we do not invite here.

that however does not mean we do not try to help those of the rest of the world.  the middle east is a basketcase and was a basketcase long before the modern west spread its influence there.

it suffers because the people are trapped in ignorance where many of them have only seen one book in their lives and that book is based on stupid fairytales written by a few to keep the gullible in check.

it is time the west isolated a large area of the middle east and created a safe haven under the direct control of the west where those who live there follow our laws and democratic ideals.  it may end up being a failure because the people are not interested, it may though end up being the starting point for long term stability in the region rather than the incessant tribal and religious conflict that plagues it.

no sharia law, no tribal law, no prophets, no book of fairytales controlling everything the people do.  just plain old fashioned western values and democracy.

it is quite clear that there is no one of middle eastern background who can manage the situation for the benefit of the people who live there."Which would explain the exodus of refugees, I guess."

yep.  however they have nothing to offer our society except distrust and discord as can currently be seen.  i said i sympathise, not that i am an idiot who would be willing to risk the stability of the society our children will inherit.

let me make this very clear.  at the end of the day the wellbeing of the people of australia come first ahead of all others.  it may bruise the ego's of a minority in this country however our kids inheriting a stable society takes precedence.  and no it is not worth risking on the hope that no more nutcases with their 8th century values will take root here.@mike
"Not our problem"

then you are quite welcome to cover the cost of whatever "humanitarian" aid you wish to the region.

since it is not our problem the australian taxpayer should not be funding any foreign aid to the region.  thus saving us over 5 billion dollars per annum which this government will "borrow" (read issue government backed bonds) to raise the capital for such aid, exactly the same way the last pack of idiots were doing.

i dont take out bank loans to donate to my charity of choice i ensure that i can fund them each month and have so for many, many years.  the bloody governments of this nation should sure as hell not be borrowing money at our expense to carry out such activities.

just another example of the failure of the LNP and Labor."They might be paying for aid out of consolidated revenue and borrowing the money to pay for your pension for all you'd know"
only a moron would use such an argument if serious.

all it means at the end of the day they are still borrowing to cover the cost.  stupid little flawed arguments do not change the fact that if they are spending from general revenue on foreign aid and borrowing to meet our societies costs then they are still borrowing to cover foreign aid.
hmmm isnt it weird that our flag and culture offend the egotistical ultraleft and yet our the benefits of our stable free society do not....

maybe you should run to one of your little socialist led countries and see how your "rights" which have been defended by nationals of this nation are treated there.

damn nationalism it just so evil.  pathetic

well media it seems you have not read any of my previous posts.

i have no interest in the privatisation of public assets.  i do however advocate a hands of approach by politicians in the management of this nation as they have proven to be complete and utter incompetents over the past 30 or so years.

i am a conservative left nationalist and have not one shred of interest in loony left or loony right idealism... idealism doesnt put bread on the table.damn you racism... you should go back to whatever bloody country you came from!

WHAT! racism exists in every country on the planet... NO!  what australia is one of the most tolerant societies on the planet!  that just crazy talk.

this author is just attempting to justify his monthly wage at the expense of our society.  maybe he needs to go get a job in the real world, try being a barissta as they contribute far more to our society than the useless politically correct who suck at the teat of the australian taxpayer

the gist of this article is that a business owner who was raised in one of the most racist countries on the planet, China, acted in a manner which the recipient, a person from one of the most racist continents on the planet, africa (i am including tribal affiliations since tribes not nations define africa) was offended by... 

yep that means all australians born and bred here are racist.  stupid article, i bloody well hope this author was not paid out of the abc coffers for this rubbish.Hawke and Keating did much to instil a passion for multi-cultural acceptance 

if that was true then we would not be having this conversation.  your comment is just more sheeple bleating disguised as something else.

most australians dont give a damn about skin colour or ethnicity, however the multiculturalism which you and your ilk endlessly champion is the problem not the cure.  it is a policy which promotes apartheid by minority groups in our society rather than integration.  at the end of the day a society will not survive if it is splintered from within which will lead to suspicion and resentement from the majority.

many societies have faced such problems and those were people did not integrate ended up as failures.  you lot better decide what is more important, your little ego's or the success of our society and the people who live within her.@braddles
ah so i am a racist when i banter with my italian heritage brother-in-law that he is an "EyeTie" and yet when he calls me a "SkippyTheKangaroo" that is alright!

you know exactly where you can shove your politically correct rubbish.  i will treat people with respect no matter what their heritage as long as they treat myself and my society with the same courtesy.  when such is not forthcoming then i will treat them in the same manner as they treat me and mine.He stopped the boats, but at what cost to the lives of vulnerable refugees, and the reputation of Australia?

well there are no more countryshoppers drowning on their journeys here... you may need to redifine what you imagine "cost" is

australia's reputation has not suffered at all due to the current policies, there is no international outrage, there are no trade or diplomatic sanctions.  in point of fact these are the same policies carried out by other nations around the globe including the United States.  maybe our reputation has been lowered in the minds of those who wish a free ride at the expense of the australian taxpayer, speaking of which just what affiliation do you have with the countryshopping trade?ahhh yes the ends do justify the means.  there you go one useless little platitude shot down in flames.

come back to me when you have actual solutions to the migration of millions of what are clearly economic migrants from the 3rd world into the 1st world.  they are not wanted and they have not one useful skill to offer this society.

hell now the moronic loonly left want them to be able to get jobs in this country, well i have news for you and your ilk sunshine - we have our own unemployed citizens and residents who are here legally who take precedence.splod how about we replace the term "country shopper" with the term "forum shopper" as it is in the flawed UNHCR treaty.

there are no people in indonesia who have not bypassed a signatory to the UN convention in their own regions, many of those signatories are neighbouring countries, just not 1st world countries who will provide medical and financial benefits free of charge.

countryshoppers/forumshoppers call them what you will.  they have nothing to offer this society and i sure as hell am not going to join your little egotistical selfcentred guilttrips over them.  there are well over 5 billion people in the same situation and we cant take them all in and should be looking to solve their issues where they originate, not just transplant the problems from one side of the globe to the other to appease your ego.

as we have seen time and again, your type have no interest in actually fixing these peoples societies or destroying them and rebuilding them.  just as the people from them themselves have no interest in fixing their own problems.@muzz

"Another good reason not to get involved is Just look at last few times the west has got involved Militarily in the region Gulf War 2, Afghanistan and Libya . The same result the countries are worse off afterwards than before we got involved. Going to War in Syria would only worsen the situation there."

your words.  so if you are not interested in solving the issues where they are occurring you sure as hell cant expect people to take your hypocritical ranting about so called "refugees" in any way serious.  you have made it clear that the middle east is not our problem and by extension nor are the countryshoppers who originate there.

as for your tamils, my kids dont need to be dealing with terrorist scum in 30 or 40 years because your little ego needs salving.  let the sri lankan government deal with them.and by the by... never voted LNP in my life.

just because i dont like the egotistical urgings of the loony left who are only interested in salving their useless guilt trips does not mean that i vote for the right.

i am of a conservative left nationalist.

i believe in government owned and operated monopolies rather than privatised owned monopolies.

i believe in a public health system and public education system.

i am a union member, are you?

i could go on.  just because you of the loony left disgust me and many others does no mean we are tea party members.  it just means we are normal people with good heads on our shoulders unlike the ultra left and ultra right.umm clete labor would have to be an effective oppostion before it could be a deliberately obstructive one.

what we have instead is an oppostion filled with complete losers from the two previous administrations.  they were proven incompetents then and soundly rejected by the australian voter in 2 out of the past 3 electoral cycles.

time for the membership of the australian labor party to purge their house of the bottomfeeding leeches who have infiltrated the party.  personally i will not be voting labor again until they completely purge the party of these scum and replace them with people with atleast a little principle.rhonda i have never voted LNP in my life... i voted bob brown and the greens when i was 19 however like most gullible teenagers i was the greens for what they truly are and switched to voting labor for many years until i realised that they were no better than the greens or lnp... all the same with little difference.

now i like to scrawl a big "NOT BLOODY LIKELY" on my ballot ensuring none of them collect my $6.30 from the electoral commission.@delectus
What you say here is fair comment however the trolls seem to have all the freedom of speech in the world and the issue is, some people believe them and, unwittingly or otherwise, climb onto the bandwagon.

whats your point?  religion has been sucking in the gullible for thousands upon thousands of years

as for this article, it is just another loony fringe ultra leftist rant demanding censorship.  typical of the ultra left either agree with me or else we will censor you.

as much as i despise them, atleast the ultra right do not demand such rubbish from our politicians, leaving us with the conclusion, and rightly so, that i despise the ultra left in this nation one hell of a lot more.the australian taxpayer will have spent close to half a billion dollars ($500,000,000.00) on this talkfest by the time it is over, no wonder the nations finances are so screwed up!

enact legislation to deal permanently with paedophiles as well as any institutions which protect them as the catholic church has by moving such scum from one diocese to another rather than having them face justice.

a million bucks at the most, to protect the children of the most gullible in our society rather than this rubbish where there will be no outcome.@Moi
galvanised structural steel imported from Chinese steel mills, as well as the thousands upon thousands of chinese manufactured PV panels and inverters costing our economy 10's of billions which had to be borrowed from foreign sources just like those thousands of 40' container loads of indian manufactured insulation batts which once again the funds had to be borrowed from the foreign market.

these people (and i use the term extremely loosely when referring to politicians) should not be allowed near a household budget let alone a national budget.@toot
give us a break with the loony left dialogue

the west was not the cause of these terrorist scum.  islamic fundamentalism has been around as long at the abortion of a fairytale called islam as been around.  just as christian fundamentalism, jewish fundamentalism and all others.

western society isnt the issue, the underlying problem is strong minded individuals who gather the weak minded to them preaching one fantastical story or another whilst urging the gullible to suspend their belief in reality.

kind of like the loony left and ultra right do in politics.oh paul

arent they all children of the same god?

maybe the problem is not that the west erected borders considering the history of conflict with these groups is as old as their religion, maybe it is the people themselves and the fact that they are weak minded individuals who allow themselves to be led like sheep by power hungry psychotic individuals claiming some all knowing, all seeing, intangible and invisible super being has demanded they follow the demands of said power made psychotic individuals without question.well EA 52 out of the 53 arrested yesterday were not even from the town... many were from out of State.  One mans civil protest is a drawcard for the criminals to take advantage of.

no reporting on the white community rioting on the shooting of the unarmed white bloke last week... either this news service is blind, or biased, or maybe it is because normal people do not run around rioting, destroying other peoples properties and/or looting other peoples properties.

then again we have seen that many of those involved in the current incidents are just more criminals making this whole story a non event except for the fact the US police agencies need to do a better job of cleaning the criminals off the streets.The Last Doctor?

NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
(histrionic over)

Tom Baker is still the best Doctor and there will be many more to come... it is fiction for God(s) sake!what no mention of the unarmed white guy who was shot by police in the US last week resulting in no race riots


i am shocked ruby, then again i am not considering your past articles claiming supposed injustice on some whilst ignoring it as it happens to majorities.

he was a criminal and those looting and destroying others properties are criminals.  shoot the bloody lot of them.hey i know we can deploy our overbudget, overdue and underwhelming F35 turkeys to faceoff against these scumbags armed with sticks and stones... then again i wouldnt currently trust such tech against even sticks and stones.they cannot justify their budget whilst allowing multinationals and the uber rich to avoid their taxes

what taxes would be due on the rhineharts if their family trusts were taxed at the 30% business rate and more importantly, why shouldnt they begrow up, the economy is not in good shape!

we have record unemployment well over 12% when you count those who are underemployed or have just plain stopped trying and now live in despair.

pretty much all Federal and State Government (read australian taxpayer) assets have been sold off due to the simple fact that neither the LNP nor Labor have either the management skills or financial skills to run a simple budget thus hiding the true state of our economy

our industries have pretty much all moved offshore in their droves taking advantage of 3rd world wages and conditions elsewhere whilst also reaping the benefits of australian governments removing all import tariffs while all other countries have kept theirs in place.

multinational corporations are reaping 100's of billions in profits whilst directly offshoring the vast bulk of those profits using legal loopholes in our taxation laws which by the way Labor and the LNP were entrusted with

multinational and national mining corporations are paying a few cents on the dollar for our non renewable natural resources

so called NGO's as well as corporate raiders are fleecing the taxpayer of 100's of billions in different types of "aid" packages

all of this while at the same time we are BORROWING funds from foreign markets to pay billions of dollars a year to foreigners as so called "humanitarian aid"

the LNP and Labor have failed the people of this nation and sheeple bleating by yourself or others from the rusted on left or right will not change that simple factscumbag 1 or scumbag 2 is not a choice.  assad just needs to hold out until after the next us election"A combination of airstrikes and special forces units on the ground to direct the strikes and coordinate the various Iraqi government and anti-IS militia groups can defeat IS. All this while the US takes the collective blame and, thus, avoids the worst aspects of an inter-sectarian Middle Eastern war"

between them Australia, Britain and the United States can muster atleast 15,000 special forces troops, they should be dropped on the ground and allowed to hunt down these animals and eliminate them.

yep some innocents may die.

many more are currently dying at the hands of these scumbags.  so the question is which is the greater evil - the eradication of ISIS and its supporters across the region with some collateral deaths or allowing them a free hand to continue their reign of terror across the region with many more thousands murdered and hundreds of thousands displaced.

those are the options - sit back and do nothing, or solve the problem.

we do not need more floods of refugees heading for our shores and as far as i am concerned they can all be turned back.  we either fix the problem on the ground or we ignore it and its consequences to those fleeing it.@mcnud
it ended with mission creep to appease bleeding hearts in those nations!  lets bring democracy to "insert hellhole", lets rebuild "insert hellhole", lets do it to appease the useless ego of "insert loony left wing fringe here"

you go in, you deal with the bloody problem quickly and extremely violently whilst taking no prisoners.  that is the job which special forces are trained for and experts at and then you pull them out.

our SAS was stuck in Afghanistan for 10 bloody years, that is a job for mainstream military not bloody special forces.  they are specialist single mission breed.and yet you have no viable solution so these animals will continue their reign of terror.

yeah, i may like black and white however it is also the proven way of solving problems unlike sitting their with your head in the sandyou know a few weeks ago i was an isolationist like you.  then i saw what was happeing over there uncut and unedited by the MSM.  these animals need to be stopped before they can grow in power any further or would you like us to house the millions who will be fleeing from them, how about when they expand into neighbouring indonesia and malaysia.  there are already hundreds of thousands in the northern africa fleeing from the strife they are causing with thousands more executed in cold blood by them.

yeah, i have no interest in the muslim world which has stagnated in the 8th century and will never progress beyond that.  however that doesnt mean that evil should reign and make no mistake ISIS is the embodiment of evil.

as for your body bags, these scumbags would fold in heartbeat faced with 1st world trained and equipped special forces troops."Zionists blowing Palestinians to bits for their daring to resist having their land stolen from under their feet"

hmmm yeah selective reporting.  that same "stolen" land as you label and the ultraleft label it was used to launch an invasion into israel whose aim was the complete genocide of all who dwelled in the land and the israeli's have rightly nullified the threat of those same palestinian territories being used by the 1.7 billion muslims in the region from doing so again.

that is over 250 muslims for each of the 8 million israeli's in the region... and the evil "zionists" of israel are the threat to the region, give me a break.  if our nation was in the same predicament i would expect our government to do exactly the same thing, hell i would demand they drive all inhabitants out of the territories ending the threat from that direction once and for all.

when it is an us against them scenario only an idiot bends his knee to the "them", that is just a quick path to extinction.welcome to the failure of the experiment called multiculturalism... it has the core flaw of actively promoting isolation from the rest of society rather than inclusion.well i've read the replies and it is quite clear you people equate immigration to multiculturalism... they are two seperate issues.

i have no issue at all with skilled migrants immigrating into this country from anywhere on the planet, hell they can immigrate from off planet for all i care.  i dont discriminate on race or skin/scale colour.

as long as they integrate fully into our society and put it ahead of whatever whacko 1st/8th century inspired ideology they wish to hide from reality from.

we are not a 3rd world hellhole and there is not a reason in hell including protecting the useless selfcentred little ego's of the loony left in this nation that my children should inherit such a hellhole because you lot dont want to acknowledge the reality across the planet that multiculturalism is a proven failure throughout the history of the species.

if they inherit a stable well functioning monoculture then so be it, better that than the divisiveness we currently have in our society where minority views stampede on the majority.  bugger that and bugger those who believe in such.12% of australians live below the poverty line, whats the bet that many of them are tasmanians with literacy issues.

what disgusts me is people keep on voting in the LNP and Labor who have had a century to find solutions to such problems and instead just embark on social engineering experiments rather than just solving the damn problems with direct simple solutions.

this is surely a case of the public NOT getting what we are paying for...  as consumers we should have the option of claiming a 100% refund plus damages from the LNP and Labor parties."In the 12 months to June 2010, Australian households spent an average of $1236 each week on goods and services, an increase of 38 per cent since 2003-04."

i hope every one is receiving an annual salary increase to cover the rising costs, i know i sure as hell am not

so there is more proof of exactly how the LNP/Labor policy of privatising all Government services has failed miserably.

speaking of privatising government services... hows everyones garbage collection going?  one accident by a company which has taken over the bulk of the nations services and the whole system crashes... maybe it is time councils took back complete responsibility for providing services to the communities THEY serve and not who serve them.

privitisation, like multiculturalism, is just another proven failed LNP/Labor policy which they once again do not have the courage to fixok that was funny :Pwell chipinga i would prefer palmers treating us with complete "content" to the LNP, Labor, and the nutcase Greens treating the citizens of Australia with complete and utter contempt as they have been doing over the past few decades.apm i am just as opposed to palmer.

our political system has been totally screwed over by such self interested scumbags and needs to either be completely overhauled or scrapped completely starting afresh

lnp, labor, greens, palmer, so called independents... not one of them is worth spitting on if they are on fire (i may stand up wind and warm my hands though as it gets chilly in Melbourne).so descend who ya gonna vote for in the next federal election?  remembering preferences will mean you will end up voting for either LNP or Labor?yep, i scrawl a "not bloody likely!" across the ballotyes because i am going to put the kids on the back of the bicycle then pedal 9km to their primary school/kinder and then travel the further 24km to my workplace.... get real, that is as about realistic as the climate crazy comment you finish with.

poor to non existent urban planning by the LNP and Labor is the reason our cities are in such a shocking state just as the 85%+ Eurasian/North American GHG emissions is the underlying cause of climate change and not australia's piddly 1.5% of emissions, and NO i dont give a damn about your pathetic cherry picked per capita argument, i respond with a per sq km of landmass argument which makes australians the lowest ghg emitters on the planet.we were once the nation of "a fair go", now we are the nation of "endless opportunity to prey on those weaker than you"

murderers, rapists and paedophiles do not deserve discretionary sentencing... hell they all deserve a noose, however since those days are gone they should be dropped into the deepest darkest cell lined pit we can build in the middle of the outback and forgotten forever more.

there would be no people in the court system because they sought justice on the above because our legal system failed them and their families.

we have a legal system designed by lawyers for the benefit first and foremost of lawyers, not a justice system.stupid is as stupid does...

sadly our politicians are living that to the full which is why there is very little faith left in our political process.well considering our current political system has been hijacked by a few special interest groups a 30 year trial of the swiss model would not hurt.oh for gods sake why all the handwringing.  hold the bottom dwellers to their word and if they break it or any of "their" legislation then put a bullet in the back of their heads.

problem solved with a neat deterrent factor.  just dont be surprised if our political parties empty of one and all within a heartbeat (or stopped heartbeat) of the first offender.

its just a win/win situation for the nationi am a very impressive and modest person!@laidly

enough with the loopy climate crazy histrionics.

australia as a whole contributes bugger all to global warming.  go whine at the eurasians and north americans as it is quite clear the general public of this nation are sick of the egotistical climate crazies in this nation.  and turn off your damn computer it is generating co2absolutely pmsl

a representative of one of the special interest groups who has a stranglehold on our electoral system is complaining that the other special interest group wont play by their "rules"

pathetic article by a pathetic rentseekergbe

most of our so called privatised electricity generators and networks are now majority owned by foreign governments.  optus is owned by the singapore government and competes quite well against its fully privatised telstra opposition.

it is not public ownership which is the problem, it is the australian political landscape which is to blame as the LNP and Labor continue to look after their own self interests ahead of the nation's interest.

both parties have proven time and again beyond a doubt over the past 40 years that they do not have a business management bone in their members bodies, let alone the slightest competency in project management 

so as you have pointed out it is just another example of the complete incompetence of the LNP/Labor duopoly filled with shonky lawyers, failed accountants and the venal union officials this nation has been saddled with.gbe

i blame the entire political class in this nation for their continual failures in policy... you should know by now that i am non partisan.

abbott and co are doing everything they can to screw the people of this nation over domesically all on the basis of their teaparty idealism.

how the hell can they bitch and moan about university fee's or a slight increase in the wages of our armed forces when they are willing to blow close to half a billion dollars on this g20 two day talkfest.

no abbott and co are just as useless as shortstop and his pack of proven failures.  the ony good thing about the whole system is that the nutcase greens with that pyscho milne at the helm will NEVER hold government in their own right.   

otherwise the system is completely screwed and needs to be replaced with something which takes into account the will of the 25,000,000 million people in this nation rather than a couple of dozen politicians and the few thousand paid up members of their political parties with their limited ideologies.graham

the australian taxpayer is footing the entire $400,000,000.00 bill for this two day talkfest.  i expect to know if one of these ***** picks their bloody nose for that type of bloody entry fee.

half a billion dollars, that billion with a B,  for a two day talkfest...  these morons had best learn how to use skype.well pete it seems that that particular malaise is evident across all the political parties.

abbott is a certified dud but then so is shorten so six of one, half a dozen of another.  no differencei think the easter bunny is scary... whats your point christine?

face your fears and then research the facts rather than acting like a little sheeple and following the climate crazy mob.

fact 1. australia's contribution to global co2 emissions is less than 1.3% source. united nations statistics bureau

fact 2. the top 5 global emitters have not signed any conrecte agreements to cease or lower their co2 output.  in fact they will all keep increasing their output over the next few decades as the rest of the world continues to buy their manufactured products to combat the problem.

fact 3.  even if australia completely halted its output of co2 tomorrow and we all moved into caves, the global output would continue at the same breakneck place making our contribution meaningless within 6 months.

my advice is worry about those things in your life you can have an effect upon and ignore the climate crazies with their unceasing campaign to appease their worthless egos at your expense.well considering the largest coal miners in this country are multinationals from India, China and the US, you know all those same countries you lot keep bleating "THEY ARE DOING SOMETHING", then i have to ask: what is your point?  do you have a point?

india, china, russia, the united states and japan are responsible for the problem.  india has the largest coal reserves on the planet, where do you think the mining activity will move to if we shut down our exports?  or do you have some loony left fantasy that they will all suddenly shut down their industry to appease your egos?

try facing reality for a changeae
and what is also not mentioned is hundreds of billions of foreign sourced funds this nation is borrowing to purchase all of the manufactured equipment to create "GREEN ENERGY"... theres the legacy we will leave our current governments will children to deal with as millions of tons of old failed equipment ends up in landfill in 20 years.

all to appease climate crazy egos and not have even the tiniest effect upon the issue.  bugger the climate crazy crusaders in this nation and bugger their worthless egos.lehan, the entire westminster system IS THE PROBLEM in this nation.

it was fine in a world without highspeed networked communication systems where a central authority had to make all decisions.  we dont live in that world anymore and there is no reason the people of this nation cannot make the major decisions which will affect this nation via referendums at the end of each electoral cycle.

it is time to crush the duopoly system and replace it with direct democracy which has worked in switzerland for centuries.frangiapani

because the citizens vote on the issues not for the parties.  the government is there to enact the will of the people, not the will of their couple of thousand of paid up members as happens in this nation.

why are people disengaged from australian politics?  because the westminster system has major flaws in it which are now becoming increasingly apparent as lunatic fringe groups and their useless crusades are dominating this nations political capital.

countryshoppers? put it to all australians in a referendum on whether we should withdraw from the flawed convention.  that does not mean we have to stop resettling refugees, it does mean that like the united states we are not bound to the endless selfserving committes of the rentseeking organisation called the united nations

homosexual marriage? put it to all australians in a referendum on whether we should legitimise the lifestyle choice of a minute minority in this society.  that is all the issue is about anyway, homosexuals are demanding that broader society legitimise their lifestyle choices.

free trade agreements? put it to all australians in a referendum on whether we should have broad sweeping secret trade agreements?  as far as i can see so far it is the so called FTA with our nonexistent trade barriers which is responsible for the destruction of most of this nations manufacturing industry as it offshores to 3rd world labour and wage nations.

there are many many long term policy issues which all citizens of this nation should be making decisions upon as they have a direct bearing on our daily lives not for just years, but for decades.no actually i put it down to our electoral system being designed to be meaningless.

people vote on policy not on individuals who they have never met.

so dont blame the people, blame the flaws in the system which is supposed to work for them, not the other bloody way around.frang
"do you believe that, if the people had to vote directly, they would do anything other than vote for the position taken by the party of their choice? I don't."
ah so because you dont like the idea of people voting on the actual issues instead of for the parties and/or politicians then it must be a bad idea... your type are the reason i despise the lunatic fringe, hitler and stalin were of the same breed.

comrade... i couldnt give a damn about your partisan politics.  i make my decisions on the evidence presented as well as my own personal experience.  as for politicians using emotive language to get their way, welcome to the beauty of direct democracy, unlike representative democracy the citizens of this nation can band together to force new referendums on poor policy choices unlike the current screwed up system where all power is in the hand of the two special interest groups who have control of our political system, the lnp and labor

zing you mean like shortstop and co... dumped at the previous election as complete incompetents and now... all set to take government in the next because there is no other choice.

when the people are offered no alternatives then it is clear we are not a democracy we are just another tinpot dictatorship, only the methods vary.we "live" in a representative democracy, not a direct democracy.

a direct democracy operates to the will of the people, a representative democracy operates to the will of special interest groups.thats your little morals.

as far as i am concerned we should be resettling them all in other 3rd world nations and providing them with basic support so that they can rebuild their lives.

they are NOT my problem, the are NOT my childrens problem and they are sure as hell NOT my society's problem.

it is your egotistical crusade, YOU CAN DAMN WELL PAY THE ENTIRE COST FOR IT!!!Dave we should have withdrawn from the flawed convention back in 1990 when the iron curtain fell.  it was only ever designed to help those fleeing communism and not as it is being rorted now for those fleeing poverty or their own screwed up quasi religious societies.well i am for total shut.

those who are processed can be resettled in other 3rd world nations and provided with the basic support to rebuild their lives.

there is no part of the convention which states we MUST resettle anyone seeking asylum.  it should never happen as most of those who are attempting to force their way into our society are also unwilling to fully integrate into our society.no wottha my politics are decidedly left of the middle, always have been and always will be.

that doesnt mean i have to jump on the self appeasing egotistical crusades of this nations climate crazies or countryshopping advocates.

if you lot cannot provide actual concrete solutions to the issues and just want to apply bandaids to soothe your ego's then dont expect my support.i'll tell you what tim

when the US and China just for a start actually follow through with their grandiose announcements with more than just bluster then it may be worth starting to consider some kind of minimal action.

Latest UN Stats which have been published
Total global CO2 output per annum: 30,114,000,000 tons
Australia's CO2 output per annum: 396,000,000 tons or 1.3% of global emissions

so those are the facts with no climate crazy embellishments or denial embellishments

nothing we do will make a difference in reducing let alone halting global emissions, that is an undeniable fact.

i dont know whose pocket you are in in regards to this matter, however i would suggest you concentrate more on ensuring you represent those who pay your excessive salary, the australian taxpayer.  rather than ensuring that chinese government owned corporations as well american and european multinationals are the beneficiaries of the tens of billions of borrowed hard currency our governments are wasting on this subject.

we need solutions which work for this nation, not for foreign entities.  maybe the anu should invest its funds into researching cheap and effective manufacturing processes so that we can produce high quality renewable energy equipment in this nation.

otherwise i believe you need to be treated with all the contempt that the taxpayers of this nation can muster for the parasites who expect this nation to fund their egotistical little crusades.oh look the crappy little per capita argument.  well kerry this a GLOBAL issue being contributed to by 8 billion humans in 200 or so nations in one regard or another.  it is an issue which is tackled on a national, i will repeat that for you, national scale not on a "per capita" scale.

australia 1.3% contribution is negligible compared to china's, the united states, india's, japan's or russia's.  heres an idea, why dont you put your ideals where your mouth is and go shirtfront putin over his nations output, which is part of those five nations 60%+ of global emission.

my data is source from the un's statistic agency unlike your hyperbole.jeremy
how many chinese or indian manufactured products to you own?  i would be most of your manufactured products are from those nations, so stop being a goddamn hypocrite and bleating at me.

you want to save the world, then stop buying products manufactured in those nations.  and if no one else makes them and you can only buy from those nations, then you have your own little moral dilemma to sort out... 

YOUR CRUSADE - NOT MINE, NOT MY FAMILIES AND NOT MY NATIONS.ahhh bruce

saving the world is your little egotistical crusade.  you find the answers as i am not interested in egotistical crusades or appeasing those who embark upon them.

i deal with reality whether the loons in this society like it or not.well paul
another is not to mention that australia's ghg emissions are minimal on the global scale.

this is a crusade by egotists for egotists nothing more.  it is one where the egotists expect this society to pay to assuage them whilst offering not one worthwhile thing in return.  in nature that is known as a parasite, and it is clear that this nations climate crazies are proving to be major parasites on the productivity of this society.

bugger them and bugger their useless egos.  with all the resources this nations government's have wasted on appeasing these parasites we could have solved some of the major environmental problems which we can have an effect upon such as the murray darling.

the parasitic climate crazy industry and supporters in this nation, as with the parasitic countryshopping industry and supporters are just worthless drains on this nations resources.

thankfully it is very clear that the vast majority of australian voters are sick of the government of the day pandering to them.its happening... its pointless us wasting what little resources we have on it.

not a problem we have caused, not a problem we can have even the slightest impact on solving.

if the parasites were truly serious about us cutting our ghg emissions then they would lobby for fission plants as an interim until fusion plants come online.

with the climate crazy parasites it has nothing to do with science and everything to do with ideology.  i make no apologies for not being interested in acknowedging their little crusade or paying a price to appease their worthless ego's.

i'm all for building fission plants on every stable landmass on the planet.  i am also all for every cent which is currently being wasted on the parasitic climate crazy crusade for "green energy" being diverted into fusion research and its accompanying engineering hurdles which we will need to overcome.

i am dead against the australian taxpayer having to fund this $400,000,000.00 2 day talkfest called the g20 when our government wont even provide airfares for our diggers to attend a luncheon the government is hosting because of the "budget emergency".

climate crazies = parasites, the countryshopping lobby = parasites, australias politicians = parasites, multinational corporations = parasites, mining corporations and their multibillionaire owners = parasites... this list can go on for bloody ages considering the downslide this nation has been on over the past 40 years.  we should be looking after our own, first and foremost.you tell me...

both the lnp and labor have so screwed up this nation over the past 40 years that pretty much everyone is now in the taxpayer trough including the taxpayer with welfare for all levels.

the system is completely broken and needs to be replaced as it is more than clear that the representative system is now the core problem.

prior to this century it was all that was really available to us.  with the advent of nationwide data networks which anyone can now access there is no reason at all not to move to a form of direct democracy thus removing absolute policy power from the select few special interest groups we call political parties.

we need major taxation changes right across the board as well as citizen level mandates at each federal and state election moving to local elections once a working system has been put in place.

it is not upto fringe groups and their pocket politicians to mandate whether the australian people waste resources on one crazy experimental scheme or another or if we hand out hardearned taxpayer funds to multinational corporations as the teaparty is planning to if their fuel excise is not passed.

that will p*ss off the greens/labor supporters as well as the tea party/liberal supporters, however it will force those political parties to enact what the majority want rather than what they want or else see none of their policies pass referendums.well bruce if the majority decide to follow a path i dont like then i will, as they say "suck it up princess", unlike the loons of the fringe.  a modern social democracy should not be dominated by the policies of the few, it should be dominated by the policies for all.another futile comment to disparage those whose views differ from the extremist climate crazy norm.reinhard
only a fool would deny that global population does not have an effect upon the emissions of greenhouse gasses by humans...

i am hoping you can acknowledge that pertinent point as there are far too many fools of the fringe left and right who frequent these forums whose only goal is to appease their ego's at great cost and expense to our broader society with useless scams and schemes which benefit the smallest of minorities only.

there are not enough contributors who are willing to actually accept reality and try to deal with underlying causes rather than just slap bandaids on the symptoms so that useless egos are appeased.stalga
if you want to reduce co2 output you legislate it, you dont create a massive ponzi scheme to deal with the issue such as a "carbon trading scheme".  as has been proven in europe that is just a means for the rich to get richer off the backs of everyone else.your ets scheme has proven to be a massive failure in europe with it being corrupted at every level.

try again maybe with a proven system.

enforced legislation has proven to work, no market based systems have proven to be even viable let alone actually work in reducing co2 emissions let alone be cost effective for the taxpayers who fund them.barsnax
using borrowed billion$ to purchase foreign manufactured so called "green technology" which the australian taxpayer will then have to pay back is not what i would call "moving forward" either, unless ofcourse you are a german or chinese manufacturer whom australian taxpayers are then subsidising.

when the climate crazies in this nation have a plan that takes into account building our own industrial capacity to manufacture these systems from scratch at a reasonable cost in this country then they can be taken seriously.

until then it is clear that it is just a parasitic crusade to appease their worthless egos at the expense of broader australian society.latest reports today are that the indian government is making an attempt to deal with its population with an 86% success rate... and a 14% fatality rate.WWII pilots: Fundraising efforts raise cash to get bomber brothers to lunch with PM

qantas has offered the flights to the diggers.  bloody ridiculous that the rentseeking industries are pandered to hand over fist with our taxpayer funds when these people who served this nation when called upon are treated like crap.

his family served in world 1 and world war 2 at the behest of our nation.  our government cant find the funds to fly them to a luncheon they invited them to but they will willingly hand over all the taxes raised by the new fuel excise to the multinationals who control our petrol supplies.

just more proof of how dispicable our political parties are.no yank

the greens deserve every little bit of derision that is heaped upon their nutcase leader and sheeple followers.

the lnp and labor are bad, the greens are despicable with their unyielding pursuit at appeasing their worthless egos no matter what the cost.bob i have already made my remarks on this matter previously in these forums.

expect prices at the yard to move from highs of $1.60 to $1.70 per kg to up to $6.00 per kg has exporters rush to meet their contracts.

unlike i have seen from yourself i am not a sheeple who blindly follows one political party or another.  i make it a point to despise the lnp just as much as i despise labor, however i make no excuses for despising the hypocritical ego appeasers, the Greens, above all others."Your statement that you despise Labor, Greens and Independents would however lead the reader to conclude that you blindly follow the right of politics and then only formal parties"

reread my statementnope no solution offered that only appeals to the fringe will ever be good enough.

i am the type of person you sheeple of the fringe despise - a nationalist who doesnt give a damn about your useless little crusades to appease your ego's.

- climate change - not our problem whether the loony greens like it or not.  we didnt cause it, we have no real impact upon it, we will not solve it.

- free trade agreements - a clear misnomer as australia has nothing to bargain with since all of our tariffs have jointly been removed by the lnp and labor to further their own limited goals since the late 80's whilst those we are supposedly bargaining with keep most of their barriers up against us.  from your comments it is clear you have no problem in further selling out our national interests for short term gain.  

- countryshoppers - not our problem no matter what the fringe want.  the problems in the societies of those attempting to force their way into ours have been there for centuries and millenia.  either help them in their homelands or wash our hands of them.

you want solutions to the above problems??? then you provide it.  as stated these are not our problems and if you want resources from this nation invested in them then you are welcome to bankrupt yourself, dont expect me to willingly contribute to appeasing your ego and expect me to oppose you whenever your type demand such.

the combined resources of the people of this nation should be used for the improvement of this nation first and foremost.

so before bandying about how swinging voters are narcissists due to the simple fact that they have been completely betrayed by our flawed political system, i suggest you look to your own personality flaws as they seem to many.bazza

you want solutions?
the end of the self interested two party system that dominates our poltical system and a move to a political system that is representative of the citizens of this nation such as the swiss model.

the one sided trade agreements you are applauding so loudly and the destruction of our trade barriers with no quid quo pro are the reason our industrial base has been destroyed.

it is more than clear where your fringe loyalties lie, and they are not for the good of this nation or its people as whole.wry i am sure they can pick some minor functionary in an outlying province from the department of animal waste disposal to swap with shortstop... he will still be in his element.full free trade?

what planet do you reside upon?  because it sure as hell isnt the same one as the rest of us.the chinese government is now the largest corporation on the planet with its fingers in every pie on the planet.trevor

what do you expect.  at one time i actually had a little respect for barnaby however most of that has slipped away over the past few years through his continually selling out of rural australia to multinational concerns.

inaction such as his with the liberal party is just as bad as endorsing their policies which harm australian owned sme's in rural australia.mungo he was just another politician.

considering most of his "ground breaking" policies have been nullified by both his own party and their opposition in one way or another it is quite clear that when it comes to lasting legacies at the end of the day his prime ministership was mostly a failure.

with medicare now under threat i guess that will soon join the failure list, just as medibank is under the current government.they do if you want to eulogise them long after they have failed@dave

australia's manufacturing, textile, smelting and cannery industries have been leaving this nation in droves for the greener pastures of nations with 3rd world wages and conditions.

it had nothing to do with the european/north american financial crises as it began happening long before that issue arised.well TNBB it is very clear that "non essential media" is riding the rentseeking gravy train at the publics expense.how about asking

"do you believe that australia is responsible for climate change or that any action taken by australia will mitigate climate change even the slightest degree?"

@solarwhatever
"how about given that australia is one of the lowest emitters on the planet per square kilometer'

your per capita is just another strawman argument the useless little climate crazies use when they cannot find a real world reason why australia should make sacrifices to ride on your little egotistical crusade to save the world.

australia's co2 emissions amount to less than 1.5% of global emissions, the top 5 co2 emitters on the planet amount to over 60% of global emissions.

its your little egotistical guilt trip, you make your own bloody sacrifices to appease it."amongst other things you need to have a global context"

1.5% of global co2 emissions.  seems i understand the global context far more than the climate crazies in this nation who will do anything to appease their useless little ego's.

not a problem we have caused, not a problem we can have any significant effect in solving.

come back to me when you have something other than useless platitudes.A developed nation such as Australia leading by example 

platitude alert

cmon people the burden of proof is upon you if you think there is a problem and expect the rest of this society to join, what is currently, your egotistical little crusade.  you are making these wild claims that "AUSTRALIA MUST DO SOMETHING" and yet you can provide no realistic evidence that anything we do in this nation will make one iota of difference in lowering the GLOBAL co2 levels, especially when the 5 largest emitters on the planet, who account for more than 60% of emissions, once again increased their emissions last year.

i am not interested in platitudes as my feet are planted firmly on the ground.  this is not an issue we have caused and it is not an issue that penalising the people of this nation will solve.

crap answers like "per capita emissions", "leading by example", "i will put my money where my mouth is (really? and your verifiable proof?)" are just meaningless platitudes.

put forward real solutions and not airy fairy "let the whole world go green" rubbish.  there is currently no alternative technology currently available, other than nuclear, which can provide the baseload energy needs of our first world society.

why do i heap scorn upon the climate crazies in our society, because they invite it upon themselves.  the burden is upon you to provide realistic solutions for the people of this nation to follow which will have a meaningful effect, not me.  stupid green schemes such as taxes and trading of thin air are not solutions which only generate income for the uber wealthy once again.well maybe it is time for all those so "worried" about australia's minimal contribution to global co2 emissions to stop using those products developed in 1st world nations... go live in an undeveloped 3rd world hellhole so that you can feel morally superior to the rest of us as you appease your little egos'.

otherwise we dont really give a damn about you all and your hypocritical crusades to appease your useless egos.@david

It's easy to think that the pathetic rantings of climate crazies and loony left political movements has turned off the overwhelming majority from giving a damn if the ultra lefts egos in this nation are appeased.

not a problem australia has caused with its less than 1.5% of GLOBAL co2 emissions and its not a problem australians will have any impact upon by sacrificing their lifestyles to appease the useless 0.000001% of this society.

this is your little egotistical crusade, pay for it yourself.well solarwhatever

would that success be 4% of global emissions or 4% of australia's 1.5% contribution to global emissions... you do the sums, not very successful in real world terms, actually when you do the math it is ... meaningless.

it may have been successful in appeasing climate crazy ego's... but it sure as hell is not worth the financial costs.well maureen

we can also exterminate those of the ultra left and ultra right persuasion who demand the world bow down to them and join their pathetic little crusades whether the rest of us wish to or not.

suddenly 99% of human induced societal problems will be solved.  then we can move onto actually solving some of our more pressing issues such as environmental degradation with its underlying causes.ahhh so because realty prices increase so does global temperature... brilliant analogy. just a pity it has no basis in reality, let alone scientific fact.  or am i wrong and you can cite the peer reviewed methodology which was used for your correlation between the global climate and real estate?

hell i would like to see any of the climate crazies in these forums cite to me the peer reviewed scientific evidence that anything australia does will result in any meaningful reduction in co2 levels... waiting but never expecting an answer from the hypocrites sitting at their coal fire powered computers.pmsl irrational

so all these scientist live off the goodwill of others never earning a salary... credibility, you clearly lack it.  whilst most of those "scientists" are more than happy on their tenured salaries with large organisations which slurp happily at the rentseeking trough of global warming alarmism.

there are deniers, there are alarmists and then there are realists.  me i am a realist, there is problem, it is not one this nation will have any effect on solving in the current global political landscape... or should we declare and wage unrestricted war on those responsible for the issue and refuse to even acknowledge the climate crazies in this nation and their egotistical crusade forcing them to your point of view?

well i guess we will be starting with the united states, india, china, russia and japan, those responsible for 60% of global co2 emissions.  i am also guessing that the hypocrites demanding action will be the first to hide expecting the rest of the nation to put themselves on the line before they do.  much the same as they do with their current stupid demands from this society.

this is just an egotistical crusade by climate crazies in this nation and should be given all the support it deserves.... none at all.Lets be be the solution not the problem.

platitude alert.  the top 5 emitters will do nothing about their global co2 output no matter how many useless platitudes you espouse.

australia is not the problem and will not be the solution either.  we can mitigate our tiny percentage of global emissions however since the top 5 increased their emissions by our entire output last year... it is meaningless.

we should be using our resources in preparing for the future, not appeasing climate crazies and their useless ego's.so you are demanding action and yet putting forward no realistic solutions.  come back to me when you have actual solutions this nation can put in place which WILL reduce global co2 emissions from the rest of the world, you know those responsible for 98.5%+ of global co2 emissions.

otherwise it is time we stop wasting time and resources on appeasing useless climate crazies with their ego appeasing airy fairy schemes.

abbott is right in one thing, it is not often he is right, he uses the term "direct action" and that is what is required.

we either replace our baseload coalfired generators with fission fired generators as an interim to fusion fired generators, or else we do nothing since only fossil fuels which all generate co2 or nuclear are the only reliable and viable options.

we begin a reforestation drive across the interior of this land using nuclear powered desalination plants to provide the water resources thus rebuilding that which has been lost in the amazon, africa and asia - the planets land based carbon sinks (also creating a valuable economic resource).

finally we would need to start planning and designing cities to replace those which we currently have so that they are livable, economically viable and ecologically friendly.

however if as the vested interests keep bleating that we only have a few decades before we hit the "tipping point" then the world as we know it is screwed as the planets major emitters will not make any realistic changes in their co2 output in that time, i am not willing to make major sacrifices to appease useless little ego's in this nation either.great!!!

any yet you have no realistic solutions either.  yep there is a problem, yep many want a solution which will suit their little dogmatic ideals, no they are not interested in implementing solutions which are available today which can help mitigate australia's contribution to the issue.

fission to replace coal until fusion is available (will take a few decades to implement unlike attempting to replace our energy supply system with foreign manufacted wind and solar systems which is a major reason spain is bankrupt)

reforesting the interior of the landmass, which will also increase rainfall averages across most of the nation (will take anything upto and over a century to make a difference).

constructing many australia sourced desalination plants across the nation as well as creating and maintaining extremely large seaweed farms to generate nutrients for the reforestation effort. (will take many decades if not a century or two to acheive)

replanning and building our urban spaces in ecologically, economically and socially friendly manners (may take centuries)

see this is an issue which will take centuries to fix and bleating stupid platitudes like little climate crazy sheeples only alienates the majority to the cause.  in point of fact most people i know do not give a damn about climate change, they care more about paying the next bill which arrives in the mail.

so maybe ensuring that there is plenty of longterm employment for the people of this nation is the first place which is not based upon useless platitudes of the loony left would be the way to start, rather than purchasing more pv systems which are manufactured in chinese and european factories!you are one of the few people in these forums whose opinion i respect michael...  our infrastructure is already heavily strained with no realistic nation building projects being implemented for over half a century so we will find our existing infrastructure coming close to collapse sooner rather than later.

land releases are not keeping up with the simple policy fact being pursued the federal LNP and Labor parties of 50,000,000 australian by 2050...  that is a doubling of our population in the next 35 years, a figure that has taken almost 250 years to acheive.  the only way that can happen is by importing massive amounts of unskilled immigrants into the nation from 3rd world hellholes.

another good reason for a more open democracy where the people of this nation decide on the major policies.  it should not be the burden of the people of this nation to save the rest of the world's societies from their own mistakes, we are going to have one hell of a time saving our society from the rampant policy mistakes of the past 50 years implemented by successive inept LNP and Labor governments.

we need to look after our own issues, including the housing shortages, before importing those from the rest of the world.i dont know which australia you live in however in australia i live in if you cast your ballot then at the end of the day you are voting for either one or the other party machines.it is well past time we had referendums in place to deal with all major policy decisions which affect the lives of the australian people when there are no national security issues involved.trusted members of our community?

maybe in your little world... what i see is a flawed political system which has been designed to be dominated by two special interest groups.

dont give us that crap about "trusted"yes PI

i am all in favour of the swiss model, however the only way it could come about is piecemeal.

we would have to take small and gradual steps for a major change in australia's political systems so that the public could see the pro's and contra's of such a system.  the benefits far outweigh the handicaps compared to the so called "representative" system we are currently burdened with.@mt

actually i think the first step should be in forcing the political parties to put forward all their policies 6 to 12 months ahead of elections so that the positions can be fully discussed and assessed  by the public.  then during the electoral cycle all major  policies can be decided upon by the public at the same time as a government is elected.

some may not want to vote on every single issue, so be it.  if a policy cannot garner the support of 75% to 85% of the voting public then it cannot be emplaced.  hopefully you will find that political parties will be working for us instead of for their own ideological or special interest goals.  if no party can get its policies past the public then they become what they deserve to become - a caretaker government with zero legislative power.

next stage would be for publicly initiated referendums on policies so that farces such as workchoices, carbon taxes and open borders can be repealed by the majority no matter what loudly screaming vocal minorities on either side of politics wish.

the people of this nation should be deciding our future, not fringe group minorities as seems to happen quite often at the moment.i am not a constitutional lawyer reaver.

 i am not an expert in the constitution in any way at all... however the australian constitution was written and legislated by men, it is not an immutable law of the universe.

if it needs adapting or changing then we do so.the referendum is a set of manmade documents not an immutable law of the universe.

what needs to be changed can be changed... any other questions.terry it is not the police who are the problem.  it is those who are passing legislation which the police must enforce who are the problem.

dont blame the police, blame the lnp and labor governments for using a hammer on issues which could be easily solved with forethought and studying the underlying causes of problems, many of which are the blame of previous lnp/labor governments and their complete lack of management skills!

blame the cause terry, not the effect.well scup

napthine has done nothing but sign an underhanded deal which is going to cost this state tens of billions with all of it going into the hands of the corporatiosn rather than actually poll victorians for what they want just as kennett did.  andrews will just put more speed cameras in with exorbitant fines to pay for all the hardened criminals he will let out on the streets.

the choice is to vote for one pack of lying scumbags or another...  no point in it.not in this bloody lifetime, most australians have far too much intelligence than to vote for those egotistical loonsyes i have muzz... however the people of this nation have no choice but to vote in one of those two major parties in the corrupted version of "democracy" we are saddled with.

at the end of the day though they are positively sane compared to the nutcase Milne and her psycho followers.the bloody tax that should never have happened in the first place.

just as workchoices was heavily weighted for the ultra right of politics so to is labor heavily weighted to the ultra left when it comes to so called climate policy.

well guess what sunshine.. it is not a problem we have caused and it sure as hell is not a problem that will be solved by taxing the people of this nation who is responsible for less than 1.5% of global emissions.

loony left climate crazies/bleeding hearts and the ultra right are NOT the majority in this nation, hell you lot with your screwed up ideologies make up a miniscule amount of votes in this nation and it is long past time politicians took note of that fact.why bring abbott into the election?

because they are all the same parties, no matter if they are federally, state or locally run.

do you truly think people are morons that they cant see that?

just as the supposed state based federal senate is a rubber stamp for partisan politics so to are the state based governmentsnapthine has done anything right either... and signing that deal on the tunnel using victorian taxpayers monies before the election has put one hell of a lot of people offside.

the moron should have actually asked us what we wanted instead of doing backdoor deals with the big national corporations again.smurf i have no respect for any of the special interest groups called political parties, i have even less respect for the sheeples who blindly follow along behind them.

as far as i am concerned they are all scumbags who deserve all the scorn which can be heaped upon them.

i also have no interest in our political system which is designed to favor the above special interest groups ahead of the actual needs of our society.all this useless handwringing.

those who decide on the jihadi path with any of these terrorist organisations should be shown the door or else delivered a bullet (point end first), end of problem.  they are not needed nor wanted in this society and it is time for these numbnuts we call politicians to start dealing with them in no uncertain terms.oh ann

i am so glad we have people such as yourself in our society who are willing to speak out in favour of the murderous scumbags who roam the planet.

you then focus the minds of people so that they understand what they risk losing if they follow your path.

risking my kids futures in a safe and secure society are not worth the loony idealism that those such as yourself ignorantly espouse."after about years of three-word slogans, scaremongering hyperbole, broken promises and constant abuse our Prime Minister is hardly the finest exemplar of rational discourse"

which prime minister?  this one, the last regurgitated one (for a few weeks), the one before that, the one before that (who was the last pm and stabbed in the back during this term), or the one before that (who destroyed this nation working conditions for employees) that list can keep going back for decades encompassing every one of your precious labor governments or those you oppose like a little labor sheep, the liberals.

the system is stuffed and we are better off completely replacing it with a system where a few thousand paid up members of political parties around the nation do not control the direction of this society and its 25,000,000 people.the governments of this nation should not be wasting tens of billions of dollars on stupid green schemes which will have no effect on the GLOBAL issue since we are not the cause nor even contributing to it in any significant way.  our governments should not be wasting a single cent on the issue.

when those countries who are overwhelmingly causing the issue take steps to drastically mitigate their co2 output then we can look into the issue.  until then it is just a waste of this nations limited valuable resources to pursue what is clearly an egotistical crusade to appease the minority lunatic fringe in our society.matthew whether you like it or not the human race has taken many different cultural paths over the past 10,000 years.

there is a western culture and it was born in ancient greece, there are many different eastern cultures, there is an islamic culture which was born during the 8th century and was designed to directly conflict with western culture, there are those cultures which have arisen on the african mainland and there are cultures which have been subsumed across the america's

there is a distinct western culture just as there is a distinct middle eastern culture.  there will never be global multi-culturalitym that is just another pipe dream from those who refuse to accept base human nature.  should the global population change fundamentally to appease those "dreamers", no.  just as those who are born and bred in this country should not either.anything is better than what we have been saddled with.

i prefer moving to the swiss direct democracy method myself however we live in a democracy and if a referendum was held and people preferred this model then so be it.

ofcourse in our current unrepresentative system which is overwhelmingly controlled by the debased duopoly dont expect any change which will destroy their powerbase.47% of those polled on a news agencies website disagree with that result (please note there is a +/- 25% margin for error)bloody hell... a representative of the WHO demanding even more resources after the complete screw up that organisation has been guilty of in coordinating efforts to deal with ebola.

once again it is "WE WANT MORE MONEY".  well mr raviglione where i come from you have to prove you are worth the investment and the WHO as with most other UN agencies is proving they are worth completely disregarding in all matters.

well past time for the WHO to show it is worth the continuing investment of funds by taxpayers across western society by actually being prepared for such pandemics when they occur.well ae

there was a time when companies actually promoted and sponsored apprenticeships... now they just pull in a 457 visa holder citing a skills shortage.

there was a time when companies actually invested in their employees by guaranteeing them a future whilst also fostering them whilst they pursued higher education which would benefit both the employee and the company.  there are still a few companies like that that in this country however they are being whittled away in the drive for the american corporatisation model where anyone except the company is expected to fund such further education.

there was a time when we had a thriving manufacturing industry in this nation... it has now been offshored to 3rd world labor and condition nations such as china and thailand.

there was a time when we had a thriving textile industry in this nation... it has now been offshored to 3rd world labor and condition nations such as bangladesh or our poorer south pacific neighbours such as fiji (i have zero issue with us helping out Oceanic neighbours as they are within our region and we are actually in a position in helping them)...

there was a time when we had a thriving smelting industry for all the ores which are mined from this continent.. yeah anyway the china thing again.

as for your doctors in the boondocks... well i see many who have extremely limited training in set parts of anatomy in india, which only trains specialists in their education system, pretending to be GP's.

457 visa's are a curse on the citizens and residents of this nation not an aid.  if a corporation needs a skilled employee then they can invest in a person who lives in this nation and not import them from 3rd world nations... not long ago we heard of one of the multinationals importing painters for christs sake.@PtL
and that is the thinking and actions which have led this nation down the inevitable slide we have been on for the past 40 years.

yep we can buy some goods cheaper today than before, however considering they are engineered to have an extremely limited lifespan compared to those which we once produced here i would not call that an improvement.

yep business can import cheap labor from overseas for the benefit of multinational enterprises however that is at the expense of our own national interests, as is becoming increasing clear with unemployment rates skyrocketing not just in rural areas but in the suburbs as well.

business may have a prime duty of making a profit for their owners, however government has a prime duty of looking after the long term needs of society, and not just the self centred short term needs of which ever political party is in power as we have seen continually from the LNP, Labor, the Greens and now PUP as well.

i have zero interest in the loony left or righteous right and their ideologies.  i will always put the long term needs of this nation ahead of such ideologies and the spurious claims made about them as this is the society my children and my children's children will inherit.

yeah it may be wishful thinking, however i hope one day more australians are willing to take a stand on such wishful thinking.  we should be looking after our own first and foremost before even thinking of helping those overseas.i know freddie... sheeesh these people!

these faceless multinational corporations offer a medical solution with a 25% chance of success to women to put their biological clock on hold (as well as the 100% chance of success most of them have in becoming pregnant whilst still younger than 40) so that they can slave their little lives away enriching the uber rich who control those same multinational concerns and then some have the bloody gall to criticise them!

bloody disgraceful behaviour isnt it freddie.you didnt add the 25% or so success rate for the procedure.  meaning 1 in 4 women will be impregnated with viable eggs whilst the other 3 women will find their eggs have been damaged by the procedure and are no longer viable material.no jimmy i mean exactly what i stated.

cyrogenics is a science fraught with risks.it has nothing to do with math... math is a completely separate science which operates upon different principles than biology.

A total of 405 couples (mean ? SD female age 33.2 ? 4 years, range 23?44) underwent 459 FER cycles and were included in the study. In these cycles, 2049 frozen embryos were thawed, 1331 embryos (65%) survived the process of thawing with &amp;#8805;50% of their original blastomeres intact and 967 (47%) were replaced (mean 2.1 ? 0.7 embryo/cycle). 

Among the original 405 retrieval IVF/ICSI cycles, 117 patients (28.6%) achieved a pregnancy (group A), while 288 cycles (71.4%) were not successful (group B). 

sourced from oxford universty's "oxford journals"  not the original source of my data, however it corresponds with the results

for some strange reason i trust the scientific process over hype and opinions.  whether it be ivf success rates or global warming.

in total agreement cj

primary and tertiary education at government schools should be fully funded from the australian taxbase as it is an investment in this nations future...

those who attend university to learn the basics skillsets we are lacking need to be supported in every way possible as well.  this nation has a dearth of engineers in all fields however we find those wishing to pursue careers as lawyers or "academic policy advisors" using the resource required to train them whilst most will never even finish their courses let alone find gainful employment in their fields.

what do we get from "academic policy advisors", politicians whose heads are filled with useless thought bubbles with no basis in reality, and once they have screwed up the political system they end up rentseeking from society at "think tanks" where an original thought is an anathema.sorry meant primary and secondary education.. was distractedreally jericho!

we all have our own problems in this nation and it is more than clear that most could not give a damn about an issue which is being caused by north america and eurasia.

those who want to pay a tax then bloody well throw your money away, i have better uses for mine such as paying ever increasing bills.

for those who are sick of the egotists and their expecting the rest of us to pay to appease them in pursuit of their useless little crusade then here is important environmental news closer to home:

Chlamydia breakthrough: Queensland scientists vaccinate koalas against deadly disease
By Stephanie Smail
Posted 29 Oct 2014, 10:59am
as reported by this news service

good work University of Sunshine Coast.  hopefully you can acquire all the necessary funding to make progress on this as fast as possible with a concerted effort by our federal government to begin vaccinating everyone of our koala's we can get our needles into.

far better funding is provided for our native wildlife and environmental concerns than handing it over to foreign nations and foreign nationals in stupid schemes like carbon trading.

we only have so many resources and wasting them appeasing the lunatic fringe of the left is just an act of stupidity.ONLY AUSTRALIA CAN SAVE THE PLANET BY CURBING ITS 1.5% OF GLOBAL CO2 EMISSIONS!!!  

whilst the united states, china, russia, india and japan account for 60% of global emissions and are doing bugger all to curb them no matter what useless climate crazies in this country want to bleat
figures sourced from the un

you dare to call me shallow, i like most people have zero interest in your little egotistical crusade to make australians pay for an issue caused by others on the planet.  you want to waste time and resources saving the world to appease your pathetic little ego's - DO IT ON YOUR OWN TIME WITH YOUR OWN DIME

and turn off all your electrical goods... bloody hypocrites.Indonesia (GDP $US 2.554 trillion 2014 up 53 per cent when compared to 2008) suffering from a deforestation problem

hmmm deforestation!

you dont think that the massive deforestation, or destruction of the worlds carbon sinks if you want to get right to the point, across the globe over the past 50 years has anything to do with the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere... china and india doubling their industrial output of co2 over the past 10 years or so hasn't helped the matter either, making those two countries the largest emitters on the planet by orders of magnitude over pretty much every other nation on the globe.

global co2 emissions, not an issue which australia is contributing to in any significant way and not an issue we are going to have any significant effect in resolving.the figures dont lie.  the top 5 co2 emitters on the planet - china, japan, russia, united states and india - all once again increased their co2 output last year.  in 2010 they accounted for 60% of global emissions and all this bleating about how "AUSTRALIA MUST DO SOMETHING" is just that - useless bleating which is designed to appease the useless ego's of a tiny minority at great expense to the rest of this society.

useless climate crazy ego's are worth spitting on, let alone appeasing.they are not children.  if they are old enough to willingly travel halfway across the globe so they can rape and murder their way across foreign lands, unlike somali child soldiers as young as 8 years old who have no choice, then they are old enough to face the consequences including being made stateless by the government of this land.

being a citizen of a 1st world nation is a privilege most people in the world would be willing to give their lives for, and many do that just for the chance, whilst these animals treat it as their allah given right!  citizenship is a manmade concept, not a mystical mythical fairybeing given right!

enough is enough.  we dont need these scum returning to this land creating a threat to our children when they find they cant get their way for one thing or another and resort to their middle eastern trained tactics of killing innocent people to show their 'displeasure' of not being pandered to.

they made their choice, let them live or die with it without the protection of this nation or its government.no zing...

they need to go on corporate funded jaunts as well... what would you prefer to be doing, reading dry and dusty legislative passages or fine dining at a posh little restaraunt or winery?

sheesh bloke get your priorities right, they are scumbag politicians in the employ of whichever special interest group funds them (other than the australian taxpayer) not bloody saints who believe in looking after the people who have actually hired them!

integrity, an unknown word in australian political (and legal) circles.cp if you abolish the senate then you may as well abolish the unrepresentative government system we have in place and replace it with a direct democracy model.

suddenly special interest groups from the loony left, righteous right, delusional godbotherers, or special interest groups such as the Greens, Labor and the LNP will have the rug pulled out from beneath them.

better all australians make the decision on the direction our society  follows rather than a pack of unrepresentative failed lawyers, failed businessmen and corrupt union officials.  those elected can put forward issues for referendums however the public can also put forward issues for referendums.

$25 billion on 12 subs when we cannot man or maintain the 6 subs we have?  there is an issue screaming out for a vote by all australian taxpayers and not just politicians in the pocket of special interests.

potentially hundreds of billions fo taxpayer dollars wasted on green schemes, when the 6 nations on the planet responsible for 60% of global co2 emissions do not have any concerted plans to deal with the issue amongst themselves let alone within their own borders.  appeasing the ego's of the lunatic fringe in our society is not worth putting our children into debt for.

initial purchase cost of $12 billion dollars for 72 JSF's ($170,000,000 each) with no one mentioning on how many $10's of billions the ongoing costs will be for them.  sound like a bargain to anyone or does it sound like special interests in government looking after the special interests of multinational corporations?

look at every policy position put forward by those who claim to represent australians and you will see them representing their same old special interests every time at the expense of the australian public.your right yank we agree on one thing.

enough is enough.

those who fight for sanctioned organisations overseas must have their passports and citizenship/visa's cancelled rendering them stateless if need be.

bleeding heart rhetoric favouring bloodthirsty criminals does not justify my kids growing up in a society with one more of those nutcases than there needs to be no matter how bruised the ego's of the loony left.

at the end of the day handing over a stable prosperous society to our children far outweighs appeasing your ego's.THE BUBBLE! THE BUBBLE! THE BUBBLE!

as long as demand outstrips supply there will be no bubble

so there will no bubble to hit this nation for decades if ever with the current government policies of not releasing land and an open door immigration policy.just because you either cant afford to enter the market or do not want to make sacrifices to enter the market does not mean that no one else can... i have 3 properties now and have lived in each of them.

instead of whining like a little girl get your feet wet and if it means you have to sacrifice then sacrifice... otherwise take your hypocritical bleating elsewhere.Disarray there nothing stopping you from heading over there and wiping the brows of the doomed.

you dont need a doctor (ie medical types) to hold someones hand as they die from a viral attack with no cure.  or do you prefer to hypocritically put the lives of others in danger whilst you sit back safe and sound appeasing your ego?

there is no mediacal treatment for ebola, there is NO cure and there is NO vaccine.pmsl... try the big picture yourself for a change.

your pathetic little windfarms in this country or in over a hundred others will do nothing to effect the 8.3 million tons of co2 that china spat out in 2010, or the 5.4 million tons of co2 that the united states spat out in 2010, or the 2.0 million tons of co2 that india spat out in 2010, or the 1.7 million tons that russia spat out in 2010 or finally the 1.1 million tons that japan spat out in 2010... 18+ million tons by those 5 countries in 2010 alone.

compared to 12 million tons in total by the other 205 nations on the planet.

BIG PICTURE!  deal with those 5 nations causing 60% of the problem rather than bleating like stupid little sheeple following the party line screaming CLIMATE CHANGE, CLIMATE CHANGE without a clue.

src. united nations mdgii suggest you accept reality and gain an understanding that a 1st world society requires a baseload power supply.  its either fossil fuel or nuclear pick your poison with the understanding that the universe doesnt give a damn that you dont like them or they dont fit into your narrow little dogmatic view.  reality rarely if ever pays heed to egotists and their crusades.Reeva Steenkamp remains dead.

and that says everything about the whole sorry mess.  what will more than likely end up being a 5 month prison sentence for what was effectively murder.

dont know about any of you but when i wake in the middle of the night i can feel if the missus is next to me... i just reach out my hand, i dont grab my spare legs, gun and go off shooting at the first sound i hear, i check on those in my care first which means going into the kids bedrooms.

yep some of you may think it is sad, however i dont give a damn, when i awake in the middle of the night i get up and physically check on my kids.wishful thinking does not make a fact.

as long as the LNP and Labor parties are colluding on their joint policy of "big australia", not to mention the nutcase Greens open border policy, then i would advise every person out there to dive into the housing market as fast as possilble before it is completely out of reach.  50,000,000 people is their reported population goal and they will require housing to live in.

our society wont come tumbling down due to a lack of housing, our society will come tumbling down when there is no employment for the majority of the 50,000,000 due to our entire manufacturing and industrial industries being offshored to 3rd world nations.

as in all 3rd world countries those without will do anything and everything they can to get what they need to survive.  with no longterm strategic policies to combat such an outcome to their big australia policy this country is heading down another extremely slippery slope due to the political parties and their incompetenceactually jusme, this continent could easily support 50,000,000 if it was planned.

however it is more than clear from the woeful performance of our politicians over the past 40 years that they are not capable of project planning on the smallest scale let alone on something so vast.

the nbn is a minor sideshow by comparison and neither party has been able to deliver... the murray-goulburn and its catchments supplies water to a large proportion of the australian population and yet they have not been able to rectify the issue that has been created by the incompetents in the LNP and Labor over those 4 decades.

the major and minor political parties are not to be trusted with any major decisions for this nation.  we need a direct democracy where the citizens of this nation take control and responsibility for the ensuing success and failures not to mention fixing the complete stuff ups by these self interested, special interest groups we call political parties.psssst where did i say i want 50,000,000 permanent residents living in this country?  i stated that this continent can support that population with the correct infrastructure in place.

i like it with the population it has, it is around all we can support with the current transport and agriculture infrastructure and it is more than clear that the vested interest political parties are completely incompetent for planning any long term infrastructure goals.  like i said a slippery slope if they have their way to a big australia.

it is long past time to cut all forms of immigration to the bare essentials i.e those with recognised skills which this nation currently lacks.  no more family reunions, no more countryshoppers, no more so called humanitarian immigrants.

if you have a required essential skill in fields such as engineering  and its essential sub fields then the door is open.  if you are a lawyer or basket weaver or sri lankan fisherman.... the door can be slammed in your face.give me a break.

even with 50,000,000 we could not compete against the slave wages of china and india.we are part of asia?   only if you are a sheeple and believe the political dogma that has been fed to the australian people by the vested interests over the past 4 decades.

me i live on the CONTINENT OF AUSTRALIA, not asia.   now if plate tectonics is not your strong suit, then buy a map.

and yes we will have to compete.  which means importing what will effectively be our own slave labor from either around this region (the south pacific or indonesia) or else from the african continent.

as long as we provide them food, housing and basic medical as well as pay them more than they would earn in a lifetime where they are for their services on a 5 year or so contract then it is a win/win situation for people currently living on around a dollar a day as well as for the renewal of this nations manufacturing industry.  the citizens of this nation will need to be trained in management and supervisory skills not to mention engineering to create new product lines and improve upon existing product lines.

only the egotistical bleeding hearts and incompetent politicians are stopping us from planning a long term future for this society.and when it is Leftist parties and their "Think Tanks" in a concerted effort?

whenever the ultra left or ultra right begin advocating an issue it is not just extreme caution which is required, it is extreme skepticism that is required as history has shown the ultra groups have no interest in our society as a whole.oh look its barnes advocating for the criminal element in our society ahead of their innocent victims... nothing new here.

however i will wholeheartedly agree that no register is kept of these people, if you agree we execute them as fast as they commit such crimes against innocent women and children.

once they are planted in the ground no register will be required.  actually just one mass unmarked pit which they are turfed into would be a fitting end to such scum.and what do you think WHO can do about tobacco or alcohol other than waste resources which we the australian taxpayer are contributing to?

australia, just like every other bloody country on earth, can end deaths by tobacco and alcohol by outlawing the products as they are local issues which have to be dealt with at a local level.  the WHO should be focusing on health threats from the wild not bloody self inflicted health threats due to poor choices.

it doesnt matter how much a loony minority want it, the UN will never be the world government.  the last thing we need is having countries like angola or russia dictate to the citizens of this nation what is acceptable and what is not, it is bad enough with our own loony fringe groups from the right and left having all their demands met by australian governments.per capita, by gdp

NOW WHY HAVE YOU NOT INCLUDED WHAT OUR GLOBAL EMISSIONS ARE BY TOTAL OUTPUT COMPARED TO ALL OF THESE NATIONS.
that is all that matters, the environment doesnt give a $&amp;% about your little per capita and gdp graphs or arguments as they are 110% completely meaningless in a global context which is what the issue is.  no wonder people are disgusted by the climate crazies in our society.

so I will fill in the answer for you:
AUSTRALIA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR BETWEEN 1.1% to 1.5% OF GLOBAL CO2 EMISSIONS.  the disparity is caused by the two extremes who put forward their figures.  as you can see i dont give a damn about fudging the figures as you are attempting to greg.  this is an issue originally caused eurasia and north america with the subcontinent now a major contributor.

if the climate crazies want to have a real impact on the global issue then stop bleating about penalising the citizens of this nation and start bleating at the governments of the day to start gouging the multinational mining corporations, such as adani, who dig up and export the fossil fuels.go to the un website and check their statistical data on global emissions since OUR abc does not like publishing facts when presented as i have already attempted.

the top 5 emitters of 2010: china, the us, india, russia and japan emitted 18,640,263 tons of co2

the other 205 emitters on the list produced a total of 12,710,192 tons of co2 which is effectively the rest of the world!

dont bleat at me that individual countries make no difference when the FACTS clearly show you to be wrong

those are the 5 countries that need to cut their co2 emissions immediately and until that happens it doesnt matter what other countries on the planet do or dont do.
that is the same point that has been raised time and again Kew.  and you will find that the minority who are demanding the other 25,000,000 people who live on this continent change to suit them, just dont give a damn..pssst bren

those local councils and state governments are under the control of either the LNP or Labor just as federal governments are.

so we come back to the same issue once again on how the LNP and Labor are mismanaging this nation at all levels of government.@karly
sounds like a more effective plan than anything currently in place.considering the policy decisions of both LNP and Labor/Greens at all levels of government over the past few years it is more than clear that political symbolism to appease their sheeple of the fringe outweighs all other concerns.

more proof of failure of our LNP, Labor/Greens dominated political system.ohhh and you did not mention the current round of symbolic to and fro'ing for a situation which cannot be 'fixed'.

the ebola outbreak in western africa.  the left is demanding direct intervention and the right is saying no bloody way because we cant evactuate anyone.

the bottom line is that any medical teams we send to west africa will also be symbolic due to the irrefutable fact that ebola has no known cure and no known vaccines!  if people wish to help then good on them, however governments should be concentrating on containing the outbreak first and foremost.

enough of all this stupid extreme fringe symbolism which runs rampant in our society, our governments should be concentrating on managing the nation economically and socially for the good of all and not just for those on the fringe who whine the loudest or have the biggest chequebooks in tax havens.political parties are the problem, not the solution.

we need to completely discard this broken system and replace it with a direct democracy model where the voice of each individual voter actually countsstop middle class welfare and tax minimisation for the rich... the nation cant afford it.

stop ALL forms of corporate welfare.... capitalism's basic tenet is survival of the fittest not survival by sucking on the publics teat.

stop funding every little disparate group who demands funding for  THEIR cause...  the only organisations which should be receiving funding are those which provide services to all sectors of society, not just some minority or another.

release enough land to deal with the current realestate crisis the country is undergoing at the moment... and if government has to directly fund the building of a couple of new planned cities then so be it, as it is more than clear that the private sector is not capable of dealing with the issue.

put an end to all privatisation and public/private partnerships.... if the private sector wants it and believes they can do a better job than a public entity they can pay for the establishment of their own business with its model and compete.  if it is truly that good then people will use it.

there are so many screw ups which have been forced upon this nation by the vested interests of our political parties that it is very clear that we are better off without them.100% agreement ozzie

so called representative democracy has failed the people of this nation over the past 40 years at a minimum it is well past time to discard it in favor of direct democracy where all australian citizens have an equal say in matters of policy rather than having policy forced down our throats.yes john they would.

that is the underlying tenet of democracy, majority rules.  for those who dont like it, there are fascist and communist states around the globe which might suit them better.  their choice, as is right in a democratic nation.

it is not for the majority to pander to minorities unless the MAJORITY decides it will.  i expect you would see even more advantage for the disabled and other disadvantaged in our society which has been caused by no fault of their own.  i have more faith in the average aussie and their decision making skills than i have in any special interest group.and why is government dominated by political parties required?

we would be just as well off employing specialist teams on performance based contracts to manage government departments and implement policy decisions with oversight committees of elected officials ensuring they meet their contracts.  the complete failure of the nbn is direct proof of what happens when the political parties decide that their own interests outweigh that of the nation.PtL
Does it matter who published the article.

All of our political parties are on the nose and the best solution is the purge the nation of them and their self interests.

Not the best solution for lawyers, union hacks or bleeding heart groups.. you will find the majority couldnt give a damn.Foreign norms, values and sexualized stereotypes that have led our nation away from its cultural foundation.

dont say that too loud or you will beaten with a stick for criticising the failed policy of multiculturalismas they say "fit in or frig off"

either you embrace this country as your own or you are just a visitor... and as we know visitors always outstay their welcome eventually.

our society should not be expected to change for minorities.  if you want major social change then take it to the electorate in a referendum... you know the democratic way of doing things, not the fascist or socialist way as so many of the fringe like demand and how our political system has been corrupted into operating.ajb as long as we do not have enough land release for adeqate real estate for everyone then the prices will keep increasing.  it is simple mathematics... the more immigrants into the nation the more real estate is required.

this is not an issue caused by the real estate industry or individuals, it is a problem being caused by the LNP and Labor with their seperate pursuits of the single government policy of "BIG AUSTRALIA" for their own ideological reasons.

just another failure of the LNP/Labor duopoly which they are not willing to correct as it conflicts with the self interest of those two organisations.L.B.
you didnt mention that it is the collective policies of the Labor and Liberal parties which has driven those 2.5 million jobs offshore to 3rd world wage and condition countries.well Karly if any country or bloc such as the EU has any type of tarrifs in place against our goods we should be responding in kind.

ford australia attempted to import into thailand however local government level imposts made the project unfeasable... any yet we have 0 tariffs against the nation which effectively stole our auto industry thanks to the LNP and Labor.

that is one example of how these so called "Free Trade Agreements" seem to benefit our trade partners rather than both partners equally and is our so called FTA with the US.

we still have the australia tax and geoblocking of physical and online goods and services from the US rather than a level playing field, and yet it is the US who is trying to impose more costs on the people of this nation by forcing the australian government to fall into line with their screwed up copyright regime.

nope none of these agreements signed by the LNP and Labor are worth the paper they are written on as far as i am concerned.the 457 was alive and thriving during Labor's first term and the Labor/Greens term as well.

we are just experiencing the end result of 40 years of policy failure for the nation and policy success for themselves by these two self interest groups who have corrupted our political system until it is their political system and theirs alone.

oh this whole article is just another beat up.

luckily for us the glorious leader of team australia has just pledged $400 million dollars of taxpayer funds to 'help' multinational corporations keep their competitive edge in the global economy.

take that you damn dole bludgers and pensioners!well if our governments genuinely wanted to reduce poverty and increase wealth in this nation they would not be signing totally lopsided trade agreements with nations that have 3rd world wages and conditions driving our manufacturers offshore, not would they be spending 10's if not 100's of billions of borrowed hard currency which taxpayers will have to reimburse with interest to then buy manufactured products from those same nations.

both of those have been the key policies of both the LNP and Labor over the past 10 years of so.

those two special interests parties have zero interest in the well being of the people of this nation.ae
when i started work in the 80's we had trade barriers.  things werent cheap, however they were designed to last and were manufactured in this country creating employment with most people finding full time employment if they wanted it unlike today.

come back to me when you have a basic grasp of reality... or when your shift a mcdonalds ends... do you want fries with that?useless platitudes aren't going to help him or the other 2.5 million alpo.Liberal lies?  i have seen just as much if not more from Labor and the nutcase Greens.

if you are going to hold our governments to account then dont be hypocritical about it.no AGB that would directly exclude the Tamils since they started a civil war using terrorism as their main tool so that they could secede from a soveriegn nation to form their own Tamil only nation.

we dont need that crap occuring here no matter whose little pathetic ego's are bruised.pmsl...

the article asks that spin be taken out of the equation whilst filled with it.  give us a break, a countryshopper is a countryshopper no matter what type of spin you lot want to put on it.

they are not needed nor wanted in this country whether the tiny fringe minority who want to assauge their useless ego's at the rest of the nations expense like it or not!ahhh so lets make all those who oppose self selecting immigrants as racists.  truly pathetic and a typical response from the loony left when they dont have a leg to stand on.

to answer your question from my perspective... if they have skills which we desperately require in this nation then yes open the bloody door and if that means we are inundated with 6ft tall well endowed amazonian swedish helga's then so be it.

since the 3rd world hellholes these people are immigrating from do not provide them with such 1st world skillsets as we require, they can go rebuild their lives in another 3rd world nation which is trying to remake itself such as cambodia.

i am not a hypocrite like the loony leftists of this nation and will call a spade a damn spade whether loony left ego's like it or not.  and yes i voted labor with the exception of when i was 18 and voted greens before growing a half a brain as well as in the past few electoral cycles when i grew a full brain and finally understood that our politicians are not worth voting for.nope graeme in 5 years time the loony left will have their legs cut out from beneath them once and for all.

then we will have to deal with the rise of the righteous right which moronic loony lefts caused in the first place.

as for not voting... as long as i am paying my taxes i really dont give a damn what nonentities such as yourself think about my voting habits."The claim that Australia has been generous in its response to refugees and asylum seekers in the past has no place in an argument for a particular response to refugees and asylum seekers in the present"

just as the claim that we should be bound by an agreement signed 70 years ago which was designed as a particular response to a particular occurence which was happening then.

your UNHCR agreement is not worth the paper it is written on in the current world we live on.  either a new agreement is formed which takes into account the economic migration of millions with strict guidelines on how such people should be managed or else we should wash our hands of the entire affair.well it is very clear that the LNP will now be chasing a Corporate Curriculum at the taxpayers expense if the Mad Monks current scheme comes to fruition.

I can just see the HSC questions now?
if you have 2 cheeseburgers and leave the pickles off 1 of them, how many cheeseburgers are you left with?

and the Labor party will do their usual when they finally claw their way into office and let sleeping dogs lie.hang on whilst i check my pet bandicoot...

what it is illegal to domesticate the natural fauna of this continent!  and we get stupid articles bemoaning the loss of species with not a word on the easiest solution to implement ensuring the survival of species.

instead of whining about the symptom maybe the author should be looking at the viable realworld solution.well look how nuts politicians can get when one person is bit by a shark in its natural environment... suddenly hundreds of sharks from a completely different species are massacred to appease their egotistical political drive,

cats will be cats, dogs will be dogs, rabbits will be bloody rabbits.  there are part of our landscape now just like the bloody cane toad and we had best adapt our ways so that we can save our native species rather than just appease ego's.

me, i am sure the kids wouldnt mind looking after a pet bandicoot or two.  how fast do you think endangered species in our land would be saved if they suddenly became widespread family pets.Dogs aren't allowed to wander, why should cats be any different?

and yet they doSpecies whose extinction can be attributed to feral cats: 
Pig-footed bandicoot, Chaeropus ecaudatus 
Desert bandicoot, Perameles eremiana 
Lesser bilby, Macrotis leucura 
Desert bettong, Bettongia anhydra 
Nullarbor dwarf bettong, Bettongia pusilla 
Desert rat-kangaroo, Caloprymnus campestris
Broad-faced potoroo, Potorous platyops 
Kuluwarri (central hare-wallaby), Lagorchestes asomatus 
Crescent nailtail wallaby, Onychogalea lunata
White-footed rabbit-rat, Conilurus albipes
Capricorn rabbit-rat, Conilurus capricornensis 
Lesser stick-nest rat, Leporillus apicalis
Short-tailed hopping-mouse, Notomys amplus 
Long-tailed hopping-mouse, Notomys longicaudatus 
Large-eared hopping-mouse, Notomys macrotis 
Darling Downs hopping-mouse, Notomys mordax 
Broad-cheeked hopping-mouse, Notomys robustus 
Long-eared mouse, Pseudomys auritus
Blue-grey mouse, Pseudomys glaucus 
Gould's mouse, Pseudomys gouldii

how many of those species could have been saved if they were allowed to be domesticated?

cats are here to stay as are dogs as are cows and cane toads. animal rights groups bleating at politicians to hide their heads in the sand so that the activists can have their ego's salved at the cost of our native species is why many of our species either endangered or extinct.@BtL
direct democracy as practiced in switzerland is a far better democratic system than the representative one you lawyers and other self interested parties have corrupted.

it is well past time to break the backs of the lawyers and those others who make up the self interested political parties in this nation, figuratively speaking if not literally.virgil, australia's issue is not the "funding" of political parties, it is the political parties themselves and the unwholesome sway they have over our society... all in the name of the few thousand people who are paid up members of the organisations.

that is australia's reality and that sure as hell is not democracy.what that is crazy!

next you will be wanting a direct democracy. a system where self serving political parties and their membership of a few thousand are relegated to the place they should have been long ago - history's cesspit.i know concerned... well as we can see from ppscrosby's response i must be an idiot to be thinking and advocating a system other than the current corrupt one we had emplaced upon us by the two factional parties.

god forbid we have a proven system in place which cedes control to the voters of this nation rather than to the special interest groups of the Liberal and Labor parties.well mungo it is precious political parties like your Labor Party and the incompetents and/or selfserving which fill them which have caused the current malaise.

democracy in australia is not the problem, it is the lack of democracy in australia which is the problem.

it is time to destroy or revamp the system so that the only mandate is one agreed upon by the vast majority of voters in policy referendums.  otherwise governments such as this one or the previous ones should be hamstrung as caretakers with zero policy powers.well andries i have lived well below the poverty line before in my life.  i live well above it now through one hell of a lot of hard work and many failed attempts to claw my way above it despite the obstacles put in the way by the vested interests of the political parties of this nation.  yes it was political parties and their screwed up policy experimentation of the past 40 years which were my greatest hurdles.

you think that the only way our nations people can be saved is with the current two party political system... i pity you if that is so as i see the vested interests of the people in those parties as the ones holding this nation and its people back to suit their own ideological dogma.Curious go and have a look at the model they use in Switzerland.

1. you hold referenda at the federal and regional levels at normal election time thus handing out mandates for policies... not the if you vote for me you have to accept whatever we do, that goes out with the rest of the rubbish from the LNP and Labor.

2. it would be less expensive to run the referendums than it would be to watch the continual waste of hard earned taxpayer funds on failed vote buying political schemes like the NBN which is now billions of dollars wasted.  the east-west tunnel in melbourne will prove to be more hundreds of millions wasted when the liberals are shown the boot because labor actually has a better transport plan.

3. why should everyone be forced to take part. here is another bastardisation of free and fair elections.  if people wish to vote then let them, if they wish to just go along for the ride then so be it.  forcing people to bow to the will of policians is why they are held in so little regard when they are supposed to be managing OUR national needs.

it is well proven democratic system and works extremely well, with slight adaptions which are not mandated to the electorate by politicians it could serve our nation equally well.oh give us a break Ian

next you will be saying that government is there to serve the interests of the people of this nation first and not multinational business interests.

you are living in a dreamworld, in the real world the LNP and Labor have completely corrupted this nations economic, social and political systems to suit their own needs and those of their few thousand paying members around the nation.@graeme
i would have far more faith in our military managing this nations affairs considering the past representation we have received from the major political parties.

1. our military values managerial skills whereas our politicians have a proven complete lack of such skills

2. our military values logistical skills whereas our politicians have a proven complete lack of such skills

3. our military values a defined justice system whereas our politicians have proven to be time and again in complete contempt of our legal system across the nation

the list goes on and in every case it can be proven how our professional well trained professional military corps is far better suited to manage the needs of this nation than corrupt union officials, failed lawyers and self serving businesspeople.  there would not be many examples where such people can outperform our military personell in having either the requisite skillsets or the moral fibre to manage the needs of this nation.

as long as we have the current type of politicians grasping their hands onto power as we have with the LNP, Labor, the Greens, Family First and PUP we are going to continue having needless crisis's arising in our society.well granny as an australian born and bred person with inlaws who have come from many different backgrounds i can say straight out that i have zero interest in religious zealots who refuse to integrate into our broader society and then expect our society to change to suit them.

nope and i dont give a damn what anyone thinks.  i have been approached by people wearing burqa's before and refused to acknowledge them and will continue to do so.  if they are rude enough not to show their faces when speaking to me so i can see facial expressions then expect the exact same rudeness back.

these are points where different societies clash and considering these people are wishing to live in our society then they had best adapt to it else there are 60 odd islamic countries around the world who might suit their needs better.bren if ISIL heads into Turkey then Turkey has made it clear that it will invoke the NATO charter.

this means that NATO will have clear grounds to take the fight to ISIL no matter where they hide.  not just a few members like happens now with the US and the UK but every member of NATO will then be called upon to eradicate the threat to Turkey.

suddenly Spain, Greece and Italy's youth unemployment problem will be solved overnight as the unemployed are called up to fight the terrorist threat.  a bandaid maybe, however considering the youth unemployment in those countries it will be a welcome bandaid as a breather until their economies can be kickstarted once again.

get ready for more fun and games, and be glad we are not a NATO member bound by the charter thus allowing us to pull out at any time.They tell stories based solely on ideology.
just like Labor, just like the Greens, just like PUP, just like Family First, just like the sheeple righteous Right and most definitely just like the sheeple loony Left in our society

whats your point?  that all politicians and their sheeple supporters are lying hounds?  i could have told you that, hell you only have to read these forums to see the blatant lies told by the ultra left and ultra right, the only difference being that occasionally the righteous right can provide facts to disabuse the lying claim whilst the loony left never can.nice try bbtts

however i am of the conservative left persuasion.

i actually believe in social justice for the whole not just for tiny little minorities who scream that they deserve special treatment ahead of everyone else in our society.  the only time minority groups should get special treatment is when the electorate as a whole gets to make the decision, if that is too much trouble then the issue should be treated for what it really is - a non issue and rightly ignored.

the Labor and Liberal policies of privatisation of public assets needs to stop now, if they want to privatise then a referendum needs be called on the issue.

as an aside we could also destroy our current representative democracy system which is deeply flawed and wide open to corruption and move to a direct democracy system where all australian citizens make a direct decision on major policies put forth by vested interests.  rather than relying on the failed lawyers, failed businessmen and corrupt union hacks who currently have control of the systemits the poison of multiculturalism where minorities are encouraged by another minority in our society (the ultra left fringe) to segregate themselves from our broader community and then complain when they are treated with mistrust.

to all those who actively segregate themselves from our society heres a bit of advice - begin integrating into it and you will find that people will not treat you with suspicion.  this has been a problem that has happened throughout recorded history and will continue to as long as there are those who do not embrace the society's they have chosen to live within.pssst Jo... i am melbourne born and bred and could not give a damn about communist china or fixing its problems.  we have our own issues in this nation.aguy and sack

i really dont give a damn about what is happening in foreign affairs unless it directly impacts upon our society.

at the moment the hong kong situation is not currently impacting on our society and it is well past time that this disease our society has acquired since the 1980's of interfering in everyone elses business comes to an end.  live your own damn lives and leave others to live theirs.one in twenty... well of course there is since labor moved them all off the dole onto the dsp to make the figures look better prior to election time.

unless those who claim the dsp can prove their ailment to a panel of experts then they should be receiving the dole.

and for those with no experience with disability, i almost had my hand ripped off over 20 years ago and instead of leeching off the public purse i retrained myself and have contributed to society since.  so yes i expect i have far more experience with disability than the majority of the posters in these forums.what are you on about mary?

not one australian has died in combat in iraq.  we have regrettably had 2 australians die from equipment issues and 1 suicide. 

now whilst i agree that iraq/afghanistan are not worth any cost in australian lives i also believe that we sure as hell should not be importing the problems from alien societies into our own.

if we are not going to fix problems where they are occurring then we sure as hell should not be allowing countryshoppers a foot in our society's door, those that have already forced their way in should be deported back to their homelands immediately.foxtrot the greens and labor have more than proven that they are the same with only minuscule differences which is the reason it will be a cold day in hell before i put a mark on my ballot paper other than "NO BLOODY WAY".

i truly hope we are seeing the end of days for the LNP and Labor/Greens as they have proven that they are only interested in their own special interests above the needs of this nation and her people."If you really believe that the Australian people will fall for the same labor BS a second time you are delusional."

the only problem with that logic TGU is that the only other option presented to the australian people are the lnp with the same BS...

i would like to think that the australian people will make it known that they are sick of the complete incompetence of the LNP and Labor/Greens governments, however it is very clear that the population has been indoctrinated into the belief that that is the only way open to the nation.to save on electoral costs to the Australian taxpayer the incompetent Labor party and their psycho Greens Party partners should be merged.GBE as long as the commissions are paid the super industry wont give a damn and nor will the LNP or Labor politicians who have set this exact system in place to operate in the manner it is operating in with all the risks on the contributor rather than the industry.no jess i dont see how young australians will have a lot of opportunity on that score.  understand i am on their side in this, all australians should have the chance to own their own home, it is the great australian dream.  it was in my parents day as it is now with me and will be with my children.

it is government policy failure which has caused the current problems with home ownership.  oh and i did "not" invest in real estate.  all of those houses i have lived in for extended periods, anything upto 10 years, and have just moved on from as circumstances have changed.

hopefully that real estate is now my legacy for my children when i am gone thus ensuring that they will have a chance to own their own homes.pmsl

"Passing the buck on our obligations under the Refugee convention to other countries hardly fits with the Abbott image of Australia as the model global citizen."

that's your problem, as it is more than clear that the majority of the citizens of this nation are sick of pandering to your ego's in the case of the outdated and flawed unhcr treaty.

it is time for this government to grow some balls and withdraw from it, we can have our own intake program on our terms.  do i expect this government to withdraw from the flawed treaty? no, as they have already proven themselves to be as incompetent as the last lot of nitwits.no, people who distance themselves from our mainstream society by clinging to weird arse 1st century and 8th century ideological traditions which have no place in a 21st century society are the ones creating division in our society.

why the hell they would wish to live in a society that is totally alien to their cultural mores and values is beyond me, expecting our society to change to suit them is completely ridiculous as well.

there are 60 islamic countries around the globe who follow the tenets of these people and i am sure they would be welcome in atleast one of them if they dont wish to adapt to OUR society.alan the only bombs which will stop IS completely are those loaded with neutron warheads.  carpet bomb all regions where IS has a foothold and end that problem once and for all.  if further problems occur elsewhere then solve them with the same solution.

as you can probably tell, i am sick to death of the constant rubbish going on around this.  we either put special forces boots on the ground to kill everyone of these scum with no loony left interference or else we isolate ourselves from the region and its nutcase people who have stagnated socially and technologically in the 8th century.nope dove if we are not going to fix the problems with longterm solutions then it is time to disassociate ourselves with them, that includes importing them into our own society by way of those fleeing such regions for whatever reasons.

if we need the oil then we go in, isolate the regions where it is and take it.  end of story.

in my experience you will find that is becoming the majority viewpoint now.  people are sick of special interest groups on the fringes of both sides of politics using such issues as a political football to further their own needs at the expense of the rest of society."t's because favouring one lot of buyers over antoher with tax breaks is against the australian way of "fair go""

well maybe we need to remove ALL tax breaks and tax minimisation schemes.  no more corporate welfare, no more upper class welfare, no more middle class welfare and only minimal lower class welfare.

me i am all for a a 20% flat tax across the board for individuals with no rebates and a 25% flat tax across the board for business with no rebates.   it is also time to cut the nations losses and withdraw from all the flawed trade treaties the LNP and Labor have signed which have decimated most of our industries except the ones involved in digging holes in the ground.one pack of incompetents or the other... 

the only difference is this current pack of incompetents have fixed one of the biggest self inflicted border failures this nation has known.

all national and state policies should be put to referendum/plebiscite before they can be enacted thus stopping such stupidity as the east/west link which most victorians do not want or open border policies such as the labor/greens alliance forced upon the citizens of this nation.ahhh so we should just suffer under a lesser form of incompetence and thank our lucky stars *woooohoooo*

give me a break.  we have had incompetence upon incompetence for over 40 years now with each successive special interes... sorry, government slowly but surely screwing down this nations social and economic policies to suit their own fringe needs.

we dont need anymore LNP/Labor/Greens/PUP/MotorCar/FunnyHatOnly parties in control of which direction this nation follows.  the system is broken and falling further into disrepair each and every year as another group of incompetents grasps at the reigns.the real slide started 40 years ago evil...  we are seeing the end result of those policy failures now where our nation does not produce anything except bums on seats in offices doing make worklabor and the lnp have plans for australia to have a population of 50 million by 2050... how do you think our infrastructure is going to cope when both the lnp and labor have failed to build any lasting national infrastructure over the past 50 years... yep they can sell off the work of our forebears but they sure as hell cant contribute to our nations wealth.

they will screw this nation over miserably just to look after their own narrow special interests and our children will end up paying the pricesupporters say the package supports local manufacturing

yeah no it doesnt considering the vast majority of the equipment is imported from overseas using borrowed funds the taxpayer will have to cover.  we dont make windmills, we dont make pv panels and since the chinese and italians pretty much give away inverters it is pointless us manufacturing them as well.nope robin... some wind turbines may be partly assembled in portland however the components are manufactured offshore.

try again

oh and your clean, green wind turbines create so much toxic waste in their production process that they are a nett detriment to the environment not a benefit.

dont believe me? then try searching on "toxic lake at Baotou, China"well doc considering china controls the majority the planets known rare earth minerals where else do you expect to mine them?  quick, quick, i dont have all day as i atleast understand that they are essential to most modern super clean green technology.90% of the planets refined rare earth metals come from china

now you would like us to begin refining them in australia creating the same mess as they are facing here... no thanks.

fission powerplants create less waste which is easier to dispose of than your rare earth magnet tech.  when fusion finally comes online in decades or centuries we can replace our fission plants.

the fission waste is far easier to dispose of safely than the toxic sludge from rare earth processing... one nice deep 2km or 3km hole lined with lead in the middle of the outback, once it is 50% full then it is infilled keeping it safe for aeons on this the most stable landmass on the planet"It's really very simple science and to dispute it takes some very, very creative excuses"

well pom that goes for both sides of the argument in this country.

you have a minority who claim that it is all natural when the science is clear that excessive greenhouse gas emission will result in a runaway greenhouse effect... look no further than our twin sister venus, a comlete hellhole where molten metal rains from the skies and humans do emit masses of greenhouse gases into the environment.

you also have the minority climate crazies in our society who run around demanding that the majority in this country pay the price of appeasing their ego's on a problem we have little impact upon.  at the end of the day no matter what type of spin they wish to put upon it, the australian people are responsible for at the most 1.5% of global emissions.

per capita doesnt mean a damn when it comes to global climate, it is just a pathetic strawman argument.  china produces over 30 times as much ghg emissions as australia does, india produces close to that same 30 times as much emissions as australia.  those two countries alone produce around 60 times as much emissions as our entire continent.

for those who run around with their stupid little per capita argument... go appease your pathetic little ego's at your own expense as it is more than clear we are not the problem and we sure as hell cannot solve the problem.@mary
stop conflating countryshoppers who have bypassed multiple unhcr signatories in their own regions with refugeesAaron i would vote for palmer if he came out with an ironclad promise to withdraw the nation from the flawed unhcr treaty.  considering i cant stand the bloke, that is says much about what i think of the current clowns in the LNP and Labor partiesJudging from the narrow-mindedness of the comments posted here

judging form the self-centred egotoism displayed in such responses.  nope we are not here to save the people of the world from their own mistakes and nor are we here to pay such a price just to appease the ego's of a tiny minority in our society.

we have our own functioning society and people to look after and if people have no interest in joining your little crusade then... too bloody bad, it is your crusade, you deal with it.sorry Robert

to do as you suggest we would first have to replace the flawed political system we have in place.  the LNP and Labor have spent 100 years corrupting the system to suit their own membership needs first and foremost.

so it will be one hell of a fight by anyone, let alone the 20 million or so individual citizens of this nation to wrest control from the few tens of thousand combined members of the LNP and Labor who have complete control of the system.

there are better systems out there, buggered if i know how we wrest control of the system so we can emplace them... especially with the apathy the political parties have drilled into the average punter.
